BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?   





Bio-on S.p.A.: Trouble in Bologna? 
Equity Report by Quintessential Capital Management 


 
Friday 19 July 2019
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  2 





Disclaimer 
 
 
This report reflects the opinions and projections of Quintessential Capital Management ("QCM") 
as of the date of publication, which is subject to change without notice at any time following the 
date of issue.   QCM does not represent that any opinion or projection will be realized.  While the 
information presented in this report is believed to be reliable, no representation or warranty is 
made concerning the accuracy of any data presented in this report or its attachments.   All 
information provided in this report is for informational purposes only and should not be deemed 
as investment advice or a recommendation to purchase or sell any specific security.   
QCM has an economic interest in the price movement of the securities mentioned in this 
report, but QCM's economic interest is subject to change without notice.    
This report may not be reproduced without prior written permission from QCM.  
The information presented in this report is supplemented by footnotes, which identify QCM's 
sources, assumptions, estimates, and calculations.  The information contained herein should be 
reviewed in conjunction with the footnotes.  
This report shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any interests 
in any fund managed by QCM or any of its affiliates.  Such an offer to sell or solicitation of an 
offer to buy interests may only be made pursuant to definitive subscription documents between 
QCM and an investor.
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  3 





Bio-on S.p.A.: Trouble in Bologna? 
 
Executive Summary 
Quintessential Capital Management (QCM) has completed its in-depth investigation into Bio-on 
S.p.A., a Bologna-based bioplastics company listed on the AIM market. After meticulous 
collection and analysis of information, we came to the opinion that Bio-on is a "house of 
cards", a scheme conceived by management to enrich themselves on at the expense of 
shareholders.  
 
A seemingly successful company boasting growing revenue and profits, Bio-on is actually a 
massive bubble based on flawed technology and "fictitious " sales thanks to a network of 
empty shell companies.  
 
Despite high-sounding announcements and ambitious projects, several years after its IPO Bio-on 
has not yet produced or sold anything in significant quantities, except to shell companies 
controlled by or affiliated to itself. Of the many production facilities announced over the years, 
only one has been built at exorbitant prices and it would seem neither completed nor in 
operation.  
 
The real financial situation is precarious and the accounting has serious irregularities. Given 
the facts as a whole, we believe that the Bio-on situation is unsustainable: the company is 
heading towards total collapse and its equity is correspondingly worthless. 
 


Warning: the text contains important hyperlinks and footnotes
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  4 





Quintessential and its goals 
 


We are an American investment fund based in New York. Our main activity consists in 
identifying, investigating and exposing catastrophic corporate situations in publicly-traded 
companies, such as fraud, criminal conduct or bankrupt business models. We use state-of-the-
art investigative techniques and only intervene after acquiring a large amount of overwhelming 
information to confirm our claims.  
 
Since 2015, we have completed seven activist transactions exposing various dishonest companies 
with a 100% success rate.1 In May last year our campaign against the Greek giant "Folli Follie" 
led to the collapse and de-listing of the company in just three weeks, as well as the uncovering of 
a multibillion-dollar fraud. Last December, our action against Aphria, a Canadian cannabis 
company with a market capitalization of more than USD 4 billion, led to the immediate collapse 
of the stock and to the dismissal of the entire board of directors. In 2015, our report entitled "A 
Greek Parmalat" on Globo Plc led to the immediate and permanent suspension of the stock and 
the resignation of the executives after only 48 hours, with a full confession of their 
responsibilities (the event appeared on the Italian newspaper "La Repubblica"). 
 
We are a commercial enterprise and we work for profit. However, we firmly believe in the 
moral character of our work which has the effect of removing dishonest companies from the 
markets. These "bad apples" take financial and human resources away from legitimate 
companies and it makes sense to inform the public as quickly as possible to minimize the number 
of investors and creditors involved. 
 
 
The unlikely science of Bio-on 


 
To clarify the veracity of Bio-on management's statements about its technology, we consulted a 
substantial number of scientists, established executives from companies operating in the same 
sector, consultants and technicians. Their opinion, in some cases based on direct interaction with 
the company, was fundamentally unanimous in a strong skepticism about Bio-on's 
statements. In some cases, the technology has even been called "absurd" and management's 
statements "rambling.” 
 
Without going into too much technical detail (some complete documents will be made available 
on our website), we present the most important conclusions from our investigation: 
 


1. The concept is dated: PHA technology is based on a discovery made almost a 
century ago in 1926. Bio-on claims to have an innovative method for PHA production 
processes, but our experts have expressed strong doubts about the validity of these 
claims, which have never been proven in practice. 


 
1In virtually all cases our theses have been confirmed by official inquiries. In several cases, the 
management of the target companies and/or the board of directors has been dismissed. In two cases, the 
companies ceased to exist weeks after our intervention.
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  5 





2. Production control is problematic: PHA manufacturing processes are highly 
complex and the finished "product" is uncertain. This is because the variables in polymer 
chemistry are numerous and controlling them becomes haphazard. In addition, it involves 
working with bacteria which increases complexity. The experts with whom we have 
discussed are extremely skeptical that Bio-on has the resources to handle an operation of 
this type. 
3. The "scale-up" on an industrial scale is problematic: although the production 
of small quantities (a few hundred cm3) of PHA is simpler, manufacturing tons of 
material would be highly challenging for various technical reasons such as contamination 
and interaction of different types of bacteria, temperature control, etc. 
4. Doubts about 'biodegradability: several scientists have questioned the concept 
of biodegradability of bioplastics and it seems that their impact on the environment23 may 
be, in many cases, even more harmful than that of traditional plastics.  
5. Numerous failures: the production of PHA on an industrial scale is not a new 
challenge. It has been attempted by several industrial groups in the past, many of which 
have far greater financial, technological and scientific resources (e.g. Zeneca, Monsanto 
and Metabolix have tried and failed to carry out a similar project.) Many of these 
attempts have not been successful mainly because of the difficulty in finding demand for 
a plastic that is significantly more expensive than the traditional one.4 For example, 
Metabolix was forced to liquidate its business after producing a 50,000-tonne production 
facility due to a lack of demand. It’s market cap reached a peak of $500m, but in 2016 the 
company closed its doors, liquidating its patents and infrastructure for only $10m. 
6. Lack of scientific talent: several experts have pointed out that Bio-on does not 
have sufficient scientific talent to undertake the projects it claims to pursue. In 2017, for 
example, there were only 17 employees, most of whom had no scientific background.5 
For example, Simone Begotti, Bio-on's "Chief Biologist", does not even have a PhD, only 
a simple college degree in biology. 
7. Lack of transparency: several experts have highlighted the paucity of scientific 
information that Bio-on reveals to the public: our requests for clarification on this matter 
have been ignored by the Company. 


 
Bio-on Accounting: Critical issues and violations of the Italian Civil Code 


 
Quintessential has carefully studied the accounting of Bio-on and its related companies, both in-
house and hiring experienced auditors and obtaining a formal opinion on the matter. 6  The 


 
2https://www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/2018/11/are-bioplastics-made-from-plants-better-for-
environment-ocean-plastic/ 
 
3https://blogs.ei.columbia.edu/2017/12/13/the-truth-about-bioplastics/ 
 
4Source: Interview with various CEOs of companies operating in the same sector. 
5Lately, Bio-on has significantly expanded its headcount, but it is still, in number and in quality, much 
lower than that of its competitors.
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  6 





conclusions of our investigation are clear and confirm our fears: Bio-on accounting is irregular 
and does not reflect the actual situation of the company.  
 
Presenting itself on the surface as a solid, high-growth company with over 50m sales, Bio-on in 
fact has a  questionable turnover, consisting almost entirely of "sales" to controlled or related 
shell companies. In addition, the balance sheet of Bio-on is in our view precarious, being 
mainly made up of highly uncertain receivables and hard assets whose costs seem 
disproportionately high compared to its peers and that do not seem7 economically viable given 
the margins that can be reasonably obtained on the market.  
 
In practice, Bio-on seems to generate revenue by setting up a series of shell companies to which 
it "sells" its technology as “licences”. These "empty boxes" are partly or totally controlled by 
Bio-on, with which they share directors and registered addresses, and do not seem to have any 
operations, even years after their establishment. For example, they have no dedicated staff, they 
do not produce any products, nor do they sell to any third party. 
 
These "empty boxes" buy licenses from Bio-on and capitalize them on their balance sheet, while 
Bio-on recognizes the sale immediately on its income statement. However, the payment for 
such transactions does not take place and the outstanding account receivables remain open, in 
many cases for years. Therefore, Bio-on accounts show revenue and earnings growth, which are 
actually mostly non-existent. This situation is evident by noting the large disparities that exist 
between profits and cash flows and the level of receivables (customer credits) with respect to 
sales:
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  7 





 
 
The accounting audit we carried out also shows violations of Articles 2343 and 2343 of the 
Italian Civil Code regarding the sale and awarding of licenses. In fact, Bio-on should have 
followed a certain procedure in assigning the value of the licenses sold to its affiliates, which 
instead appear to have received an arbitrary value. 
 
The value of Bio-on's "sales" and "credits" soared in 2018, as several new shell companies were 
formed that “acquired” Bio-on licenses at an exponential rate (as usual, such sales were not 
followed by payments). 
 
 
We report some subsidiaries mentioned by Bio-on in its balance sheet and their revenues and 
payables: 


 -


 10


 20


 30


 40


 50


 60


 70


2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Revenue Accounts receivable
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  8 





 
 
We have analyzed the balance sheets of all Bio-on’s shell companies and conclude that the vast 
majority (or perhaps all) of the revenues and receivable originates from them. We did not 
detect any signs of  production or sales to third parties in noteworthy quantities. The only activity 
that seems to be actually operational is the collaboration with Unilever in the production of My 
Kai sunscreens. The creams are distributed via Amazon.it, but we have verified the number of 
visitors on the brand's website and it is below the minimum threshold on both SimilarWeb and 
Alexa. Therefore, we believe that sales of the product are probably modest (this has also been 
confirmed directly by Unilever, to whom we have reached out on this matter).
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  9 











Disproportionate costs and no market 
 


Bio-on claims it has completed the construction of a production facility with a capacity of 1000 
tonnes in Castel San Pietro Terme, near Bologna, in 2018. The initial estimated costs for the 
project were around €15m, while the actual costs were around €53m (including patents). It is our 
firm opinion, reinforced by information gathered during our investigations, that these costs are 
heavily disproportionate: first, because they are much higher than those of competitors in the
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  10 





same industry. Second, because they involve a cost per kilo of plastic produced well above the 
reasonably achievable price on the market. 
 
The table and chart below compare Bio-on costs for the construction of a ton of production 
capacity with those of two competitors: Novamont and Metabolix: 
 





 
It is clear that the costs for Bio-on production capacity (44,000/tonn) are enormously higher than 
those of the two competitors (about 3,000), to be exact as much as 15 times higher. In addition, 
we note that the costs of competitors are very close to each other, while Bio-on costs appear to be 
an anomaly. 
 
There's more: our sources8 note that normal propylene on the market sells for around $2/kilo.  
Bioplastics might fetch a little more, but probably not more than $4/5 per kilo. Given the 
development costs of the Castel San Pietro Terme plant, we estimate that Bio-on's operating 
expenses are around $6.5 per kilo of plastic and $12.5 including overheads. It is then extremely 
difficult, or impossible, to sell industrial quantities of bioplastics with a cost base that is about 


 
8Source: Interview with executives in similar companies. 


Company Capacity 
(tons)


Cost (€m) Cost/ton 
(€)


Novamont* 80,000 234 2,990


Metabolix 50,000 154 3,080


Bio-on 1,000 44 44,000


44000


3080 2990


0


5000


10000


15000


20000


25000


30000


35000


40000


45000


50000


Bio-on Metabolix Novamont


Cost/ton


15x higher!
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  11 





six times higher than the cost of propylene (consider that Metabolix has been forced to 
liquidate having a cost base of $5, less than half of that of Bio-on).  
An expert 9  surveyed by Quintessential estimates the value of 1000 tonnes of bioplastic 
production (the capacity of the Bio-on plant) at around $4m. Since the plant cost more than 
$40m and has a 10-year service life, the value of production would not even cover the 
development costs. Below our estimates about the operating and total costs for a kilo of plastic 
Bio-on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





Doubts about the Castel San Pietro Terme plant 
 


Work on the 1000-tonne Bio-on plant Di Castel San Pietro Terme started in September 2017 and 
were completed, according to Bio-on, in the fall of 2018. The final costs were approximately 
$53m (patents and intellectual property included), which is about three times higher than 
initial estimates. 
 
In January 2019, a financial research company contacted by Quintessential booked a guided tour 
of the Castel San Pietro Terme plant. Immediately before the scheduled time, Bio-on cancelled 
the visit citing some unconvincing reasons. However, the staff of the research company went to 


 
9Consult the auditor's 2018 budget opinion on the www.qcmfunds.com website
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  12 





the site and inspected and photographed the outside of the plant as seen from the road. Although 
the main structure was clearly completed, there were unmistakable signs of work still in 
progress, such as scaffolding, cranes, piles of building materials and construction workers (a 
large sign at the entrance also referred to the factory using the term "construction site"). 
Quintessential visited the plant on June 27, 2019 (six months later) and found it in almost 
identical conditions: 








17 Gennaio 2019 27 Giugno 2019
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  13 





 
 
Therefore, we have serious doubts as to whether, about nine months after the declaration of "end 
of works", the Castel San Pietro Terme plant is actually completed and in production. 
 
Words, words... 
Looking at the Bio-on website, it is obvious to anyone that it is a particularly "promotional" 
company. In fact, Bio-on issues "triumphant" press releases with a certain frequency, often 
announcing the beginning of ambitious projects and collaborations with prestigious companies. 
 
However, of the dozens of projects announced, we strive to find any that seem to progress in any 
significant way: in most of the cases we have reviewed, the announced projects have not been 
implemented. In some cases, the project is no longer mentioned by the company, while in others 
it leads to the establishment of the "empty boxes" we have seen previously. 
 
For example, in 2015 Bio-on announced the Brasil Bioplastic  project with the Brazilian fund 
Moore Capital. This project involved the construction of a 10,000-tonne plant, an investment of 
80m euros, and the purchase of a 5.5m in Bio-on licences. We contacted Moore Capital's 
founding partner: according to his statements, Moore Capital would only pay a total of USD 
200k of the promised USD 5.5m and the $80m facility has never been started, let alone 
completed. In addition, Moore Capital stated that it does not have the necessary financial 
resources to complete the project.10 
 
Another interesting example is that of Sebiplast, a Bio-on/Maccaferri joint venture announced in 
2015. The announcement included plans to build a €55m (5,000-tonn/year) facility for the 
"production of bioplastics from glycerol.” We have reviewed the financial statements for this 
joint venture with the Italian company registrar: from the creation in 2015 to 2018 (date of the 


 
10The owner of Moore Capital seems to have no clear ideas on how to obtain the financing, citing, for 
example, an unlikely IPO. 


CARTELLO ALL’ENTRATA DELLE 
FABBRICA BIO-ON: 


“Fermarsi in portineria prima di 
entrare in cantiere per il


riconoscimento.”


L’impianto Bio-on non è economicamente sostenibile e 
sembra ancora incompleto!
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  14 





most recent filing) Sebiplast did not generate any sales11 and the plant announced does not 
seem to have even been started.12 However, Sebiplast has about €1.5m in licences (presumably 
"purchased" from Bio-on) that have not yet been paid in four years. The recoverability of these 
claims is also in strong doubt because Maccaferri is currently undergoing bankruptcy, with 
many of its subsidiaries (including SECI, bio-On partner in Sebiplast) in the Italian equivalent of 
Chapter 11.  
 








 
11Approximately 7,000 – negligible. 
12In fact, there are no material fixed assets on the balance sheet.
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  15 





We found a similar situation with B-Plastic, a joint venture between Bio-on and the cooperative 
French Cristal Union announced in August 2015. Although the press release was true to form 
with promotional language and ambitious plans, we've reviewed B-Plastic's updated financials 
and noticed that, four years after inception, the company still shows zero turnover and 
material fixed assets of less than €1.5m - a far cry from the announced €70m13.  





  
  
In total, we have identified about twenty projects announced by Bio-on, but not completed or 
even started. Among these, in addition to those already discussed, we highlight the following: 


1. 2013: Bone regeneration 
2. 2013: Metal replacement 
3. 2013: Collaboration with "Magna" 
4. 2016: Bioplastic to fight cancers (!) 
5. 2016: agreement with unidentified "multinational" 


Some of these are particularly bizarre and unlikely. For example, medical/healthcare initiatives 
typically require very long development times (even decades) and billion-dollar investments. In 
our view, these announcements are made by Bio-on for the purpose of fueling interest in the 
stock. 
 
Sinister transactions? 


 
We note that, in some cases, the "joint ventures" of Bio-on with some other Italian industrial 
companies, are preceded by transactions that seem suspicious to us. In one case, for example, 
Bio-on sold its stake to a certain holding company at a price about 10% below market, 


 
13Bio-on cites delays in the development of the project due to bureaucratic glitches in obtaining permits.
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  16 





effectively a €1m gift. A year later, this same company entered a JV with Bio-on. In another case, 
Bio-on awarded a contract for millions of euros to a certain Italian company: six months later 
this same company entered into an agreement of JV with Bio-on. 
 
Then there is the interesting case of Banca Finnat, which seems to be the only bank to cover 
Bio-on stock. In addition, Banca Finnat provided a line of credit for Capsa, the holding company 
owned by Marco Astorri and Guy Cicognani (Bio-on founding partners). Meanwhile, in 2018 
Bio-on had opened two more JVs, Liphe S.p.A. and Aldia S.p.A.  
 
Contrary to other press releases, where Bio-on always seems eager to mention its counterparts, in 
this case the partner at 10% is only referred to as "an important financial partner".  In its equity 
report, Banca Finnat also refers to these JVs without specifying the partner's name.  
 
Quintessential consulted the Register of Companies and verified that the mystery partner turns 
out to be Banca Finnat! Given its role as an advisor and analyst on Bio-on stock (and creditor of 
its of managers) we find it astounding that Finnat has not revealed such a clear related-party 
transaction. 
 
Finally, we are alarmed that Bio-on's management, in the years between 2015 and 2017, sold 
about €21m of warrants to 21 unknown individuals at a value 50% below the market price, 
apparently "gifting" millions of euros to these lucky investors. Despite our requests, Bio-on has 
refused to identify the beneficiaries of these transactions or even to confirm that they have 
nothing to do with Bio-on’s counterparts in the "JVs". We fear that such transactions may have 
constituted a sort of "hidden incentive" to induce some counterparties to "collaborate.”
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  17 





 
 
Bio-on financial situation: a paper castle? 


 
On the surface, Bio-on enjoys growing revenue and profits and has debt/capital ratio of around 
40%, thus showing a fairly healthy financial profile. However, it is our firm belief that this 
profile is deeply misleading because it is based on absolutely flawed numbers.  
 
The financial strength of a company is a function of two fundamental elements: liquidity and the 
solidity of its equity. Bio-on burns cash at a rate of about $21m per year and has cash and bond 
reserves of only $18m, which is enough for less than 12 months of operations at these rates. 
Equity is also doubtful since cash and bonds make up only 22% of assets: the remaining 78% are 
receivables (41%), plants (32%) and intangible assets (5%).  
 
As we mentioned earlier, we doubt receivables because the counterparts are mostly empty 
boxes with no prospect of paying off debts themselves; we doubt plants because their high 
development costs make it impossible to sell at a reasonable margin, and we doubt intangibles 
because many experts have expressed very strong reservations about Bio-on technology. 
Excluding these three categories, we are left with $89m of liabilities, $18m of assets and a cash 
burn of $21m euros per year: As a result, we believe Bio-on might be in serious financial distress 
and on the verge of insolvency.  
 
Conclusion 
 
In years of investigations and financial analysis, Quintessential has rarely encountered a 
corporate and accounting situation comparable to that of Bio-on. We are faced with a reality 
where sales, fixed assets and receivables form a house of cards consisting of a series of shell 
companies and an uneconomical, tiny plant. After more than seven years of operation (five of 
them as a listed company), Bio-on still does not appear to have managed to produce any 
products in significant quantities or to sell anything outside its network of shells. Despite this, 


Liphe S.p.A. Aldia S.p.A.


32
BIO-ON SPA: UNA PARMALAT A BOLOGNA?  18 





the company continues to boast exponentially growing sales and profits that seem totally 
fictitious: clearly the situation is unsustainable and sooner or later the structure is bound to 
collapse. 
 
As on several other occasions before, Quintessential has felt a duty to inform the markets and the 
authorities about this state of affairs, certain that greater transparency will help to rectify the 
situation.
