Muddy Waters Capital, LLC 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 


Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 
 


 
These Amended Terms of Service apply to your viewing and downloading the transcription of the Ströer SE Co. & KGaA 
annual meeting on June 22, 2016.  To the extent there is any inconsistency between the general Terms of Service and these 
Amended Terms of Service applying to the Ströer transcription, these Amended Terms of Service control.  A representative of 
Muddy Waters Capital, LLC, attended the meeting and transcribed in shorthand in German the remarks of Ströer’s 
management and shareholders who opted to address the meeting.  The shorthand transcription was then converted to a full 
transcription and translated into English.  Muddy Waters Capital, LLC, believes the English translation to be an accurate 
rendering of the comments made, but we cannot warrant this because we did not personally attend and are not German 
speakers, and there is no assurance that some detail or nuance was not lost or misinterpreted in the transcription and 
translation process. 


 
Terms of Service: By downloading from, or viewing material on the Muddy Waters Research website, you agree to the following Terms 
of Service. You agree that use of Muddy Waters Capital LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters 
Capital LLC, Muddy Waters, LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information on this 
site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered 
herein. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion contained 
herein. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this transcript to any other person unless that person has agreed to 
be bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive this transcript as an agent for any other person, you are binding your 
principal to these same Terms of Service.  
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of this transcription, Muddy Waters Capital LLC (possibly along with or through our 
members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors, 
has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 
stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers 
covered in this transcript for an indefinite period of time, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time regardless of our initial position 
and views as stated in our research. 
  
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from 
any person through this transcript or reports on the website. Muddy Waters Capital LLC is registered as an investment advisor only in the 
United States, but it does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship evidenced in 
writing.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) 
high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO.  
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters Capital LLC 
makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the 
results to be obtained from its use. 
 
Muddy Waters Capital, LLC, does not assert any copyright interests in connection with the Stroer transcript and translation below. 
 
You agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any 
manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters 
Capital research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and 
agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your viewing and use of any reports or other materials on 
the Muddy Waters Research website shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law 
provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located 
within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters Capital LLC has 
offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters Capital LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service 
shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent 
jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in 
the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing 
law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or 
related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 
barred.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 1 























General meeting 
of 


Ströer SE & Co. KGaA 
on 


June 22, 2016 


in Cologne 














Verbatim record 





Disclaimer: This is an English translation of short-hand transcripts of the Ströer annual 
general meeting, which was conducted in German.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 2
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 3 


Start: 10 a.m. 


Vilanek, chairman: I hereby declare this year's 
ordinary general meeting open  


[………] 


Müller: Thank you very much. – Good morning, 
ladies and gentlemen, good morning, share-
holders. On behalf of our colleagues in the board 
of management I extend a warm welcome to you 
at the general meeting of Ströer SE & Co. KGaA. 
I would also like to welcome the shareholders' 
representatives, our business partners from 
banks and our guests. I'm glad you were able to 
come today. 


You have all been following the latest develop-
ments. Our last year's results, which I would like 
to describe to you in detail in a minute, speak for 
themselves. Today we can look back on the most 
successful 12 months in our company's history. At 
the same time, we are facing our next record 
year: in 2016 we will exceed the psychologically 
significant revenue mark of one billion euros for 
the first time. At the same time, we expect a new 
record for cash flow and our annual result.  


Special mention should be made of this given al-
ready considerably higher results in 2015. Last 
year we very considerably increased the adjusted 
profit per share by 74% and our cash flow before 
M&A activities by about 46%. But more details on 
that in a minute, too. 


The strategic addition to our traditional out-of-
home business in order to open up new digital 
business models, the related establishment of a 
networked digital eco-system and the numerous 
growth initiatives of past years are already pro-
ving correct decisions and we're pleased about 
that.  


Typically for a family-owned company, we have 
taken calculated risks – which some critics have 
repeatedly questioned – in order to ensure the 
long-term, positive value of our company. And 
precisely these risks are beginning to pay off as 
expected. 


In our out-of-home business, we have a long-
term, structurally growing core business in which 
we are continuing to invest unchanged. We are 
also supporting this with new, also growing and 
many kinds of profitable digital business models.  


This is precisely what distinguishes us from many 
competitors in the media industry at the moment. 
We are in the fortunate situation of not having to 
make up for any shrinking business models due 
to digital growth. On the contrary, we can secure 
and further accelerate our structural growth in the 
out-of-home market through targeted investments 
in new digital business models.  


This fact puts us in an excellent starting position 
for the next few years. With our very commercial 
management approach and as a major founder-
managed media company on the capital market, 
we are currently also able to obtain some of the 
most talented digital business heads in the indus-
try and thereby lay major foundations for success-
ful development over the coming decades. 


We aligned our business with digitalization – 
which will determine life in future – early on and 
have built up a strong, cooperative digital compa-
ny DNA over the last three years. Ströer is in-
creasingly becoming an interactive digital plat-
form. It creates all the necessary basic conditions 
so that our management team and our equity 
partners can further develop and successfully 
manage their innovative and long-term value 
growth-oriented digital business models. 


In the course of progressive digitalization, the 
market continues to change quickly. The key 
questions for every company are: what are the 
key differences in the digital future compared to 
the analog past, and: how should management 
react to them? One basic difference must be the 
reduction of market entry barriers of all kinds.  


When people wanted to manufacture gym shoes 
a few years ago, you had to build a gym shoe fac-
tory. Today you only need a 3D printer you can 
get in any shop. Digitalization makes everything 
that used to be highly complex a short time ago, 
suddenly very simple or reduces it to a commodi-
ty, changes entire markets from scratch and re-
duces market entry barriers for many companies.  


In the digital future, the often unsuccessful strate-
gy in analog times of the vertical integration of 
value chains is appearing on the agenda again 
with great enthusiasm under new conditions and 
perspectives. New and innovative, often tech-
based and mostly intermediate business models 
may be very successful in the short term in these 
times of the transition to digitalization but, in the 
long term there is, of course a very great risk of
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 4 


being forced out of business by vertically-
integrated business models. 


On a global and hence very large scale, Amazon 
is the blueprint for a successful digital model in its 
segment which is essentially transferrable to 
many sectors these days. Initially a solely sales 
platform for offers from third parties with a hori-
zontal approach, it is vertically integrated back-
wards and forwards on the basis of the data al-
ready generated as a first step with unique con-
sistency. For example, those dealers who know 
on the basis of the right data what their customers 
want to buy can produce these goods themselves 
in the digital future without any major risks. If the 
volume is large enough, dealers can also deliver 
goods, thereby ultimately controlling an end-to-
end, completely integrated digital value chain. 


In this example, logistics companies – catego-
rized to date as safe success models due to e-
commerce – will suddenly have only an interme-
diate business model with the risk of being forced 
out of the market, permanently and unexpectedly. 


After an initial phase of horizontal consolidation, 
we are also seeing corresponding developments 
in the field of digital media offers. In an increasing 
number of cases, vertically integrated companies 
are today forcing newly-started intermediate busi-
ness models off the market again with much 
premature praise. 


Our strategic response to the challenges of digital 
transformation is crystal-clear: we will not be in-
vesting in intermediate business models such as 
ad-tech companies, we will be concentrating on 
integrating our various digital out-of-home and 
content platforms in the desktop, mobile and pub-
lic fields and have become a genuine multi-
channel media company.  


We are expanding and integrating our value 
chains vertically in order to create long-term value 
for our shareholders by establishing a fully-
integrated digital eco-system. The continually im-
proving results over the past 14 consecutive quar-
ters prove, quarter by quarter, the strength and 
robustness of our continuously developing inte-
grated portfolio approach, which is based on syn-
ergies between the segments. 


Our coverage platforms are both location-based, 
i.e. our traditional out-of-home business, and con-
tent-based. The digital out-of-home platforms in 
railroad stations, shopping centers and on the 


street benefit from the contents of the content  
area. The various desktop, mobile and social plat-
forms in the content area are significantly increas-
ing their range by expanding their content on our 
national public-display infrastructure. Both will 
benefit from each other over the long term and 
will merge successively as part of digitalization, 
supported by our competence in data and tech-
nology.  


Our concept of an optimized monetization of our 
out-of-home and content-based ranges is based 
on three mutually complementary target group 
approaches in a structured waterfall approach. As 
one of the leading German advertising marketing 
companies, we are simultaneously the clear  
leader in our core segment and, because of our 
advantages of size, can thus ensure an optimal 
marketing result in our marketing in Germany.  


At local level, we are the only German supplier of 
local advertising products and are continuing to 
dynamically expand our position month by month. 
We monetarize inventory not marketed locally or 
in Germany in a media-for-equity value creation 
approach within our new transaction group with 
subscription business models and niche e-
commerce. This allows us to vertically expand 
and integrate our value chain simultaneously. 


In this context, I would like to mention the essen-
tially pleasing development in our share price in 
the last few years. For the year as a whole, Ströer 
share prices have been some of the few shares in 
the media sector to have gone up again. But  
given the continuing economic situation and Brex-
it worries – the latter will hopefully be resolved in 
Europe's favor in a few hours – it must also be 
said that shares of growth companies have been 
less in demand on the capital market so far than 
in 2015. We have naturally not been immune from 
this business climate, which is still independent of 
our positive business development.  


In this context I would like to comment briefly on 
the attack by the Muddy Waters hedge fund a few 
weeks ago. Until April 21, 2016, I was in fact not 
aware of the term "activist short seller".  


The business model of this fund has been basi-
cally described with the abovementioned generic 
term but also quite precisely. People borrow 
shares to sell them and then actively try to exert a 
negative influence on the share price in order to 
repurchase them at a lower price. The shares are 
then returned to the parties who lent them.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 5 


Over the last few weeks we have all seen the ex-
cesses this can lead to and the means people 
use to lower the share price for personal ad-
vantage.  


(Klein: Excuse me, could you please repeat 
that a little more slowly? I didn't quite under-
stand.) 


– Of course. With pleasure. 


Until April 21, 2016, the term "activist short seller" 
was in fact unknown. However, the business 
model of this fund has already been described in 
the aforementioned term.  


You borrow shares – for example from a bank 
(many people don't know that their shares are lent 
out: there's this aspect as well) and pay a small 
fee of 0.5% a year. You then sell the shares you 
borrowed. Let's suppose you borrow a share, sell 
it for 50 euros and want to buy it back at a lower 
price.  


You then have two options: either you believe in 
your "short thesis", i.e. that the share is over-
valued and the price will fall. You've borrowed the 
share, sell it and wait and speculate that, a year 
later, the price will be 30 euros instead of 50 eu-
ros. You then buy the share back and give it back 
to the party you borrowed it from. You've made 20 
euros profit on the share.  


"Activist short sellers" borrow shares, sell them for 
50 euros and then think about how they can ma-
nipulate the price, i.e. how can they make the 
price fall. How can they do this? For example, 
they can "discover" something. There's the fa-
mous case of a Chinese company that said it had 
forests that it didn't actually have. Then someone 
found that out and the price fell. The buyer who 
was "short" has bought cheap again and made a 
profit.  


But if you don't "discover" anything because 
there's nothing to discover, you have to think 
about how you can manipulate the share price. Of 
course, manipulating share prices is prohibited – 
theoretically. But in practice you first have to le-
gally obtain some.  


At the end of the day, our share was an ideal tar-
get. Why? The price increased to ten times its 
value. When that happens, those people who 
have had these shares for a long time get ner-
vous and wonder whether they should sell or 
whether the price will continue to go up.  


Secondly, as you all know, we carried out the 
Ströer Interactive transaction in 2012, in which we 
had a "related party" transaction, of which we dis-
closed all details. After three years, this was a 
popular subject topic and you can bring it up 
again as if you'd discovered it. Plus, we're also 
doing a lot of M&A – another favorite issue: peo-
ple can always say Ströer does a lot of M&A be-
cause they want to cover up problems in their 
core business. And then there are the usual cor-
porate governance problems, etc. etc. 


The colleagues publish a report. But it must be 
said that the share price doesn't fall because of 
the report but for the following reason: let's sup-
pose, you borrow some shares – at the most, it 
was seven million.  


Then things start getting funny. You talk to some 
fund managers who have bought the shares. 
They tell you, my management has lent out my 
shares. I don't understand it. But if you're con-
vinced about the matter, i.e. if you have Ströer 
shares and the price can only go up over the long 
term and you want to keep them for years, of 
course you're going to lend them and make 0.5% 
on the deal as well because you know the price is 
going to go up, even if you sort of risk ruining the 
price in the short term. 


In other words, we lent out seven or eight million 
shares at the most. At the moment, the price is 
falling every day. The short seller sells some and 
keeps some back. And what happened on April 
21, 2016? The short seller – quite by chance – 
then sells some more shares from various quar-
ters because they're not allowed to agree on an 
artificial price. Then, completely by chance, ten 
times the daily volume of shares comes onto the 
market in half an hour.  


What happens then? A lot of shares are sold in 
one fell swoop. These days there are quite a lot of 
electronic trading systems. That means that the 
price drops and stop-losses are triggered, and 
then more shares come onto the market. That's 
the whole idea. It's like an avalanche: you throw a 
little stone off a mountain and when it really starts 
to roll, no-one can stop it until it reaches the val-
ley. 


At the same time, colleagues have done three 
things: firstly, they've flooded the market with 
shares, then they've published the study – in in-
verted commas – no-one can read it in 30 
minutes – and then someone from Muddy Waters
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 6 


goes on TV, like Bloomberg, and says, "Müller, 
Schmalzl and Ströer are all criminals and I'm go-
ing to protect the world from them." 


What he didn't say was that, when he went into 
the TV studio, he'd closed sales of the shares 
again. That means, he's tried to create panic: now 
that people have sold the shares, there's a lot of 
liquidity and at 35-36 euros, he's made a profit 
and can return them again.  


That makes people quite angry because normally, 
when you sell short, you think the price is going to 
stay low for a relatively long time. It's the same 
when you've held the shares for a long time, in 
other words, you're speculating on rising share 
prices. Then you hold the share for a long time. 
But in this case, the shares were on the market 
on Wednesday the 20th and then taken off again 
on the 21st. But no-one knew except them.  


That's why I find the whole matter absolutely ri-
diculous. But when I flood the market with shares, 
I publish a study – in inverted commas – and go 
on TV and say they're all criminals, I can wipe out 
a billion euros worth of shares in 45-60 minutes. 
The share price has then fallen from 52 euros to 
just under 35 euros inside 45 minutes. I'll say a bit 
more on that later, but that's kind of how it works. 


Unfortunately, shares that sell very badly or very 
well are particularly vulnerable to tricks like these. 
If you bet on a profit or a loss, people get more 
nervous than if that doesn't happen. If you buy 
shares for 50 euros and it stays at that price, 
you're not going to sell them as quickly as you 
would if you bought them for 50 euros and the 
price suddenly goes up to 500 euros because you 
always wonder how high the price is going to go. 


That's how this model works. Has everyone un-
derstood?  


(Klein: Thank you.)  


– You're welcome.  


We've all seen over the last few weeks the ex-
cesses this can lead to, the means people use to 
trigger negative share prices to their own ad-
vantage.  


What's noticeable, besides various other aspects, 
is the method of offering former employees mo-
ney for every 15 minutes or even per minute to 
get them to make statements supporting the at-
tackers. By making up to five contacts a day over 


weeks and months in individual cases, you more 
or less get an idea of the efforts that are made. 
"Evil be to him who evil thinks." 


I can't imagine who of our former employees have 
been attacked, via email, mobile text message or 
telephone. People have tried to find something. 
Anyone who has read the report will have seen 
that the only thing they found was that we sued 
some former employee in Turkey who illegally 
used our … Ultimately, there was nothing to find.  


If you're short, want to earn money and haven't 
found anything, what do you do? If you're reputa-
ble, you just wait. If you're an "activist short  
seller", you need to cook up a story, which is ex-
actly what the others tried. If you're obviously not 
convinced about your own story, you liquidate the 
shares; but if you're convinced, you keep them.  


I was in the US last week. This practice is normal 
over there. The American fund managers have 
commented on this correspondingly and have 
said, "We can't stop the problem. We first have to 
deal with them. These are disreputable practices. 
They all ought to be in jail."  


In Europe there is less experience with this pro-
blem. So I don't think it won't be the last case in 
Europe or in Germany. You've seen that much 
has been written about it in the press and seen 
the first effects. By comparison, share prices only 
fell about 5% in the last attacks in America be-
cause it's more common there. 


What's particularly regrettable is that, as a result, 
it's mainly those who suffer as a result whom the 
attackers claim to want to protect, namely the ex-
isting shareholders of the company under attack.  


In our case, we reacted within 24 hours, i.e. as 
quickly as possible, to the unsubstantiated accu-
sations. The so-called report published by Muddy 
Waters consisted primarily of information made 
up of known facts already published by Ströer 
which were deliberately presented incorrectly, 
mixed with false claims and insinuations, thereby 
giving an overall false impression. 


Muddy Waters' intention was to damage Ströer 
shareholders for its (MW's) own commercial in-
terests, which were based on the hedge fund's 
short position.  


All Muddy Waters' conclusions are basically false. 
Muddy Waters had a basic self-interest in de-
stroying Ströer's reputation with false claims and
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 7 


conclusions, manipulating Ströer's share price 
and, when that had fallen considerably, making 
significant, speculative profits at the cost of our 
shareholders.  


In doing all this, Muddy Waters, which by the way, 
liquidated its shares on the day of the attack to a 
large extent contrary to the usual conventions, 
clearly crossed ethical and legal boundaries. We 
reported these actions directly to the BaFin, the 
responsible regulatory authority but, due to what 
we regard as wholly insufficient legal controls in 
such cases in Germany, we have foregone apply-
ing for criminal proceedings to be instituted so far. 


The auditors Ernst & Young, who are also 
Ströer's auditors, then had another look at our fi-
nancial information after the accusations by Mud-
dy Waters. As part of the audit by Ernst & Young, 
none of the allegations raised by Muddy Waters 
were substantiated.  


The investigations by Ernst & Young led to no ob-
jections and no errors were found in our calcula-
tions. What is more, our group accounts for the 
2015 business year were given an unrestricted 
certificate by our auditor in March 2016.  


With regard to the unjustly attacked organic 
growth calculation and the identification of excep-
tionals, which as so-called non-GAAP measures 
are not part of the audited group accounts, we ac-
tually appointed Ernst & Young as announced to 
carry out targeted, additional investigations. As 
expected, these investigations led to no objec-
tions. 


A brief explanation: What is this about? The 
packet always contains accusations of false ac-
counting, of course. That's always useful, espe-
cially for issues that are not normally part of the 
audit. Organic growth means that the business 
grows without any acquisitions. This is a favorite 
accusation. Muddy Waters claimed that we calcu-
lated incorrectly, so we had it checked again by 
Ernst & Young. In our case, it was audited be-
cause it was part of the basis for calculating  
management pay.  


But the idea of such attacks is that 60-70 points 
are "loaded onto" the share price, many people 
don't read it and in the end, people bet that others 
will say, well, it won't all be right but it won't all be 
wrong, either. People use the idea that 'where 
there's smoke, there's fire' to gain points in the 
first round. 


In all, I must say that we can be very satisfied with 
the outcome. I'll get to that later. The share price 
recovered to over 50 euros within days. It  
dropped a little due to ordinary market trends but, 
as I said, it quickly leapt back up to 50 euros 
again.  


All analysts who grilled us because everyone's 
panicking that I'd missed something, stay with 
their price targets. Our known major investors 
(Telekom, Allianz and all the others), remained 
quite relaxed.  


It's a bit – I don't want to use the wrong word - un-
fortunately it can't be helped. To be honest, we 
were quite shocked. You can imagine the scena-
rio: this study is published, you open up a Bloom-
berg article, and there's this guy in a TV studio 
who says, "You're a conman" and he has to save 
the world from you. And you have to swallow it. 
Inside five minutes, 500 people call up wanting to 
know what's going on.  


The day after, my mother called up and said, 
"Udo, I don't believe you're a crook." I said, 
"Thanks a lot! 


(laughter) 


At first I was very annoyed and said to my col-
leagues, "What do these people want? They want 
our families to think we're criminals. We can't 
stand for that."  


Then we were very annoyed and said, "OK, we'll 
start a share buy-back program because the only 
way to stop their game is to simply take liquidity 
out of the market. Finally, we thought the better of 
it and said, "That won't work." Then we thought 
the better of it and said, "This won't work. We 
need to invest our funds in the company, not in – 
let's say – testosterone-controlled measures." So 
we abandoned the matter again. 


But I've said this often enough: we regard our-
selves as a family company. It's extremely im-
portant to me to say what I do and do what I say 
and that, in ten years' time, you'll be able to rely 
on what I say today. And then some guy comes 
along and tries to muddy your name – sometimes 
so skillfully that if you don't know the detail, it's 
very difficult to get to grips with it.  


Most importantly, what do you do then? Imagine 
you come into the office in the morning and 
someone says to you – for example, "You  
cheated on your wife." "You're a pedophile." or
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 8 


whatever. How do you recover from that? You 
can't react any more strongly than slight confu-
sion. Because they say one thing, you say ano-
ther and it's your word against theirs. Suddenly 
you realize that, in that situation, you can't win. 
Then you just have to swallow it. 


After our first comment, we decided not to say a 
word about it. We worked right through the first 
night and called a telephone conference the next 
day. There were 500 people – normally it's only 
50. Five hundred people - 250 from the press, 
250 investors. Then we said nothing more.  


I think I did four or five hours' background work 
with Handelsblatt, manager-magazin because it 
was obvious that whatever I said, the other side 
would say Müller's lying. As long as the press 
says I'm lying, that's always bad, because that's 
how they live from quoting me.  


I must say I've learned a lot, too. The people from 
the press interviewed Mr. Block too, of course. 
For example, Mr. Block once said that if Ströer 
sues us, we'll have to think about suing Ströer. 
Great! What was the headline in manager-
magazin? "Muddy Waters to Sue Ströer". Incredi-
ble!  


I also read in manager-magazin that I lead an ex-
travagant lifestyle because I dared to build a 
house for my family. That was an interesting ex-
perience which I wouldn't wish on anybody.  


We'll probably get a few questions on Ströer In-
teractive and freeXmedia – that's a favorite sub-
ject. I'll answer every question. I can only say in 
advance that this transaction cost Ströer 2.5 mil-
lion euros. I'm sure there's never been any trans-
action in Germany that's ever been checked more 
thoroughly by auditors, lawyers or supervisory 
boards.  


I was particularly annoyed about the shameless 
allegation that Ströer did not have any proper 
corporate governance and that the supervisory 
board was not independent. Intolerable effrontery!  


Let me just say that, when we were a fully private 
company, a supervisory board normally had an 
uncle, an aunt, a lawyer and an accountant. That 
was in 2004.  


In 2004, we bought Deutsche Städtereklame. At 
that time, the chairman of the supervisory board 
was the head of the German Accountants' Asso-
ciation, Dr. Bornheim. He has since died. Then 


we had Dr. Schröder, today the head of the KfW 
Bank, formerly head of NRW.Bank. Then we had 
Mr. … on behalf of Cerberus, which financed us, 
used to be a member of the executive board of  
Allianz. Then we had a former head of Arthur An-
derson, today Ernst & Young, and then Professor 
Stolte with whom you here will all be familiar. I 
think he is beyond any doubt as far as integrity 
and corporate governance are concerned – like 
the others. That's who was on our supervisory 
board in 2004 when we were a private company. 
At that time, we had corporate governance quality 
that you won't find in many publicly-listed compa-
nies. 


When we carried out the transaction under attack 
in this case, what was the actual situation? Just to 
remind you again: at that time, the share price 
was seven euros and it was obvious that our ori-
ginal strategy, namely of globalizing outdoor ad-
vertising, was not working. The only option was to 
break into the digital field because there was still 
an independent marketer which was not called 
Springer, ProSieben or whatever. That was Ströer 
Interactive formed by Mr. Ströer.  


At the time there was only one option, namely to 
buy Ströer Interactive for shares because that en-
abled us to buy adscale for cash. Why? To re-
mind you again: adscale costed about 20 million 
euros at two million euros EBIT, about ten times 
the result. At the time, we had three times the 
amount of debt and couldn't increase it. So, to 
spend 20 million euros in cash, we had to earn a 
result of seven million euros. adscale had only 
two 2 million euros. 7 to 20 is about 1 to 3. That 
means we had to earn five million euros cash for 
shares because that won't increase our debt.  


One interesting situation is that, because  
Mr. Ströer and I – and this is no secret – did not 
sell any shares on the public listing, although we 
were highly indebted. Together we were the third 
largest credit risk of the …; that was a particular 
pleasure. Then we secured the loan with shares 
at eight euros / strike price. The share price was 
seven euros. What do you do now? Sell the only 
asset you have outside Ströer AG to Springer for 
cash? Or put everything you have on one card 
and sell it to Ströer AG for shares with debt which 
was clearly in the double-figure million range?  


I can assure you, I've had interesting discussions 
on this with my wife because she asked me 
whether I was quite sane. With that share price, to 
leave the last asset which – so to speak – is not in
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 9 


the AG (public company) for shares. But we al-
ways believed in this company and in this share 
and we said, "No, we won't do that because it's 
the only chance to restructure the company."  


There was no other chance because we could on-
ly get into digitization through marketing, because 
we are a major marketer. Neither Springer nor 
Burda nor Bauer nor ProSieben will sell their mar-
keting companies.  


Then we went to Mr. Stolte and said this is the on-
ly way we can see. Then Mr. Stolte said, "This is 
a related-party deal, it is a challenge for us all." In 
the over 50 years of my career, I've had a spot-
less reputation. If we can ensure that there will be 
no personal risk for any of the persons involved, 
we will also be able to make a related-party deal. 
But we will have to accept significant discounts 
everywhere because, at the close of my career, I 
will not put myself in the position where someone 
can criticize me for anything not being 100-
percent in the interests of the other shareholders 
and of Ströer AG. 


So we did it. Then Freshfields designed the draft 
transaction and Ernst & Young and KPMG wrote 
all the appraisals. In the end there were quite a lot 
of hurdles; there should be at least a 25% dis-
count for valuation, etc., etc. So we succeeded by 
– so to speak – buying a company through the 
main shareholder spending 2.5 million euros on 
appraisals. The transaction costs of the other side 
were 40,000 euros.  


Of course, this is great. When I look at myself, all 
shareholders have had the beginnings of a posi-
tive development and three years later, someone 
from San Francisco tried to sling mud at us in this 
connection. I can tell you, it's a particularly plea-
sant experience. 


But as bitter as it was that it's going to have to be 
investigated (which they said themselves), we 
then – and this was the point in this case – asked 
Ernst & Young again to verify the critical claims. 
We also appointed the well-known international 
law firm Freshfields to check our corporate gover-
nance model. It found that the corporate gover-
nance at Ströer SE & Co. KGaA fulfills high 
standards both from the imposed system and with 
regard to the actual operational implementation.  


In this connection, just a final comment on the 
whole story behind this deal.  


Muddy Waters claimed it was in connection with 
freeXmedia, which used to belong to Freenet, 
(which) was bought by Media Ventures for 2 mil-
lion euros and sold for 20 million euros. This claim 
is false and was only a suspicion. How did they 
do this? They took the entire purchase price and 
then they had the only data they could find the 
year before: "What sort of result did a corporate 
division make?" and multiplied by ten and then 
deducted it from the total purchase price. That left 
20 million euros and that was the allegation.  


The fact is – and the question will be asked, so 
I'm answering it now – two million euros paid in 
cash, Media Ventures sold it for 1.8 million euros 
and was resold in cash at the base purchase 
price, i.e. even for somewhat less than what we 
paid for it. But irrespective of that, shareholders 
who have been on board since 2012 are suffi-
ciently familiar with this issue. 


I would like to emphasize that Ströer shares sur-
vived the attack very well and exceeded the 50 
euro mark again only a few days after the attack.  


At the same time, I would like to look at the unal-
tered and overwhelmingly positive estimate of all 
well-known analysts' firms that cover us. All ele-
ven analysts have a clear buy-rating for the Ströer 
share of an average target price of 72.40 euros. 
Even the comments on our first quarter figures 
were overwhelmingly positive. 


I mentioned at the beginning that, with the 2015 
business results, we achieved an absolute record 
year. Group revenue rose by 14% to 824 million 
euros and we strongly increased organic growth 
by 10%. Due to the considerable increase in re-
venue combined with high cost discipline, the op-
erational EBITDA also improved significantly by 
40% to 208 million euros. In the reporting period, 
the adjusted result almost doubled to 106 million 
euros. The free cash flow improved by 50% and 
rose to 114 million euros, significantly over the 
figure for the year before.  


The net debt as a further essential control para-
meter in the group was reduced in the reporting 
year to 231 million euros in spite of acquisitions in 
the digital sector. The dynamic debt level was im-
proved due to the considerable improvement in 
the operational EBITDA to the factor 1.1, - the 
lowest value since the company was formed in 
1990.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 10 


In the past business year, Ströer has simultane-
ously continued, apart from its online business, to 
selectively invest in organic growth projects in 
Germany and abroad. In all, investments exclu-
ding acquisitions increased by almost 70% to 76 
million euros.  


Our business is based on three segments: digital, 
out-of-home Germany and out-of-home interna-
tional. The Ströer digital segment once again re-
corded strong increases, thereby continuing its 
upwards trend unabated. Annual revenue for 
2015 in this segment rose by almost 50% to 243.5 
million euros. The operational EBITDA also de-
veloped considerably positively and doubled to 
79.5 million euros. The EBITDA margin also im-
proved considerably in the 2015 business year, 
rising to 32.7%.  


In the out-of-home Germany segment, we can re-
port considerable increases in sales revenue, with 
both the national and the regional business con-
tributing considerably to growth. Annual revenue 
for 2015 in the out-of-home Germany segment 
rose organically by over 8% to 464 million euros, 
and the operational EBITDA developed consider-
ably positively, rising by 27% to 124.5 million eu-
ros. The EBITDA margin also improved in the 
2015 business year, rising to 26.8%. 


The out-of-home international segment earned 
sales totaling 142.8 million euros in 2015. As a 
result, it had to take slight decreases compared to 
2014, which were due primarily to geopolitical un-
certainties and associated foreign currency ef-
fects. By comparison, sales in local currency 
eased only marginally. Taking additional over-
heads savings into account resulted in a generally 
better operational EBITDA of 25 million euros. 
The operational EBITDA margin also rose to 
17.5%. 


Let me take a brief look at the increase in capital 
from authorized capital of last business year 
which was carried out in order to acquire Germa-
ny's furthest-reaching online portal, T-Online, and 
Germany's biggest digital marketer Interactive 
Media belonging to Deutsche Telekom AG.  


Further to Paragraph 5, Subpara. 1 of the Articles 
of Association of the former Steuer SE and with 
the approval of the supervisory board, the board 
of management was authorized to increase the 
company's equity capital once or several times by 
up to 18,938,495 euros against cash contributions 
and/or contributions in kind. Also with the approv-


al of the supervisory board, the board of man-
agement was authorized to exclude shareholders' 
subscription rights in the eventuality of any in-
crease in capital against contributions in kind, in 
particular to acquire companies, company divi-
sions or holdings in companies.  


On the basis of this authorization, the board of 
management decided on September 28, 2015 
with the same-day approval of the supervisory 
board to increase the company's equity capital 
from 48,869,784 euros by 6,412,715 euros to 
55,282,499 euros by issuing 6,412,715 new no-
par value bearer shares with dividend rights from 
the 2015 business year. In the process, the 
shareholders' statutory subscription rights were 
barred as the increase in capital was carried out 
in the form of contributions in kind. 


The 6,412,715 new shares were issued at the 
lowest issue price within the meaning of Section 
9, Subsection 1, of the German Public Companies 
Act, in other words, at one euro per share. They 
correspond to an 11.6% share of share capital in 
Ströer and were taken over by Deutsche Telekom 
AG, which contributed to Ströer SE all shares 
held by it in Digital Media Products GmbH in re-
turn. Digital Media Products GmbH operates the 
T-Online internet portal and itself holds 100% of 
the shares in the digital marketing company Inter-
active Media.  


The contribution was carried out with commercial 
effect from November 2, 2015. The capital in-
crease in and the entry of the company in the 
Commercial Register also became effective on 
November 2, 2015. The shares issued must be 
held for at least 12 months. 


Going by a company valuation carried out in the 
group according to the IDW standard, the newly-
acquired Digital Media Products GmbH and its 
holdings in Interactive Media GmbH is worth 
some 300 million euros. The exchange ratio be-
tween the holdings in the companies acquired 
and the Ströer shares granted in return was cal-
culated on the basis of the company value of the 
companies acquired and the price of Ströer's 
shares. 


For Ströer, this acquisition was very important 
and a clear game-changer in Germany's digital 
market. The increases in capital against contribu-
tions in kind enabled the company to carry out the 
transaction in such a way as not to impair liquidity 
and, in view of the advantages connected with the
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 11 


acquisition of the companies, were in the compa-
ny's interests.  


As a chief parameter for our dividend payments, 
we have in the past introduced the result per 
share. Over the last three years, we increased the 
result per share from 0.77 euros to 1.93 euros. 
This is the result of excellent growth of the busi-
ness, backed up by our cost efficiency initiative 
"Shape", reduced financial expenditure and value-
enhancing acquisitions.  


Based on the extraordinarily positive business re-
sults in 2015 and the good start to this business 
year, I would like to propose an increased divi-
dend payment from 0.40 euros to 0.70 euros for 
those shares entitled to a dividend. This will mean 
a dividend pay-out ratio of 36%, which is in line 
with our dividend policy, which provides for dis-
bursements of 25% to 50% of the adjusted annual 
result.  


Based on the proposal, there will be a dividend 
payment of almost 40 million euros. In paying this 
dividend, which has been increased by 75%, we 
are emphasizing our positive business prospects 
and including shareholders substantially in the 
company's success. 


We had extraordinarily good performance in the 
first quarter of 2016, the best start to the business 
years since the company was formed in 1990. We 
have succeeded in combining the positive devel-
opment in our digital business model with the con-
tinually growing out-of-home business, thereby 
accelerating our overall growth. We are well-
positioned in the structurally growing business  
areas and have created a strong platform for 
long-term growth.  


Revenue in the first quarter rose by almost 40% 
to 226 million euros. Our organic growth rate was 
11.5%. The operational EBITDA rose in the same 
period by 72% by over 45 million euros. As a re-
sult, our operational EBITDA margin also consi-
derably increased in the first quarter from 15.9% 
to 19.7%. The adjusted EBIT doubled to over 26 
million euros and the adjusted net profit quadru-
pled to over 20 million euros in the first quarter of 
2016. Our dynamic debt ratio dropped to 1.4 
times compared with 1.9 times at the end of the 
first quarter of 2015.  


We are very confident that we can continue this 
positive momentum from the beginning of this 


year into the second quarter and for the entire 
2016 business year. 


Last week we also placed a bonded loan of 170 
million euros with five- and seven-year terms. 
This will allow us to further reduce financial ex-
penses, optimize our maturity structure and fur-
ther increase our financial flexibility in future. At 
the same time, the bonded loan has allowed us to 
diversify our investor base on the credit side. 


To enable an optimized tax structure in future, 
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA has concluded a profit 
transfer agreement with each of its subsidiaries 
Ströer Venture, Ströer Sales Group, Digital Media 
Products and BlowUP Media. The shareholders' 
meetings of these subsidiaries must consent to 
each such agreement. In addition, Item 11 of our 
agenda requires the approval by today's general 
meeting of each agreement. Each subsidiary 
must also be registered in the Commercial Regis-
ter.  


The conclusion of a profit-transfer agreement can 
bring about a tax-based consolidation of the com-
panies' results for tax purposes. This is advanta-
geous in that the positive or negative results of 
the four subsidiaries can be offset simultaneously 
against negative or positive results of Ströer and 
other companies in the group. We can detect no 
risks over and above the usual business risks in 
this connection. 


With the entry into force of the profit-transfer 
agreements, the four subsidiaries each undertake 
for the duration of the agreement to remit all their 
profits to Ströer. Correspondingly, Ströer will be 
obliged to compensate the four subsidiaries for 
any losses. The profit-transfer agreements will 
each apply for the 2016 business year and will 
run for a fixed term of at least five years, which is 
necessary for recognition for tax purposes. 


At this point, I would like to explain in detail the 
strategy and the effects of this strategy on our 
most important product segments: out-of-home, 
digital content and local markets.  


The continual digitalization of our out-of-home in-
frastructure is the prerequisite for linking our pub-
lic screens with the digital world of the internet. 
Digital transformation also acts as a core driver of 
the development of our out-of-home business. 


By comparison, 100% of our revenue 25 years 
ago came from the classical outdoor advertising 
business using pasted posters. Today, this share
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 12 


of revenue is only 10%. The first step in our digi-
talization began in the 1990s with Infoscreen, 
which was followed by the start of our public video 
network in shopping centers, railroad stations and 
on public transportation. Currently, we have about 
4,000 public screens, which reach about 30 mil-
lion people a month. We continually optimize our 
existing inventory and as part of the continuing 
expansion, we concentrate on wide-reaching rail-
road stations and shopping centers. 


We took the second and considerably bigger step 
as part of out-of-home digitalization late last year 
by introducing broad-size screens, large digital 
displays in heavily frequented radial highways 
and arterial roads. We started in Wuppertal with 
six screens showing both local content and adver-
tising. The booking situation is very pleasing and 
the sales successes are considerable. 


In marketing, we are focusing on small and  
medium-sized local customers. Based on the 
successful pilot schemes in Wuppertal, we will 
now begin with the roll-out in many other cities in 
Germany. Cologne is the first city of over a million 
inhabitants in which we have installed our broad-
size screens. Marketing has also started and 
started just as promisingly as in Wuppertal. Other 
cities will follow in the second half of the year. We 
are thus establishing a unique network in Germa-
ny with digital screens on the road. 


Another major focus segment is the new field of 
digital content. The media-use behavior, especial-
ly of so-called "digital natives" has been changing 
dramatically as part of increasing digitalization in 
the media industry over the last ten years.  


To illustrate the extent and the range of this pro-
cess, we have subdivided this development into 
five steps.  


First step: consumption. In an exclusively analog 
era, media use was restricted to consuming con-
tent. 


Second step: comments. For the first time, the in-
ternet makes it possible to consume not only me-
dia but also to comment, for example via email. 


Third step: creating. Consumers, driven by the 
social media revolution, can now not only con-
sume and comment but also become part of the 
medium by creating themselves. Users take on a 
considerably more active role and create their 
own content for the first time. In this way they be-
come – in a sense – part of the digital world. 


Fourth step: connecting, i.e. connecting real ob-
jects with the virtual internet. The internet of 
things combines a real world in which we move 
with the virtual world of the internet, thereby crea-
ting a new setting for experiences. 


Fifth and last step: fusion. The fusing of humans, 
internet and the real world – for example through 
the implementation of digital elements in the hu-
man body. Google Glass is a small, initial exam-
ple of this still eerie-sounding scenario if seen 
from today's perspective.  


The established media industry has only limited 
time to develop new business models based on 
radically changed media consumption. Traditional 
business models, which refer mainly to the two 
first development stages of changing media con-
sumption, will necessarily disappear in the mid-
term. 


To respond to the briefly described challenge, we 
have built a multi-level value chain model. For  
example, we are acquiring traditional internet por-
tals which, when they are taken over, will be 
monetarized by – ideally – slowly rising advertis-
ing income as the sole source of revenue.  


In a first step, we are integrating new product 
functions and interactive services in order to in-
crease user loyalty and commitment to the por-
tals.  


In a second step, we are increasing our reach 
with social traffic and presence on public video. 
We are thus creating multi-screen multi-touch … 
portals and are linking virtual online portals with 
the real world.  


In a third step, we are increasing the degree of 
monetarization based on increased traffic. We are 
also using our No. 1 position in marketing at na-
tional and local level with our data management 
platform in the background, thereby creating new 
revenue potential. 


In a fourth and fifth step, we are lastly expanding 
our advertising-dominated value chain with verti-
cally integrated business models, for example di-
gital subscription memberships or niche e-
commerce models, thereby opening up new reve-
nue and result potential. 


I would like to explain our strategy using the ex-
ample of our Womens' and Lifestyle Vertical. In 
developing our assets, we are currently focusing 
– including in this aforementioned Vertical – on
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 13 


the continued development of the – to date – tra-
ditional portal business to interactive digital com-
munities. We are increasing traffic using our so-
cial media platforms and are playing digital con-
tent of our content brands via our public video 
network.  


In advertising marketing, we are relying on reach 
and data from a single source. This is one of our 
core unique selling points which enables us to 
continually improve the monetization of our traffic.  


As a next step, we are currently starting very spe-
cifically to integrate subscription and niche e-
commerce business models into our digital value 
chains. Based on our data management platform, 
we have identified four very promising areas in 
the vertical Woman & Lifestyle for potential busi-
ness models in the transaction area: fashion & 
style, fitness, health & food, beauty & cosmetics. 
In doing so, we have acquired complementary 
non-advertising-dependent business models such 
as Style Fruits, BodyChange Shop and the 10 
Weeks BodyChange weight management pro-
gram over the last few months. 


The third focus segment is the local market. We 
are currently integrating various new digital prod-
ucts in order to massively expand business with 
small and medium-sized customers. At over six 
billion euros total revenue, the local market has 
gigantic sales potential and is one of the chief fu-
ture growth areas for our company.  


Driven especially by the acquisitions of RegioHel-
den, the leading service provider for local internet 
advertising, we are now pursuing an integrated 
360-degree online marketing approach in our 
product range for local customers. Besides the 
traditional offer of out-of-home products, we now 
have a comprehensive inventory of new digital of-
fers. These include entries in online index media, 
developing websites, Google AdWords and opti-
mizing search engines, display and video adver-
tising. In this context, we are also concentrating 
on subscription models with recurring  
revenue. 


We are actively marketing the combination of vi-
sibility, performance and branding products in our 
local sales units. We are currently the only Ger-
man supplier of local advertising products and are 
continuing to expand this position every month.  


From 2015 to 2018, we are assuming average 
annual growth rates in this new approach, which 


resembles network marketing, of about 50%. Our 
orders received in 2016 will probably be about 60 
million euros. 


As I mentioned at the beginning, we had an ex-
cellent start to 2016. All segments have shown 
very positive development. For the first time since 
our IPO, we already earned a – very – positive 
net result in the first quarter of this business year.  


Against this background, we confirm our current 
guidance for revenue and operational result. We 
expect an increase in revenue to between 1.1 and 
1.2 billion euros. Related to the operational 
EBITDA of the entire group, we are assuming a 
clear increase to over 280 million in 2016. We al-
so expect organic growth in the mid-to-upper per-
centage range for the entire group. 


Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you 
that my colleagues on the board of management 
and I will also devote all our energies in future to 
continuing to make Ströer an attractive value on 
the capital market over the long term. We are very 
optimistic that the strategy we have devised will 
continue to deliver positive and above-average 
results and we expect that this will be reflected in 
the correspondingly positive trend in the share 
price. Even now when you look at the analysts' 
price target, we currently have definite upside po-
tential. 


On behalf of the entire board of management, I 
thank you for your confidence. We look forward to 
continuing along this successful path with you.  


Thank you for your attention. I will now take your 
questions. 


(applause) 


[…] 


ten Doornkaat: Good morning, ladies and  
gentlemen. My name is Mr. ten Doornkaat. I am a 
lawyer based in Düsseldorf and I am representing 
the German Association for the Protection of Cap-
ital Investors [Schutzgemeinschaft der Kapita-
lanleger] today. 


Mr. Müller, you have just made some remarks 
about Muddy Waters. I believe that, for me at 
least, that will be a principal theme today. But  
allow me to say something by way of introduction. 
The victims of such attacks are those who leave 
themselves open to attack. I believe that, having 
conducted this business in the way that you have,
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 14 


you have left yourselves massively open to  
attack and made yourselves vulnerable to attack 
in the past. 


This already brings me directly to my first point. 
Agenda item 1 leaves me a little confused. We 
are a partnership limited by shares (KGaA). But 
it's also true that last year we were a Societas Eu-
ropaea (SE). Today, the SE's annual financial 
statements are to be presented and we are  
supposed to pass a resolution on them. But that 
is only required for the KGaA, and the KGaA has 
not presented any annual financial statements. 
So I ask myself, what are we doing here today: 
passing a resolution or not passing a resolution? 
Because § 286 of the Stock Corporation Act  
[Aktiengesetz] applies only to KGaAs, but you 
have presented the annual financial statements of 
an SE. 


So I am a little confused as to what we are doing 
with it. The annual financial statements have, at 
least according to your agenda, already been 
signed off by the supervisory board. This means 
that, in principle, the financial statements are  
approved for the SE. But what do we do with the 
KGaA? Are we going to do something there too, 
or are we going to leave it? 


Here too I can only say that you have already 
found the right law once. Now we just have to find 
the right clauses on which we can agree so that 
we can then do something properly here today. 


I therefore request the notary to note my objection 
to all the agenda items with the votes that I repre-
sent. I also reserve the right to ask questions at a 
later stage if the answers to my questions are not 
satisfactory.  


I now come to my next point, which in the run-up 
to the meeting has left me somewhat surprised: 
the press. Where are they? I have heard mem-
bers of the press say, No, we're not allowed in, 
we haven't been invited.  


This is strange for an advertising company, which 
should use every medium possible, including the 
press, to then be able to read positive articles in 
the press, too. But if you refuse to invite them, 
you shouldn't be surprised afterwards that other 
people will take up the story and then possibly 
publish negative things about you. 


I mean, if you are a publicly-listed company, and 
are even MDAX-listed, how should you treat the 
press? You have to engage with them proactively. 


That includes inviting them to the general meet-
ing. In my many years' experience, I have never 
known members of the press to be barred from 
attending unless they happen to also be share-
holders.  


You then said you had an investigation conducted 
by Ernst & Young (EY). This is the same com-
pany that prepared the annual financial state-
ments. What did you expect? That they would 
come forward and say, Oops, sorry, we've made 
a mistake, we're returning our auditor's  
licence to practice? This is laughable. 


You can't operate in this way. The investigation 
needs to be carried out by a neutral party. This 
neutral party can then say whether or not what EY 
has done is correct. But to appoint someone to 
audit his own audit is absurd. 


I would also be interested to learn who commis-
sioned EY. Was it the chairmen, was it the super-
visory board? With a company limited by shares, 
it is usually the supervisory board that commis-
sions the auditors for the annual financial state-
ments. This raises the question, did the  
board of management give the order to audit the 
annual financial statements, or was the superviso-
ry board involved as well? Can we hear some-
thing about that please? 


You yourselves realized that a share buyback 
program during a short attack was not such a 
good idea. I don't know who advised you to tell 
the press about it. You have to realize that you 
don't know how many shares this person might 
have borrowed and then intended to purchase at 
a reduced rate as part of a share buyback pro-
gram. This idea is totally reckless. But thankfully 
wiser counsel prevailed.  


(Interjection from Klein) 


Then we come to Muddy Waters, to these accu-
sations or attacks. How do you intend to ensure 
that you don't again become the target of attacks 
of this kind? Have you developed any preventa-
tive strategies for safeguarding yourself in the fu-
ture? 


My next question is, what is being done about the 
charge raised by Muddy Waters that various 
transactions have been carried out with related 
parties? Something needs to be said about this 
as well. We can't simply say that they are ill-
intentioned or ethically or morally questionable or 
whatever. Whether they were or weren't is not for
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 15 


us to decide. A higher power sits in judgment. It is 
not something that we here on earth need to de-
cide.  


Another question: what commercial relationships 
currently exist between Media Ventures GmbH 
and Ströer? When I say Ströer, I mean the SE as 
well as the KGaA, just so we don't get into legalis-
tic niceties that try to imply that the one did some-
thing that the other did not.  


And if such relationships do exist, why do they  
exist? The background to this question is relative-
ly clear: why do I have to buy something from 
Media Ventures that I could produce myself? 


And then, the acquisition of freeXmedia by Media 
Ventures GmbH is complete. Why didn't Ströer 
acquire it directly at the time? If I have understood 
you correctly, you just said, well, it was to protect 
liquidity. 


The way I see it, you paid Freenet two million for 
freeXmedia, and you spent 2.5 million on advisors 
to cobble together the deal for you. How is that in 
any way proportionate? Wouldn't it have been 
simpler to get rid of the advisors and use the 2 
million to acquire it directly from Freenet? It 
seems to me that would have been feasible. 


(Interjection from podium) 


I'm sorry? 


Müller: No, no. You are very well informed, I must 
say. Which is vital if you're going to ask the right 
questions. 
 


ten Doornkaat: That is my job. But it's good that 
you see it like that. That way you can allow me to 
ask further questions. That way I'll get to the point 
quicker and will be able to keep within 15  
minutes. 


On December 16, 2012, why was an ad-hoc noti-
fication from the supervisory board discounted 
stating that the purchase of adscale could go 
ahead on the condition that a stake in Media Ven-
tures might be acquired? 


 (The chairman of the board rises from his 
seat) 


- Mr. Müller, I can of course spare you this ques-
tion. We can leave it. We can approach this  
another way. I can file a claim for disclosure.  


Müller: If you object to my visiting the bathroom, 
then say so. Then others can decide about that. 


ten Doornkaat: I'll wait for you to come back. 


Müller: No need. The technology is so  
sophisticated that I can hear you even when I'm 
peeing. 


ten Doornkaat: Good. Then perhaps you can 
come up with some answers while you're peeing, 
too.  


(Laughter) 


Müller: No problem. You'll get your answers.  


ten Doornkaat: To return to my point. What does 
this purchase of adscale have to do with the pur-
chase of the stake? Is there a connection there or 
not? What steps have been taken to ensure the 
transactions are at arm's length?  


You will no doubt say that we retained various 
consultants. But consultants don't do deals at 
arm's length. The most they can do is say, you 
can do it, but you don't have to do it.  


The advice given by consultants often depends 
on their fee. You'll find plenty of consultants who'll 
tell you that the Rhine flows downstream. But if 
there's a bit more money on the table, you'll also 
find consultants who'll tell you that the Rhine 
flows up into the Swiss Alps. You have to know 
how to interpret the advice.  


Which members of the supervisory board were 
involved in the approval of this deal over the  
freeXmedia complex, as I might call it, and which 
abstained from voting? 


Then we come to the issue of supervisory board 
selection. This is one of Muddy Waters' central 
charges. They say, OK, we have a supervisory 
board that is not independent. Well, what is meant 
by independent in the sense intended by the cor-
porate governance code? Nonetheless, it worries 
me when the chairman's wife is advising him on 
whether he is acting correctly or not. Because, in 
the event of doubt, what are the consequences of 
that? That the chairman will sit down to dinner 
with his wife in the evening and say, 'Did I do the 
right thing, sweetie?' And sweetie says, 'Of 
course darling.' That doesn't strike me as being a 
good way of choosing members of the super-
visory board.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 16 


Ms. Flemmerer: Sweetie has been writing a  
thesis on corporate compliance for the past three 
years. I can assure you ...  


ten Doornkaat: Aha. Good. – I had written myself 
a note here: what qualifications are held by mem-
bers of the supervisory board? Now I know you 
are writing a doctoral thesis. 


But I would like to know, which candidates for 
election to the supervisory board can be regarded 
as financial experts? Are there any? 


What deals exist either directly or indirectly be-
tween members of the supervisory board either 
as individuals or as organs of Ströer KGaA  
or Steuer SE? Who are the beneficiaries of these 
contractual relationships? 


How is it ensured that, when deals with related 
parties are approved by the supervisory board, 
the persons affected are excluded from the ap-
proval process? The question also arises, to what 
extent is the committee still capable of acting if a 
decision continuously has to be made as to 
whether a vote can or cannot be taken. This is 
always going to be a difficult situation. 


What deals exist between the executive bodies of 
Ströer KGaA and Ströer SE as individuals or as 
executive bodies of other juristic persons with re-
gard to Media Ventures GmbH? 


These are my initial questions and observations. 
It would be good if the individual members of the 
supervisory board could state whether or not they 
are independent. If several persons are standing 
for election, can they also state whether or not 
they are independent. This would at least make 
the elections somewhat easier for us. Thank you 
for listening. 


 (Applause) 


Vilanek, chairman: Thank you, Mr. ten Doorn-
kaat. I now give the floor to the representative of 
DSW, Mr. Tüngler. Then it's  
Mr. Buhlmann's turn. 


Tüngler: Thank you, Christoph Vilanek. The room 
is full. In fact it's never been so full, or so atten-
tive, which of course is no bad thing. 


My name is Marc Tüngler. I am the managing di-
rector of the German Association for the Protec-
tion of Capital Investors (DSW). I have attended 
this meeting in previous years, but sadly couldn't 


be here last year. However, that's irrelevant. In 
recent years I have witnessed the sale of freeX-
media to the house, or rather not to the house, 
but rather by a circuitous route. 


Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that, unfortu-
nately, the main topic, not to say the charges, of 
this general meeting, are .... I have a few ques-
tions that I'd like to ask about operations in order 
to move the meeting forward. 


Perhaps I'll start with the fact that we can all be 
glad that the forecast that, as we all saw, you put 
up on the wall at the close, involved an adjust-
ment, and an upwards adjustment at that, and to 
EBITDA, if I understood it correctly. So first of all, 
thank you for that. That is good news and should 
move the share price up again. 


Nonetheless it would appear that the share price 
is not yet back to its pre-attack level. Nor have 
Wirecard got back to where they were. We need 
to ask why. So I have prepared a few questions to 
ask. But first I'd like to say a few words about my 
experience so far and concerning my, or rather 
our, view of the company and the subject of the 
eighteen accusations that have been leveled 
against you ... You have taken up eighteen posi-
tions. One wonders whether it was sensible to 
take up a position. But you said interest was in-
tense and then you said nothing more. I believe 
that at that point it wasn't even possible to allow 
Muddy Waters to run into the off so easily. 


But I'd like to start with something I found quite 
bizarre and that demonstrated to me what the 
problem is here. I believe that, as far as the num-
bers are concerned, discussion is possible. 


But you have an auditor, and you have others 
who are overseeing the audit. I also know that 
there are some in-house analysts who are also 
looking at the issue. A clear opinion has emerged, 
which we at the DSW share, that the numbers 
have not been manipulated, massaged or falsi-
fied. I believe that this is sometimes open to inter-
pretation even by the IFRS. But this is the frame-
work within which you have to move, and I believe 
you are doing so. 


I myself took up a very clearly defined position in 
the press on the day of the attack and after, and 
wrote a few opinion pieces in the Börsen-Zeitung 
and elsewhere and always took the side of the 
company 100%. Mr. Müller, you can't be so bold. 
For me what has happened is simply unlawful. As
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 17 


chairman, you have to be more careful. We as 
shareholders' representatives don't have to be so 
cautious. We believe this is unlawful, and I have 
said as much. 


I have also had discussions in Berlin, with the 
federal government and also with the Federal  
Financial Supervisory Authority [BaFin], regarding 
how it looks to them and whether they plan to do 
anything about it. I can tell you now, the forecast I 
gave there ... What has happened is simply not 
allowed. But I imagine the federal government 
won't do anything, because they say this has  
taken place in an international context, the  
attacks originated elsewhere, etc. etc. 


It's getting to be very difficult. I feel there is little 
we can achieve at the regulatory level. Regard-
less of that, I think that working together ... We 
have to bear two things in mind. On the one hand 
we have the report with the negative findings. I 
don't know if you've read it, but you should. It's a 
real eye-opener. 


When you read it you get the impression that 
Muddy Waters is right. It's very well written, these 
are professional people, and they are not  
shooting from the hip. There have been months of 
preparation for this one day, perhaps also for a 
second day. 


If you read it – I read it through on Sunday  
evening at the scene of the crime, 


(Laughter) 


and the paper was far more exciting. Afterwards 
you think, what should I do now? Although you're 
for Ströer and for this company, you can't help 
feeling a bit strange. Then you have to shake 
yourself and check again what you said, and the 
world will be a better place again. But you should 
download it and read it. It's very interesting.  





They have a specific goal, namely to get rich, and 
that's all. It's simply that Muddy Waters is  
enriching itself at your, at our cost. This cannot be 
allowed to happen. But unfortunately Berlin pro-
bably won't do anything.  


Now the interesting part. In the Börsen-Zeitung, 
and the Handelsblatt and in the press in general, I 
have said many times that what is happening to 
Ströer, rather than at Ströer, is a disaster. I never 
thought I would see what is happening now. I ran 


into a headwind, not a tailwind. I received phone 
calls, emails, letters saying that I shouldn't  
position myself so clearly in favor of Ströer. I 
should perhaps think twice before taking up a 
clear position here for Ströer and for the company 
saying that short sellers cannot act like this with 
the report.  


But then I asked myself: why am I experiencing 
such a headwind now? I thought I would get a 
tailwind, I thought I would receive confirmation, 
that people would say this is right, that we must 
see whether this combination of report... [the 
German appears to be grammatically incorrect at 
this point – translator Agree – proofreader some-
thing missing in German version here] if the share 
price is set by someone with a short position, that 
this is forbidden. 


Then it struck me – this is the problem here: you 
have an image problem. Ströer has an image 
problem. This image problem has led to your be-
ing vulnerable to attack. And that has now  
happened.  


We must also ask ourselves – Mr. Müller,  
Mr. Vilanek and everyone on the committees, 
hopefully you will do so too – why has this  
happened to us and why hasn't it happened for 
example to a company like Brenntag? A company 
like Brenntag has a widely held flotation of 100% 
and has a share price that has gone so far 
through the roof you just can't imagine. It closed 
down a little, but basically you could draw its as-
cent with a ruler. Why has this happened here 
and not with a Brenntag? 


These questions have to be asked and then you 
have to tell us what you've learned from what has 
happened. Because post-game is pre-game, and 
post-attack is pre-attack. Who's to say that this 
won't happen again next year? 


You're glad that the share price has risen. Muddy 
Waters is too perhaps. It worked out, why  
shouldn't it do so again? That's why you must 
think about what to change. Business as usual is 
not an option. 


If Mr. ten Doornkaat criticizes the fact that Ernst & 
Young audited its own figures, then he has a 
point that should be included in the next report. 
That is another point of vulnerability. You must 
ensure not that you become as slippery as an eel 
but that you eradicate weak points and that the 
system here is changed.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 18 


In recent years, you have changed the system. 
We have changed from an AG into an SE so that 
the employees do not have control. Then you 
changed the SE into a KGaA so that we share-
holders will no longer have any power. So how do 
you think this has happened? 


Yes we're making money. If the share price is 
good, if life is good, then everything is covered up 
by success. But if something disruptive happens 
or something makes the system vulnerable, then 
things get worse. That is what we saw with Muddy 
Waters. 


That's why you can't just write this off and say 
Muddy Waters are bad and we're good. It's not 
that easy. You have to wake up to reality. And so 
must we. All of us here in this room are victims, 
no question. But you have to get on the front foot 
and do things better and more positively and 
change the system so that this can't happen 
again. This is really, really important, that it's like 
this. 


I have brought a few questions with me so that 
this isn't just a statement. There are some issues 
we need to understand. 


I have been given to understand, Mr. Müller, that 
you have not pressed any charges. Is that right? I 
would like to know why not. And secondly, if not, 
we shareholders should do so. Because this can't 
be left open like this. 


BaFin is looking into the matter – you know how 
these things work, Mr. Müller, as do I – and we 
don't know what will come of it. The fact that BaF-
in is currently very occupied with Volkswagen has 
up till now been a one-off. I also imagine that it 
won't continue. 


But this is on BaFin's radar. Ladies and gentle-
men, you have hopefully heard that BaFin is now 
issuing warnings against reading such research 
reports uncritically. Well that's nice, but we never 
did in the first place. But that is not what this is 
about. 


That is why we have to ask ourselves whether we 
as shareholders shouldn't press charges. Per-
haps that will be the outcome of this meeting. 


Then we return to the question, because you per-
haps haven't fully appreciated it: what have you 
learned? That might sound like a trivial question, 
but I mean it quite seriously: what have you 
learned? This is not to ask, what have you 


changed, but what is going to happen now, how 
are you going to arrange things now? 


You need to increase transparency. Other com-
panies make their analysis conferences available 
as a podcast or a videocast on their website. 
They do have something to say. That always sur-
prises me anyway. You too really have something 
to say. Get out there and say it! 


Mr. Müller, your speech today was the best I have 
ever heard. Sometimes it has seemed as if you 
don't really have the passion. Today, what you did 
was almost emotional. 


That's why you have to go further and get out 
there. You have to make a statement, for us, for 
you. We have to ensure that we are transparent 
to all, so that everyone knows what it is we do 
here, and all the shareholders know that our  
history is still being written, and a stop-loss order 
is not given up that is so close to the current 
share price or at least so far from the share price 
that it won't be triggered when there's an  
avalanche. 


The unleashing of the avalanche alone is reason 
enough to press charges. In my opinion, this is 
nothing less than insider trading. Perhaps we can 
discuss this again afterwards. But first please tell 
us why you haven't pressed charges. 


Another point: have you instituted civil  
proceedings? Endangerment of credit? Decep-
tion? Could this be a case for protective law? Why 
have you not brought proceedings in criminal or 
civil law? Because if you haven't, the question 
remains as to why?  


FreeXmedia. Mr. Müller, thank you for your com-
ments. That is clearly your settled view. You have 
explained to us why the circuitous route was  
taken. I tell you that this is not kosher. It was not 
even kosher at the time. 


Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I should explain 
again that I belong to the supervisory board of the 
company that sold freeXmedia, and sold it, more-
over, as far as I'm aware, for more than 2.5  
million euros, or at least I hope that more than 
that has been achieved. 





That's why I was very glad that you stated it 
again. Perhaps you could say a few words in
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 19 


response to Mr. ten Doornkaat. But I'm guessing 
you won't be saying anything more on that score. 


It is also conceivable that the covenants would 
have been ripped up if you had paid cash. Then 
the question arises as to whether we as sellers 
would have wanted shares. Maybe that was not 
the case. But I think you should say something in 
response to Mr. ten Doornkaat's questions. I'd like 
to take the same line. He has already asked you 
about this. 


Perhaps you could say something about the  
timing. That is something else that has come to 
the surface. The way it came across was as if 
Ströer AG – I think we were still an AG then – had 
already had discussions with the seller and then 
somehow we found a work-around. Somehow 
there is a gap there. Perhaps you could explain it 
again. 


You have also explained that the supervisory 
board chairman placed great emphasis on this. 
But we could have saved ourselves the 2.5 million 
euros of survey costs in connection with the  
related parties history if we had done it directly. 
But if you say we couldn't have, because other-
wise we would have torn up the covenants, then 
the lenders would have been able to terminate 
without notice. That would, of course, not have 
been good either. 


Mr. Voigt, I address myself directly to you now. 
You are a lender. Would you have terminated? 
You don't need to answer the question, and you 
won't either. But we have the lender, inter alia,  
sitting here with us. So: another topic. 


Dividend increase to 70 cents. Naturally we're 
happy about that. I have an amusing question, 
Mr. Müller and Mr. Vilanek: would we have got 
that even without Muddy? Somehow I have the 
impression that a strong signal is to be sent once 
again. Which is why I ask, what will happen next 
year? Is it set at 70 cents or is this a one-off  
Muddy factor and next year we'll be back to 50 
cents? I have also learned that results are up. So 
I would think that next year we will get one euro. 
But tell us, what does the 70 cents mean? How 
should we interpret it? 


On the one hand, you say quite correctly, we 
don't want to react to Muddy, we have done  
nothing wrong; on the other hand, we are now 
getting such a nice dividend that we are all very 
happy about. But perhaps you could say a bit 


more about how this came about, how you arrived 
at 70 cents, so that we can understand it better. 


On the buyback of our own shares, Mr. ten 
Doornkaat has already spoken. That is the auto-
matic reaction of a CEO when an attack is 
launched and the share price goes down, that is 
quite normal. I am very happy that you pulled the 
plug there. Because it's better that you spend the 
money on acquisitions that are valuable rather 
than on your own shares. 





The problem is always that chairmen love their 
own shares. That is always very dangerous. Re-
member Schrempp. Proceed with caution! 


One thing that is really very interesting is that we 
heard a lot of key figures from Muddy, especially 
organic growth and similar, but that these weren't 
even the real figures and so on. That is typical for 
the industry. To that extent one has to be aware 
of the industry one is operating in. But perhaps 
you could again explain why you used these  
figures exactly? We would simply like to know. 


Why do you not describe this in the company re-
port? Why do you not write a page about the  
figure that is decisive here and simply explain it? 
Watch out, it's gone! There is no more Muddy to 
tell you that this is a strange figure. Write a page 
about why this figure is the right one. 


But Mr. Vilanek, if the figure used here as a 
measure of success is correct, why is this figure 
not used as a parameter for board of manage-
ment remuneration? Or am I mistaken? I'm happy 
to be corrected, but if this organic growth is so ex-
tre-mely important for the company and as a  
measure of success and also for the capital mar-
kets, why is it not the essential component of  
board of management compensation, as far as I 
know unless I am wrong? It would actually be 
quite normal if the external communication was 
brought into line with board of management re-
muneration. But that is what we are hearing. I 
hope I am mistaken here. 





Convertible bonds. At the current share price, I 
think they wouldn't make any sense. If we pass a 
resolution today on convertible bonds, it's for the 
supervisory board to look at to ensure it is done at 
the correct price. I have learned today that the 
share price is not where it should be. In that case
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 20 


you cannot create any convertible bonds; you 
would then be diluting yourselves and us  
unnecessarily. So please be careful. 


Ladies and gentlemen, we have a Ströer venture. 
We do not only have telecom venture colleagues 
here on the supervisory board; we also have our 
own Ströer venture. What is it? Why do we have a 
Ströer venture? Are we wasting our energy? And 
how is it related to our core business? Is there a 
connection or is it just a playground? 


We need to clear this up. What is happening here 
exactly? Are we going to venture into other sec-
tors and create systems that will be useful to  
other sectors and not just for advertising? Do you 
envisage we will be useful for third parties? We 
have here a system, a platform, and people are 
coming from all over the place to use it. 


You all know – at least, I hope you know – that 
SAP has turned the advertising industry upside 
down. You know that the value creation chain is 
getting shorter and shorter, never mind where. Up 
till now it has been a case of, on the one hand, 
the activation of the advertising, and on the other, 
the advertising medium – internet, out of home, 
etc. In between, there used to a broker. And SAP 
has now provided very good software that cuts 
out the middle man. These brokers are something 
of a vexed topic in the sector. They are seen as 
something like highwaymen. 


What role are we going to play? Is the Ströer Ven-
ture the answer to the issues that now present 
themselves? 


You have acquired a lot and we have a lot of 
goodwill. But what is not going so well? All I ever 
hear is what is going well. But if you are making 
endless acquisitions, then there must be some 
bad eggs. Tell us about your bad eggs, please, so 
that we can get a feeling for what is not going so 
well. There must be some rough patches, there 
will be some rough patches, there may even be 
some potholes. So tell us a bit about what is not 
going so well, just so we can get a feel ... It can't 
be the case that everything is going smoothly, be-
cause you have been making acquisitions till the 
cows come home. 


Also, what is happening in Turkey? I am getting 
strange calls. For the Ballroom deal, you are  
looking to rescind the deal or get compensation, 
because what you bought last year is rubbish – 
excuse my non-technical language – but that it's 


not going well and that you want to rescind the 
deal. 


Then I read under no. 11 in the response to  
Muddy Waters that you are happy with what's 
happening in Turkey and don't need to make any 
impairments with regard to Ballroom. Why are you 
divulging what impairment you are making for 
Ballroom? Is it not somewhere in a cash  
generating unit where it doesn't matter what Ball-
room is doing? 


So, is Ballroom doing well or not doing well? 
When I hear or learn that a claim is being filed in 
the German courts for the return of the purchase 
price you paid because Ballroom is not doing well, 
and yet you write under no. 11 of the response 
that Ballroom is doing well, then we are going to 
lose the claim. And that is not good. 


So tell us what is going on so that we can get a 
feel for what is happening. The joke, Mr. Müller, is 
that ... I know, Mr. Chairman, I have to finish. 


Chairman of the Board, it would be good if you 
were to tell us what is not going well. It's no bad 
thing. It would be really good if you could do that. 


(Applause) 


Because it builds trust. Mr. Christoph Vilanek, I'll 
be finished in a minute. 


I also have to ask about the independence of the 
supervisory board. For a year now I've been a 
member of the corporate governance commission 
and we meet frequently. The topic is always the 
independence of supervisory boards. Now, since 
Volkswagen, it has become even more urgent. 


We have nothing against wives. If my wife were 
on my supervisory board, then 'Sweetie' is the last 
thing I'd be hearing in the evening, because she 
would be very critical. So it's not really a problem. 


But we do have to be careful that dependent per-
sons – such as family, business contacts and the 
like – do not become a liability. You have to state 
who the independent candidates in the super-
visory board are. And if someone in a consortium 
is a lender, Mr. Voigt, then that doesn't make you 
a monster, but are you still independent? That is 
the main question. Can you say something about 
this? 


I just want to say something about the details re-
garding related persons in the company report.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 21 


Does this now apply to the KGaA or does it still 
apply to the SE? This is not unimportant, because 
in the SE we have different rules than in the 
KGaA, where the relationship to the SE is subor-
dinate. So please tell us what this looks like. 


Dear Mr. Christoph Vilanek, I am sorry to have 
spoken for so long. I hope I have anticipated a 
few questions. But I think it's very important to say 
that the image here needs to change. If we really 
don't have any significant problems here,  
Mr. Müller, then you must ensure that the outside 
world knows it. That is what this is about here. 
Thank you for listening. 


(Applause) 


Vilanek, chairman: Thank you, Marc Tüngler. I 
now call upon Mr. Buhlmann for his contribution, 
and then Mr. Weimann. 





Klein: Notary, could you please draw the compa-
ny's attention to the fact that I have requested a 
company report several times... 





(Interjection: It's outside!) 


... for over half an hour ... 


(Interjection: Outside! It's outside!) 


... have called for it several times over the course 
of half an hour. I was outside ten minutes ago, 
and there was no report there. Mr. Notary, please 
note my comments. Thank you for the infor-
mation. If the company reports are available here 
for a few shareholders, then they must also be  
available for the remainder of the shareholders. 


(Applause) 


Vilanek, chairman: Mr. Klein, you'll be given a 
copy immediately. 


Klein: I don't want any special treatment  - -  


(Laughter) 


Vilanek, chairman: We'll be delighted to. 


(Interjection: Can we continue please?) 


Klein: What's going on? It is a precondition that 
we ... 


(Interjection: It's not your turn!) 


– You've interrupted me several times. 


Buhlmann: Mr. Klein, please be quiet. It's my 
turn. 


(Laughter and applause) 


My name is Hans-Martin Buhlmann and I am the 
chairman of VIP [Union of Institutional Private In-
vestors]. I represent 627,721 shares. I hope I 
don't speak too quickly. If I do because of the 
time, then please rant and rave or wave. 





This is in fact a family concern, just as 
Volkswagen in Hanover used to be a family con-
cern. 


Marc, you put it very well. BaFin cannot help us in 
any way, and I don't want to waste time ex-
plaining why. BaFin is incompetent, because it 
can't see inside people's heads. Where it has 
been able to see inside people's heads, as with 
VW, it has merely said that the chairman of the 
board, who is no longer there (who can no longer 
defend himself), is the bad guy. But the person 
responsible, namely the finance director, he has 
not yet been questioned, because he has just 
been appointed chairman of the supervisory 
board. BaFin is therefore laughable and cannot 
help us here. 


The stock market price achieved by the team – 
and that's more than just the few people on the 
podium, it's over 3,000 people – has been a 
source of satisfaction for some time. Please pass 
on our gratitude to the employees with as much 
emphasis as we have given it here today. 


(Applause) 


We are currently getting a dividend of 0.7 euros. 
That is slightly up on the previous year. So with 
this momentum I will ... Mr. Müller, you have 
talked about momentum, and I hope you know 
what momentum is. Momentum is the pace that 
we are currently enjoying, that we must seize  
upon, and it means that next year, with a year that 
is clearly going well, we can expect a dividend of 
one euro. 


Today we are electing a supervisory board. Yes, 
we are electing a supervisory board that has in-
troduced itself as new in places. So naturally we
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 22 


need to vote. This is obviously not an indepen-
dent board. About independence I do not intend 
... The code contains information about inde-
pendence, and there are also a few other ideas. 


It is not yet independent. But we're getting there. 
But we are in a position to improve not just the re-
sults, not just the dividend, but familial relation-
ships, supervisory board make-up, and all kinds 
of other things. 


But just one thing: if we purchase a stake and pay 
with our own shares and then the shareholder 
says, I want to be represented on the supervisory 
board more than is appropriate to my stake, 
would we have paid a different purchase price if 
the two mandates that we have to redeem today 
had not been promised? That would be of great 
interest to me. 


We have a company – let me try to summarize. 
Shazam, if I have understood correctly, they iden-
tify music over a mobile phone. When the music 
is identified over a mobile phone, then the user 
can discover what music he is listening to. But 
how does it make money? Where is the business 
model in structures of this kind? 


Then I stumbled over something on page 17 of 
the company report and wondered if this was a 
new sector. Conexus is the market leader in  
Norway for training and teaching. There are two 
or three companies involved, which are listed in 
the separate financial statements. 


Otherwise, Mr. ten Doornkatt, it's all quite fasci-
nating as to whether we are an SE or a KGaA or 
some other complicated legal formation. We will 
create proper accounts. We should be doing this 
now, otherwise we won't receive our dividend. So 
please don't jeopardize my dividend and please 
stick to what is in the agenda. 


In Norway we are the market leaders and could 
possibly import the model from Norway to Den-
mark and from Denmark to Bavaria or even fur-
ther. Please tell us, what is so good about this 
deal and why is it not yet working so well? 


But a more important question is, where is the 
payday with Telekom? Telekom is selling us a big 
business. It is so complex that that the super-
visory board has five times struggled to answer 
the question of whether we are going to buy it, 
under what conditions, are we going to buy it out-
right, and what should we pay for it? Five times 


the supervisory board has met and now we have 
it. 


Also, where is the business model? Is it a mar-
keting model, advertising, paid-for advertising on 
the page, or do you have more complicated  
models in mind? If Telekom, as seller, could not 
do it in the same way as we do it today, would the 
purchaser's participation in our supervisory board, 
as a shareholder, then constitute a training pro-
gram for Telekom employees in Norway, so that 
they then understand the business model so well 
that they can then set up in competition against 
us? Sometimes you have to think ahead. But per-
haps you have a nice answer? 


If you put up a poster, it's a one-off. A poster is  
affixed to a site and then you need to lead people 
past it so that as many people as possible see it. 
If you do it digitally, you put it in a cloud or some-
where, possibly as advertising. Then you expect 
returns to scale in sales and income from the 
many people who see it. 


Returns to scale are an important part of digital 
business. And they are all the better when they 
are not bound by national borders, whether it is 
seen by Britons, who want to close themselves off 
in their funny little island, or by Germans, who on-
ly think in German, or whether by Europeans, who 
do not think more broadly. The internet is interna-
tional. So with this digital business model we must 
quickly and rigorously tear down the boundaries 
in our heads and in geographical movement. I 
don't see that at the moment. Am I wrong? 


The next thing you are saying to me is big data. 
This is not figures in large type for people who are 
short-sighted. This is large volumes of data. With 
big data you want to make money. You have the 
statistics, or something similar. This company  
collects figures. 


Once we have collected the figures, when do they 
turn into payment for the owner? Here again: Is 
this a combined business model? Does Statista 
create the basis, for Norwegians or for whomever, 
for a shared result from individual components, or 
for Statista itself? Is it a profit center or a cost 
center somewhere, and we have to more or less 
carry it as an ancillary cost and keep it in mind? 





Big data is fun. If someone is walking along the 
street and passes a beacon – I don't know what a 
beacon is, but no matter – then a business owner
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 23 


around the corner knows in advance that some-
one who wants to buy a sandwich is approaching. 
So he goes to his 3D printer and prints off a 
sandwich, which he then sells to the person on 
the street.  


(Laughter) 


If you have got that far and you are so to speak 
the spider in his web, then things are undoubtedly 
looking good for us. 


But 'looking good' is problematic. There is a  
finance director who will be asking, how good are 
we really? If he is good, he will write in the com-
pany report how he will achieve it He did, on page 
26. 


But after reading page 26 you've got to ask your-
self, so what, what is the chief financial director 
doing now, anyway? Does it not list criteria, a 
rank order of criteria, no performance indicator, 
no pecking order under good or bad performance 
indicators? That is still lacking. We can improve 
here too. 


What's funny is that there is a side note which 
states: further information – if you wanted it – on 
page 38. But it's not there. There is only some-
thing about WACC. Whoever knows what WACC 
is could then ask how much capital costs us or 
what is the interest rate now to compare the re-
sult, EBITDA or whatever else. It should also be 
picked up in the annual report, but is nowhere to 
be found. 


Two operational issues interest me before I move 
into figures. You are occupied with sales, with lo-
cal sales. So something will now not only be done 
for Cologne, but also for Ehrenfeld and Nippes. 
How local will that go? Is this what local pub-
lishers used to do, who made city maps for hotels 
in which bars and similar businesses are depic-
ted? Or just what is it? To which magnitude can it 
be quantified, even if it rains in, and at which point 
do you get lost in the weeds and then no longer 
come to an identifiable result? 


As to identifiable result, it occurs to me that if we 
have as much money as we have, are we in- 
vesting it properly? And if you have an investment 
plan, then please tell us a bit more about it.  


If we look at the balance sheet the question 
comes up; are Ströer and Axel Springer actually 
the same thing? Or are they becoming more simi-
lar? Are Springer and Ströer becoming more 


comparable? Today the question even came up 
with you, Mr. Müller, which you asked yourself, I 
don't remember if at the office or at home, of 
whether to sell to Springer. Is that really such a 
comparable business model?  


Somewhat different in scope, but perhaps a bit 
different, but becoming more similar. We have 
high equity capital, higher than Springer. We have 
a considerable credit line, half a billion. 450, 550 
million, we don't know exactly.  


We have also issued a loan. One could ask if it 
has now been affected by an interest rate from 
Muddy Waters or if it has not been affected by 
Muddy Waters? The term itself sounds so nice. 


Then we have almost 200 million on top of this 
half a billion, we've still got something in the cash 
register, we've got high cash flow. If it was really 
rounded up, you would have 1 billion on hand for 
investing. Will you actually do that?  


Then you wouldn't even need agenda item 12, 
which you should really leave aside at the mo-
ment and, if at all, use it as anticipatory resolution, 
and you don't need it as anticipatory resolution, 
then you could take it off of the agenda. I wouldn't 
agree to it in any case. 


So please tell us a bit more as to how you see the 
investment framework. 


The comment on Muddy Waters. I was not fami-
liar with the term previously. I looked up the 
meaning in the dictionary. Now I want to do a little 
brainstorming. 


Of course a stock explosion – there is not just one 
company having a stock explosion – is prerequi-
site to delicately handle such a context. Such a 
context is, of course, not just possible in a com-
pany, but actually practiced at several companies. 
It is currently not just one issuer who feels de-
feated. Mr. Müller, don't take it personally, take it 
as a matter of fact. As a stockholder... it bothers 
me as a stockholder, I coincidentally hold stock, 
of course it bothers me as a stockholder, but I 
can't take it personally. It is a technique offered by 
the market and has the prerequisite that there are 
people who lend something and get it back bro-
ken. Why are you lending that? From whom is he 
loaning it? 


Excellent questions to which we don't have com-
petent answers, and we won't change anything. 
But the prerequisite is also that you practice a
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 24 


corporate governance, have practiced it and will 
continue to practice it for a certain time, which has 
not been a beacon in corporate governance prac-
tice. I will not qualify this in detail. 


They are a highly liquid market, that is Ströer, the 
stock, and you have a quite complex and in indi-
vidual cases perhaps not easily comprehensible 
business model. All of these are the premises un-
der which you have become the target of attacks 
and will surely continue to be targeted. 


I briefly came across two things. One is Regio-
Helden GmbH. That sounds like a great bunch of 
guys doing business in the area. But output is not 
great, negative 3.3 million. Why must you buy 
RegioHelden, 3.3 million in the red, or is that a 
side effect of the purchase? Just enter it directly 
into the annual report, then I wouldn't have asked 
the question and I'd be gone that much sooner.  


3.3 million is the same as you're losing in Turkey. 
Is that actually partly due to the president and 
should we hope that the president goes along 
with the red numbers? Or is it really an opera-
tional issue which you have accumulated there?  


We have intangible assets. Someone with 1.5  
billion total assets and almost 1 billion intangible 
assets tells themselves that what they have 
bought, they have paid with 1 billion more than 
the values that can actually be tapped. The ear-
ning rate underlies it. We could do impairments, 
but have not yet done so. We could also write it 
off. We will write it off in the amount of 50 or 
60 million. 
50 or 60 million compared to 40 million dividend 
amount – and it has almost been doubled –;  
these are impressive figures, two-thirds of total 
assets, with a write-off only partially as much as 
the cash dividend; greater care and also greater 
transparency should be at the fore here. That's 
not just a fiscal repository we look forward to  
tomorrow. 


I won't leave out the part about business rela-
tions. It is also conspicuous that on page 163 in 
the center of the annex appear the sums 17 mil-
lion, 2 million, 1.5 million, that really doesn't go 
together.  


I would again like to remind you of the good part, 
ladies and gentlemen: the price ran clearly in the 
right direction. There is no reason why it should 
not continue to run in this direction. If it takes an 
occasional break because someone using some 


technique coincidentally earned some money and 
may do so again, this should not scare anyone in-
to selling. Once that is over, the price can con-
tinue to rise with quarterly results, as you have 
presented it, quarterly results with 40% more 
turnover and 70% greater results. That brings me 
directly to the figure. 


If you, Mr. Müller, say the momentum will remain 
the same and you have achieved a first quarter 
result of 45 million, EBITDA, and 72% more re-
mains as momentum, that's 72% applied to 45 
million with 75 million in the second quarter, 120 
million in the third quarter and 199 million in the 
fourth quarter. Then you just promised us that 439 
million would come out next year as EBITDA.  


It won't be that good, but what you have an-
nounced to us, and what you have to keep – you 
owe that to yourself and to this organization, es-
pecially in this condition – is EBITDA of almost 
300 million at turnover of 1.1 billion. That will en-
sure that of the dividend of 0.40 euros, 0.70 eu-
ros, one point... Come on and give us the figure, 
Mr. Vilanek! – Thank you and best wishes. 


(applause) 


Vilanek, Chairman: Thank you, Mr. Buhlmann. – 
The next speaker is Mr. Martin Weimann and then 
Mr. Manfred Klein. 


Dr. Weimann: Ladies and gentlemen, my name 
is Dr. Martin Weimann. I am an attorney, come 
from Berlin and am speaking today on behalf of 
the VzfK, the Consumer Protection Agency for In-
vestors in Berlin. We issue our own stock, but al-
so represent third-party shareholders. 


We have, among others, two key areas, one be-
ing corporate governance and the other mediation 
procedures concerning indemnity in structural 
measures such as squeeze-outs and similar. We 
thus work at the interface between business eco-
nomics and law. We have looked at the Muddy 
Waters issue on this basis. We would like to go 
into detail and ask one or the other question. We 
are still forming an opinion.  


But our other area is corporate governance.  
Mr. Tüngler has just said some interesting things, 
and the previous speaker as well. It's always a bit 
private in family-run businesses. Much could be 
examined. Mr. Tüngler just expressed his admira-
tion for the company, why don't you as well! 
Transparency is always important. My suggestion 
would be to start with the small things.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 25 


I was about to take another annual report with 
me. I asked, but there were no more outside. I 
would be grateful if you would again put out 
enough annual reports until everyone who wants 
one has one, without having to hunt them down. 
So please have another 20 or 30 brought. It is a 
simple gesture to transparency owed at such an 
event. 


I would furthermore ask you for a copy of the 
CEO's speech, whether it's the charts that we saw 
or the text, whether we can get a copy today or off 
the website. We thought that was quite interes-
ting. We can then look at it again in peace.  


Next, I would ask you and perhaps even petition 
you to release to us the report from Ernst & 
Young on freeXmedia, of which we have spoken 
several times. Here too, we can more precisely 
understand the basis of decision-making, and 
transparency never hurts. You are not giving any-
thing away by making your basis of decision-
making available to us. 


I would thereby like to take up an item from  
Mr. Müller's report this morning. In the speech 
you said there had been 2.5 million euros trans-
action fees for Ströer, for the opposite party only 
40,000.  


In mediation procedures and also in structural 
measures we do see a lot of reports. This relation 
with regard to costs alone at first glance raises 
questions, at least for us. One could be forgiven 
for thinking that this relation shows there has 
been a whitewashing in favor of major share-
holders at the costs of small shareholders and 
that comprehensive reorganization measures 
were due. Such a misunderstanding is truly rare, 
and it must be more precisely explained.  


At the quantities involved here, 2.5 million trans-
action costs vis-à-vis 40,000 for the opposite par-
ty, one can't just say we're so transparent, we've 
spent so much money, everything's great. This 
incongruity begs for explanation. 


Perhaps you could just lay the reports out here for 
our understanding. 


Please provide us with a list of itemized costs. 
What do these 2.5 million consist of? For each 
project, please tell us who the contractor and the 
responsible partner are, the expenditure of time, 
fees, the exact topic, and the result. And who was 
the customer, that is to say the supervisory board, 
board of management? And please do the same 


for the opposite party: What did they spend 
40,000 on? 


This pertains to the question of what was the rea-
son for the battle of material? 


Mr. Müller, if you stand up and say that is trans-
parency and we are so transparent so we're going 
to spend 2.5 million, that alone is not enough, at 
least not for me. 


The topic of corporate governance could easily be 
continued here, but I will refrain from it. Let's 
move on to the hard facts.  


We have taken a closer look at your position on 
the issue of Muddy Waters and not just last Sun-
day at the scene of the crime, but more in depth. 
As far as I know, Mr. Tüngler also clearly ex-
pressed his statements prior to the most recent 
scene of the crime. We do not issue statements 
before we ... before we make an assessment we 
want to first work on the circumstances of the 
case, as a lawyer might say.  


We have now formulated diverse questions on the 
various aggregates. I have numbered them and 
would be grateful if you refer to these numbers 
when answering.  


I must say that insofar as no proper, authoritative 
and also interesting answers with regard to busi-
ness management are given, I will continue with 
the line of questioning. You should then really 
consider whether to pause for a moment to really 
work things out and not send us home with some 
evasive standard answers, which we have cer-
tainly not come here for. 


1. Topic: Share transactions. 


Mr. Müller sold shares to Matthias Rumpelhardt, 
business partner of Udo Müller and the former 
CEO of Ströer. This business was not laid open 
for years, only when Mr. Rumpelhardt sold the 
stocks. Ergo the following questions: 


1.1 Why did Mr. Rumpelhardt participate in this 
share transaction? 


1.2 Ignoring the legal aspects, why did Mr. Müller 
not immediately disclose this transaction? 


1.3 Do Ströer or management still maintain busi-
ness relations with Mr. Rumpelhardt?
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 26 


Question 1.4 concerns the Sambara Foundation. 
What is the relation between Dirk Ströer and the 
Sambara Foundation? Who benefits economically 
from the Sambara Foundation? Why did  
Mr. Ströer transfer stock to the Foundation with-
out any quid pro quo? 


Ströer had announced that Dirk Ströer would 
leave the board of management toward the end of 
2015, which he did. In fact he rejoined the board 
of management at the beginning of 2016 without 
it becoming public knowledge.  


Thus to Question 1.5: Why did he leave the board 
of management for just a few months? 


1.6 During the time he was not a member of 
Ströer's board of management, was Mr. Ströer or 
companies he is affiliated with implicated in any 
business involving shares or securities from 
Ströer, and what type of business was it? 


2. Aggregate This applies to transactions with re-
lated persons and companies. 


Muddy Waters estimates that Mr. Müller and  
Mr. Ströer made a profit of more than 20 million 
euros when they sold freeXmedia via Media Ven-
tures to the company.  


On that, question 2.1: Does Mr. Müller agree that 
it was wrong of him and Mr. Ströer to reap such a 
high profit from a company that was in their  
possession for only a few months? 


Ströer responded to this accusation to the effect 
that the purchase price was not distributed to all 
three companies which Ströer at that time had 
acquired through Media Ventures. That leads to 
question 2.2: How much did Media Ventures pay 
in cash, and not in payment in kind, for the other 
two companies that it then resold to Ströer?  


2.3 How much money – so again no payment in 
kind – did Media Ventures invest in companies 
before they were resold to Ströer? 


2.4 How high is the actual amount in cash which 
Media Ventures paid for freeXmedia? Muddy Wa-
ters estimates it at 1.5 to 2 million euros. 


2.5 Ströer also answered that the transaction had 
been reviewed by independent consultants. Why 
has Ströer not published any reports, comments 
or professional opinions on the transactions? I am 
hereby requesting that all of these opinions and 


reports be disclosed, indeed now at the general 
meeting or via the homepage. 


Media Ventures has an agreement through which 
it purchases advertising from Ströer at a reduced 
price and which it then passes on to the compa-
nies in its portfolio.  


2.6 Is it correct that Media Ventures pays only 
10% of the list price for advertising which goes 
through the Ströer network? 


2.7 Is it correct that Media Ventures invests in 
companies and that this typically and at least par-
tially occurs through payment in kind, i.e. advertis-
ing? 


2.8 Is it correct that the companies which receive 
payment in kind from Media Ventures often pay 
an administrative fee to Media Ventures to partial-
ly cover the advertising costs invoiced by Ströer 
Media Ventures? How high is the typical fee in 
percent which Media Ventures pays to Ströer?  


2.9 While ProSieben invests in companies, what 
do I gain as a Ströer stakeholder when Mr. Müller 
and Mr. Ströer receive high extra payments in or-
der to arrange investments? 


3. Aggregate: Ballroom International 


One of the three pillars of the digital strategy was 
the purchase of Ballroom International in 2013, 
which primarily runs the online advertising busi-
ness in Turkey and Poland. Muddy Waters claims 
to have discovered a considerable number of 
cases of fraud and designated the internal inves-
tigation Project Zero, but never disclosed the  
cases of fraud. Ergo the following questions: 


3.1 Was there an investigation of potential cases 
of fraud in Turkey? Was it called Project Zero? If 
not, then what was Project Zero? Was there a 
written report on the investigation? If not, why 
not? 


3.2 How much turnover, EBITDA and profit in 
Turkey stem from fraud? 


3.3 Why did Ströer not rectify the results of the 
digital business in Turkey due to the cases of 
fraud disclosed? How much responsibility do the 
company, the board of management and  
management bear for the failure to rectify? 


3.4 Did Ströer turn to the police or public prosecu-
tor's office with the findings made in Turkey?
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 27 


The main business in Poland took place with Evo-
lution Media Net Sp. z.o.o., which Ströer acquired 
via Ballroom. Evolution recently went bankrupt. 
Ergo the following questions: 


3.5 Did Ströer bankrupt Evolution or was it the 
creditors? 


3.6 Why did Evolution go bankrupt? 


3.7 How high were sales, EBITDA and Evolution 
results in the years 2013, 2014 and 2015? 


3.8 Muddy Waters determined that Ströer – 
against the backdrop of the bankruptcy of Evolu-
tion and the sale of three major companies of 
Ballroom in Poland and Turkey, such as Reklamz 
Internet Hizmetleri Teknolojileri A.S., Evolution 
Media Net and Digital Partners Reklam Hizmetleri 
A.S., for practically no service in return - should 
write off the acquisition. 


3.8 Is the reason for the failure to write off that 
Ströer feared that concerned investors could 
question Ströer's ability to boost business through 
acquisitions? 


3.9 Instead of a write-off, the book value of Ströer 
Digital International GmbH in Cologne, formerly 
Ballroom International GmbH headquartered in 
Glonn, actually increased from 201,000 euros to 
24,637 million due to a valuation adjustment. 
Please explain how the remaining part of a corpo-
ration which came into such difficulties after its 
acquisition that its companies – after filing for 
bankruptcy and allegations of fraud – had to be 
liquidated with no service in return. 


3.10 Please explain how high annual sales, 
EBITDA and profit after taxes were for Reklamz, 
the principal company of Ballroom in Turkey, as 
well as of Evolution, when they were acquired in 
2013 and 2014. 


Muddy Waters assumes that Ströer generated 
sales of 2 million and 7 million euros in 2014 with 
Digital Partners. Ergo the following questions: 


3.11 Exactly how high were sales in 2014? If no 
answer: Is the estimation correct?  


3.12 How high were EBITDA and the net result in 
2014? 


3.13 Why did you sell Digital Partners? 


3.14 How much did you receive in cash? Did you 
receive any payment in kind? 


3.15 Is Digital Partners now a customer of Ströer? 


In the fourth group we're dealing with Infoscreen. 
Infoscreen is a video billboard. 


4.1 In its report, Muddy Waters describes the 
EBITDA margin as unusually high. How high was 
the EBITDA margin in 2014 and 2015? 


4.2 Why is the margin so high? 


4.3 Is infoscreen being cross-subsidized by busi-
ness deriving from the regular billboards, with the 
concessions for the video billboards being paid 
for by this business? What is the relationship be-
tween Ströer DERG Media GmbH and Deutsche 
Bahn? Are the rental costs being passed wholly 
to Infoscreen, with the effect that Infoscreen is re-
ducing the operating EBITDA for the digital sec-
tor? 


4.4 It seems that Infoscreen's many customers 
are paying for the ads with money from their out-
of-home media budget. These include traditional 
billboards? Is this correct? 


5. Financial matters 


On page 125 of the annual report for 2014, Ströer 
designates 6.75 million euros to other operating 
revenue. This amount results from compensation 
payments relating to advertising rights acquired in 
the Ströer Germany sector that could not be used 
to the extent agreed.  


5.1 Where do these payments come from  
exactly? 


5.2 When and for how much did Ströer purchase 
these concessions? 


5.3 When and how were the associated costs en-
tered into the accounts?  


We are assuming that they were never entered in-
to the accounts. They were booked as immaterial 
assets and realized as income and therefore con-
stitute a booking-in and booking-out of money in 
order to increase revenues. 


5.4 Ströer's gross profit per employer has de-
creased from 100,000 euros in 2012, i.e. prior to 
the digital strategy, to 93,000 euros in 2015. But 
digital advertising should be essentially more effi-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 28 


cient than traditional billboards. This is based on 
the fact that traditional advertising requires em-
ployees to change posters, maintain the bill-
boards, etc.  


The Muddy Waters reports states that Ströer 
spent 140 million on acquisitions and increased 
its equity stake by a third. If the digital strategy is 
so successful, why has productivity per employee 
fallen? 


In 2015 Ströer paid tax at the rate of roughly 13%. 
Compared to other profitable listed companies, 
that is a very low rate. In 2014, tax was paid at 
the rate of 38%, which corresponds to the  
average. 


This leads me to question 5.5: how did Ströer 
make its tax rate so low? 


5.6 What are the legal risks arising from such a 
low rate? 


5.7 Is this development sustainable? 


Ladies and gentlemen, these are just a few of the 
points that, following a preliminary reading of the 
documents, have arisen for us as lawyers working 
at the interface between business economics and 
the law. The female lawyer on the supervisory 
board will undoubtedly tell me the legal position; 
the male lawyer must first work on the facts of the 
case before one can start drawing conclusions.  


I would be grateful if you could use the opportuni-
ty today to give detailed and credible answers to 
the questions I have posed on both a legal and 
business economics level.  


The standard answer one usually hears on these 
occasions is that we work at the highest level with 
the best advisers and take account of the case 
law, the body of expertise, the prevailing wisdom 
and weight of opinion, etc. etc. etc. We already 
know all that. If that was how you were planning 
to reply, then please don't. Please let us have re-
liable figures and reliable answers. Take a break 
if you need to.  


I don't want to have to keep asking the same 
questions and I don't want to be standing here till 
midnight. But I can tell you I won't be leaving until 
I receive acceptable answers from you. With this 
lovely summer weather, please do us and your-
selves the favor of coming up with some reliable 
answers in your initial response to our questions. 
Thank you. 


(Applause) 





Vilanek, Chairman: Thank you, Dr. Weimann. 
Could you possibly provide us with a list of your 
questions? 


 (Dr. Weimann: I've made rather a lot of 
notes on it.)  


– OK, then, I guess you can't. You are keen on 
emphasizing the correct procedure. I assume this 
has all been documented by your admin function?  


(Dr. Weimann: You are welcome to send 
someone to me, then we can go through it all 
again.)  


– I daresay your colleagues behind you heard 
that. 


I now call on our next speaker Mr. Manfred Klein, 
and after him Mr. Kucheda. 


(Applause) 


Klein: Ah, thank you. I echo the words of the for-
mer speaker: I too would rather be outside in the 
sunshine. I have just been at a general meeting 
that went on till 11:30 at night. That is a feat we 
should not attempt to emulate here, not least be-
cause there is another general meeting tomorrow, 
right here in this building, that I have to attend. So 
I ask that you respond to my questions with the 
same degree of accuracy and respect, so that I 
don't have to ask follow-up questions.  


Ladies and gentlemen, for those of you who don't 
know me, my name is Manfred Klein, I come from 
Saarbrücken and I am a shareholder in the com-
pany. In order to expedite the process of the  
general meeting, I am adopting §125 of the Stock 
Corporations Act [Aktiengesetz] – could the nota-
ry, Dr. Klaus Piehler, please note this in his 
minutes? – not least because my complaint about 
not having received the annual report needs to be 
revised, in that I have now received two. I'm not 
sure what to do with the second one. Perhaps I 
could give it to Mathias Döpfner at Axel Springer, 
whose name has already come up here today. 


Mr. Notary, I must inform you that I received the 
annual report at 12:10 pm. My question is, is that 
not a little late for a general meeting? Does this 
not constitute an infringement of §54a of the
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 29 


Stock Corporations Act, which requires all share-
holders to be treated equally? 


Please let it also be noted, Dr. Piehler, that I echo 
all the applications, questions, complaints and re-
quests posed by the many questions put by my 
co-investors. Please also let it be noted that as-
sertions of fact are to be treated as questions 
that, in light of the existing duty of disclosure, also 
have to be answered by the company. 


(Buhlmann: Mr. Notary, my questions are my 
questions. They are not Mr Klein's.) 


– But you gave them to me today, Mr. Buhlmann. 


(Buhlmann: I gave you only one.) 


– Only one. Which one? Perhaps we can discuss 
it later.  


(Interjection: Get to the point!) 


– That's the second time you've interrupted.  
Mr. Chairman, I'm appearing here today as a 
shareholder. I am speaking under the correct pro-
cedure.  


If this gentleman interrupts a third time, perhaps 
you could be so kind as to tell me whether he is a 
shareholder or a guest, and if he is a guest, 
please understand that I will request his imme-
diate removal from this meeting.  


(Interjection: Don't be so pompous. I saw you 
yesterday at the general meeting that you 
were talking about just now and you were 
constantly interrupting. – Response: So? 


Vilanek, Chairman: Allow the speaker to have 
the floor. But please, Mr. Klein, we wish to con-
centrate on the issues at stake and to answer the 
questions and stick to the agenda. So please, 
continue.  


Klein: I would be delighted to, Mr. Vilanek. 


I'll begin with the questions:  


Were transactions with company insiders usual 
even before the flotation of 2010? 


Was the company practising creative accounting 
before the flotation?  


Is it true that some of the issues identified by 
Muddy Waters in its report had already been ad-
dressed by the company's advisers at the time of 


the flotation, particularly by auditors, lawyers 
and/or PR advisors? If they were, why was there 
nothing about this in the prospectus?  


Which legal and auditing firms inspected this kind 
of insider dealing and creative accounting prior to 
the flotation? If an inspection was carried out, 
what was the result? 


What role was played by Mr. Udo Müller in our flo-
tation? 


Did Udo Müller bring pressure to bear on the au-
ditors, lawyers or PR advisers to not enquire too 
closely about creative accounting practices at the 
company or about other problems identified by 
Muddy Waters in their report? 


Another question: what amounts did Mssrs. Udo 
Müller and Dirk Ströer actually realize with the flo-
tation that took place at that time? 


You have said that you intend to bring legal pro-
ceedings against Muddy Waters. Have such pro-
ceedings been initiated or prepared? What is the 
current state of affairs? 


Is there any water available for the speakers too? 
Is there anyone here who can pass me some wa-
ter? 


 (Laughter) 


Vilanek, Chairman: We'll get some for you. 


Klein: That is kind of you. 


Who is giving you legal advice on this point? 
There appears to be little hope of attacking the 
report on a legal basis. Or do you think other-
wise? If not, why have temporary legal protective 
measures not already been put in place? 


I mean, we shareholders have a right to learn 
from you why you were initially so combative and 
now appear to be more sanguine. Are the accu-
sations that have been made actually true, and 
you are now backing away from confrontation, 
because you fear now that it will stir up even more 
dirt? 


Is it true that the company has described the pos-
sibility of third parties bringing proceedings 
against Muddy Waters as absolutely hopeless? 
Do the accusations made by Muddy Waters –
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 30 


(The speaker is handed a glass of water by 
one of the people at the meeting.) 


– That is kind of you – I think that the way you 
treat your shareholders is very rude. You have 
provided drinks for yourself, but when I ask for a 
glass of water – thank you very much – then you 
ignore me. This is highly annoying. I can promise 
you, I will respond in kind. Believe me.  


 (Interjection: Sell your shares then!) 


Now it's the same for me as it is for our board of 
management. There is a sloping surface. It has 
already happened to me that I put a glass down 
on a sloping surface. What happened? The red 
wine, or perhaps it was cola, spilled over my 
clothes. 


(A company employee brings the speaker a 
bottle of mineral water and a glass.) 


– Now I'm being looked after. My goodness! Many 
thanks. Now I have not only two annual reports, 
but two glasses and two bottles.  


As for the auditing of the financial statements that 
was attacked by Muddy Waters, were there any 
critical questions asked by the auditors? 


Did the auditors increase their efforts and take a 
closer look at the issues raised by Muddy Waters, 
regarding for example the unusually high profi-
tability of the public video sector or the cash flow 
statement? 


Has the management urged there to be a detailed 
audit? 


What is the liability amount of the commissioned 
auditors? 


Are the auditors who are auditing the current  
accounts the same as the ones who have done 
so in the past? 


Have you inspected or had inspected any liability 
claims against auditors? If yes, for what amounts 
and by whom? If not, why not? 


On April 29, 2016 did you announce measures 
that are usually applied to short sellers? What 
measures did you actually initiate here? 


What became of the intention to commence a 
share buy-back program? Why has that not yet 
started? 


Or does our company itself consider that the 
shares are overpriced, because the claims in the 
Muddy Waters report are perhaps entirely or at 
least partly true? Because then it would constitute 
a breach of obligation by the board of manage-
ment, our board of management, to even start a 
share buy-back program now.  


Did Ms. Ströer purchase 7,000 shares in each 
case on April 21 and 22, 2016? According to Ad-
am Riese, that would have cost around 500,000 
to 600,000 euros. Is that correct or am I totally 
wrong? 


If in so doing you wanted to send a signal to the 
capital markets, then it was, to put it mildly, a bad 
joke. Compared to the assets owned by the 
Ströer family, this would have been just a drop in 
the ocean. Did you, with the purchase of 14,000 
shares, intend to shore up long-term trust in the 
company and its governing bodies? 


Apart from that, there were no director's dealings 
after the publication of the Muddy Waters report. 
Or perhaps you didn't immediately publish them 
as required? 


Where are the measures against the alleged  
attacks? 


Your current silence and the failure to implement 
the measures announced suggest to me that  
everything you have made known was clearly 
nothing but hot air. So, are you intending to re-
spond in some way or to acknowledge the mis-
takes revealed in the report? If yes, when? 


Mr. Ströer, is it true that your nickname is The 
Chemist? Am I right? Or have I been misin-
formed? What's it about, this nickname?  


(Interjection: What does this have to do with 
the agenda? – Ms. Schütz: Could you please 
not interrupt?) 


Mr. Chairman, I must again object to the interjec-
tions of this individual, and I ask you, Mr. Vilanek, 
to establish whether he is a shareholder in the 
company or a guest. If he is a guest, I request he 
be expelled from the meeting immediately. If he is 
a shareholder, then it is up to you to act accor-
dingly. 


Vilanek, Chairman: May I ask, are you a share-
holder? 


(Reply: Yes I am)
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 31 


There are some shareholders in the second row 
here. 


Klein: Then audience members should be in-
formed that I am putting questions relevant to the 
agenda and that the audience members may, if 
they have something to say, address their com-
ments through the appropriate channels. As you 
know, Mr. Vilanek, from your experience of other 
general meetings, that is the established proce-
dure for such meetings. 


How do you justify the sale of freeXmedia to our 
company? Or to put it another way, how could 
you agree to the purchase on behalf of our com-
pany? 


Mr. Ströer, if you don't mind, I'm going to stay with 
you a little longer. Is it true that you claim that you 
have at no point been in control of the Sambara 
Foundation? 


Unless I am very much mistaken, it would be con-
trary to the spirit of a foundation, even in Liech-
tenstein, if one couldn't talk about its manage-
ment or control. So what role does this foundation 
play in your life, and what role do you play in it? 


Mr. Ströer, did you, as per publicly accessible 
records such as those dated May 29, 2013, trans-
fer 2.8 million shares in our company to the Sam-
bara Foundation without receiving any payment in 
return? Mr. Ströer, you surely aren't asking us to 
believe that you have given away 2.8 million 
shares in our company to a third party and re-
ceived nothing in return? 


Is the transfer of 2.8 million shares to the Samba-
ra Foundation in May 2013 connected to the 
stake taken in our company shortly thereafter by 
Media Ventures? Am I right in thinking that Media 
Ventures acquired their stake no more than one 
week after the transfer?  


Is it true that on November 20, 2015, both the 
Sambara Foundation and Media Ventures dis-
posed of all the shares that they were holding in 
our company? 


What coincidences were at work that meant that 
the Sambara Foundation disposed of its shares in 
our company on exactly the same day on which 
Media Ventures also exited as a shareholder? 


Mr. Ströer, on November 20, 2015, to whom did 
the Sambara Foundation transfer the shares held 
by you? 


Have all the taxes incurred in connection with the 
acquisition and sale of the shares by the Samba-
ra Foundation been paid, regardless of who in-
curred them? If yes, where? Ladies and gentle-
men, at the end of the day, our company can no 
longer afford to become embroiled in a tax scan-
dal, either itself or via the majority shareholder.  


Mr. Ströer, is the purpose of the Sambara Foun-
dation to manage your assets? To reduce your 
tax liability?  


Mr. Ströer, are either you or those closest to you 
financial beneficiaries of the Sambara Founda-
tion? 


Why did Dirk Ströer resign so suddenly from the 
supervisory board, only to be suddenly reinstat-
ed? What exactly does this have to do with the T-
Online deal? 


Why was the resignation not described in the an-
nual report as being temporary? 


Was this temporary resignation designed to avoid 
the possibility that the, let us say, late compliance 
with disclosure obligations would attract atten-
tion? Is the resignation not rather connected to 
the comprehensive sale of Ströer shares by insi-
ders on November 20, 2015? 


In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen –  
Mr. Vilanek, here I will stop. You have already 
had plenty of shareholder questions. You should 
now be given the opportunity to consider them 
and prepare your answers. 


This may be a little awkward, but Ms. Flemmerer, 
we have read the annual report and we are of 
course aware of the fact that you are married to 
the man sitting in front of you, Mr. Müller. You will 
surely understand that shareholders such as  
Mr. ten Doornkaat are dubious about your inde-
pendence and qualifications. Am I right in assu-
ming that you are personally and financially de-
pendent on the person whom you are supposed 
to be supervising and advising? I am not saying 
you need the money, but I do find your role here 
problematic. One only has to imagine the conse-
quences of you or your husband talking in your 
sleep. 


(Laughter) 


Nothing is impossible. Also, you have told us that 
you are pursuing a doctorate in employment law. 
Correct me if I'm wrong – I have a legal education
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 32 


myself, but otherwise have little understanding of 
these matters – but it seems to me that this doc-
torate tells us nothing about your actual qualifica-
tions. Unless I'm mistaken, this is really about 
your meeting the eligibility criteria.  


Ladies and gentleman, the holding of this role by 
a spouse of the chairman – please check for me; 
perhaps I'm wrong – is highly unsatisfactory. 


 (Applause) 


Please tell us, because you were quite open 
about this just now – and perhaps you could put 
our minds at rest – what grades did you achieve 
in your exams?  


 (Laughter and interjections) 


Who put Ms. Flemmerer forward as a candidate? 
Why her and not an independent candidate? That 
could have been possible. 


Perhaps you could say a few words about this to 
the shareholders here in the course of this  
meeting. I think we are not definitely committed to 
the nominations. As far as I am aware,  
Ms. Flemmerer is not insisting she take up this 
role. I don't think that her life will be significantly 
affected if she were to come to the conclusion, if 
our outside investors – i.e. you, ladies and gen-
tlemen – And let me make it clear: I'm not  
suggesting myself. I am not standing for a posi-
tion on the supervisory board of this company. 


(Laughter – Interjection: You are now!) 


But we should also be aware that we have an op-
portunity to put forward one or more people to be 
the representatives of the public shareholding on 
this supervisory board. I would ask you as major 
shareholders, as founding shareholders, who 
have the skills as well as the voting majority – the 
attendance list here is quite illuminating – per-
haps you could tell us if you would be prepared to 
renounce your right to vote on this occasion and 
leave it to this side of the hall to nominate and 
elect their representatives on the supervisory 
board. 


Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for listening. I 
know I've taken up a lot of time. I would now ask 
you to answer our questions as precisely as pos-
sible, so that we don't have to ask follow-up ques-
tions and thereby drag this meeting out even fur-
ther. Thank you for listening.  


(Applause) 


Vilanek, Chairman: Thank you. – I now call upon 
Mr. Kucheda to speak. 


(Klein: Do you mind if I leave this untouched 
glass here, Mr. Kucheda?) 


Kucheda: Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I 
had actually only wanted to submit a written point 
of order to the effect that a round of answers 
should be offered by the chairman of the supervi-
sory board immediately after the fourth speaker 
and after all the excellent questions that have 
been asked here today. So I didn't actually want 
to make an active contribution myself. But as I 
now have the floor, I can ask a few questions my-
self, if you have no objections. 


I am principally interested in our acquisitions: 
which of them have required restructuring, which 
constitute an investment or even an investment 
bottleneck and what expenditure they entailed. 
Then I wish to know, how was it with earlier ac-
quisitions, how can they be divided up into cash 
flow, ROI, amortization, etc., and when will the 
company itself see a payout from its investment in 
the acquisitions? 


We have heard from the chairman of the board 
that the impairment tests on these massive imma-
terial assets arising from the acquisition, almost 
one billion, have not yet been carried out. It 
seems as if this is subject to whim: we don't want 
to do it just now, and so on. But is it not appropri-
ate to get a head start here, to bring on the nec-
essary precautionary measures, write-downs and 
even the not unwelcome tax consequences at a 
punctual and appropriate time? 


We must also ask what the write-downs from the 
impairment tests will amount to per year for the 
next three to five years.  


Are there losses to be carried forward for consoli-
dated and unconsolidated holdings, whose results 
none of us can know? How will they be dealt with 
and how will they be processed for tax purposes?  


I must object that, despite my requesting it at the 
information table up at the front, I was rather ar-
rogantly refused a copy of the separate financial 
statement – why didn't I just look it up on the in-
ternet?, and so on. But you know, the general 
meeting is taking place here and now. The verbal 
principle applies and all documents have to be 
presented here too. The separate financial state-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 33 


ment is recognized as being the relevant accoun-
ting unit, the output relevant to the dividend. 


For some years now, we have been linking out-
door advertising with digital, a wonderful combina-
tion. This has lifted the share price and will also 
create synergy. Can you now say when this was 
achieved and roughly with what result, please? 


I ask the same question with respect to the acqui-
sition of T-Online: how big the synergy will be, 
when it was set up, and with what amount rough-
ly? And also for the most recent acquisitions? 


That will probably stabilize the share price or per-
haps even increase it. You will then be able to lift 
the shadow that has fallen on the company from 
outside, partly in an unlawful manner. Thank you 
for listening.  


 (Applause) 


Vilanek, Chairman: Thank you, Mr. Kucheda. 
We actually thought we'd have a short break 
here. But then we thought it would make more 
sense to get all the questions in and then prepare 
all our answers together. So I'd like to call on our 
next speaker, Mr. Starke-Wuschko, and after him, 
Ms. Schütz. 


Starke-Wuschko: The Ströer cup, is it cloudy or 
clear? Mr. Buhlmann gave me a good starting 
point.  


Ladies and gentlemen, my name is Jens Starke-
Wuschko. I am an independent management 
consultant from Wiesbaden. I am here today to 
see for myself whether to increase my stake in 
Ströer, which is currently quite low. 


I’d now like to start with a compliment. He's not in 
the room right now so I’ll park that and ask 
whether this cup is cloudy or clear. This Muddy 
Waters thing is cloudy, and I think it's cool when a 
company states clearly what it is doing. They are 
trying to fish in troubled waters and make capital 
out of it. With this kind of company name, we al-
ready know what the agenda is. 


But what naturally happens is a little like when I 
have a cup of tea. I don't have any here with me 
now: we’re not allowed to bring drinks into the 
room so nothing gets spilled.  


What happens when I add a drop of milk to a cup 
of tea? Beforehand, the tea may be clear depen-
ding on how long I let it brew. Maybe I can look in-


to it and hopefully there will be no streaks. Then I 
pour a drop of milk in and at once it is no longer 
clear.  


This is exactly what happened with Ströer in April 
in my view. This means that we are now having 
very long-winded discussions. But I think these 
discussions are probably also necessary and the 
board of management must naturally have them, 
that's what it is paid to do. The shareholders must 
also unfortunately have them. 


I have three issues. But before I get to them, a 
brief preliminary remark: Ströer is a company that 
makes money to attract the attention of people 
who see advertising. It has become really difficult 
to find the venue here. If you get off the tramway 
before the eastern entrance, there are only two 
posters that show straight ahead and to find the 
right turn left, you really have to have a good 
sense of direction.  


At almost every other general meeting, there are 
flags and such like. Here there isn't a single flag. 
Do we have to hide? Did we save two euros on 
this? I think that a poster at the entrance can easi-
ly be overlooked. In fact, we should be able to 
and should present ourselves with pride to the 
outside world. That's just a minor observation, 
especially in this industry. 


Cloudy or clear? When I look at the business, I 
see some data: we have a P/E ratio – I made a 
projection for this year – if we have about 80 mil-
lion in EBIT, I projected net profit in the first quar-
ter before taxes, it may even be a little higher, but 
then we get a P/E ratio with current capitalization 
of 2.5 billion, even if we make 100 million before 
taxes, we get a P/E ratio of 25, and instead we 
are at over 30. So Ströer is still not cheap, despite 
the price falling so low. That must be clear to all of 
us. 


What astounds me and really made me a little 
hesitant on the way here is that I know of no other 
company on the stock exchange where everyone, 
including all the analysts, are saying "buy" and 
the discrepancy between the price and lowest 
analyst target price – it was 62.50 euros, I think, 
from Kepler Cheuvreux – is so huge as in this 
case.  


It confuses me a little because I don't necessarily 
want to follow the crowd. If the crowd is going so 
clearly in one direction: buy, buy, buy, then we 
are sitting here today with a somewhat strange
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 34 


feeling. Mr. Tüngler has already put it into words 
with the image problem. 


Now you're back again, Mr. Müller. Now I can 
continue with the compliment. Your speech that 
you read out was very hard to understand, but 
when you explained what was happening with 
Muddy Waters, that was really very good because 
you gave a good background, including of your 
personal state of mind.  


As a shareholder, I think that's good. I also think 
it's good if you have personal sensitivities and 
show them. That shows me the heart and soul 
behind things. So again a large compliment for 
that. We are normally trained to think that a CEO 
shouldn't do this at a general meeting. But I think 
that it showed a little that you are really fully be-
hind it. So again a compliment from me. 


(applause) 


So to get back to business. I'm a little confused. 
The main thing that confuses me is when compa-
nies on the front pages of their annual report al-
ways show any adjusted earnings or EBITDA and 
do not show what really interests me as a share-
holder, namely EBIT and what is there after taxes. 
Because that is close to what also sticks with me 
in the end.  


I had to scroll to page 32 to find the EBIT. And 
that should not be hidden. Last year, we had 
EBIT of 9% – it's a rough estimate because no 
percentage margin was given – in the first quarter 
alone we were at 11%.  


We should not be hiding this. Why don't you high-
light it more and why do we have so many ad-
justed figures? I don't want adjusted figures. If 
you look, we have a five-year period and in each 
individual year the adjusted figure was higher 
than the non-adjusted figure. It's meaningless. If 
the annual effect has to be over- or under-
compensated, then an adjusted figure is okay. 
But when it's like that every year – we don't need 
that. The figures are good enough.  


To business. I have three questions, which for me 
are question marks for risks. Let's start with one 
and then move on to concrete questions. 


Most of the outdoor advertising business is in ci-
garettes, alcohol and beer, because these are 
banned from television advertising. What propor-
tion of revenue do we currently make across the 
entire group in Germany from alcohol and beer? I 


note from the annual report – the Turks are really 
ahead of us here, because it is banned there, 
presumably on ethical, religious grounds. But we 
have to be careful because it is a republic where 
religion and state are separate, at least on paper. 
They're ahead of us there. It will also arrive here 
at some stage. So: what proportion do we make 
on this business?  


The annual report says that we can quickly offset 
this. But this leads me to the question: if we can 
quickly offset this, why can't we do more business 
today? Is it just that we cannot lease anything 
else because we are already at capacity?  


Next question: what is our capacity, can it be cal-
culated? If some figures are only available for di-
gital, as we say, and we cannot advertise any 
more, where are we then?  


So the important thing is: what effect will it have 
on us if this advertising collapses? And this is not 
going to happen in 20 years' time. I suspect if the 
EU gets back on track and makes some deci-
sions, it will be faster. 


Next question: the Turkish business is negative 
but relationships with Turkey are not quite like 
that; it is a country where I would invest money, 
looking at the state. And this brings me to another 
question: do we have the opportunity in the next 
three years in the current circumstances – we 
must see whether Turkey is growing or whether 
the government is saying it is growing, they are 
completely isolated. At some point, the growth 
story in Turkey, which is still intact due to the 
many young people coming into the labor market, 
will fold.  


So: will we really be able to be sustainably profi-
table in three years at a level approximating what 
we achieve in Germany? If not, why are we  
holding on to it so firmly? 


The third question is a small question. I myself am 
a customer in the same sector in which you ac-
quired Statista. It is a company that I think pro-
vides all possible statistics over the internet only. 
If you open the daily newspaper and see statistics 
in the business or panoramic section, they are 
almost always provided by Statista. It is in the 
small print. So here we have something that we 
can see on a daily basis.  


How much revenue are we making from Statista 
today and where do we think we can bring it to? 
They have a model, which is a subscription
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 35 


model. I have also used it as a sole trader. You 
pay 1,000 euros a year and that allows you to 
download as many statistics as you want. As a 
consultant it is really a fine thing. It means you 
can access many statistics for comparatively little 
money.  


The only problem is that you can only buy a sub-
scription, nothing else. This excludes many who 
would, say, pay 50 euros for a single set of statis-
tics. This was the case for me, and I also made 
inquiries about this. 


Why are we doing it like that? Or do you have any 
plans to open a model to put the company on a 
broader footing? 


Point 2: is the business model cloudy or clear? I 
come from a quasi-advertising sector. I spent 16 
years with a consumer goods manufacturer where 
I worked with the largest advertisers. I am very 
close to this sector. I am even very familiar with 
the kind of words used here. Many in the room 
would find it hard going with the many English 
words. Unfortunately the sector often has no 
German. I must come to the defense of the 
Chairman in this respect. 


My question is this: I don't know whether any of 
you know the film "Minority Report,". Put up your 
hand if you've seen it. There's at least one man 
there at the back. It's a film with Tom Cruise. The 
exciting thing about it is not the main plot; in one 
scene he runs through a city and to the left and 
right there are video screens all over and he gets 
personalized advertising on these video screens 
and is greeted by name. Of course, this is a little 
scary. I think people also have a chip inserted.  


Is that the way things are going, personalized ad-
vertising in public? Is that the end game? You 
presented a vision from 1.0 to 5.0. What can we 
expect in the next, let's say five to ten years? And 
what role will Ströer play? 


We can read about it here – it's a little clumsy: 
building a digital media eco-system. So we're 
building an eco-system with both upstream and 
downstream media.  


Is this, like in the film "Minority Report," what we 
can or should expect or fear, or what does it look 
like? What is your vision for the next five years? 
For me personally, if I drive through Cologne, 
what will it look like? Or through Wiesbaden, 
where I come from? 


And now the third set of questions. It's still not 
clear to me, whether things are cloudy or clear. 
Unfortunately – and Mr. Tüngler and  
Mr. Buhlmann have already spoken about it – the 
performance of many thousands of employees 
has been somewhat overlooked. The annual re-
port devotes two sentences to them in all. This is 
a pity for a company that works so much with pic-
tures and emotions; the annual report is not a 
pretty read. What the employees do is described 
briefly, but in reality they are completely over-
looked.  


I had a look around. There is a website called 
Kununu, the leading website and here employees 
or former employees can rate cooperation within 
the company, management behavior, etc. Ströer 
is actually a top-rated company, it's rated as an 
open company, i.e. as a company that deals 
openly with change.  


If you look at the employee ratings over recent 
weeks – I looked at just three – the same word 
reappears: dynamic. I think we are realizing this. 
Dynamism naturally gives rise to some fears. 
People have questions: what did we do there, 
was it right? Basically, I either trust the board of 
management or I don't. Therefore I don't question 
what you have done in the past. I look to the fu-
ture. The question is, do I trust you for the future, 
yes or no? That's why I'm here. 


The second point, which has already been men-
tioned is that top-down communication is a little 
unclear. They're fishing in troubled waters a little: 
where are we, where are we going? We read it 
repeatedly, even if we go back further. We can 
read this about many large companies. But I think 
– as Mr. Tüngler has said – that it's an image 
problem, an important lever that we can focus on. 


The third question is also a classic. The employ-
yees would like to have a bigger share in suc-
cess. One of them said as much. Question: is 
there an employee stock purchasing program in 
which – for example – an employee can invest ten 
euros in a Ströer share to hold for a specific time 
and Ströer adds to that amount? My old company 
did it – they've been doing it for over 80 years. 
This boosts employee loyalty. If I myself am a 
shareholder, I wouldn't be so quick to leave. 


Now everyone has to see for him- or herself: is 
Ströer tea cloudy or clear today at the end of the 
day? I hope that you can help a little with your re-
plies. Thank you very much.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 36 


(applause) 


Vilanek, (Chairman): Thank you Mr. Starke-
Wuschko, and for your time discipline as well. I 
call on the next speaker Ms. Martina Schütz and 
then Mr. Jonas Kiel. 


Ms. Schütz: Good morning, ladies and gentle-
men. My name is Martina Schütz. I am a long-
standing shareholder, inasmuch as one can say 
that about this company, Ströer AG. This is my 
first time at a general meeting and I am already 
impressed by this company's expansion. This fast 
growth is not so easy for shareholders to under-
stand. 


I also very much liked your enthusiastic speech, 
Mr. Müller. It shows that this company is truly your 
child and that you feel very, very involved in it.  


However, you also appear to me to be a little thin-
skinned. Perhaps you are not so used to critical 
questions. But when one has co-owners, one 
must deal with these things. Maybe it is also a 
learning process for you. I believe that is very 
possible. 


Various topics have irritated me. We have these 
transaction costs of 2.5 million euros incurred by 
our company, while the other side had to pay just 
40,000 euros in costs. This naturally arouses 
shareholder distrust. What happened here? The 
last speaker also asked questions about this. I 
hope that you can clear it up. 


I was also irritated that you appointed Ernst & 
Young to audit the company's own work. That is 
most uncommon. If you want to audit something, 
normally you appoint another auditor. 


I would also be interested in finding out what this 
audit of our own work by Ernst & Young cost the 
company. 


I would like to make an application to take indivi-
dual sets of accounts of AG, SE and KG, if you 
could arrange for it. We, the shareholders, don't 
have this information. 


Who is now in charge of legal advice, what law 
firms and what people specifically are you looking 
after today? I assume that the back-office is well-
staffed. As you don't deal with the questions be-
forehand, I would be interested in who is doing 
the work in the back-office. 


I would really like to know who your biggest com-
petitors are in the various business areas you op-
erate in. 


Today you are proposing a big dividend increase. 
Normally, this is welcomed by shareholders. At 
the same time, you need significant external capi-
tal for acquisitions, etc. To do this, you placed a 
loan with a five- to seven-year term among other 
things. Mr. Voigt is one of our largest lenders, one 
of our major lenders.  


Could you please tell us something about the 
amount of the individual loans, loan terms and in-
terest rates to be paid? 


The remuneration report – I just noticed it – is it 
true that total remuneration for the board of  
management of about 4.7 million euros in 2014 
rose to 6.8 million euros in 2015. Is that by a full 
2.1 million euros for three members of the board 
of management? That's an impressive number. 
How did this figure, this increase come about? I 
think you can explain this to us. Mr. Müller is by 
far the best paid executive. Please tell us where 
these figures came from. 


The ancillary benefits for Mr. Müller run to 
263,000 euros, in addition to his remuneration. 
Here again, I would like to know what these ancil-
lary benefits consist of. Are they paid in cash or in 
some other way? 


Mr. Vilanek, I am also a Freenet shareholder. You 
are a very successful executive. You are also a 
very well-paid executive. This is customary in this 
sector. You have also earned it. 


Normally I think that executives, particularly 
chairmen of companies the size of Freenet, have 
no time to take over supervisory board duties, 
particularly the chairmanship of the supervisory 
board of another company. When you are here, 
naturally you cannot be working for Freenet.  


Therefore, I would be interested to know whether 
you are working for Freenet here, because Ströer 
does business with you, whether that is in the in-
terests of Freenet AG. If that is the case, then you 
would normally not be entitled to the salary of the 
chairman of the supervisory board, but that of 
Freenet AG, because here you are working on 
behalf of Freenet. Could you give us some expla-
nations on this?  


However, this has nothing to do with your work at 
Freenet. I would like to make that clear once
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 37 


again. But I am very critical when boards of  
management, who are so well paid, still have the 
time to look after the business of other compa-
nies. It's not simply a question of supervisory 
board meetings and general meetings, there is a 
lot more work to do during a financial year. 


(applause) 


Therefore, I would like an explanation on these 
matters. I know that there are some people  
waiting outside for lunch. It would be nice if we 
could take a break sometime soon. Thank you 
very much. 


(applause) 


Vilanek, (Chairman): Many thanks, Ms. Schütz. I 
am optimistic, we still have two speakers and then 
we want to take a proper break to give you the 
opportunity to fortify yourselves and to give my 
colleagues time to answer questions. I now invite 
Mr. Jonas Kiel to take the floor. The last speaker 
on the list is Mr. Joachim Michels. 


Kiel: Ladies and gentlemen, chairman, share-
holders. My name is Jonas Kiel, I am a law and 
economics student from Mannheim and a share-
holder in this company.  


Owing undoubtedly to interest aroused by my 
studies, I have found Ströer AG and SE extremely 
interesting since late April this year. What I also 
find interesting is the obvious discrepancy in per-
ception between management and shareholders. 
Adulation for the company does not seem to be 
entirely justified in view of the stock price crash a 
few weeks ago. The share has not yet returned to 
previous levels, so it seems that a justifiable price 
correction is taking place. 


The Muddy Waters report appears to have given 
rise to many questions that have not yet been suf-
ficiently discussed. The question must also be 
asked – it has already been raised by various 
shareholders, particularly by Mr. Klein – why the 
board of management is acting as if it is not pro-
ceeding against Muddy Waters out of generosity. 
Or is it true what Muddy Waters says: has our 
company no legal redress against this report?  


Can such a thing happen? That is precisely my 
point.  


I have the following questions regarding compa-
nies acquired by our company.  


According to my information, Ströer founded the 
Pacemaker Targeting GmbH company in 2013. 
The first question I have is: what is Pacemaker?  


Has Ströer absorbed costs here, for instance,  
using adscale or another company? What are 
Pacemaker's sales, EBITDA and net earnings? 


Has Media Ventures ever invested in Pace-
maker? If yes, please provide details. 


Another acquisition that raises questions is the 
acquisition of Statista in 2015. Here my question 
is, what were Statista's revenue, EBITDA and net 
earnings for 2014 and 2015? What was the rate 
of increase in revenue, EBITDA and net earnings 
in the previous business year? What are the rea-
sons for the acquisition? 


In 2015 Ströer also acquired a 51% share in 
Conexus. What does Conexus actually do? Ac-
cording to information from the internet, it makes 
education management software for Norway. How 
does such a company fit our company and what 
was the transaction volume? 


On the contested business with freeXmedia, 
which has been referred to often already, I have 
the following questions, namely: 


Which business opportunities did Ströer actually 
see when they acquired freeXmedia, anyway? 
How did it come to the flip-flopping, etc.? In No-
vember 2012, the supervisory board allegedly 
discussed the acquisition of freeXmedia, then 
they let a major shareholder take a holding and 
acquired freeXmedia from this shareholder a 
short time after. Why not immediately and why not 
directly? 


And why was freeXmedia bought in a package 
together with other Media Ventures companies? 


Did you think that this increases the transparency 
and predictability of a transaction? Or did you 
think that it wouldn't lead to any questions? 


Ströer paid out about 60 million euros for the en-
tire package. The other two companies, namely 
Ströer Interactive and the holding in Business Ad-
vertising, must have had substance. What profit 
was expected from these two companies and 
what did they actually make? 


It has already been mentioned that our chairman 
of the supervisory board, in his function as mem-
ber of the board of management of Freenet, re-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 38 


ceived 4 million euros for freeXmedia. My ques-
tion on this is, how much was paid in cash, and 
how much in stocks? And for what portion of the 
amount were services provided by our company? 
Would our organization also have entered into 
such a deal under the same circumstances with a 
third party who did not have a stake in the com-
pany? 


Which services does our company provide for 
Media Ventures or other persons associated with 
Dirk Ströer and/or Udo Müller or in Freenet with-
out directly receiving appropriate market remu-
neration? 


FreeXmedia sales fell drastically shortly after its 
acquisition. Year-on-year, they fell about 30%. 
Was this not already apparent on the acquisition 
date? And if yes, why did we buy the company? If 
not, how could the slump have happened? 


Reports of the Muddy Waters attack indicate that 
on April 22, representatives of the company ex-
plained in a telephone conference – and I quote:  


"I think Ströer alone has spent two 2 million 
euros on lawyers' and auditors' fees, etc. to 
be 100% sure that everything connected with 
the transaction was 100% compliant.”  


How does that fit in with transaction costs of only 
329,000 euros declared in the annual financial 
statement for 2013? Where are the other 1.7 mil-
lion euros? Or was the statement made at the  
telephone conference false? 


If the package deal was really assisted by exter-
nal consultants and this included fees of over 2 
million euros, were damage claims against these 
consultants examined? 


Also on 4/22/2016 Udo Müller explained – and I 
quote: "No, this" – meaning the package – "was 
literally the only asset acquired from Media Ven-
tures." The question I have for you is: how and 
from whom did our company acquire the stake in 
evidero? –Thank you very much. 


(applause) 


Vilanek, Chairman: Thank you, Mr. Kiel. – Then, 
as the last speaker on the list of speakers for the 
time being, I would like to invite Mr. Joachim Mi-
chels to speak. Mr. Michels, if you please. 


Michels: Hello ladies and gentlemen of the board 
of management and fellow shareholders! My 


name is Joachim Michels and I only represent my 
own shares. This is also my first time here and I 
have not been a shareholder for very long at all.  


I am perhaps one of the few to benefit from the 
Muddy Waters attack. For I had been eyeing up 
Ströer for a long time but when the price went 
down, I bought a few. That doesn't mean that I 
approve of such attacks however. 


My first thought was actually what Bernie Baruch 
wrote in his book "Gute 88 Jahre" [Good 88 
Years] about the American Wall Street behavior 
100 years earlier. Back then it was the railway 
and similar companies, back then it was quite 
common practice.  


Like Mr. Tüngler, I actually believe such practices 
should be subject to legal prosecution. I think you 
can only be encouraged by the fact that you are 
trying, where there are legal means, to apply the 
reins to this issue in the future possibly together 
with others or with the stock market regulator, if it 
is not as ineffectual as Mr. Tüngler just alluded. It 
is all very well, and of course impossible to avoid, 
lawyers getting involved in stock market activities. 
But at the very least attempts should be made to 
stem such obvious operations with even greater 
barriers. 


What I liked was the presentation of the candi-
dates. In the case of large companies, most were 
presented by the board of management or the 
chair of the supervisory board. You did that your-
selves. I have nothing but praise for that. That is a 
step towards transparency. 


Otherwise, transparency today is more of an is-
sue than business policy. I actually think that is a 
bad thing. It is perhaps attributable to a growing 
company that so many things need to be done 
quickly, especially in the digital economy, that not 
everything can be as well prepared as in the in-
dustries heavily invested in.  


For this reason, we also have a high degree of 
goodwill in the balance. I think two thirds are in-
tangible assets. That is already a very high per-
centage. One wonders if that could have been 
written off better. Perhaps that would also then 
have reduced the profit. I can not overlook the tax 
consequences. Such a high proportion of intangi-
bles also makes it risky, however, to hold an in-
terest in such a company. So perhaps a few 
words about how you view it.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 39 


After that I wish to add my support to what has 
just been said about the interest on loan capital. 
Today we would actually expect a company to 
borrow at 1%, at 0% or maybe even for a fee, as 
currently demonstrated by the ECB. You will not 
quite achieve that. I would still like to know 
though, if it is more or less than 3% that you are 
paying for that?  


Yet another thing that has already been men-
tioned. Perhaps because it is a family business, 
you have not focused on that so much or you 
have completely omitted to praise the employees. 
This has already been done by some of the pre-
vious speakers. I would also like to do the same 
because without the employees, we would cer-
tainly not have achieved these successes.  


At most other general meetings I attend, this sub-
ject always raises a few words from the board of 
management and is sometimes even mentioned 
by the supervisory board. That's good because it 
shows that people who have contributed to the 
company's success are also appreciated. – Thank 
you. 


(Applause)  


Vilanek, Chairman: Thank you Mr. Michels. – I 
currently have no further requests for the floor. I 
would suggest, in keeping with the request that 
has been reiterated multiple times that we deal 
with these responses very precisely and compre-
hensively, in a single pass where possible, that 
we take a break until 15:00. We have a lot to get 
through but I think then we will be able to run 
through it all in one go. Enjoy your break. We will 
reconvene at 15:00. 





(Break from 1:52 pm to 3 pm) 


Vilanek, chairman: Ladies and gentlemen, I 
hope you have had a chance to rest and seek  
refreshment during the break and are ready to re-
commence. I understand that the smokers  
suffered a little in the heat. 


We will now begin to answer the questions that 
have been asked. I am going to ask Mr. Müller or 
one of the three chairmen to answer. We are  
going to try to do this in order. So, let's begin. 


Müller: I'll start with something easy. Mr. Tüngler, 
Ströer Venture. Ströer Venture is, as its name 
suggests, a vehicle that we will use to invest in 


promising, mainly digital, business models where 
we are not yet sure whether or not they will form 
part of our core business in the short and medium 
term, but where we see the potential that they 
may do so in the future. That is why we founded 
Ströer Venture. 


Mr. Buhlmann's question about Statista. Statista 
is an independent legal entity in the Ströer group 
that is run as a profit center. It provides a good 
basis for future results. Statista is one of the few 
exceptions I have seen in Germany where a digi-
tal business model has been created in Germany 
and has not been copied in Germany and has 
been internationalized from Germany. Statista is 
already operating very successfully in America. I 
am personally convinced that Statista is going to 
make me many friends over the coming years. 
Even in the initial stages, we have a whole range 
of synergies. If you go to T-Online, you will see 
that it publishes the daily statistics. 


Another question from Mr. Buhlmann on the same 
topic. Big data – where do the figures that Statista 
publishes come from? Statista is a portal for pre-
mium statistics, surveys and studies from 18,000 
data sources. The income model is subscription 
based. The company is developing very well and 
in line with expectations. We are pursuing an  
aggressive growth strategy, so that from 2017 
proceeds should make a positive contribution to 
the Ströer group. 


At the end of the day it's a question of having the 
right portfolio of mature business models that 
yield income and have positive cash flows, and 
younger business models that have not yet  
posted any income but where we can see growth 
on the sales side.  


Question from Mr. Tüngler on the subject of the 
conversion from AG to SE. The reason for the 
conversion was the international nature of 
Ströer's business. The employees were at this 
point not represented on the company's supervi-
sory board because the company had not yet 
reached the size required for workers to have co-
determination rights. As this is now not the case, 
two days ago the company initiated status pro-
ceedings. Once these are complete, the workers 
will be represented on the supervisory board. 


The recent conversion into a partnership limited 
by shares [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien] 
takes account of the fact that Ströer is a family 
business. For owner-run businesses such as
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 40 


Ströer, partnership limited by shares is the ideal 
legal form, as it enables the company to secure 
further financing via equity, which the owners may 
not have been prepared for if the company was a 
stock company [Aktiengesellschaft] or an SE. For 
this reason, the legal form of partnership limited 
by shares is to the company's advantage. 


In this context, I would note that in future there will 
be twelve members of the supervisory board: six 
from the workers' side and six from the employ-
yer's side, with one member from each of the 
founding families on either side. Anyone who 
thinks that having two out of twelve supervisory 
board members from the founding families, who 
own almost 45% of the company, is too many for 
a family-run company, must have something 
against family-run companies in Germany. This is 
permissible, no question. 





Question from Mr Tüngler: can Ströer Venture be 
used by third parties? Ströer Venture GmbH holds 
investments in new business areas and bundles 
various digital companies in the transaction-
oriented business environment. Ströer Venture 
includes companies such as Conexus, Statista 
and the recently acquired BodyChange. 


Question from Mr. Buhlmann: regarding page 17 
of the company report, I wondered whether this 
will be a new sector. Conexus is market leader for 
training and teaching in Norway. Can we extend 
the model to Bavaria, etc. via Denmark? 


One of our central strategies in the digital arena is 
the diversification of income models and to not be 
dependent solely on digital marketing. A  
structurally grown, sustainable and data-driven 
business model meets our criteria for international 
acquisitions to a large degree.  


Conexus has so far been showing excellent 
growth in a regional niche market. As always in 
such cases, the investment in a scaling-up of the 
business model and forays into new markets has 
an initial impact on the bottom line. But the core 
business is developing profitably as expected.  


One of the main reasons for this acquisition is 
Statista's comprehensive skill in the management 
and administration of big data and the ability to 
draw the right conclusions from it. The technology 
that Conexus has developed can, in principle, be 
applied to any other business model. It happens 
to be the education market they have captured 


but – and this is a typical example of what I was 
saying earlier – today it is a Ströer-Venture con-
cern. We will see whether we are going to in-
crease our activity in this area over the next two 
or three years, or whether we will sell it. The point 
of Ströer Venture is that we can sell on at a profit. 
We are confident there will be a significant in-
crease in value. 


Schmalzl: Question from Mr. ten Doornkaat: 
What truth is there in the accusation by Muddy 
Waters that there are various transactions with re-
lated parties? Is there any truth in that? – In the 
end it cannot be denied that the Ströer Group, 
just like many other listed companies, also trans-
acts business with related parties. The transac-
tions are conducted under the usual market con-
ditions and are described in detail on page 162 et 
seq. of the current annual report, where the rela-
tionships with related parties and companies can 
be found, and under this heading in previous an-
nual reports, too. 


Another question from Mr. ten Doornkaat:  
Which members of the supervisory board parti-
cipated in the vote on freeXmedia and which ones 
abstained from voting? 





Professor Dieter Stolte, Dr. Stefan Seitz, Martin 
Diederichs, Dieter Keller and Dirk Ströer attended 
the supervisory board meetings where the acqui-
sition of freeXmedia and Ströer Interactive was 
voted on. Mr. Binkowska did not attend the  
meeting. When the acquisition of the companies 
was put to the vote, Mr. Ströer abstained from 
voting. Also, Mr. Ströer was not present during 
the supervisory board's discussion of the planned 
acquisition of the company. 


(Klein: Could you be so kind as to repeat the 
names for the record?) 


– With pleasure. They were Professor Dieter 
Stolte, Dr. Stefan Seitz, Martin Diederichs, Dieter 
Keller and Dirk Ströer. Mr. Dietmar Binkowska did 
not attend. He was the CEO of NRW Bank at the 
time. 


Another question from Mr. ten Doornkaat: How 
was or how is it guaranteed that the transactions 
are conducted according to the "at arm's 
length"principle? – This question still refers to the 
freeXmedia or Ströer Interactive transaction.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 41 


At the time, the supervisory board defined a sys-
tem of value proportions for the board of  
management, which had to be adhered to for this 
transaction as a minimum. This system referred to 
the IDW-S1 appraisal value of Ströer Digital Me-
dia, formerly the SIG Group, the value shares  
issued for Ströer Out of Home Media AG within 
the framework of the authorized capital, as well as 
the purchase price for AdScale GmbH as a com-
parable transaction at arm's length.  


All of the value proportions were fully complied 
with, as confirmed by a KPMG study. We reported 
on this in detail to our analysts and shareholders 
on the occasion of the disclosure of the quarterly 
results for Q1 2013 in May 2013 – the documents 
are still available on our website – as well as at 
the general meeting on August 8, 2013. 


Another question from Mr. ten Doornkaat: Which 
transactions exist between members of the board 
of management of Ströer KGaA and Ströer SE as 
individuals or as members of the board of  
management of Media Ventures GmbH?  


Media Ventures GmbH is an independent compa-
ny , which does not belong to the Ströer Group. It 
is perhaps important to explain this. We are there-
fore unable to say which business relationships 
exist between the members of the board of  
management of Ströer KGaA or Ströer SE on the 
one hand and you as persons or members of the 
executive bodies of other legal entities on the 
other hand. All of the business relationships exist-
ing between Ströer KGaA and Media Ventures 
are presented in our annual report, as mentioned 
above, on pages 162 and 163. There are no 
business relationships between Media Ventures 
GmbH and Ströer Management SE. 


Mr. ten Doornkaat also asked the supervisory 
board to state whether it is independent. We take 
that as a question. In this sense, our answer:  


Ströer's supervisory board complies with the pro-
visions of the German Corporate Governance 
Code in terms of independence. According to this 
code, members of the supervisory board are only 
deemed to be dependent if they are exposed to a 
significant and permanent conflict of interest due 
to certain relationships with the company, its ex-
ecutive bodies, a controlling shareholder or an-
other company associated with this company.  


This is not the case for the majority of the mem-
bers of our company's supervisory board. If the 


aforementioned relationships exist in individual 
cases, conflicts of interest only arise sporadically, 
but are not permanent. 


The fact that individual members of the super-
visory board have a certain relationship with the 
company or with its partners is also absolutely 
normal. Over and above this, it is also not un-
common for the co-founder of the company to be 
represented on the supervisory board, for exam-
ple. Mr. Müller just pointed this out. In this re-
spect, the supervisory board of Ströer is no differ-
ent than those of other listed companies. 


Dr. Metzner: Picking up on Mr. Buhlmann's ques-
tion. He asked about who actually vests the 
shares in the context of Muddy Waters?  


Our answer to that is: Betting on falling stock 
prices is part of the strategy of some investors. 
Also, investment companies often vest shares in 
order to achieve a higher return. These activities 
are processed by the responsible custodian 
banks. These activities are generally not suffi-
ciently documented so as to be able to draw any 
meaningful conclusions. 


The next question was posed by Mr. Klein and re-
lated to the issue of the annual reports and 
whether we had treated the shareholders un-
equally, as we did not distribute them all in ad-
vance. 


(Klein: No, this is not true. During the general 
meeting!) 


– Yes, during the general meeting. – Share-
holders are entitled to have the annual report 
handed out at the general meeting. However, this 
cannot take place simultaneously for all of the 
shareholders and doesn't have to. Also, the an-
nual report has been available to all of the share-
holders on our website since the general meeting 
was convened, so, in our opinion, there has been 
no violation of the principle of equal treatment. 


(Klein: Would you be so kind as to include 
my reproof and your reply in the notarial 
minutes?) 


– Yes, I will. 


The next question was asked by Mr. Buhlmann. It 
addressed the topic of: What is the guidance for 
next year? How should we view that? – Our  
guidance still expects that we will generate an
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 42 


operational EBITDA of over €280 million and a 
revenue of €1.1 to €1.2 billion in 2016. 


The next question was asked by Mr. Buhlmann, 
about the WACC, how high it actually is. – Our 
reply: Ströer presents the WACC as a discount 
rate for its own cash-generating units on page 
135 of the annual report. They are between 5.4% 
and 12.3%. 


The next question asked by Mr. Buhlmann. If we 
acquire a stake and pay for it with our own shares 
and the shareholder then says "But I want to be 
more than adequately represented on the super-
visory board for my share," how is that actually to 
be understood, especially here in our case, also 
with a view to Deutsche Telekom? 


Our reply: Both the purchase price and the repre-
sentation on the supervisory board were part of a 
comprehensive negotiation process. But the pur-
chase price and the representation on the super-
visory board were in no way linked to each other 
or made dependent on each other. What is more, 
the composition of the supervisory board was, of 
course not guaranteed by Ströer, as this is in the 
decision-making competence of the general  
meeting. 


Regarding Mr. Tüngler's question, dealing with 
the issue of compensation from the seller of Ball-
room on the one hand, and the topic of impair-
ments on the other.  


Our answer to that is: We carried out an impair-
ment test for the Ballroom Group in the course of 
2015. An impairment test is based on the ex-
pected earnings development for future financial 
years. This test did not reveal any need for ad-
justments.  


The question of whether Ströer can still assert 
claims against the stakeholders relating to the ac-
quisition that took place in June 2013, whether in 
contract or the law, needs to be looked at sepa-
rately. Since we do not comment on current legal 
proceedings in principle, we are unable to com-
ment on this, either. 


(Dr. Weimann: So there is a lawsuit!) 


– Yes, there is a lawsuit. 


The issue raised by Mr. Tüngler: Accounting, 
convertible bonds. They dilute themselves and us 
unnecessarily. – The convertible bonds give us 
the opportunity, in principle, to further optimize 


our financing structure. At the moment, however, 
there is no acute need to actually issue a conver-
tible bond. 


Re. Mr. Tüngler's question: Whether there is a 
dividend increase in the context of Muddy Waters 
and what would actually happen next year.  


The increase in dividends to €0.70 was already 
announced on March 22 and was thus not a re-
sponse to Muddy Waters, but confirmation of our 
excellent operating performance. The first quarter 
of 2016 was the most successful start into the 
New Year in the company's history since its listing 
on the stock market. And we are also anticipating 
continued dynamic development for the rest of the 
year. We are also still planning a certain continui-
ty of the dividend, paying out at least 25% to 50% 
of our adjusted net income. 


Vilanek, Chairman: I'll take up a few questions 
about the supervisory board. One was a two-
pronged question asked by Marc Tüngler re-
garding independence. This question was essen-
tially answered by Christian Schmalzl when re-
sponding to another parallel question. On this 
point it should also be mentioned that for similar 
votes, if individual conflicts of interest arise, the 
members of the supervisory board abstain from 
voting.  


Then there was another question from Mr. ten 
Doornkaat: Which of the candidates for the su-
pervisory board elections can be considered to be 
financial experts? – From our point of view,  
Mr. Ulrich Voigt can definitely be considered to be 
a financial expert in his function. He is also re-
sponsible for the audit committee. 


Then: What relationships exist, directly or indirect-
ly between the members of the supervisory board 
as individuals and the company? – Between 
Freenet AG, which I am Chairman of, and the 
Ströer Group companies, there are business rela-
tionships in the area of outdoor advertising in 
Germany. Allow me to interject: It will be difficult 
to find anyone who does not have such relation-
ships with quasi-monopolists or the most suc-
cessful companies in online and outdoor adverti-
sing in Germany. 


Furthermore, the Sparkasse KölnBonn, of which 
Mr. Voigt is a member of the board of manage-
ment, belongs to the consortium of banks that 
provides credit to the company.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 43 


Mrs. Anette Bronder and Mr. Vicente Vento Bosch 
are members of the board of managements of 
subsidiaries of Deutsche Telekom AG. Business 
relationships exist between Deutsche Telekom 
AG and Ströer KGaA as a result of the successful 
acquisition of Digital Media Products GmbH and 
Interactive Media, commonly  
known as T-Online, last year that are similar to 
those with Deutsche Telekom in the outdoor ad-
vertising sector.  


For the sake of completeness, let me repeat the 
question about independence asked by Mr. Voigt. 
Here there is the peculiarity that Mr. Voigt repre-
sents Sparkasse Köln or rather is a member of its 
board of management, but we see him as an in-
dependent candidate nevertheless. 


Müller: Moreover, Sparkasse Köln is one of the 
smallest participants contributing in the consorti-
um, due to old ties, as it were. Sparkasse is in no 
way a significant financial contributor of ours, and 
most definitely not the largest, as I read some-
where recently. 


Vilanek, Chairman: Then the question was re-
peated – also for the sake of completeness – 
about Mr. Flemmerer as spouse of the member of 
the board of management. We have said this 
several times now: It is not uncommon in a family-
owned company, as Mr. Müller has already said, 
with significantly over 40% to occupy two out of 
six seats, and in future two out of twelve, which 
we find absolutely acceptable and appropriate. 


Question from Mr. Klein relating to the economic 
dependencies. You are right to assume, Mr. Klein, 
that Mrs. Flemmerer is neither economically de-
pendent on the company nor the company's  
general partner. In addition, as an attorney she is 
definitely qualified to hold office on a supervisory 
board. 


Then you also mentioned – which I also under-
stand as a question – that you find the appoint-
ment unfortunate. We feel that this proposal of 
Mrs. Flemmerer as an attorney is clearly qualified. 
In this context you also asked about the examina-
tion grades. In this respect we believe that the 
fact that she is an attorney is more relevant than 
her actual exam grades. 


Then we have another question from Mrs. Schütz, 
about me. In principle, this has nothing to do with 
Ströer SE, but with Freenet AG and me. For the 
sake of completeness, let me say that this man-


date has been approved by the supervisory board 
of Freenet AG.  


I do not represent Freenet AG, but act as a per-
son in the company as chairman of the supervi-
sory board. I also spend my free time and my va-
cation on this work. The fact that we are working 
in a company, which is also directly or indirectly at 
least of interest and relevant to our company, I 
certainly see added value in this work for our 
company, without there being connections or 
overlaps due to company law. 


Mr. Weimann asks: You asked whether you could 
get a copy of Mr. Müller's speech and the slides. 
Please understand that Mr. Müller's speech and 
presentation cannot be made available outside 
the general meeting. The key information about 
the company can be found both in the annual re-
port as well as in the numerous publications by 
the company, which are freely accessible to any-
one on the company's website. 


Müller: Mr Klein asks: How much profit did  
Mr. Müller and Mr. Ströer make from the initial 
public offering? – Zero. Simple answer! Back then 
we even took out a loan to buy shares, partly on 
the advice of our banks, but also because we 
were convinced that is was a good investment. So 
the profit from the initial public offering was zero. 


Then a question from Mr. Klein, whether we 
stressed the need for a detailed examination with 
regard to the Muddy Waters affair. – In view of the 
accusations made by Muddy Waters, the man-
agement commissioned the auditors Ernst & 
Young to conduct additional audits. These audits 
were in relation to the non-IFRS figures. The 
IFRS figures had already been audited intensively 
as part of the statutory audits of the consolidated 
financial statements. 


In other words, we aren't so stupid as to ask Ernst 
& Young to audit what they had already audited. 
We asked Ernst & Young to audit what had not 
been the subject of the audit in the final report, 
but perhaps you misunderstood me earlier on. 


That is specifically about one issue, which is or-
ganic growth, which is a big topic here. I can ex-
plain that briefly, too. In theory we have two ways 
of calculating organic growth. Firstly, if you com-
pleted a new acquisition on April 1, then you can 
wait until April 1 of the following year, then you 
have had it on the books for the past year, and 
can then report the organic growth. Or you can
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 44 


report the organic growth from the first day on 
which you make the acquisition, and then of 
course you have to adjust them in the previous 
year by the revenue that the company would have 
had as a stand-alone business one year earlier.  


Since we do quite a lot of M&A, we decided to 
switch to reporting the organic growth on the first 
day instead of a year later for reasons of trans-
parency, because if you start reporting the organ-
ic growth a year later it very convenient for the 
management. Then they don't need to worry 
about how the asset is actually doing for an entire 
year, because it doesn't show up anywhere in the 
financial statements. 


That's what the whole discussion is about. We 
were accused of having switched, because we 
had purchased companies that are growing at a 
faster rate than our core business, and were at-
tempting to cover up weaknesses in our core 
business in this way. That is completely abstruse. 
Firstly, it is easy to distinguish between the two. 
Secondly, if anyone asks us about the other val-
ues, we disclose them as well. It is no secret. But 
the difference is only minimal in general, one or 
two percent.  


That was what the issue was about. It was al-
leged that everything had been wrongly calcu-
lated and it was all junk. Or it was claimed that 
everything that we bought was junk, or that we 
spent too much money because we put too much 
emphasis on high-growth companies, etc. etc., as 
is always the way.  


But that was the point where we asked Ernst & 
Young to take a look at everything that had not 
been the subject of the audit, in order to deter-
mine whether the management had calculated 
the figures correctly. So we didn't ask Ernst & 
Young to audit what they had already audited 
again, because it is obvious what the outcome of 
that would be. Nobody would say that what he 
had done in the past had been done wrong. 


Why wasn't the fact that Mr. Ströer had resigned 
highlighted as "temporarily" in the annual report, 
and is the resignation connected to the extensive 
sale of Ströer shares?  


Answer: The annual report refers to the fiscal year 
2015, at the end of which Mr. Ströer was no  
longer a member of the supervisory board of the 
company. This is the reason why his temporary 
resignation was not described as such. The only 


reason for Mr. Ströer's temporary resignation from 
the supervisory board of the company was the 
T-Online transaction: 


You'll only find that happening in a family-owned 
company. We asked Mr. Ströer to resign, be-
cause the condition in the purchase agreement 
with Deutsche Telekom was that on the day of 
signing or closing, on the day of closing of course, 
at least one member of the supervisory board had 
to be from Telekom. That was why Mr. Ströer 
made way for Mr. Vento at the time, so that he 
could take his place. He came back as soon as 
we restructured and this KGaA, etc. was all set in 
motion.  


That had nothing to do with the transaction, but 
was simply due to the fact that we had agreed to 
give Deutsche Telekom a seat on the supervisory 
board on this closing date, so Mr. Ströer kindly of-
fered to offer his seat. 


(Klein: Please could you fill us in on the  
timing?) 


I don't have it to hand, but we will answer that 
question next. So please tell us the timing of the 
T-Online deal, for which a condition was, when 
Mr. Ströer stepped down and when he returned. 
OK, we will answer that in detail in a moment. 


Transaction costs in the amount of €2.5 million, 
Mrs. Schütz asks, what happened here? – Let me 
say one thing in advance: The transaction costs 
here were not caused by the board of manage-
ment, but were due to requests for information 
made by the supervisory board at the time, which 
the board of management complied with. That is 
what I just said. The supervisory board said: Of 
course we can do a related-party deal, as long as 
all legal, financial, etc. framework conditions are 
met.  


Because the supervisory board wanted to rule out 
the risk of a point of attack resulting from the 
transaction, the supervisory board asked us to a) 
prepare an expert opinion on Solon, about 
whether the topic of online advertising is promi-
sing for the future. That was the first expert opin-
ion. b) the supervisory board asked us to prepare 
an expert opinion on whether the technological 
equipment of the companies is fit for the future. 
That was the next expert opinion. Then the su-
pervisory board told us that the transaction con-
cept had to be drawn up by Freshfields or by a
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 45 


renowned law firm, so we commissioned a trans-
action concept.  


Then, if you wish to use your own shares as ac-
quisition currency, you need an expert opinion on 
the intrinsic value of your share and, if you wish to 
use it, you need an expert opinion on the intrinsic 
value of the target. So we didn't commission Ernst 
& Young, who were our auditors, but KPMG to 
prepare these opinions, to ensure that it was in-
dependent, of the supervisory board too, of 
course. 


Then the supervisory board said, OK, regardless 
of the findings of the opinions, we want a discount 
of at least 25% to the equity book value; you  
never know what the findings of such a opinion 
will be.  


Then the supervisory board said, but we don't 
know if 25% might not be too little, so we also 
want a opinion to be drawn up for AdScale, which 
is being purchased for cash from a unrelated third 
party, and the difference between the purchase 
price of AdScale and the value AdScale stated in 
the opinion must be less than that of Ströer Inter-
active. That means that the discount on the pur-
chase price off the value stated in the opinion 
must be at least 25%, but it also has to be higher 
than for AdScale, to make sure that a discount of 
25% is not habitual. Also, the discount must be 
higher than the discount to the intrinsic value of 
the Ströer shares relative to the ultimately  
accepted value. 


This is simply due to the fact that – and the board 
of management could do nothing to prevent it –, 
the supervisory board wanted to make sure it was 
watertight in every direction. That means, a) 
Checking whether the deal is actually interesting, 
b) Are the companies on the right track , c) Are 
the companies' business plans sound, d) A trans-
action concept prepared by Freshfields, e) Opin-
ion IDW S1 for AdScale, for the Ströer shares, for 
Ströer Interactive, for all three. b) The discounts 
had to be such that it is clear that the highest dis-
count applies to Ströer Interactive, and finally it 
was necessary to ensure that the multiple of the 
net profit of Ströer Interactive is lower than that of 
AdScale, so that it could be benchmarked again 
against a current market transaction.  


Then the question is, of course, how the supervi-
sory board can obtain an objective overview of 
whether the assessment is right. On the one 
hand, we then did that, but due to the values de-


termined in the opinions, we also wanted to 
benchmark it against the market. Hence this very 
complicated transaction. That was why we ended 
up spending over €2 million, because we made 
an enormous effort, because the supervisory 
board wanted to be certain that there were no 
risks of any kind, because a related-party deal 
obviously makes particular demands on corporate 
governance. 


I should not have said anything about the  
opposing party's transaction costs, as it wasn't 
part of the discussion, but I did. But I can tell you 
this much, that the seller did not need that, of 
course; he only had lawyer's fees and that was 
that.  


Ströer AG could also have done the deal for 
€50,000, but then we would have had a lot of 
problems by now, because we would - - We 
couldn't have done it for €50,000, simply because 
there are statutory regulations that are binding. 
But we did go well beyond complying with the 
statutory regulations, because the supervisory 
board asked us to. That was how we arrived at 
these €2.5 million in the end. 


That is why I am actually really shocked that we 
are being taken to count over it today.  
Mr. Metzner, who wasn't yet here back then, said 
to me the other day: There you have it: money be-
ing thrown out of the window. But if we hadn't 
done all that, we would still have been taken to 
count. At the end of the day, you have to wait until 
you are accused of embezzlement for spending 
so much on transaction costs. – I said that there 
is no risk; because I am not responsible for it. 


The second thing that I find rather bitter, as I have 
already recounted. We were tens of millions in 
debt at the time due to the investment in the com-
pany, and merged the thing against share with 
thousands of expert opinions. The outcome is that 
the share price increased eight-fold and we are 
paying a dividend of €0.70. If I am still slapped in 
the face left and right three years later, then I 
must say that that is rather bitter. But I guess that 
is probably necessary on the capital market. 


(Klein: Mr. Müller, please would you be so 
kind as to interpret the rules  
of procedure of the board of management 
and of the supervisory board to the notary. I 
would like to take a look at them. €2 million 
are no trifling matter, after all.)
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 46 


– No, no. But as I said, there are a whole load of 
regulations that we simply have to comply with, all 
these opinions by KPMG. Then the supervisory 
board assumed a particular duty of care, and that 
simply led us to have basically everything done by 
external consultants - - The supervisory board 
wanted to rule out, even though nobody had  
taken part in the vote, Mr. Ströer had left the 
room, the supervisory board wanted to rule out in 
every aspect of the transaction, needing to rely 
solely on management statements, as it merely 
suspected that this might not obtain objective re-
sults there.  
 
(Klein: I would just like to ask: Who was present 
at that meeting?) 


– At which meeting? 


(Klein: At the decisive meeting) 


Vilanek, Chairman: That was what Mr. Schmalzl 
cited earlier on, what you took down in your 
notes. – May I ask: Which rules of procedure? 
Those from back then? 


(Klein: The rules of procedure of the board of 
management and of the supervisory board!) 


At the time of the decision? 


(Klein: Yes!) 


I would like to ask the back-office - - 


(Klein: Where were the €2 million wasted?) 


Müller: The high transaction costs are a reflection 
of the due diligence which we exercised when we 
entered the online segment. It wasn't just an issue 
of it being a related-party transaction, but also the 
entry into what at the time was a completely new 
line of business. Hence the opinions described by 
mutual agreement. 


That was also why we spent significant amounts 
on consultancy services in the field of market due 
diligence – Solon – and tech due diligence – 
Platinion – for instance.  


In addition to that, it should not be forgotten that 
we also had to convene an extraordinary general 
meeting due to the necessary capital structure 
measures.  


Over and above that, there were the expert  
opinions from the renowned auditing company 


KPMG, which determined the value ratios of the 
acquired companies in comparison to Ströer AG 
and AdScale GmbH. – That is a summary of what 
I just explained in a bit more detail, so that it is 
easier to understand. 


Another question from Mr. ten Doornkaat on the 
same subject: December 16, ad hoc disclosure. 
The acquisition of AdScale took place on the 
condition that we also wanted to acquire a stake 
in Media Ventures. What does the acquisition of 
AdScale actually have to do with the acquisition 
of the stake? Is there a connection?  


The ad hoc disclosure back then referred in gen-
eral terms to the forthcoming acquisition of Ströer 
Interactive GmbH, freeXmedia GmbH and a 
50.4% stake in Business Advertising GmbH, 
known together as Ströer Digital Media, as well as 
AdScale GmbH. A detached acquisition of Ad-
Scale GmbH without Ströer Digital Media would 
not have made much sense. All of the companies 
together formed the foundation for the new line of 
business: digital marketing. 


While Ströer Digital Media was active in conven-
tional digital marketing in the premium and verti-
cals segment, AdScale as a real-time bidding 
platform concentrated on automated marketing of 
the so-called long tails. This allowed Ströer to 
succeed in covering a significant part of the spec-
trum of digital marketing in a single step, and at 
the same time achieving a relevant range in digi-
tal marketing right from the outset.  


At that time the leverage of the indebtedness 
would have exceeded the bank covenants by a 
long way. That is why an isolated takeover of Ad-
Scale was impossible.  


Allow me to briefly focus on the underlying facts 
once more; we'll come back to this again a few 
more times, after all. There have been a few mis-
understandings. 


There was no transaction in which Ströer inten-
ded to or was interested in purchasing the com-
pany freeXmedia. We were just asked why we 
spent €2.5 million in transaction costs for a com-
pany that cost €2 million in cash. The transactions 
volume was €50 million plus an earn-out. This is 
what we spent the transaction costs on, not for 
freeXmedia, to state it once again in all clarity.  


And it was – as I just explained – an entry into a 
new line of business and due to related-party 
transactions, etc. we spent these €2.5 million with
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 47 


a total transaction volume of €50 million plus a lit-
tle more.  


Those are the facts here, once again. The facts of 
the matter are as follows: 


I went to AdScale, took a look at it and had the 
impression that, OK, this is an interesting pro-
spect. AdScale, what is it actually? It was a mar-
ketplace for advertising. That means that all ads 
that were not sold by other marketers landed at 
AdScale and were sold anonymously there. So 
AdScale could ensure a coverage of 80% in every 
town, because a website has a range of approx. 
3%, perhaps.  


So I said, OK, this is a good opportunity for us, 
because if our regional sales department  
wants to sell local online coverage, we need 80% 
coverage in towns. So the idea of acquiring this 
AdScale matured. It had to go relatively quickly, 
because it was already involved in a takeover 
process, and we got involved relatively late. 


I just described the situation a few minutes ago: 
At that time our net debt was about three times as 
high as our EBITDA and we couldn't allow this 
leverage to deteriorate. That means that we could 
only increase our debt by three times our EBITDA 
by purchasing something. But it is impossible to 
buy anything for three times the EBITDA. In the 
case of AdScale it was about ten times. 


So we had two problems: First of all, an acquisi-
tion of AdScale with a revenue of €20 million is 
too small to enter the digital market. Secondly, we 
were unable to conduct such transactions due to 
our loan agreement situation.  


So we needed a second asset in online mar-
keting, in order to achieve a critical volume in 
online marketing, and secondly we need to pur-
chase against payment of shares, because only if 
we are able to earn another €5 million in profit for 
shares would we then have 7 million in profit and 
20 million cash out, so that we don't worsen our 
credit ratio.  


That was why one of the prerequisites in the su-
pervisory board resolution, that the supervisory 
board would only release the 20 million for the 
acquisition of AdScale if at the same time the 
conclusion of Ströer Interactive for shares were to 
succeed. Otherwise we would not have got the 20 
million from the supervisory board, because of 
course the supervisory board takes care to en-


sure that we don't allow our debt to deteriorate 
beyond a certain point. 


Then I went to Mr. Ströer back then and told him, 
OK, we need Ströer Interactive now, for one thing 
because AdScale on its own is too small, and on 
the other hand because we can't afford to pay for 
it. – Then Mr. Ströer said, no, we can't sell that. – 
I asked him, why not? – He replied, I have worked 
for three years on buying freeXmedia. Now I am 
just a week away from concluding the deal. I'm 
not going to sell it now, because if I manage to in-
tegrate it a year later, then I'll be in a much better 
position, due to the synergy effects. – Then we 
said that we need to find a solution.  


That's why Muddy Waters started spreading ru-
mors that are factually totally inaccurate. There 
was no pre-acquisition, or even an interim acqui-
sition or God only knows what.  


We always did things that way: Media Ventures is 
Media Ventures and Ströer is Ströer; they are two 
unrelated third parties. Now just imagine I come 
along and want to buy a company from an unre-
lated third party. Then he says, I'm just about to 
finalize a two-year process and I want to buy a 
company myself. Then I say, no, no, don't do that, 
I'll buy it myself now and then you can sell me 
your company. What would the seller say? He 
would say, is that a sick joke, or what? If you try 
to torpedo my process, then there is no way I'm 
going to sell you my company. 


That means that an acquisition of freeXmedia 
never made sense for us – otherwise we could 
have tried sooner – because freeXmedia was 
much too small. Back then, freeXmedia made a 
million in profit in that year and had then just lost 
three important mandates – the question will sure-
ly be raised eventually, I expect-; that was surely 
a reason why Freenet sold it. When Media Ven-
tures then took it over, it made €200,000 in profit, 
which is negligible. 


That means that we as Ströer could only buy 
Ströer Interactive and AdScale together for rea-
sons of their size and for financing reasons. At the 
time, Ströer Interactive consisted of three compa-
nies.  


The question that arose about how the purchase 
price breaks down, is also absolutely absurd. Just 
imagine that you buy a company with 100 subsid-
iaries for €100 million, or whatever, then nobody 
would sit down afterwards and split the price of
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 48 


100 million up between the 100 companies. That 
is a completely absurd idea - - but cleverly placed 
by Muddy Waters, totally naïve, because in the 
end it is relatively rare that you can buy a com-
pany that only consists of a single company. It is 
always made up of subsidiaries and in the end 
they post a profit and don't try to allocate it some-
how. 


The profit of Ströer Interactive back then was 
about €5 million, I think. So under the bottom line 
we paid an EBITDA multiple of 8.2. If you take a 
look at the latest analyst reports that try to evalu-
ate digital business models, they are at multiples 
of over 15. Back then we acquired Ströer Interac-
tive for well under ten times  
the EBITDA multiple, which was also an attractive 
deal for Ströer in every respect. 


But if we had said, look, Dirk Ströer, I don't care, 
I'm buying freeXmedia now, then Mr. Ströer 
wouldn't have sold Ströer Interactive, obviously. 
But it is completely irrelevant anyway. The basic 
purchase price – as I already said – was €2 mil-
lion in cash, the cash portion was 2 million, and 
Media Ventures passed the basic purchase price 
on for eight times 200,000, or €1.6 million. So no-
body earned a single euro from anyone in the first 
phase of the transaction from the whole deal. 


To be honest, it also kept 100,000 people busy. 
Nobody thought of the absurd idea of asking why 
Ströer didn't buy freeXmedia itself before our 
friend from San Francisco. But, like I said, it is ab-
solutely naïve.  


Someone also said to me, but the supervisory 
board of Ströer AG decided to purchase it. So 
how could Media Ventures purchase it then? – 
Well, because the supervisory board of Ströer AG 
isn't responsible for Media Ventures, but for 
Ströer.  


Well, I can assure you that the way this transac-
tion was conducted was so crystal clear and clean 
and transparent. If you take another look, we re-
ported on it in detail in Q1 2013. We interpreted 
the opinion back then, and everyone could view it. 
There isn't a deal that is more transparent. I be-
lieve there are very few related-party transactions 
that have resulted in such a resounding success 
for all of the shareholders under the bottom line. 
As I said, with the current stock price we have still 
increased by a factor of eight, plus the fact that 
we have also been in a position to pay a dividend 


for the past two years due to entering the digital 
business. 


Then another question from Mr. Tüngler about 
timing. I just answered that. Ströer Interactive and 
freeXmedia had been the subject of discussion 
for two or three years. When Freenet saw that the 
business made no sense and marginalized itself, 
the decision was then taken to sell, evidently. But 
you have to - - I am the wrong person to speak to 
about that. 


Mr. Tüngler: Have we initiated a civil action? – We 
haven't initiated any civil proceedings yet, in order 
to avoid pre-empting the BaFin investigation. Of 
course we will consider which legal steps we can 
take against Muddy Waters after the conclusion of 
the BaFin investigation in detail, including civil ac-
tions. As things stand, civil litigation does not ap-
pear to be sufficiently promising. 


Now the key question, Mr. Tüngler: Why haven't 
we brought charges? – After the Muddy Waters 
report was published, we immediately informed 
the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority, BaF-
in, of the report.  


BaFin is the authority that is responsible for moni-
toring compliance with the provisions of the Ger-
man Securities Trading Act. It is currently investi-
gating, among other things, whether the Muddy 
Waters report represented a criminal offense. A 
breach of the ban on market manipulation would 
be conceivable, in particular. If there was suffi-
cient suspicion of a crime having been committed, 
the public prosecutor's office would take legal ac-
tion automatically. 


We have employed Feigen Graf – a name you 
may be familiar with, criminal lawyers – to investi-
gate the issue with us. I still vividly remember the 
meeting. Then they say: Yes, maybe we can get 
an indictment, and that's that then.  


BaFin says that it's no problem whatsoever, they 
have revealed the conflict of interest, after all. – I 
can only say that words fail me. I really have no 
words to express how I feel. It is incredible. First-
ly, I fail to see where there is a conflict of interest 
here.  


I always have an example, which I'll refrain from 
quoting now. It is more or less as if you were a 
bank robber, and go into a bank and say: Hello! 
I'm a bank robber. – If you then go ahead and rob 
the bank, then you can say: No problem, I told 
you that I was a bank robber, after all.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 49 


(Amusement) 


I am really lost for words. 


The guys from Feigen Graf said that there is a 
special paragraph in Germany, that it is actually 
the overall impression that you leave in the end, 
irrespective of the individual points, that is the 
criminal offense. But they also said, don't get your 
hopes up, this won't end in a conviction, there's 
no hope of that. 


(Interruption by Mr. Klein) 


– I'm no lawyer. I just said something about it off 
the cuff, which will probably displease my back- 
office, as far as I can recall what happened from 
memory. That is what I can remember.  


I mean, the guys from Muddy Waters are clever, 
too. And if you read it through carefully, then you'll 
see that they seldom said that these are the facts. 
They say, yes, we suspect that was the case, it 
would be nice to have clarification, it may be, that 
this or that is the case, but it could also be quite 
different; we don't understand it all. If you strip 
that away and look at it like that, then this is what 
you are left with. – This isn't the first time that they 
have done this. 


(Klein: Just field the question back to the 
back-office!) 


– Which one? 


(Klein: The next question!)  


– Oh, yes. 


(Klein: They are getting loads of money, and 
we don't know who is behind it! – Interrup-
tion: Your wife is a lawyer, isn't she? She can 
…)  


– I don't know if that would really make much 
sense now. I'll do my best to answer your ques-
tions. But you can spare us the cynical and some-
times misogynous remarks, I think. OK? 


Sometimes I get the impression that I am 
the - - No, I'd better not say that. But I don't have 
to put up with everything. 


(Klein: The feeling is mutual!) 


– Absolutely. I can't remember attacking you or 
anyone else personally or asking questions about 
your wife or who knows what else! 


(Klein: The shareholders are the owners of 
the company, and you wanted us, after all! 
Then that's the end of the family business! 
You've opened up a can of worms here!) 


– Every day comes to an end, Mr. Klein. Without 
a doubt. We took the company public to attract 
new shareholders, and we are pleased about 
every single shareholder. – Pardon? 


(Klein: And today we are here!) 


We are pleased about every single shareholder 
who makes a critical contribution. 


(Klein: I can believe that!) 


– That may well be, but - - 


(Interruption – Klein: I doubt you could teach 
me anything I don't already know! Oh, stop it 
now! Yes, let's all stop!) 


Vilanek, Chairman: Sorry, everyone, but could 
we please - - 


(Interruption by Mr. Klein) 


– Mr. Klein, please! – Could we please carry on 
with answering the questions? 


Schmalzl: Mr. Klein, you had another supplemen-
tary question about the supervisory board, how 
precisely that developed, didn't you?  


Perhaps I can explain the exact timing once 
again: In October 2015, Mr. Vilanek, Mr. Ströer 
and Mr. Voigt were members of the supervisory 
board. The T-Online transaction was closed on 
November 2, 2015. So Mr. Ströer stepped down 
from his post in order to enable Mr. Vento from 
Deutsche Telekom, as Mr. Müller explained to us 
earlier on, to take his place on the supervisory 
board. 


(Klein: When did he step down?) 


– On November 2, 2015.  


(Interruption by Mr. Klein) 


– That's right. On the exact day that the T-Online 
transaction was closed.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 50 


The judicial appointment – you seem to be very 
interested in the details – of Mr. Vento then fol-
lowed on November 12, 2015. 


(Klein: Could you please tell us, when the 
application for the judicial appointment was 
filed?) 


– I would have to ask my colleagues from the 
back-office to answer that question.  


Perhaps I can just add a quick question posed by 
Mrs. Schütz, who is sitting next to you. She asked 
who actually does the work in the back-office for 
us:  


In the back-office, there are representatives of the 
various specialist departments of our company. 
They have justifiably all been praised already to-
day, because they do an outstanding job and do 
their very best back there to give proper answers 
to all of the questions step by step. They receive 
external advice, at the moment on site by the law 
firm Freshfields and by the auditing company 
Ernst & Young. 


To return to your further questions - - 


(Klein: Names were also asked for!) 


– Dr. Kai Hasselbach. 


(Klein: So that's one!) 


– He leads the team. 


(Klein: Who does the team consist of? (Agi-
tation) 


– Of various lawyers. 


(Klein: Who are they? Please name them all 
- -) 


We will give you an answer in a moment: Dr. 
Hasselbach, Dr. Felix Ebbinghaus and Mr. André 
Klüsener. 


(Klein: So three lawyers, all of them from 
Freshfields!) 


– That is correct. 


Vilanek, Chairman: I suggest that we do that 
during the queries, but that we make swift pro-
gress. 


For your information, Mr. Klein, we have deposi-
ted the rules of procedure of the board of  
management and of the supervisory board for you 
to view at the desk in the meeting room. 


(Klein: Mr. Vilanek, let's spare ourselves the 
wait while I request an adjournment of the 
general meeting while I read them. May I ask 
you to simply make me a copy and give it to 
me? Then the general meeting can continue 
without any interruptions. – Interruption: You 
aren't entitled to ask for that! – Klein: Oh, 
come on! You haven't got a clue! – More in-
terruptions) 


Vilanek (Chairman): We'll continue with the an-
swers to the questions. Please let other people 
speak. 


(Acclamation and unrest) 


Schmalzl: May I finish? May I finish answering 
the question that I started to answer? 


Mr. Vento was appointed by the court to the su-
pervisory board on November 12, 2015. March 1 
was the date the company was converted to a 
partnership limited by shares (KGaA) and the su-
pervisory board was expanded to six members at 
the same time. In other words, Messrs. Vilanek, 
Voigt and Bosch were joined by Mr. Ströer, who 
has since left, and Ms. Bronder and Ms. Flem-
merer. 


(Klein: If you can't or won't state the date of 
the application for appointment by the court 
…) 


Vilanek (Chairman): This will be submitted later. 
We have noted it.  


(Klein: Then let's make it part of the notarial 
record!) 


– We have noted it, Mr. Klein. We'll enter it later 
when the application has been sent. 


(Klein: Okay!) 


Schmalzl: A question from Mr. ten Doornkaat: 
who are the beneficiaries of contractual relation-
ships that fall into related-party transactions? To 
what extent can the supervisory board act as a 
body when it comes to deciding who may vote 
and who may not?
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 51 


The beneficiaries of contractual relationships are 
simultaneously the respective parties to the 
agreement. According to the rules of procedure 
for the supervisory board, its members are 
obliged to disclose possible conflicts of interest 
with the supervisory board so that these are 
transparent for all members. The members of the 
supervisory board then abstain from voting in 
each vote. There is no general voting ban and 
this is not provided for in law. 


The company's supervisory board naturally has 
the power to act at any time as transactions with 
related parties are not on the agenda at Ströer ei-
ther. 


Question from Mr. Tüngler: You or we have made 
a lot of acquisitions. What's not going so well 
here?  


In 2015, we took over various online firms which 
are now being consolidated into our digital seg-
ment. These takeovers were intended primarily to 
extend our content offer and diversify revenue in 
our new transaction segment. This is what we call 
the business which concentrates mainly on sub-
scription-based business models, apart from e-
commerce and search. 


Many of these businesses are developing very, 
very well; however, others are not doing as well 
as expected. We have implemented internal con-
trol mechanisms to detect unfavorable business 
developments in time and to counteract these 
early on.  


Ultimately, they all always manage the portfolio 
which overall benefits from strengths and which 
generally develops very positively in the segment, 
as our quarterly figures show. 


Mr. Buhlmann asked about the Deutsche Tele-
kom ticket office which T-Online sold us. The 
question is what the issues behind it are, espe-
cially because supervisory board members are 
provided by Deutsche Telekom. One comment 
was whether the whole thing might be a training 
program. 


On the strategic considerations of the Deutsche 
Telekom as part of the sale of T-Online, we can-
not and, to be honest, do not wish to comment. At 
Ströer, the asset is a central component of our 
digital growth strategy. And we can not only im-
prove marketing profitability via this very wide-
ranging general-interest portal, we can also open 
up additional, new revenue streams, such as e-


commerce, to name one concrete example. Par-
ticularly in combination with other assets of the 
Stöer Group, new growth opportunities develop 
for the portal or for other holdings of ours which 
probably would not have resulted in a telecom 
environment. 


Another question from Mr. Buhlmann was about 
Shazan, an app which identifies music, specifi-
cally via mobile telephones. Where is the busi-
ness model in a construct like this? Shazan is not 
a Ströer product, it is an American company. It 
pursues its own business model. All we're doing 
is marketing the app. That means, if you've in-
stalled it on a mobile telephone or other mobile 
device to try and recognize music, you're opening 
the whole thing. Then advertising space appears 
which we market. This is ultimately the issue that 
we're interested in: marketing advertising space in 
the context of this app. 


Vilanek (Chairman): Just briefly, Christian: A 
quick search: the application for appointment by 
the court was submitted to the court on the date 
of the closing, namely November 2, 2015. 


(Mr. Klein: Mr. Vilanek, am I being imperti-
nent if I ask you the date of this letter? It was 
submitted on November 2; what is the date 
in the latter?) 


According to our information, the date is Novem-
ber 2 because that was the date of the closing. 
After the closing, the entire operation gets going 
because you can't do anything before the closing. 


(Klein: So it's all November 2?) 


– That's what it says here. 


(Klein: May I see that?) 


– It's a handwritten note.  


(Interjection: Anyone can say that!). 


I don't have the letter with me. 


(Klein: Then would you please be so kind as 
to make the letter applying for appointment 
by the court available for inspection here!) 


Please, Christian. 


Schmalzl: A question from Mr. Buhlmann on the 
RegioHelden: the result wasn't too great – down
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 52 


3.3 million. What was the logic behind or the side-
effects of the purchase?  


RegioHelden is a company which cannot simply 
be seen in isolation. Historically, we have been 
operating a very broadly-based, local sales orga-
nization and are pursuing a very clear growth 
strategy. We see one of our main growth initia-
tives in the local market and in small, local busi-
nesses in particular, which also need advertising. 
We will continue to invest in overheads and es-
tablish our local sales structure. RegioHelden is a 
fundamental strategic asset for the necessary 
product range, which we also need as a building 
block here. 


Another question from Mr. Buhlmann was in the 
context of internationalizing the digital business: 
whether we not only want to get rid of the mental 
barriers, but also make our businesses more in-
ternational.  


Our core market in outside advertising and in digi-
tal business is Germany. I think that's pretty clear 
from the figures here. Of course, we can't rule out 
the possibility that we'll continue to roll out suc-
cessful digital business from Germany onto the in-
ternational market. This is certainly an additional, 
possible option. 


Another question from Mr. Buhlmann was: Will lo-
cal sales be broken down further? I think he was 
talking about Cologne-Ehrenfeld.  


We're convinced that the local advertising market 
has enormous potential. While local advertisers 
used to spend money on marketing activities such 
as the (German) Yellow Pages, advertising pa-
pers or even daily newspapers, the combination 
of outside advertising and digital online marketing 
opportunities offer us entirely new options. The 
business is certainly specialized but also offers at-
tractive margins and, in particular, is considerably 
more dependent on the economic situation than 
the German business with major international ad-
vertisers. 


Mr. Tüngler asked about SAP which also might 
want to eliminate brokers and what role we're ul-
timately playing here. We might have to throw a 
bit more light on the overall context. SAP is trying 
to get into the ad-technology market, i.e. advertis-
ing technology, on the basis of a new SAP pro-
duct. The aim, particularly from the perspective of 
advertisers, is to make the media-buying and the 


advertising space process more efficient and ef-
fective. 


As far as the entire structural change in media 
purchasing is concerned, i.e. away from tra-
ditional direct bookings to such programmatic so-
lutions, our group of companies is already out-
standingly well-positioned. We've talked a lot 
about Adscale. This is a company which has spe-
cialized specifically in this and which has brought 
a lot of know-how into the Group. Right now, 
we're also marketing digital outside advertising 
via programmatic channels such as this. So these 
things help shorten the value chains so that there 
can be even better and more direct cooperation 
between advertisers and marketers such as us. 
So we also see enormous potential there and see 
the whole thing more as an opportunity. 


Mr. Buhlmann talked about Ströer in the context 
of Axel Springer and asked whether it was the 
same thing or whether we should sell to Springer 
or whether both firms were comparable in their 
respective business models, even if they are a lit-
tle more different in size.  


While Axel Springer is focusing on digitalizing its 
declining core business of printing, we are com-
bining our growing core outside advertising busi-
ness with innovative digital offers. In other words, 
while things on the digital front are becoming 
more alike, we come from two entirely different 
perspectives. 


Mr. Klein also asked: Were transactions with in-
siders usual before the IPO in 2010? – There 
were legal relationships with the members of the 
Ströer family even before the IPO. However, the 
company's supervisory board investigated them 
before the IPO. These legal transactions were al-
so listed in each dependent company report, 
which was audited by the company's annual audi-
tor. There were no objections. 


The company's accounts also complied at all 
times, i.e. including before the IPO, with legal re-
quirements. The auditor also found them to be in 
order. 


In an application for interpretation, Ms. Schütz 
asked if she could take individual sets of accounts 
of AG, SE and KG. – We have printed out these 
individual accounts and they should now be 
available. 


(Interjection from Ms. Schütz)
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 53 


Christoph, do you know where it is? 


Vilanek (Chairman): It should be on the table 
here in front. 


(Klein: Or at company headquarters?) 


– No, we've already checked that. Otherwise, 
we'll put it there now. The letter on the court ap-
pointment is also there for inspection, by the way.  


(Klein: Thank you!) 


Schmalzl: Ms. Schütz, you also asked about the 
biggest competitors in the various areas of busi-
ness we operate in.  


We're No. 1 In outside advertising by far, with 
over 50% market share. Our next-largest competi-
tor is JCDecaux, an internationally active firm 
based in France, with about 25% market share. 
Then there are a few other smaller ones… 


(Klein: What do you want from me now?) 


However, the digital market is still relatively frag-
mented. Our competitors include marketing com-
panies such as Axel Springer and ProSieben. 


(Klein: Mr. Notary, I can't inspect the docu-
mentation properly. Please record this in 
your notarial minutes!) 


However, measured by range, we're the No. 1 in 
display advertising in Germany, so we're also in a 
relatively strong position in the online market. 


(Klein: Mr. Notary, I can't inspect the bylaws 
of the board of management or the supervi-
sory board properly. The company's lawyer 
sitting on the podium won't let me. – Make 
sure the meeting doesn't break down! 


Another question from Mr. Klein: Is it correct that 
on November 20, 2015, both the Sambara Foun-
dation and Media Ventures, apparently intention-
ally, sold all the shares they held in our company? 
– The question has to do with procedures the 
company was not involved in and which cannot 
therefore be answered. 


Further question: What coincidences - - 


(Klein: Please be so kind and pass this ques-
tion and your answer on to the notary. I criti-
cize this answer as improper and not fully 
answered). 


Shall I read it out once again just to be sure – or 
just pass it on? 


(Klein: No need!) 


Vilanek (Chairman): We'll record that in the 
minutes.  


Schmalzl: Another question from you: What coin-
cidences caused the Sambara Foundation to sell 
its shares to the company right on the same day 
that Media Ventures ceased to be a partner? – 
Please understand that we cannot answer this 
question either as the company was not involved 
in the whole issue. 


(Klein: No problem! Please have the notary 
record this matter in the minutes as insuffi-
ciently replied to!) 


Another question from Mr. Klein was: Mr. Ströer, 
to whom were the Sambara Foundation's shares 
transferred on November 20, 2015? – This ques-
tion also concerns a procedure in which our com-
pany was not involved, so I can't answer it be-
cause we don't have the information. 


(Klein: Please pass this question and answer 
on to the notary!) 


Another question from Mr. Klein: Were any taxes 
connected with the acquisition and sale of shares 
– possibly all – by the Sambara Foundation in-
curred? If so, where were they paid for? After all, 
our company can't afford getting involved in a tax 
scandal. – We can't respond to this matter either 
as the company was not involved in this process. 


(Klein: Please have the notary record this for 
the minutes!) 


Mr. Ströer, does the Sambara Foundation serve 
your assets administration? Is it used to save  
taxes? – As already explained, we do not regard 
this question as being a matter for the company, 
so we cannot answer it. 


(Klein: Please have the notary record this for 
the minutes!) 


Mr. Ströer, are you or any persons associated 
with you commercial beneficiaries of the Sambara 
Foundation? – In this case, too, this is not a mat-
ter for this company, so we cannot comment. 


Mr. Ströer, how do you justify the sale of freeX-
media to our company? How could you agree to
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 54 


this sale on behalf of our company? – Mr. Ströer 
did not agree to the acquisition of freeXmedia by 
this company. As explained previously, he ab-
stained from voting in the supervisory board 
meeting concerned. 


Mr. Ströer, is it correct that you claim not to have 
dominated or controlled the Sambara Foundation 
at any time? – This, too, is a matter that does not 
concern this company and is thus not a matter for 
today's general meeting. 


Am I correct in thinking that it is contrary to the 
nature of a foundation – even in Liechtenstein – if 
control disappears due to domination? – Not a 
question for this general meeting and cannot be 
answered by the company. 


(Klein: With reference to Sambara I can only 
say that, if you do not give us any answers 
here at this general meeting, would you pre-
fer to answer them from the Inland Revenue 
Tax Investigation people or from the state 
prosecutor?) 


– We're happy to note your remarks. 


Vilanek (Chairman): Mr. Klein, we'll record the 
questions relating to the Sambara Foundation 
and hence to the private business affairs of  
Mr. Ströer in the minutes as you wish. But I don't 
think we need to go into any detail here, whatever 
happens or not.  


(Klein: If Mr. Ströer prefers!) 


Schmalzl: I'll give the entire list of questions to 
Dr. Piehler. 


(Klein: The matter is indeed relevant to the 
general meeting, Mr. Vilanek! It's about dis-
charging Mr. Ströer! It's about discharging 
him – a matter for the general meeting!) 


Vilanek (Chairman): I wasn't criticizing the fact 
that you … You asked questions about agenda 
items. We have not interrupted you so far. But we 
note at this point that the questions cannot be an-
swered directly by the company. 


(Klein: Okay!) 


Müller: Mr. Klein, your question: what part did  
Mr. Müller play in our IPO? Did Udo Müller influ-
ence the auditor concerning the "creative ac-
counting" and other issues in the report that Mud-


dy Waters made into problems? I dare to question 
that. –Answer: No. 


A question from Mr. Kiel: If the package deal was 
really assisted by external consultants and this in-
cluded fees (…), were damage claims against 
these consultants examined? – An examination of 
damage claims against consultants is unneces-
sary because there was no damage and hence 
no basis for any claim. 


Mr. Kiel asked: The acquisition of the 51% share 
in Conexus: what are they doing exactly? – I have 
already explained briefly that Conexus has a pio-
neering technological infrastructure and is capa-
ble of mapping complete value chains and large 
quantities of data and analyzing them at high 
speed. This is of great interest to us, particularly 
from a technological point of view. The purchase 
price is based on a valuation of eight times the 
expected 2016 EBITDA. 


(Klein: Mr. Notary, I wanted to inspect our 
company's articles of association. Inspection 
is not possible because the relevant articles 
are not available to shareholders at the table 
in front. I criticize this process of a lack of in-
spection of the company's important docu-
ments on the day of the general meeting. – 
Interjection: The same: no individual ac-
counts have been submitted! Shareholders 
should have the right to see these as well! – 
Klein: Thank you very much!) 


Question from Mr. Starke-Wuschko: Last year's 
EBIT was 9% and in the first quarter of this year it 
was 11% - -  


(Klein: This cannot continue! Mr. Vilanek, I'm 
sorry, but I was told that I am permitted to in-
spect the letter on the court appointment. 
Now I can't even do that. This must stop. I 
hope you have good D&O insurance. If you 
advise the company to treat the shareholders 
like this on the day of the general meeting, 
then I can tell you that we will have to con-
sider suing you for inadequate performance.) 


Vilanek (Chairman): Mr. Klein, the documents 
are available. The lawyer will be pleased to assist 
you to inspect the correct documents. All docu-
ments are available. 


(Klein: I'm not going to let myself be sent 
here and there like a clown! I wanted to see 
the documents. This won't do! Even if the
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 55 


lawyer does help me, I don't need his assis-
tance! 


– I would prefer it if he helped you to look at 
the right documentation. 


(Klein: I don't need him!) 


We'll continue with answering the questions. If 
you please! 


(Klein: I want to see the court-ordered ap-
pointment. Folks, we want to go home today. 
This court-ordered appointment – is it really 
that difficult to get a copy? The lawyer can't 
do it either. This is impossible! What do they 
actually earn? Rather: what sort of hourly 
rate do they charge? This is terrible!) 


Christian, please continue. 


Müller: Mr. Starke-Wuschko asked about the 
EBIT. – We are obliged to disclose our results to 
the capital market at an identical point in time. As 
soon as we have basic information on preliminary 
results, we will announce them in preliminary pub-
lications, if necessary. 


(Klein: Mr. Notary, due to the way this matter 
is progressing, I hereby object to all resolu-
tions made today with my voting card! Do 
you need it? This really cannot go on!) 


Mr. Starke-Wuschko: Why do we have so many 
adjusted figures! – As a listed company we show 
IFRS indicators in our annual report along with 
adjusted indicators. This is normal practice with 
all publicly-listed companies. The adjustments 
eliminate once-only effects, thereby showing our 
long-term result better. 


Again, Mr. Starke-Wuschko: anyone familiar with 
the film "Minority Report" will know how personal-
ized advertising works. What can we expect? – 
Minority Report has very little to do with the con-
cept of accurate targeting of advertising cam-
paigns. Basically, we use data only in anony-
mized form which assist us to analyze our cam-
paigns. In particular, we help advertisers optimize 
the measurable success of their individual cam-
paigns. 


Mr. Kucheda is interested in the acquisitions. 
Which acquisitions have required restructuring?  


In the digital business, we operate in an extraor-
dinarily dynamic environment that is always vul-


nerable to technological developments, to a large 
extent. Against this background, changes to the 
structures and cooperation models, especially in 
marketing, are not unusual and, given developing 
planned innovative synergies, they are also de-
sirable. So there is restructuring in technological-
ly-related areas of the various digital companies 
in particular. There was also some partial compa-
ny law-based and operational restructuring in the 
portfolio of the Ballroom Group, as was men-
tioned elsewhere.  


We did not find any investment "log-jams" in the 
acquisitions. Rather, we promote targeted in-
vestments in technologies and sales structures of 
the acquisitions to support growth in the compa-
nies. We regard most acquisitions as growth 
cores for our digital business models. Right now, 
we're focusing on growth in this area and – to 
date – less on the cash flow. But we are still  
earning significant free cash flows in the digital 
segment. Depending on the target and the stra-
tegic background of the acquisition, the return 
and amortization targets should be evaluated in-
dividually. 


Question from Mr. Kiel: On FreeXmedia, 
€60,000,000, etc. – together with the almost sim-
ultaneous acquisition of adscale, the three SIG 
companies we bought formed the central platform 
for entry into the online area. All shareholders of 
the Ströer Interactive Group were equally relevant 
for this step in order to form a substantial and 
market-relevant size in this area of business. As I 
already explained, most of the profit contributions 
actually came from Ströer Interactive & Business 
Advertising. So freeXmedia has about €200,000 
of the five million. The profits in both the opera-
tional business and from the expected synergies 
essentially met or exceeded our expectations. 


Question from Mr. Kiel: In April 2016 Udo Müller 
is said to have stated that no, the package deal is 
what is meant, … which is literally why the com-
pany's own asset was acquired from Media Ven-
tures. How and from whom did our company ac-
quire the stake in evidero?  


We acquired the stake in evidero from the mana-
ging partner. It was in the press. The fact is that a 
few months before – I believe 60% or so – we 
bought it for – I think – €200,000. The managing 
partner had amassed several other stakes, inclu-
ding 15% of Media Ventures. If you work it out, it 
was about €25,000.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 56 


In fact, in the teleconference with 500 people, I 
did not actually think of the question of whether 
we had bought anything, for several reasons. First 
of all, it did not even cross my desk because it 
was too minor. Secondly, the vendor was the 
managing partner. 


Mr. Tüngler: What have you learned from Muddy 
Waters? What's going to happen?  


From Muddy Waters we have learned that, in the 
short term, one can only effectively defend one-
self to a limited extent against false claims and in-
sinuations. Ultimately, we are firmly convinced 
that it is the most effective way to rebut Muddy 
Waters & Co. through continuous business suc-
cess and concrete action. We're working on that. 
At the same time, we also want to create trust 
through transparent and continual capital market 
communication and present our company in a 
balanced and proper manner.  


As a publicly-listed company with a large number 
of stocks owned by the family, we think long-term. 
So the board of management of Ströer SE & Co. 
KGaA will continue to concentrate heavily on the 
long-term success of its business operations and 
fulfilling the communicated guidance for the capi-
tal market. We maintain very close communica-
tion with the capital market and a very tight fi-
nance calendar, which always keeps the investors 
and analysts informed.  


In addition, the personal contact with our investor 
base is very important to us. We support this with 
above-average roadshow activities in Germany 
and abroad. We also organize a Capital Markets 
Day at least once a year, an Analysts' Day and at-
tend stockholders' forums and conferences in 
Germany and abroad. 


Dr. Metzner: A question from Ms. Schütz on the 
subject of ancillary benefits for Mr. Müller, which 
run to €263,000. – The ancillary benefits are ex-
penses reimbursed for costs incurred as part of 
his activities as a member of the board of  
management and benefits in kind. 


(Klein: Repeat the answer!) 


The answer is: The ancillary benefits are reim-
bursed expenses - - 


(Klein: The €263,000?) 


– Exactly. The ancillary benefits are €263,000. 
These ancillary benefits are expenses reimbursed 


for costs incurred as part of his activities as a 
member of the board of management and bene-
fits in kind, for example the car. 





(Ms. Schütz: On reimbursed expenses: I 
don't understand what that covers! Travel 
expenses? – Klein: It covers everything!) 


– The reimbursed expenses should cover every-
thing. Period. That's our answer. 


(Klein: Just break it down! That's half a mil-
lion Deutschmarks. The amount is substan-
tial!) 


– Right. – Question from you, Mr. Klein:  
Mr. Ströer, is it really correct that your nickname 
is "Chemist"? Or have I been incorrectly in-
formed? – Private nicknames are not a subject for 
this general meeting. 


(Klein: Then let him answer for himself!  
Mr. Ströer can say something on that him-
self!) 


Question from Mr. ten Doornkaat: The SE ac-
counts have been approved. What exactly are we 
voting on today?  


Our answer: the law provides that the annual fi-
nancial statements in a German partnership lim-
ited by shares are determined by the general  
meeting. As the company was already a partner-
ship limited by shares when the annual financial 
statements were approved in March, the annual 
financial statements will also be determined in this 
case by the general meeting although the  
financial statements are those for the former SE. 


A further question from Mr. ten Doornkaat: How 
do we deal with the press – in this case with re-
gard to the general meeting?  


Our answer: We maintain very close and regular 
relations with the press. However, a general 
meeting is held solely for the company's stock-
holders who have the opportunity to put questions 
to the company. We will inform the press promptly 
later on about how the general meeting went. 


Next question from Mr. Buhlmann: The minus re-
sult from Turkey is €3.3 million. Why is that? – 
The individual accounts include exchange rate 
losses and ongoing depreciation of silent re-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 57 


serves from purchase price allocations in our 
Turkish subsidiaries. 


Next question from Mr. Buhlmann: What about fi-
nancial controlling? There's no criterion or order 
of priority in the report on page 26. – Answer: The 
performance indicators described on pages 26 
and 27 such as revenue, operational EBITDA, 
free cash flow, ROCE and net debt describe the 
overall assets, financial and earnings situations. 
They describe our financial performance indica-
tors. So the description in order of priority is incor-
rect. 


Next question from Mr. Klein on the subject of ac-
counting: Which legal and auditing practices au-
dited transactions of this nature from company in-
siders or the company's creative accounting be-
fore the IPO?  


There were no transactions by company insiders 
and there was no creative accounting at Ströer, 
either before or after the IPO. Transactions with 
related persons are regularly described in the 
Group Appendix. The Group's consolidated finan-
cial statements are prepared according to IFRS 
and audited according to law. Without exception, 
the accounts received unqualified audit certifi-
cates from internationally well-known auditing 
firms. 


A question from Mr. Klein on the amount of liabi-
lity insurance of the appointed auditing firms. – 
Answer: According to Section 323, subsection 2, 
of the German Commercial Code, the statutory 
limited liability of the auditors is €4,000,000. 


Mr. Klein asked whether any liability claims had 
been examined against auditors, whether we had 
examined them and how much these might be, if 
applicable. – No, we have not examined any lia-
bility claims against auditors because, as already 
explained several times, we could not see any 
improper behavior of any parties involved in con-
nection with the allegations made by Muddy Wa-
ters. 


Ms. Schütz asked: Could you please tell us some-
thing about the amount of the individual loans, 
loan terms and interest rates to be paid, that 
we're supposed to say something about that. 


Answer: Concerning the individual due dates of 
our financial obligations, we refer to page 157 of 
our annual report. This mentions the determinants 
in detail. The interest due can be seen in the capi-
tal flow statement on page 84. The interest rates 


are described on page 148. Depending on the 
debt-equity ratio, they lie – and this is crucial –
between 95 and 225 basis points plus the respec-
tive Euribor. 


(Ms. Schütz: I'd like exact details for each 
year! It's a simple question!) 


– We can only give the margin because it is dif-
ferent, depending on what the leverage is. The 
question cannot be answered in binary form. It's a 
very – let's say – flexible instrument. Depending 
on the debt-equity ratio – and it can change from 
one quarter to the next – the interest rate for this 
quarter will change as well.  


(Ms. Schütz: I'd like the interest rate in  
figures!) 


That's why I tried to describe the scale to you. I'm 
only trying to elaborate on the issue constructive-
ly. That's why the scale is between 95 and 200 
basis points. That's how I've tried to describe it. 
So it's practically between the two. 


(Klein interjected) 


– What am I supposed to - -? 


(Klein: Give the answer back! Those ones at 
the back, they earn – no, they don't earn, 
they're demanding a pile of money! Be pre-
cise!) 


– It can't be any more precise than that. 


(Klein: If you think it can't be any more pre-
cise, let's record the question in the notarial 
minutes!) 


That's correct. I'll record the next question from 
Ms. Schütz that total remuneration for the board 
of management of about €4,700,000 in 2014 rose 
to €6,800,000 in 2015. Is that by €2,000,000 for 
three members of the board of management? 


We refer to the detailed description on page 58 of 
our annual report. The increase is basically due to 
performance and is the result of the variable re-
muneration of stock prices, growth in sales and 
capital returns over several years. 


(Klein: Mr. Metzner, I do not accept this re-
ference because you have handed out the 
annual report to some stockholders and not 
to others! That's why I couldn't check the an-
nual report! So you can't refer us to the an-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 58 


nual report. So you don't have the right to re-
fer us to the figures and that's why it's about 
those figures in particular! It's that simple! If 
you mess things up yourself, you have to - -) 


What's more, fixed pay was increased. 


(Klein: Do you want to withdraw the question 
again? Or have it recorded in the notarial 
minutes? I do not accept your reference to 
the annual report because you omitted to 
pass this annual report to the stockholders - -
) 


Vilanek (Chairman): Mr. Klein, may I ask you for 
one thing? 


(Klein: Yes!)  


You have a series of questions: we accept that. 
But we're holding a meeting here, not a dialog. So 
could we please answer your questions after-
wards. I still believe Mr. Metzner has described 
the (remuneration) components. The annual re-
port was available to everyone in advance.  


For the sake of efficiency, please keep your ques-
tions for later. You said yourself that the back  
office personnel are paid by the hour, which I 
hereby cannot confirm. But in terms of time, it 
would make sense to ask the questions in a 
group. Could you please do so? 


(Klein: It's about the notarization!) 


– I understand that - - 


(Klein: I'd like it done, please. Nobody's go-
ing to remember at 7:00 pm!) 


– We've noted your comment. 


(Klein: The reference to the annual report is 
not permissible! Mr. Vilanek, you heard this 
morning that we wouldn't be given the annual 
report until 12:10 today although we remin-
ded you about it several times! That's the 
reason for the reference - -) 


– We've all noted that. I also note your remark 
and will have it recorded in the minutes. 


Dr. Metzner: Your next question - - 


(Klein: But the question has not yet been - -) 


Vilanek (Chairman): That's why we noted it. 


Dr. Metzner: Your next question, Mr. Klein, was 
whether there were any critical questions from our 
auditors with respect to Muddy Waters.  


On that issue, we can only say that our auditor 
gave our 2015 Group's consolidated financial 
statements an unqualified certificate. The accusa-
tions by Muddy Waters were refuted by Ströer the 
following day as they were obviously false with 
regard to the IFRS figures.  


With regard to the unjustifiably criticized organic 
growth calculations and the identification of ex-
ceptionals which, as so-called non-IFRS  
figures, were not part of a detailed final audit, we 
have, as announced, appointed Ernst & Young in 
concrete terms to carry out specific, additional in-
vestigations. That's so that Ströer will also have 
the necessary auditing safety with reference to 
the non-IFRS figures. 


(Klein: That's fine, Mr. Metzner! So I can as-
sume that you have this signed certificate 
with you in the original as well! – Interjec-
tions: My God! – Klein: That's how a general 
meeting has to be run – just like that!) 


Next question from Ms. Schütz: Who's been ap-
pointed to give legal advice today? Which law 
firms and which persons are you looking after to-
day? – We've already commented on that fully. 
The law firm of Freshfields – specifically 
Dr. Hasselbach – has been appointed to give le-
gal advice. 


Schmalzl: To the question from Mr. Starke-
Wuschko: Is there an employee stock-purchasing 
program in which – for example – employees can 
invest ten euros and Ströer adds to that amount? 
– We've already discussed this in-house but at 
the moment there is no employee stock options 
program. 


Mr. Starke-Wuschko asked about Statista's sales 
today. Which way might it go? – In 2015 Statista 
earned revenue in the low two-digit million range. 


(Unrest) 


Vilanek (Chairman): Mr. Klein, a bit quieter, 
please. 


Schmalzl: Overall, we expect above-average 
growth by Statista in the Ströer Group. It is defi-
nitely one of the growth drivers in our digital seg-
ment.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 59 


Mr. Starke-Wuschko asked about Statista again: I 
can only buy a one-year subscription for 1,000 
euros but can't get an answer to a one-off ques-
tion for 50 euros. Why is this? Or is there another 
model for getting the firm to develop in a different 
direction?  


The company's extremely well-positioned today. 
The results are not any higher simply because 
we've been investing massively in the company 
and in the roll-out into other markets.  


In its start-up phase, Statista actually used to 
permit one-off purchases. However, this was re-
flected in lower sales as they couldn't exploit the 
customers' maximum willingness to pay. So for 
this reason, only subscriptions are being sold at 
the moment and it was only possible to purchase 
individual statistics on certain subjects on the 
form of complete dossiers. In other words, we've 
already examined the issue strategically in the 
past and are ideally positioned with the current 
subscription model. 


Another question from Mr. Starke-Wuschko: How 
big is the share of the Group's revenue that we're 
currently making advertising for alcohol? It's 
banned in Turkey.  


The share of revenue that we're currently making 
from advertising for alcohol in the Group overall 
will be about one percent in 2016. We're naturally 
compensating for (lack of) alcohol advertising 
revenue by growing in other areas. So that's not 
an issue which is currently a structural growth 
driver. On the other hand, its relative significance 
has been decreasing – over the last five years at 
that. In 2015, the comparative figure that we've 
put together is that Group revenue from adver-
tising for alcohol has dropped by 10% in absolute 
terms. 


Mr. Kucheda asked: Can we say from which point 
in time synergy results between digital and con-
ventional technology will be available?  


That is an interesting sixty-four thousand dollar 
question, of course. But there will probably not be 
a last day or point in time from when the syner-
gies between digital and conventional technology 
will suddenly occur. What we're doing is continu-
ing to leverage more synergies in both areas, 
both on the cost and the revenue sides. We've 
successively unified administrative processes in 
both areas and are obtaining cost savings as a 
result. On the revenue side, we are marketing 


more and more combined packages for both local 
customers and major German advertisers in order 
to ultimately ease the allocation of their adver-
tising budgets. But this is definitely a gradual pro-
cess which will proceed step-by-step. 


You had another question about our target sales 
figure of €1 billion. Is it not appropriate in this 
case to start the corresponding precautionary 
measures, i.e. depreciation? What will this depre-
ciation be for the next three to five years? 


(Interjection: The company value!) 


– Exactly. Absolutely. All necessary depreciation 
and accruals were made last year as in all other 
business years. Our depreciation will continue to 
increase slightly over the next few years due to 
our growth strategy, in other words, in relation to 
our … 


A question from Mr. Starke-Wuschko on the busi-
ness in Turkey: Are there any chances of it be-
coming profitable over the next three years? If 
not, why are we holding on to it so firmly? 


In Turkey – as in Germany – we are a clear mar-
ket leader with our outside advertising with an 
over 50% market share. In 2015, we earned an 
operating EBITDA result of €14,000,000 with a 
cash flow of over €80,000,000 in sales in an ad-
mittedly relatively difficult market environment 
from a geopolitical perspective. In the first quarter 
of this year and in the rest of this first half-year, 
our revenue in Turkey is looking to exceed that of 
last year. So in a calming of the overall geopoliti-
cal situation in Turkey, we expect business to also 
continue to be profitable. However, over the long 
term, we do not see our strategic focus to be in 
Turkey so we're examining all options for our  
operations in Turkey and will proceed on that ba-
sis. However, measured by the challenges of the 
market environment over the last 18 months, we 
have made progress, including compared with 
other competitors. 


Mr. Starke-Wuschko had another question on the 
signs for this general meeting: why were they so 
badly made? 


The word "bad" is always relative. We used vari-
ous systems to make it as easy as possible for 
the stockholders to find their way. For one thing, 
we're using a special parking guidance system 
which was supplied to us by the Cologne Trade 
Fair organization, as with all other events here.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 60 


We have also fitted signs to the essential and 
main points and, finally, we posted a full descrip-
tion for getting to the general meeting on our 
website and enclosed one with the invitation to 
the general meeting. But we will be happy to take 
up your suggestion and see whether we can im-
prove it again next year. 


(Klein: The suggestion is justified!) 


Mr. Kiel asked about the report on the attack by 
Muddy Waters that was explained on April 22, 
2016 by representatives of the company via tele-
phone conference - - I think Ströer alone has 
spent two €2,000,000 on lawyers' and auditors' 
fees, etc. We explained all that previously. Per-
haps it's just one other aspect that wasn't covered 
before: We answered that one earlier. 


Mr. Kiel asked another question concerning Sta-
tista acquisitions: What were Statista's revenue, 
EBITDA and net earnings for 2014 and 2015? 
How high was the rate of increase in revenue, the 
EBITDA and net earnings so far this business 
year? What are the reasons for the acquisition? 


In 2014, Statista earned revenues in the mid-to-
high single-figure million euro range and in 2015 
in the low double-figure million euro range. The 
operational result was more or less balanced out 
in both years. 


Statista is a leading data and business intelli-
gence portal. I think this was explained earlier in 
one of the speeches somewhat. Today, the plat-
form already permits access to over a million sta-
tistics from over 18,000 sources and itself offers 
collected data, data from partners and data from 
publicly accessible sources but in a very simple, 
compressed and practical form. In our view, Sta-
tista is a classic "hidden champion" which has de-
veloped positively as a "first mover", as it is also 
called, with a very original, clever business model. 
One finds things like that very frequently in Ger-
many; it is a cunning idea in a certain niche which 
can be further developed.  


While we are currently focusing on networking the 
various digital platforms on the German market, 
we are looking for definable niches with scalable 
business models for the international market and 
which allow long-term and profitable double-figure 
growth potential.  


That was also an earlier question on the subject 
of going international. Whenever we talk a lot 
about advertising marketing, we're concentrating 


on our core markets because that's where the 
major local synergies are of key significance. But 
there will always be niches which we can go in-
ternational through various countries. In our view, 
Statista is one of those business models that falls 
into this international market framework. 


(Kiel: You referred to it briefly but didn't fully 
answer - -) 


Vilanek (Chairman): Excuse me, that's not  
working properly. Could you ask the question  
later?  


(Kiel: Okay – in the next round!) 


Dr. Metzner: Question from Ms. Schütz: What did 
the audit of our own work (accounts?) by Ernst & 
Young cost our company? – The special audit 
cost the company a five-figure amount. 


(Ms. Schütz: What was the exact amount?) 


– I think it was about €25,000 or €30,000 but I'm 
not exactly sure. But it was about that. 


Next question from Mr. Klein: Is it correct that in-
dividual problems raised by Muddy Waters in its 
report were also addressed by advisors of the 
company in the IPO, in particular by auditors, 
lawyers and PR consultants? If so, why is there 
nothing on that in this prospectus? 


The issues raised by Muddy Waters played no 
part in the IPO in 2010. 


Question from Mr. Klein: If an audit took place at 
all, what was the result? – Answer: All consoli-
dated financial statements of the Ströer Group 
were given an unqualified certificate. 


Next question from Mr. Klein: You have an-
nounced that you want to take legal action 
against Muddy Waters. Have you taken or pre-
pared any introductory steps? What is the current 
situation? Who is your legal advisor on this mat-
ter? 


Firstly, we have informed the BaFin (German Fi-
nancial Supervisory Authority) about the report 
from Muddy Waters; the BaFin is currently  
examining the process. We have also had the 
well-known Freshfields legal firm examine further 
options for legal action against Muddy Waters. At 
the moment, however, legal action against Muddy 
Waters does not appear to promise sufficient suc-
cess. We also do not want to anticipate the inves-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 61 


tigation by the BaFin. As soon as the BaFin has 
completed its investigation, we will again examine 
the possibility of legal action against Muddy Wa-
ters. 


Question from Mr. Klein, also on the Muddy  
Waters topics: It does seem relatively futile to 
take legal measures against the report. Or do you 
see that differently?  


As we have already explained in one of the pre-
vious answers, BaFin is checking the legal ramifi-
cations of the Muddy Waters report. In our esti-
mation, legal action against Muddy Waters is  
currently not sufficiently promising. Moreover, we 
don't want to anticipate BaFin's review. As soon 
as BaFin has concluded its examination, we will 
look further into potential legal steps against 
Muddy Waters. 


A question from Mr. Klein: In the end, might the 
accusations leveled actually be true?  


As already explained, scrutiny of the accusations 
leveled by Muddy Waters has shown that they are 
unfounded. Furthermore, the audit performed by 
Freshfields has shown that the corporate gover-
nance of our organization meets high standards 
with regard to systems as well as operational im-
plementation. 


A question from Mr. Klein: On 04/29, did you an-
nounce measures which are usually taken against 
shortsellers? Which specific measures have you 
implemented here? 


This question has already been answered. This, 
in particular, involved the issue of what to do with 
the share buyback program and that we should 
not drift along here. Our basic response to this is 
that we are focused on our business and seeing 
to it that our performance, as we showed in the 
first quarter, is impressive. Our share price also 
shows that this is the right course. 


The next question from Mr. Klein: Why did Dirk 
Ströer so abruptly quit the supervisory board, only 
to immediately be taken back on? – I think we 
have discussed this issue at length, including in 
chronological order. 


(Klein: Okay!) 


A question from Mr. Kiel: Why does the board of 
management act as if out of generosity it is not 
proceeding against Muddy Waters ? Or is what 
Muddy Waters says true? 


After publication of the Muddy Waters report, we 
immediately notified BaFin about it. BaFin is the 
authority which monitors compliance with the pro-
visions of the Securities Trade Act. It is currently 
looking into whether an offense was committed 
with the Muddy Waters report. Of particular con-
sideration is whether the prohibition against mar-
ket manipulation has been infringed. In the event 
of sufficient probable cause the public prosecu-
tor's office would automatically file suit. 


Müller: Mr. Kiel, freeXmedia again. Would our or-
ganization also have entered into such a deal with 
third parties who do not have a stake in the com-
pany? – The answer is clearly yes. We would 
have paid more for it than it was worth back then. 
It has turned out to be the right decision. 


Mr. Kiel: Which services does our company pro-
vide for Media Ventures or other persons asso-
ciated with Dirk Ströer and Udo Müller, etc. – 
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA does not provide any ser-
vices to legitimate third parties without receiving 
appropriate market remuneration, and this also 
applies to Media Ventures and Freenet AG. All 
business relations have been comprehensively 
documented in the annual report. 


Mr. Kiel: freeXmedia sales fell drastically shortly 
after its acquisition. – I have already addressed 
this once. It was known that the company had lost 
three major clients and that profit dropped from, I 
think, 1 million euros to 200,000 euros. 


Mr. Kucheda: We do not know all of the results of 
consolidated or unconsolidated shareholdings, 
nor all of the losses carried forward. How are they 
reduced and fiscally processed? – The results of 
the participating interests can be gleaned from 
the list of shareholdings in the annual financial 
statements. Loss carry-over is illustrated on page 
130 of the annual report, including the expiry 
year. 


Mr. Kucheda: The same applies to the acquisition 
of T-Online. When does financial success begin 
here? Is there an approximate amount? The 
same applies to the most recent acquisition.  


As of the first consolidation, the acquisition of T-
Online led to materially positive contributions to 
earnings. We are counting here on positive opera-
tional EBITDA contribution of over 35 million eu-
ros. Independent of this, the acquisition of the 
company has been positively received in every
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 62 


aspect by investors and the market. Not to men-
tion having positive effects on the stock price. 


Mr. Kiel: According to my information, Ströer 
founded the Pacemaker Targeting company in 
2013. What is Pacemaker? Has Ströer absorbed 
costs here, for instance, using adscale or other 
companies? How high are sales, EBITDA, etc.? 


We have bundled non-agency direct customer 
sales of online marketing into the company 
Pacemaker Targeting GmbH. Costs have not 
been absorbed here, at least only within the con-
text of group services such as accounting costs. 
At no time has Media Ventures invested in Pace-
maker. It was newly founded by the Ströer Digital 
Group. 


Mr. Kiel regarding freeXmedia: Which business 
opportunities did Ströer see when they acquired 
freeXmedia, anyway? How did it come to the flip-
flopping, etc.?  


We have already largely answered this question, 
not largely, but multiple times. I had already ex-
plained that we saw no business opportunities in 
simply acquiring freeXmedia. That is why we  
never considered it. Nor was there any flip-
flopping on decisions. Media Venture did not act 
as an intermediary, but was already in a lengthy 
lawsuit. FreeXmedia - - I have already talked 
about all of this. 


Mr. Kiel again: The chairman of the supervisory 
board, in his function as member of the board of 
management of Freenet AG, has received 2  
million euros for freeXmedia. How much was paid 
in cash, and how much in stocks or services?  


Our chairman of the supervisory board has not 
received any earnings from the sale of freeXme-
dia, neither in this function nor as member of the 
board of management of Freenet AG. To our 
knowledge, sales revenue flowed to the seller of 
Freenet AG or to one of the Group companies. I 
had already explained that 2 million in cash was 
paid, gross 2 million. Of course no media shares 
were used, because there was no sale of any-
thing from Freenet to Ströer AG. 


Mr. Tüngler: Muddy Waters, ask yourself why this 
happens to us and not to a Brenntag? What have 
you learned from it?  


I have already answered that. We have learned 
that, on short notice, only limited defense is  
possible against false claims and allegations. I 


have already read that out for another question. I 
think it has been duplicated here. 


Dr. Metzner: Then I will be glad to continue. I 
would answer Mr. Weimann's whole series of 
questions entirely and uniformly. 


Vilanek, Chairman: The agreement,  
Mr. Weimann, was to limit ourselves to the num-
bering? Is that in your interest?  


(Dr. Weimann: If the others agree! But 
please read out the figures at a speed at 
which we can write. – Klein: Mr. Vilanek, if 
you would take the numbers and - -) 


– A keyword for it. 


(Klein: At least a couple of keywords!) 


For the sake of efficiency. But Mr. Weimann was 
basically in agreement. Thank you for your under-
standing. 


Dr. Metzner: The first topics involved share 
transactions and the question with  
Mr. Rumpelhardt, 1.1. In that context the question 
was why Mr. Rumpelhardt was a participant in 
this stock purchase. The legal aspects were 1.2. 


Your questions on 1.1 and 1.2 involve the per-
sonal field of Mr. Müller and are thus not a subject 
of today's general meeting. 


1.3. Does Ströer or the management still maintain 
business relations with Mr. Rumpelhardt? – I am 
not aware of any business relations between  
Mr. Rumpelhardt and Mr. Ströer, or us as the 
Ströer company and the management. 


Question 1.4 concerned the Sambara Founda-
tion. – Your question involves processes in which 
the company is, and was, not participa-ting. I thus 
ask you to understand why we cannot answer 
your question. 


Question 1.5. 


(Klein: Could you please repeat the latter 
again?) 


Vilanek, Chairman: We have the same facts 
here. We have previously told the foundation that 
the company is not directly affected. This has al-
ready been taken into account in the notarial rec-
ord. Insofar, I think - -
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 63 


(Ms. Schütz: But Mr. Ströer is member of the 
supervisory board and could say something 
about this!) 


– But now, we will first answer questions on the 
agenda and regarding content related directly to 
business. So let us continue, we can clarify this 
again later. 


Dr. Metzner: 1.5 was the question on why Dirk 
Ströer temporarily left the supervisory board. We 
have answered this question in depth. He left the 
supervisory board for a few months due to the 
acquisition of T-Online. That was the reason. 


Was Mr. Ströer or companies he is associated 
with during the period in which he was not part of 
the Ströer board of management, 1.6, involved in 
any business holding securities or shares of 
Ströer as object?: No, that was not the case. 


On the second topic of transactions with related 
parties 2.1, whether Mr. Müller agrees that it was 
wrong of him and Mr. Ströer to reap such a large 
profit from the company. 


On 2.1: Mr. Ströer had - - No, just a moment. With 
the exception of - - 2.2 was the question on how 
much Media Ventures paid for the other two com-
panies. 2.3 also affected Media Ventures. 2.4 is 
also the question of Media Ventures, how much 
was paid for freeXmedia. 2.5, was the question on 
whether business had been reviewed by inde-
pendent consultants and whether we had dis-
closed the reports.  


With the exception of 2.5, your questions apply to 
the acquisition of freeXmedia by Media Ventures 
and thereby a process in which our company did 
not participate. I therefore ask you to understand 
why we cannot answer these questions. 


Regarding your question 2.5: The freeXmedia 
transaction was reviewed in great detail at that 
time both internally and externally. We have 
commissioned appraisal reports et al and sought 
legal advice for the acquisition of freeXmedia.  
Neither the external consultants nor the supervi-
sory board or shareholders objected to the trans-
action. We thus have no reason to assume there 
was anything unlawful about the transaction. 


A summary of the report compiled by KPMG on 
the transaction, which was also already presented 
at the general meeting 2013, can today also be 
perused at the request-to-speak desk. Please un-


derstand that, due to confidentiality agreements, 
we cannot disclose details of the entire report.  


2.6, concerned the question, Media Ventures, 
10% of list price. – No, that's not necessary.  
Media Ventures pays market prices for normal 
campaigns. Furthermore, for years there has 
been a contractual relationship between us and 
Media Ventures which governs that Media Ven-
tures can occupy vacancies under better condi-
tions and which would otherwise no longer be 
marketable. This involves surfaces which can be 
booked no earlier than 10 days prior to notice, 
when a booking by another customer is all but 
impossible. Even in this business the price stands 
at 10% over the list price. 


2.7 was the question - - 


Müller: Of course this is not a regulation exclu-
sively applicable to Media Ventures. We do such 
transactions with many clients, provided we're 
sure that our fully paid transaction volume is not 
affected, such transactions so that we don't have 
to pay for any covering up. Previously, we spent 
millions to cover up expired billboards. At some 
point we started to acquire campaigns on gluing 
costs in order to save these costs. 


Dr. Metzner: Question 2.7: In which companies 
does Media Ventures invest? – We do not com-
ment on the investment strategy of Media Ven-
tures. 


Question 2.8, that companies which receive  
assets in kind of Media Ventures often pay a 
management fee. – We do not comment on the 
investment strategy of Media Ventures. 


Question 2.9. While ProSieben invests in compa-
nies, how does that compare to us? – We also in-
vest in many companies in the digital sector and 
which have significantly contributed to company 
value over the last three years. All of our share-
holders have benefited from these business de-
velopments. 


Complex 3, Ballroom International. 3.1 was the 
question on whether there were any cases of 
fraud in Turkey and a Project Zero. – Yes, there 
was an investigation into irregularities in the Ball-
room business in Turkey. They were not named 
Project Zero. Yes, there was a written report 
which we drafted. 


3.2. Sales, EBITDA and profits at the company. 
How much sales, EBITDA and profits in Turkey
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 64 


are based on fraud? – In the consolidated finan-
cial statement 2014 for the Ströer company, there 
are no sales, no EBITDA and no profits received 
from fraudulent activity. 


3.3. Were any cases of fraud reported? – The ir-
regularities had been corrected earlier and were 
not, as mentioned, included in the consolidated 
financial statement 2014. 


What responsibility does the company, the board 
of management and management bear for a  
failure to undertake corrections? – The irregulari-
ties were corrected. This question is thus super-
fluous.  


3.4. Has Ströer turned to the police or public 
prosecutor's office with the findings gained in Tur-
key? – Civil measures have been taken up. 


Question 61: Most business in Poland took place 
through Evolution Media. 


3.5. Bankruptcy of Evolution. It must be added 
that the management of Evolution, the company 
itself, declared bankruptcy. 


3.6. Why did it go bankrupt? – The answer: Es-
sentially, balanced accounts receivables turned 
out to be non-recoverable, leading to an overex-
tension of the company. 


3.7. How high were the sales and EBITDA of Evo-
lution Media? – Answer: Evolution Media sales to 
the digital segment and the whole Group is imma-
terial, sales and EBITDA contribution. In 2014, the 
year in which the company was completely con-
solidated into our Group figures, sales were in the 
low one-figure million range and operational 
EBITDA during this year was on the zero line. 


Question 3.8. In 2015, we carried out an impair-
ment test for the Ballroom Group. An impairment 
test is based on the expected rates of return for 
future fiscal years. This test has led to no devalu-
ation. It involves assessment of the cash-
generating unit and not the individual companies. 


3.9, concerns the question of having undertaken 
a valuation adjustment from 200,000 euros to 
24,637 euros and why that was. – The book value 
of Ströer Digital International GmbH, previously 
Ballroom International GmbH, did not increase 
from 200,000 euros to 24.6 million euros. Against 
this backdrop, this question is superfluous. 


3.10, concerning the question on annual sales,  
EBITDA and the profits of Reklam, the principal 
company of Ballroom in Turkey. In the years 2013 
and 2014, Reklam Z reached sales in the mid-
one-figure million range. EBITDA in 2013 was in 
the low one-figure million range. In 2014, it was 
almost balanced. After-tax results in 2013 were 
slightly positive, in 2014 slightly negative. 


In the years 2013 and 2014, Evolution reached 
sales in the low one-figure million range. EBITDA 
in 2013 was slightly positive and in 2014 slightly 
negative, after-tax profit in both years correspon-
dingly lower.  


3.11, concerns the question on Digital Partners. 
How high were sales in 2014? – We have con-
firmed that sales lie at the lower end of the esti-
mate of Muddy Waters. 


3.12. Operational EBITDA of the Digital Partners 
in 2014 was in the mid 100,000 euros. Net results 
were, by nature, slightly lower. 


(Klein: Can this question go on record as in-
sufficiently answered?) 


– Perhaps very briefly. I will repeat the question 
and will then answer it. 


How high were EBITDA and net results of Digital 
Partners in 2014? Operational EBITDA of Digital 
Partners in 2014 was in the mid 100,000 euros. 
Net results were, by nature, slightly lower. 


Question 3.13: Why did you sell Digital Partners? 
– The asset no longer fit into our Turkish online 
strategy. 


3.14. How much did you receive in cash? – On 
the sales price – this our answer – silence has 
been agreed. 


3.14. Is Digital Partners now a client of Steuer? – 
Yes, but sales volume is immaterial. 


Now on the topic of Infoscreen. 4.1. Margin, 
EBITDA margin, that it is unusually high. – Opera-
tional EBITDA margin in 2014 was at 20% and in 
2015 at 24.8% in that area. 


4.2. Why is the margin so high? – The increase in 
margin for 2015 has many reasons. The product 
mix developed quite well during the year. On the 
other hand, our foreign business is largely driven 
by high fixed costs. The marked increase in sales 
in the segment out-of-home Germany of 8.1% has
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 65 


thus contributed to a significant upswing in mar-
gin. We have furthermore implemented a cost-
cutting program at the company, the effects of 
which were brought to bear in 2014.  


Question, whether Infoscreen is actually cross-
subsidized with conventional billboards. – The 
answer is no. Infoscreen is a highly profitable 
business and has developed very well. Even if it 
has not been organized as such within the Group, 
the product and company can fund the appropri-
ate investments from their own cash flows. Rental 
costs of the channel are transmitted to Infoscreen 
as they occur. There are no subsidies. 


Question 4.4, concerned this question of Infos-
creen; clients, which should pay advertising with 
their out-of-home media budget. – It is true that 
we have advertising clients who book classic 
poster products as well as Infoscreen. But on the 
other hand, we also have clients who only book 
our digital outdoor advertising products such as 
Infoscreen or our public video offerings in  
shopping malls and train stations. These offerings 
thus also generate incremental sales which we 
would never have reached through our classic 
portfolio. 


Financial topics. This concerned the question of 
where the 6.25 million euros compensatory ser-
vices come from. 5.1. Where do these payments 
come from? – The payments come from organiza-
tions which have awarded us ongoing advertising 
rights. They represent indemnification for adver-
tising media sites no longer used in the future. 


Question 5.2: When did Ströer purchase these 
concessions and for how much? – Answer: No 
purchase of concessions took place which were 
activated in any way. The advertising rights were 
won in invitations to bid. 


Question 5.3: How were the costs entered into 
accounts? – As mentioned, the concessions were 
not bought. There have thus been no costs within 
the context of a possible acquisition, since the 
concessions were won within the framework of a 
public bidding process. Payments for damages 
are therefore involved, which were to have rightly 
been collected as income statement-related and 
thereby declared as other operating income and 
which were expressly explained in the annual re-
port. 


Question: What is Ströer's gross profit per em-
ployee? It has decreased from 100,000 euros to 
93,000 euros.  


Answer: Gross profit per employee is not a rele-
vant performance indicator for Ströer. Within the 
context of a growth strategy, it may well come to 
temporary setbacks. The performance indicators 
largely relevant to us are related to the financial 
indicators described in the annual report on       
pages 26 and 27. And they have all evolved posi-
tively without exception. 


Then there was a question with a view to the 
CEO's speech of whether you could receive them. 
We have already answered this question by re-
questing your understanding that we do not wish 
to grant access to the speech and presentation 
outside of the general meeting. You can obtain 
pertinent information on Ströer from the annual 
report and other Ströer publications which are 
freely accessible on the company website. 


You are requesting that we make Ernst & Young's 
report to  freeXmedia available to you.  


Answer: The transaction in which freeXmedia was 
also acquired was reviewed at the time by the re-
nowned auditing firm KPMG. Subject of the audit 
was the value ratio of the acquired companies to 
which freeXmedia belongs, as compared to Ströer 
AG and adscale GmbH. A summary of the report 
compiled by KPMG, which was also presented at 
the general meeting 2013, can also be perused at 
the request-to-speak desk today.  


Mr. Müller – as to your question –, please explain 
why Ströer had transactions costs in the amount 
of 2.5 million euros and the opposite party only 
40,000 euros.  


We have already elaborated on this topic. We 
make no statement on the expenditure of the op-
posite party. The amount of our own transaction 
costs illustrates the special care we have taken in 
our entrance to the online segment.  


This did not just involve an issue of related-party 
transaction, but at the time also entrance into 
what for us was a completely new field of busi-
ness. We have, for instance, also spent substan-
tial amounts on consultation services in the area 
of market due diligence and technology due dili-
gence – Platinion.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 66 


Moreover you cannot forget that we had to call an 
extraordinary general meeting due to necessary 
capital structure measures.  


There were furthermore reports from the re-
nowned auditing firm KPMG which determined 
the value ratio of the companies purchased as 
compared to Ströer AG and adscale GmbH. A 
summary of all assessment results was presented 
for examination at the general meeting on 
08/08/2013 to all shareholders. This summary can 
also be examined today at the request-to-speak 
desk. 


We do not publish exact costs of expert reports, 
reports, consulting services and other measures. 
– Those are my answers.  


Müller: A question from Mr. ten Doornkaat on 
which business relations currently exist between 
Media Ventures and Ströer, if they do indeed ex-
ist, and why.  


The business relation between Media Ventures 
and Ströer SE & Co. KGaA was based in 2015 on 
marketing free advertising space. The marketing 
of third-party advertising surfaces is common in 
outdoor advertising in order to carry out major 
campaigns despite bottlenecks. If you look back 
at the questions from our online entrance 2013, 
we take the following position on the question - - 
We have actually already answered it. – Do you 
agree? 


Why was freeXmedia not directly acquired by 
Ströer? – We have already answered that. 


Mr. ten Doornkaat again: Which supervisory 
boards have which qualifications? – We have had 
that as well. 


Mr. ten Doornkaat: Ernst & Young prepared the 
annual financial statement. Now they will audit it. 
Do you expect them to say that their audit was 
wrong? – I already said that, we did not request it. 
It was a misunderstanding. 


Mr. ten Doornkaat again: How will you ensure that 
you are not the target of future attacks again? – 
We learned from Muddy Waters that you can on-
ly  - -  in the short-term to a limited extent against 
false allegations - - We have also already an-
swered this. 


Mr. Michels: Today one would expect companies 
to take on 1% or 0% debt, like the ECB does.  


Our interest rate has a variable margin in an 
amount from 85 basis points to 215 basis points, 
including Euribor. It depends on the level of debt. 
Mr. Metzner has already laid this out. Unfortu-
nately we are not the ECB, but we're working on 
it.  





Again Mr. Michels: Goodwill is high. I think that 
two-thirds are intangible assets. Wouldn't it have 
been better to write them down?  


Answer: Goodwill in the Ströer company, under 
the provisions of the IFRS, are subject to an an-
nual impairment test. This eludes our quasi per-
sonal preferences for writing down or not writing 
down. These tests have resulted in no deprecia-
tion being admitted. 


High intangible assets are common in the media 
industry and can also be found in comparable 
media groups on the DAX and on the MDAX. 


Vilanek, Chairman: At the moment, as far as the 
documents have been presented to us, we have 
concluded the first round of questions. There are 
currently two requests to speak, first Mr. Jonas 
Kiel and then Mr. Weimann. Please! 


Kiel: Thank you. – I would like to follow up on a 
few topics.  


I would first like to take up two questions from  
Mr. Klein. I wonder that since we are also voting 
on ratification of the actions of the supervisory 
board and that the Sambara Foundation is also 
included in this issue through the actions of  
Mr. Ströer, if it is thereby an affair of the company. 
I would therefore request that the questions be 
answered if they concern potential lapses of the 
supervisory board.  


Then there is the question of the "Chemist" raised 
by Mr. Klein. I think what the question was getting 
at is whether the consumption of drugs influences 
work, and not whether or not this nickname  
actually exists. 


Müller: Could you repeat that, please? 


Kiel: The question on the "chemist" was an-
swered in that discussions of private nicknames 
were not part of the meeting. But I do believe it 
was getting at whether drug consumption might 
influence work. That is how I understood it. I don't 
want to pose the question again.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 67 


Vilanek, Chairman: I haven't understood it that 
way, either. We should stay on topic. 


Kiel: Okay, sorry. – On the matter of BaFin. You 
said that Ströer informed BaFin. BaFin is  
checking for market manipulation and the public 
prosecutor's office will then initiate proceedings.  


That, I think, is hiding and retreating behind BaFin 
and sounds more like impotence than strategy. 
For this reason my question: Are you assuming 
that BaFin will not inform you of the results of the 
examination, and how do you know that the re-
view has not already been concluded? 


I have the following questions on Pacemaker. I 
would like to know how high sales, EBITDA and 
net income of Pacemaker are. 


As to Statista, the question was not answered on 
the growth rate of sales, EBITDA and net income 
up to this moment in the fiscal year. It was only 
said that two-figure growth is expected. Has this 
two-figure growth been realized yet? 


It would interest me how much net cash value 
from future income was expected at freeXmedia.  


Then how much profit Udo Müller and Dirk Ströer 
actually made with this deal. I would ask you not 
to comment on this now, since the company has 
no knowledge of it. Because both are in their 
management bodies, and the supervisory board 
should long ago have investigated the whole  
story. 


Also: Is it under consideration to demand com-
pensation from the supervisory board for this 
transaction? 


It was said that it is a crackpot question why 
freeXmedia was bought in a package deal to-
gether with other Media Ventures companies. But 
it would interest me how freeXmedia was valuat-
ed within this package. You can't tell us that you 
did not look into it. In my opinion it is part of the 
duties of top management to valuate individual 
companies, including in a package deal, since the  
package consisted of the three companies. 


I think you are beating around the bush. Tell us in 
plain language which part of the purchase price 
corresponds exactly to which company. Because 
if you don't answer this, it will be clear that you 
have something to hide. Or do you owe a favor to 
a major shareholder? 


The EBITDA figures for business advertising in 
the last three years in the financial figures prior to 
acquisition by Ströer would interest me. You have 
bought a company so you must be familiar with 
the figures. Nor is there a reason to conceal such 
historical figures from shareholders themselves. 


Back to freeXmedia. You said that after you 
bought the company, sales dropped drastically. 
Why did it come to a pay-out of an earn-out to 
Media Ventures? Why did it even increase after-
wards vis-à-vis the originally agreed amount, if 
the business model was going to collapse? 


The question that has not yet been answered 
was: How does that fit in with transaction costs of 
only 329,000 euros declared in the annual finan-
cial statement for 2013? Where are the other 1.7 
million euros? Or was the statement made at the 
telephone conference false?  


I would ask you not to hide behind the fact that 
annual financial statement 2013 is not subject of 
the general meeting. We must come to a decision 
on relieving the management body, and it is thus 
important whether it tells the truth for the fiscal 
year up till the day of relief.  


The consulting fees would furthermore interest 
me: At consulting fees of 2.5 million euros for pur-
chase, even at an hourly rate of 300 euros would 
add up to 6,500 consulting hours. I can't imagine 
that.  


Who checked the invoices of the consultants? 
And precisely to whom did which amounts flow? 
Have Dirk Ströer and/or Udo Müller received 
some of the 2 million euros through the affiliated 
organizations or associated natural or legal per-
sons? 


Another follow-up question: Have I understood 
correctly, that Media Ventures held 15% of the 
evidero company? – That's all from me. Thank 
you. 


Vilanek, Chairman: Thank you, Mr. Kiel. –  
Mr. Weimann, you also requested to speak. 


Dr. Weimann: Thank you for giving me the  
opportunity. It is already 5:24 PM.  


I would like to talk about something Mr. Tüngler 
addressed in his report this morning. He feels you 
are all proper and transparent, and tell people 
what's going on.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 68 


I would like to take this up. Now there is a general 
meeting and the chance to speak about all items 
and bare everything so that everyone who is in-
terested in the company can gain a picture. 


We are working on the interface between busi-
ness administration/law. We would like to confirm 
the relevant figures. We are able to, as we always 
demonstrate in court procedures.  


The crop of figures presented to the general 
meeting is sparse. It doesn't tell me much when 
something is in the low- or mid-three-figure or 
one-figure million range. I personally have no 
problem with clear numbers. I think this also ap-
plies to all others gathered here. 


But to proceed in sequence, I would like to go 
back to the beginning. I put forward that we pub-
lish the discussion held by the board of manage-
ment today. All things considered, it was a good 
discussion. Unlike at Volkswagen yesterday, eve-
rything did not need to be kept secret in order to 
account for any ad-hoc complaints from share-
holders or automobile purchasers who want to 
decrease or change.  


You really have no reason whatsoever not to 
make the discussion available. I would ask you, 
as Mr. Tüngler has put forward, to create trans-
parency by making this discussion available to the 
general meeting and posting it on Internet as well, 
so that everyone can see what is going on.  


The whole afternoon we have assessed a certain 
dissent in the views on the situation of the com-
pany. Many are looking to today's general  
meeting. We must see to it that the press is ex-
cluded. It does not paint a pretty picture if not 
even the speech given by the CEO appears on 
the homepage. 


(applause) 


I would ask you to look inside yourself. Mr. Müller, 
you also felt that you had learned two things: It is 
hard to defend oneself against untruths, and also, 
that transparency is demanded.  


I suggest as a first step toward a new era that the 
talk be displayed on the homepage now at 5:40 
PM. Converting this document to PDF and up-
loading the example which you gave today, in-
cluding all images, must be possible for such a 
high-tech organization as yours. I mean that ac-
tions could ensue from these findings, without it 
costing you anything. But you win.  


You must see very clearly, that doubt has been 
cast on the respectability of this company. And 
you are stonewalling, you haven't given access to 
the press nor held a press conference. That is not 
a pretty picture. The hunting instinct still spurs 
even old dogs. Don't make such dumb mistakes! 
You have absolutely no need to. So please up-
load that. 


On the next item, for which I am also asking for 
transparency, is this exorbitant amount of 2.5 mil-
lion euros for consulting services. We are now in 
proceedings at the district court in Cologne which 
concerns revaluation of a company for a large in-
surer. It involves 1 million euros. Even when in-
quiring about the cost of complicated squeeze-out 
measures, so from HVB, …, the really complica-
ted cases. I am not aware of a single case in 
which any general meeting on company valuation 
and its appraiser paid even a rudimentarily similar 
amount.  


If you cannot account today for this sum in a way 
that we can add up on a slip of paper, you will 
have left a bad impression for the second time to-
day. 2.5 million in the aggregate for this trans-
action is a damn high amount. In answering you 
started with a, b, c, d, e and then got a little mixed 
up. Solon, Platinion, Freshfields, KPMG were the 
names I jotted down. You have named Platinion 
as b, as well as c. So it initially involved a feasi-
bility due diligence study for the market, then a 
technical due diligence, then a transaction con-
cept. KPMG has calculated the intrinsic value of 
the proprietary and the target company. Then 
some kind of deductions were determined, a safe-
ty margin.  


I really have to ask myself why such expenditure 
is required for a transaction of this volume? I al-
ready said this in my speech this morning. One 
gets the impression that a decision on the merits 
of the case would first have to be rendered, to put 
it in legalese. 


I will kick this issue back for a new response. Now 
please inform how this adds up to 2.5 million. If I 
take an hourly rate of 300 euros, at 2.5 million you 
come to 8,333 hours. Calculate how many man-
hours and man-years that is.  


That comes to an expenditure of time, which I 
cannot believe, of 8,300 hours of service. And it 
wasn't so complicated that personnel had to be 
hired at 800 euros per hour because they would 
otherwise not have been available. Precisely this
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 69 


relation exposes you to unpleasant suspicion; 
specifically that you can't, or don't want to, itemize 
this sum.  


I am therefore appealing to you again: show us 
how you came to this amount. I am going to re-
peat it as I put it this morning: for each item and 
each project, provide us with the contractor, the 
company and its partners or the persons who 
signed for it, time expenditure for the individual 
projects, the total fee, then the topic and the re-
sult.  


What is the total picture from which this arose? 
Did the supervisory board on day 1 tell you to tear 
through 2.5 million, we want to be totally sure, or 
was there a dialog in which it came out that this 
and that had been seen, giving rise to one or the 
other question? 


I would be grateful to you for treating the question 
with more seriousness and giving us a general 
picture by making an assessment of all your do-
cuments. At this magnitude we are entitled to this 
demand.  


Don't let your attorneys convince you otherwise, a 
different fiscal year or suchlike. You are in a situa-
tion in which you are being asked within the pub-
lic eye and you should do all you can to clear up 
the fog. 


(applause) 


As an attorney I of course know - - When I han-
dled my first lawsuit at the Federal High Court of 
Justice (BGH), I asked my BGH counselor about 
the kind of mistakes made, what was his experi-
ence? The answer was: The first mistake is rou-
tine and the second mistake, don't contest every-
thing. Those are real beginner errors. 


Free yourself from the typical answers we always 
hear - minimal answers, everything is denied, 
nothing admitted to. That won't help us along 
here. The classic legal technique of somehow 
leaving everything diffuse and avoiding commit-
ment - today is not the day to answer in such a 
fashion.  


So please take this seriously. Show us specific 
figures so that people who want to take notes 
can, in the end, verify the sum of 2.5 million. How 
did you reach this amount? 


I also requested the significant findings. I will pro-
vide the exact details again: According to the ap-


praisal, what was the exact intrinsic value of 
freeXmedia? A number must have emerged at the 
end. Please also provide us with the figures for 
the other companies.  


And if freeXmedia was so precisely examined, 
why did sales the year after the acquisition fall so 
precipitously? Please also explain this to us. We 
are all people with an understanding of econo-
mics and still here at this time. We can, I think, 
fully comprehend these explanations. – This 
much on the aggregate. 


One other question: We have often heard today 
from a family-owned company. You have told us, 
Mr. Müller, of long-term commitment and a majori-
ty of shares. But this might not be entirely true. As 
soon as you cemented your power in the limited 
partnership with shares, the families sold shares 
for almost 480 million.  


Is that true and is that your long-term commit-
ment? Are you actually still obligated to the inter-
ests of the company or do you now sooner use 
the company as a subsidy machine for your other 
business, as subsidy distributor for other busi-
ness? 


Please don't try to say that the company is not af-
fected by this. You have an obligation to notify, di-
rectors’ dealings, German Securities Trading Act 
(WpHG) reporting thresholds, etc. So please in no 
uncertain terms and in consideration of the notifi-
cation obligations of a company, tell us whether 
this conclusion applies or not.  


And secondly you might free yourself of the legal 
straitjacket inherent in such an assembly. Tell us 
yourself, is that true and are there considerations 
for diversification? All savvy founders at some 
point in their careers consider whether or not to 
diversify. It would be completely normal if some-
thing like that happened here. 


I would now like to go through the questions 
again in sequence. 


Topic 1: Share transactions. 


This is where Mr. Müller sold shares to  
Mr. Rumpelhardt, a business partner of Udo  
Müller and former CEO of Ströer. For years, these 
transactions remained undisclosed, coming to 
light only when Mr. Rumpelhardt sold his shares. 


In summary, you have told us that all of this was 
Mr. Müller's personal business and not germane
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 70 


to the general meeting. But I would like to remind 
you that this transaction was not disclosed for 
some years. And that brings us to the corporation. 
according to the German Securities Trading Act 
(GSTA), you are obligated to disclose directors' 
dealings and any number of other matters. Now 
bearing in mind your legal obligations, please an-
swer the questions I asked under 1.2 and 1.1.  


The question posed in 1.2 was: Aside from the le-
gal aspects, why did Mr. Müller wish not to dis-
close these transactions in a timely manner?  


Mr. Müller is sitting on the dais; just ask him! To-
day, there is a general meeting where you can ef-
fectively reposition yourself. Ask him what was 
going on at that time.  


Otherwise, the supervisory board will have to ask 
him. The supervisory board must ensure that all 
disclosure obligations are fully complied with. 
Next, the supervisory board will have to interrupt 
the general meeting and ask the member of the 
board of management why he did not fulfill his 
disclosure obligations, whether under the GSTA 
or the directors' dealings provisions. 


On the question of whether Mr. Ströer had addi-
tional business dealings with Mr. Rumpelhardt, 
you have said you were not aware of any. I can 
only hope that this is not some kind of subterfuge. 
As a lawyer, I know that when you play with the 
meanings of words – and invariably with informed 
individuals – being unaware doesn't necessarily 
mean that such dealings don't exist. It means only 
that the person answering the question doesn't 
know something.  


But you are the governing bodies. Lay it on the 
line for us: Are there additional business dealings, 
yes or no? You have access to the accounting 
system; you can check the books, or wherever. 
And you appear before us today claiming not to 
know. There is also such a thing as contract 
management in a proper legal department. OK, 
so now summarize the extent of your knowledge 
of the actual legal status and tell us conclusively, 
yes or no. 


Exactly the same thing pertains to the Sambara 
Foundation. There are also notification obligations 
in this context, and if there are connections here, 
the Sambara Foundation must of course divulge 
them in full. This concept also applies in this  
situation, and it offers an opportunity, through the 
supervisory board, to ask of persons having noti-


fication responsibilities: what's going on here. You 
are all here. You can get to the bottom of this right 
now. 


Next point and question 1.5: Why did Mr. Ströer 
step down from the board of management for a 
few months? – This, I believe, is well understood. 


During the time when Mr. Ströer was not a mem-
ber of the board of management, were he or 
companies with which he was associated entan-
gled in any dealings that involved Ströer's inter-
ests or securities? What kind of dealings were 
they? 


Here's the bottom line. If I have understood the 
matter correctly, here you have a situation where 
that was not the case. So don't make excuses 
here with some level of awareness or other. In-
stead, tell us clearly and simply, that was not the 
case. This answer shows that you can provide us 
with crystal-clear responses, without qualification. 


Next topic, topic 2. Here we scrutinized transac-
tions with closely related individuals and compa-
nies. Have I understood you correctly? You're 
now telling us that you could purchase AdScale 
only jointly with other firms because you are too 
small to go it alone. Then the best you can come 
up with is to dash to the major shareholder in or-
der to buy this company from him. Of course he 
sees right away that you are apparently des-
perate, so he also compels you to purchase 
freeXmedia, which you had absolutely no interest 
in owning.  


All of that is insufficiently conclusive to make legal 
assessments. Once and for all, stick with one ver-
sion of this story! If the new version with the cov-
enants is correct, why didn't you mention it in the 
comments on the report from Muddy Waters? I 
concede that the story isn't all that bad. But be-
cause of the follow-ups, the story is not all that 
believable. 


My questions: Which version applies now? And 
explain to us, will you, the reason for the change 
in versions. 


Once again, I would like to quote Mr. Tüngler: 
Transparency is everything. Tell us as well what's 
going on with respect to the analysis that Mr.  
Müller has undertaken. As much transparency as 
possible is part of the story here, also. 


We've now come to the questions that I posed 
earlier this morning about this set of issues. From
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 71 


2.1 to 2.4, where once again I go through the  
story step-by-step, you claim that all of this has 
nothing to do with the company. In so saying, you 
are oversimplifying the matter. At this point, I don't 
wish to address the breaches of trust, but in every 
corporation, the principle of legitimacy applies. 
That is to say, you must obey all the laws, and 
you must do business as advantageously as pos-
sible. The questions that I have put forth here 
scrutinize precisely that: Have you complied with 
the legitimacy principle, and did you optimize how 
you conducted your dealings, like a reputable 
businessman?  


Against this backdrop, I would be grateful if you 
could answer questions 2.1 through 2.4 with re-
gard to the discharge decisions on today's agen-
da – questions such as: How much did Media 
Ventures pay for the other two companies? How 
much money did Media Ventures invest in the 
companies? Surely you have to inform yourself 
about these matters if you sell the business. You 
have just now recounted that you had spent 2.5 
million for some kind of expert opinion. So, what 
came out of this assessment?  


This assessment must surely contain some infor-
mation which you could use to orient yourself to 
the value ratios of these businesses. Of course, 
you come quite quickly to the point that they were 
also part of the purchase. 


I simply don't buy it that you can't answer ques-
tions 2.1 through 2.4 based on the evaluations 
contained in the very expensive expert opinions 
that you have in front of you. 


2.5: Likewise, Ströer responded that the busi-
nesses were to have been examined by inde-
pendent consultants. Why did Ströer not disclose 
any reports, memoranda, or evaluations? I appeal 
to you once again, here and now, to disclose  
these things, or at least their findings.  


It could well be, as you have told us, that you 
have examined them thoroughly, both internally 
and externally, and that you had also informed 
the supervisory board about them. We accept all 
of that. But we would appreciate understanding 
whether the things are factually correct. So what 
did you talk about? These are all considerable 
sums. 


In addition, I'll ask you once again to answer 
question 2.6. Is it correct that Media Ventures 


pays only 10% of the list price for advertising that 
goes out over the Ströer network?  


I can appreciate that one of your goals is to save 
on costs and that you have no wish to cover up or 
take down posters that will no longer be paid for.  


You say that spaces are normally rented at cus-
tomary market prices and that only leftover  
spaces are rented at more favorable prices, no 
more than ten days before expiration of the other 
contracts. But you also maintain that this is more 
than 10%. To expand on this issue, tell us once 
more, specifically: What percentage do you ask 
for residual items? If not 10%, what percentage is 
it? 


Is it true that Media Ventures invests in compa-
nies and that this typically takes place at least 
partially through assets in kind? – Here you offer 
the stock response that is trotted out as soon as 
possible at every general meeting in Germany. 
When a third party enters the conversation, you 
always say: You can't say anything about them. 
But I would like to remind you that you are party 
to a contract, not that you yourself control the 
company, but that you must acquaint yourself with 
the other parties, how they operate, and what 
they do. Again, the company itself is thereby in 
contention.  


Now please answer question 2.8 for us: Is it true 
that Media Ventures invests in companies and 
that this typically takes place, at least in part, 
through assets in kind? You can answer that with 
a "yes" or a "no." Furthermore, you can then still 
offer an explanation, because the phrase "at least 
in part" depends on what the relationships are. 


2.9: Is it true that the company, which receives 
assets in kind from Media Ventures, frequently 
pays Media Ventures an administrative fee that 
partly conceals the costs that Ströer charges Me-
dia Ventures for advertising? How much, in per-
cent, is the typical fee that Media Ventures pays 
Ströer. 


When it is a matter of basic rules rather than 
transactions that are not particularly relevant, you 
are obligated to companies with which you do 
business to enable us to assess the situation.  


When ProSieben invests in companies, what 
benefit accrues to me as a Ströer shareholder 
when Mr. Müller and Mr. Ströer receive high sub-
sidies that they can use to make such invest-
ments? At least that's how I understand this pur-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 72 


chase. Tell us, please, in answer to question 2.10, 
how that appears in this context? Why did you not 
invest directly? This morning, I have sometimes 
encountered angry reactions. But explain to us 
once again, objectively, why no direct investment 
was possible here, when others can do so. 


Next point: Ballroom International. On the one 
hand, no losses. You told some other shareholder 
that no one would suffer losses in this connection, 
but you filed a complaint. You answered my ques-
tion - -3.1: Was there an investigation into possi-
ble cases of fraud in Turkey? Was that called Pro-
ject Zero? If not, what was Project Zero? Is there 
a written report on the investigation? 


You had said that there is an investigation into ir-
regularities. There is also a written report, but it's 
not called Project Zero. – Fine. but the question 
remains open: What was Project Zero if not this? 
Was there a Project Zero besides this? 


If there is a written report, then at least give us a 
summary of the findings. I think that it's great that 
something was reviewed, but what was the ques-
tion asked and what was the outcome? It is even 
possible that there are many versions. 


By way of follow-up, I asked various questions 
about individual amounts, simply to get a picture 
of these dealings' relevance so that we could cor-
relate them with what Muddy Waters said. 


How much revenue and EBITDA in Turkey are 
founded on fraud? – Then you shared with us that 
there was no fraud in revenue. Again, that is 
probably a knee-jerk reaction from any lawyer 
who is disturbed by the word "fraud" and who 
considers it unreasonable.  


Right after that you told us, in answer to question 
3.1, that there were instances of fraud. Now we 
want to try to tease out how much revenue is in-
fected by these fraudulent practices.  


It would be staggering if you were to tell us next 
that none of the revenue came from fraud. So, ei-
ther there was no investigation of irregularities 
that resulted in findings, or there was no investi-
gation at all. If there had been such results, the 
next question to ask yourself is what effect that 
had on the balance sheet and on the P/L state-
ment.  


We would love to learn the order-of-magnitude of 
what happened, even if only within the [current] 
fiscal year. Were 50% of the dealings infected, or 


80% or 2%? Those are all orders-or-magnitude 
that you can reveal to us. You're not giving away 
anything here if you make it possible for us to 
make an assessment. 


3.3. Why didn't Ströer report the results of the  
digital business in Turkey in light of the instances 
of fraud already established? What responsibility 
do the board of management and the manage-
ment bear for the failure to correct the problem? 


I would be grateful to you if you could once again 
tell us when you first discovered the issues in 
question and the timeframe in which you received 
the pertinent insights. Then we might well want to 
see whether there were effects between one fis-
cal year to the next. Your answer here is, in any 
event, far too brief. 


3.4. Did Ströer divulge the insights acquired in 
Turkey to the police or to the public prosecutor's 
office? – It was my understanding that you filed 
only civil complaints. Now my question to you: 
Why didn't you go to public prosecutor's office or 
the police in Turkey?  


And if you filed civil complaints, I would be grate-
ful if you could at least describe the rudiments of 
what the cases were about. Financial restitution, 
claims for damages – now I'm using fictitious 
numbers – of 10 million, 1 million, 100,000, that 
kind of thing. Who was the plaintiff, management, 
third parties, or someone else?  


I think you can definitely tell us that, without in 
some way endangering or prejudicing the out-
come or without committing indiscretions. That is 
no state secret, which doesn't exist in any case. It 
is raw information that you owe us, today. 


Poland. In this connection, I had asked about a 
company by the name of Evolution. Apparently, 
the CEO drove it into bankruptcy. Why? You told 
us that recognized customer requirements have 
not proved credible.  


I would really be interested in what order-of-
magnitude we're talking about here. 1 million, 10 
million, 100 million? There must be some way in 
which you could perhaps share with us that illu-
minates my question. 


Then we're on to the topic of Radio Eriwan in an-
swer to question 3.7: How much in revenue, 
EBITDA, and profits did Evolution book in 2013, 
2014, and 2015? – lower, single-digit millions. 
Surely that is the real Radio Eriwan. We all have
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 73 


a certain, basic understanding of economics. You 
have interrupted the general meeting for almost 
two hours, or at least more than one hour.  


For once, tell us some specific numbers! You 
must certainly have some hard numbers in your 
audited annual financial statement. I also find it 
incomprehensible that you hadn't already com-
piled these records by two o'clock in the after-
noon. There's really no witchcraft involved in  
telling me these numbers. 


Because of time constraints, I don't want to again 
go through every single answer to questions 3.7 
through 3.15. And in particular, I admonish you 
that these all-too-hazy amounts are insufficient. I'll 
summarize all of that now.  


If someone in the back-office is of the opinion that 
this is inadequate, I'll ask to speak once more, 
and then we'll review the answers to questions 
3.7 through 3.15 again.  


Also, for each question that I have raised, please 
tell us specific amounts corresponding to the fis-
cal year we're asking about. Avoid lump sums. 
Where no details are requested, then important 
benchmark figures will be provided. 


Then I would also charge the back-office folks for 
the hours wasted in this pursuit. A lot of time is 
idled away because no one has dug out the cor-
rect numbers. 


Info screen. In its report, Muddy Waters describes 
the EBITDA margin as unusually high. You have 
told us 20% in 2014 and 24.8% in 2015.  


How is it that the margin is so high? For a multi-
tude of reasons. You have mentioned four rea-
sons for this: high fixed costs, cost forecasts, and 
so forth. I would also say that one gets the im-
pression that this was something pulled from 
business's bag of tricks. It's always something. 
You can always say that costs are too high, that 
savings, efficiency programs, and the fixed costs 
structure have changed. That happens all the 
time. I can produce an answer without having to 
think about it too much.  


But please, specify this precisely. That way, 
someone who has an interest in doing so can 
draw himself a picture based on credible num-
bers. 


(Shouting: How long is he going to get to 
talk? – Klein: Stop, already! You've been 
talking the whole time! 


Vilanek, chairman: Mr. Klein, I'm conducting this 
meeting. 


(Klein: Then get on this guy's case!) 


– I want to respond to him. – As long as  
Mr. Weimann is asking questions, maybe he 
should put himself back onto the list of speakers. 
As long as he's asking questions, I will allow it. 


Dr. Weimann: 4.3. – I think that you can enjoy a 
beautiful afternoon here along the Rhine. No 
one's making you stay here. You can wave at me 
all you like. It won't make any difference. I'm not 
going to wave back. 


(Shouting: Blah, blah, blah!) 


– What's blah, blah, blah supposed to mean? 
Those are substantiated questions.  


(Klein: Yeah, yeah, yeah!) 


Anyway, I'm asking these questions in your own 
economic interest. 


(Shouting: No, that's not what you're doing at 
all! You're trying to scuttle the meeting! 
That's what your goal is!) 


– No, that's not what I'm trying to do. 


4.3. Should the regular billboard business be 
cross-subsidized, so that concessions are paid for 
the video billboards? – Here, too, I would be 
grateful if you could say exactly which amounts 
we're talking about here. Are all of the rental costs 
on the info screen passed on? What is customary 
in this market? 


4.4. Once again, I ask you for specific numbers. 


In Topic 5, I had mentioned various, individual, fi-
nancial matters. There, too, the answers remain 
consistently lumped together. Where did these 
payments come from? – To that you said continu-
ing advertising rights, for which you would have 
paid nothing. You wouldn't have paid any conces-
sions, but you would have won a tender. That's 
the first tender I've ever seen where the winner 
had to pay nothing. Explain the contract's basic 
structure to us again, briefly.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 74 


When and how were the resulting costs booked? I 
would be grateful if you could once again make a 
brief allocation by fiscal year. 


Ströer's gross profit per employee declined from 
100,000 euros in 2012 – before the digital strate-
gy, that is – to 93,000 in 2015. But digital adver-
tising ought to be significantly more efficient than 
traditional billboards. This supposition comes from 
the fact that, in order to switch advertisements in 
traditional advertising media, employees actually 
had to wait for the panels – and so forth, and so 
on.  


This is indeed one of the key aspects presented 
here. In essence, you have said – Radio Eriwan 
again, really much too serious not to caricature at 
this point – that that was no performance indicator 
as far as Ströer was concerned.  


Maybe not for Ströer, but for many investors, 
gross profit per employee is a pertinent number. 
Whether it is 100,000 or 93,000 is a difference, 
when you consider that a significant acquisition 
was transacted during this timeframe or the busi-
ness model was altered.  


It is also not enough for you to backtrack as you 
answered the question about indicators on pages 
26 and 27. Profit per employee is a classic  
management variable. 


Now, I would be most grateful if you could offer a 
deeper assessment. If I understand this correctly, 
that is one of the central questions that's being 
put to you. In your answer, you should try harder 
than merely to say that, for you, it is not a relevant 
dimension. 


Next: tax rate. In 2015, Ströer paid taxes of 
roughly 13%. That is really a very low rate when 
compared with other consistently profitable, listed 
companies. In 2014, 38% was paid; that was the 
average. – 5.5. I didn't pick up on the answer; 
perhaps you didn't give one. How did Ströer lower 
its tax rate so much in 2015? 


5.6. What legal risks arose as a result of this? 5.7. 
Is this trend sustainable? 


So, ladies and gentlemen, this has been a brief 
outline. I don't want to waste your time. It's a 
beautiful day outside. We all want to get out of 
here, including our colleague. I'm not waving 
back. 


I would ask only that you answer the questions in 
as much detail as possible and to say something 
other than the usual general meeting rhetoric. 
Please, give us numbers!  


I would again like to stress what Mr. Tüngler said: 
They are good! Say that to the people! – I would 
truly like to appeal to you, give us the information 
we have asked for, so that we can draw an un-
derstandable picture here.  


If necessary, suspend the proceedings for half an 
hour. I'd also like to go home and have no wish to 
spend the night here. –Thank you very much. 


(Applause) 


Vilanek, chairman: Thank you very much,  
Mr. Weimann. – Now Mr. Klein is asking for the 
floor. Please, Mr. Klein. 


Klein: When you are able to draw up a summary 
of the foregoing proceedings, then you will surely 
realize that, in point of fact, you have had the 
good fortune today of confronting specialists in 
corporate law, and that for the most part, you can 
really be quite pleased that you hold within your 
shareholder structure. 


Nothing has happened here yet up to now, we, 
myself included, would like to address my ques-
tions to the management. You have indeed seen 
several indications that running such a company 
while always pleasing every shareholder is not an 
easy task. I do understand that. It is also never 
possible to hold a general meeting at which you 
can meet all provisos 100%.  


But that is not what we are talking about today. 
These are actually quite normal things, as indi-
cated by Dr. Weimann. I would also suggest that 
you simply take this outstretched hand, simply 
accept your part, as Marc Tüngler said at the 
start, in the matters relating to transparency and 
this image problem.  


Mr. Müller, I can imagine what happens when 
someone has a great idea. They implement it and 
then, somewhere along the line, they encounter 
people who don't like to do things right away. I 
can tell you, Mr. Müller, when I see the man next 
to you, Mr. Vilanek - -  


I knew his predecessor well. He once said to me 
– he became a billionaire – Mr. Klein, I am an en-
gineer, I have completely underestimated the fact 
that I understand very little about stock corpora-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 75 


tion law. That was what brought about an enor-
mous change in his life.  


I found it very, very regrettable, Mr. Vilanek, that it 
was the head of the company. Today you  
manage Freenet as the chief executive. Gerhard 
Schmid was managing Mobilcom. Just how re-
grettable this change was for me, believe me, I 
can not say: A fall from grace, it would become 
clear - - it has also moved me somehow.  


That is why I think, as a company, you should al-
so take the opportunity to talk to your share-
holders. We only have one day for that and that is 
the day of the general meeting. Otherwise, there 
can be no progress. 


Mr. Müller, it is always great when you give your 
answers. It is really obvious that what you are 
saying comes from your mind, is your under-
standing, your brainchild and your own work. I be-
lieve that should not destroy a person either. In 
addition to being unfair, it would also be nothing 
but damaging, damaging to you, damaging to me 
and damaging to us. 


A previous speaker also said however – and  
Mr. Müller, she certainly had a point –, as a result 
of the issues that led you to be able to make a 
conclusive decision regarding this fate today, you 
are already seeing, and I am choosing my words 
very carefully here, a certain degree of hypersen-
sitivity. In stock corporation law at a general  
meeting Mr. Müller, believe me, you can only go 
on that way, believe me, with some health  
damage. 


(Interjection: Don't you want to ask questions 
then? - Response: He is! – Interjection: He's 
not a preacher you know! He should just ask 
his questions!) 


Vilanek, Chairman: Please refrain from inter-
jecting! – Do continue, Mr. Klein. 


Klein: Thank you. 


Vilanek, Chairman: Could I ask you to get to 
your questions? 


Klein: That was what I wanted to say beforehand. 
I want to call for a human approach here, one that 
is practiced by both sides here, or should be prac-
ticed.  


Because who actually gains from this – these 
questions – if at the end of today, for reasons that 


relate to me, we perform a special audit in ac-
cordance with stock corporation law and by doing 
so, to my mind, bring a stock corporation largely 
to its knees? No one will benefit from that. So, let 
us please try and avoid that. 


What is stopping you, in your speech, one that 
you, Mr. Müller, – and I liked it – had prepared - - 
you definitely covered this subject in depth, as did 
Mr. Weimann, and I have the highest regard for 
him also, you also took an interest in these is-
sues. Therefore: What is actually stopping you 
from ultimately investigating these ideas in con-
versation with your shareholders: Good, so I will 
come right out with it, there is nothing to it, right? 


This much I can tell you, I did not find anything 
bad at all in your speech except for the stock cor-
poration law aspect, the fact that you provided a 
board of management report that did not meet the 
requirements of stock corporation law 100%.  


One vulgar example: Among other things, you 
used Anglicisms in your address. Some speakers 
have said these are a part of the business, that 
we can not do without them. It is also necessary, 
however, to then translate them into German – 
and that is unfortunately now even a right at  
German general meetings – so that your share-
holders understand. Alas that was not the case. 
Yet nobody is using that against you. Or do you 
feel like they are? 


We acquired Statista GmbH, so you write in your 
annual report, for 64.7 million. Is that right?  


Is it also right that we have acquired 81.3% of that 
limited liability company in total? 


Please be so kind as to tell us who holds the re-
maining shares in this limited liability company. 


How high was staff turnover in the last year and 
do you know how many employees went to com-
petitors? 


I will leave that now. I will also leave this. 


You must also see how unsatisfactory the fact is, 
you must be able to imagine how very unsatisfac-
tory it is for us not to respond to the entire Sam-
bara Foundation matter, the fact that you come to 
us and at least give us the minimum account of 
what is going on with this situation. 


It is after all true that this is about 2.8 million 
shares in our company and an explanation of why
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 76 


the Sambara Foundation sold its shares in our 
company on exactly the same day that Media 
Ventures stopped being a shareholder, what role 
does or did this foundation have?  


I am therefore calling upon Mr. Stöer to perhaps 
reconsider this matter. You certainly must not 
have declared this at the general meeting in ac-
cordance with stock corporation law, in accor-
dance with the Stock Corporation Act. If you are 
interested in a good relationship with your share-
holders however, and a good public image, then 
you should have second thoughts because today 
you are facing approval and this matter may also 
be a factor in your approval, so perhaps you 
would care to offer some clarification here.  


Instead, for me personally, at the moment it 
seems you are keeping some secret surrounding 
this situation. Maybe that is not the case at all. 
Hence my appeal once again, perhaps you could 
respond to this issue again. – So, that was the 
Sambara Foundation. 


If you are in agreement, I will now move on to 
some questions I previously prepared and would 
like to reiterate the previous speaker's comments. 
You did not allow any press coverage. Please 
understand that you, for example, affixed a huge 
banner outside in your reception room for us 
shareholders, for shareholders, guests and the 
press. But of course that is misleading, of course 
that is misleading. Therefore: What induced you 
to not authorize press coverage? 


Moreover, were you or were you not aware that a 
representative from the press was present any-
way? I see absolutely no point to this approach. 


Did you make financial contributions to associa-
tions and institutions last year? If so, please tell 
us, broken down by which association and which 
institution, the amounts and the term of the re-
spective agreements. 


While we are talking about monetary disburse-
ments, did we make any donations in the last year 
to political parties or foundations affiliated with 
them, or to any other individuals in the political 
arena?  


Please also tell us – and Mr. Tüngler also high-
lighted this very effectively this morning –, admit 
to your weaknesses, it will bring you unity: 
stronger with us. That is quite simple.  


So, please be so kind as to tell us: What were the 
five largest loss-makers in our company? And at 
the same time, please also tell us the five largest 
profit earners. 


How much were the retention provisions within 
our company that you had to create after a  
federal court ruling? 


Then there was the issue of – and please correct 
me if I am wrong – the 263,000 Euro allocation. If 
you look into it, Mr. Vilanek, then your answer will 
probably also include which company vehicles 
were provided for whom, broken down by make, 
year of manufacture and year of acquisition. 


It is extremely regrettable that it has come to this, 
Mr. Vilanek - - And I really must pay you a com-
pliment here, Mr. Vilanek. You have chaired this 
general meeting extremely professionally. You 
are most likely facing a lengthy leave of absence 
today. I am sorry for you on the one hand. But I 
know that you are more at home in the south than 
in the north or wherever - - 


Vilanek, Chairman: Although that was not a 
question, correction: the north is my home. 


Klein: The north then. Then you still have a long 
journey home. I thought you were passing 
through. 


You have made up some ground today and I  
really like how you have chaired this general 
meeting with absolute neutrality and impartiality 
as stipulated by international standards. I would 
like the elders, this company's principal share-
holders, to also recognize that and also your good 
rapport with our company's shareholders - - that 
is after all by no means insignificant. So maybe 
we could try, perhaps in a brief recess of this 
general meeting, to build a bridge and talk about 
how this general meeting can perhaps take a 
dramatic turn in which everyone can save face 
and co-exist. I think where there is a will, there is 
a way.  


When I think of you as a lawyer - - I think you are 
one of those from Freshfields. Dr. Weimann was 
of course right when he said everything needs to 
be very precise - - So as a lawyer, you should not 
be surprised if suddenly activist shareholders, as 
they are often called, confront you and you are 
not in any position to respond to them as quickly 
as they are zeroing in on you. That is the way at 
general meetings. Any person sitting on an exe-
cutive body will tell you so.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 77 


That is why I always say, live and let live. I believe 
you said, Mr. Vilanek, that the fee was a lump 
sum. But it could also have been the person sit-
ting next to you.  


Should you do something, Mr. Vilanek? – No.  


Your fee is a lump sum. At this point, without go-
ing into any more detail, I would be interested in 
knowing what lump sums were involved here? For 
whom? For how many people? And precisely 
which services did these lump sums cover? 


Moreover, without wishing to scare you, let me tell 
you that this general meeting has a fatal flaw. I do 
not wish to go into that here because I have no in-
terest in anyone challenging the validity of this 
general meeting on the grounds of said flaw. It 
must have struck an objective observer, or a 
smart lawyer entrusted to keep an eye on such 
things, however.  


Since I have continually seen this flaw however 
and since it has a significant impact on the validity 
of the resolutions to be made here, I just wanted 
to put it out there. Perhaps it is a reason to look 
around again and think about what things are re-
quired here as provisos for the proper conduct of 
a general meeting under stock corporation law. 


Mr. Vilanek, I would now like to suggest, I will re-
frain from my other questions and would suggest 
perhaps a break in this general meeting for a few 
minutes so that perhaps, Mr. Müller - - I do not 
want to, I really do not want to push you towards 
a man who regretfully wilts under pressure 
somewhere down the line. No, I would urge you to 
take this general meeting today as an opportunity 
to adopt a new approach to overcoming admitted-
ly difficult situations caused by shareholders that 
are, for example, cropping up for you for the first 
or second time today. I get the feeling you are 
looking for challenges in your life. Here they are, 
right in front of you. Just ask yourself these new 
things and together with Mr. Vilanek, we will per-
haps seek and find a way towards a new ap-
proach. 


Vilanek, Chairman: Thank you, Mr. Klein. – 
Not because you suggested it, but because I 
also have a human need to attend to – and 
that is somewhat difficult as chairman –, I 
would actually like to interrupt the meeting 
now for 20 to 25 minutes – it is now 18:20 – 
to work on answering the questions further 


and perhaps to have a conversation or two. – 
Thank you. 


 (Break from 6:20 until 6:48.) 


Vilanek, chairman: Ladies and gentlemen, it is 
now 6:48. Considering the advanced hour and the 
foregoing comprehensive and detailed discus-
sion, we will now have a second speaker session 
to answer the questions that have been asked. 
Following this, we will give you an additional op-
portunity to address the meeting and to ask ques-
tions.  


But to ensure that we deal with the agenda fairly 
and quickly – so that in particular, we can take 
votes on the agenda items – I am announcing 
that I am limiting the time for speeches and ques-
tions to ten minutes for each speaker. To that 
end, I am closing the list of speakers at the end of 
the question-and-answer session that follows. Af-
ter that, additional opportunities to speak will not 
be possible.  


Of course after the final round of responses, you 
will be free to have entered into the notarial rec-
ord any questions that, from your point of view, 
remain unanswered.  


Depending on further developments, I reserve the 
authority to order an end to the debate, should 
that be necessary, but I hope not. – With this in 
mind, I now ask the board of management to pro-
vide answers for the second round of questions. 


(Klein: Can you maybe raise the temperature 
a bit? It's cool in here!) 


Could you check the air-conditioner setting? 


Müller: On the question of whether additional 
business connections to Mr. Rumpelhardt exist. – 
There are no business connections. It is not that 
this is not known; there are none. 


Mr. Kiel's question about freeXFmedia: You said 
you would have made the purchase, but then the 
sales figures fell dramatically. That is not the 
case. What we said was that, before the pur-
chase, the company lost three customers. That 
was known. Accordingly, the amount of revenue 
realized from these customers was degraded in 
the following year. Profit fell from 1 million to 
200,000.  


So it's not the case, as implied somewhat by the 
question, that we somehow purchased something
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 78 


that suddenly turned out to be worse than ex-
pected. Clearly, no one would sell a company with 
profits of 1 million for 2 million, cash. 


Did I understand correctly, Mr. Kiel asked, that 
Media Ventures is retaining 15% of evidero? – 
No, that's not right. I said that, at an earlier point 
in time, Media Ventures was participating and that 
there were various other participants. One of the 
two managing partners, from whom all of us had 
purchased shares, then consolidated the  
holdings. That is, he assembled a series of in-
vestments. As I have already said, we then pur-
chased 60% for 200,000 euros. So by any  
measure, that was an immaterial transaction. 


Mr. Kiel has a question concerning the net  
earnings. - As I have already explained several 
times: approximately 200,000 euros per year. 





The question came up repeatedly and I have also 
answered it three times already: The multiple for 
the entire transaction was approximately times 
eight. This was not a package deal - we bought 
Ströer Interactive. This company had different 
subsidiaries, which is very common. 


That is why the term package deal is completely 
misleading. It sounds like we bundled certain 
things together, made a package and bought it. 





We bought Ströer Interactive. This company had 
different subsidiaries, one of them was freeXme-
dia. 200,000 of the overall result per year are at-
tributable to freeXmedia, which honestly is very 
dispensable. It is a pity that recently we have 
been spending so much time with the same  
topics. 





Mr. Weimann asks: We have heard several times 
that it is a family-owned company. Mr. Müller 
talked about long-term involvement. This is possi-
bly not true because the families bought shares 
for almost 480 million euros after they had con-
solidated their position with the partnership limited 
by shares (KGaA). Is that true? Is this what you 
call long-term involvement? Are you really com-
mitted to the company's interests? You have the 
obligation to inform. Take that into consideration, 
maybe try to refrain from your rigid legal corset 


and tell us: Is that true? How far have you come 
with your thoughts about diversification? 





Content-wise and in actual fact, this is not com-
pletely correct. In November, Udo Müller and Dirk 
Ströer sold 5.3 million shares, to be precise, 
5,385,773 Ströer shares. Unfortunately those 
were not 480 million shares but significantly less. 


Irrespective of that, 80% of the families' assets 
are bonded in the company. I do not have to tell 
you that. I do not know how you manage your fi-
nances. However, if 80% of my assets are  
bonded somewhere, it is a substantial position for 
me and I care about it very intensively, firstly. 


It is a matter of definition. I do not know if it is the 
Corporate Governance Code or the German 
Stock Exchange. Any company in which the 
founding families hold more than 25% of the 
shares is classified as a family-owned company. 
Up to now, I have had the opinion that this is con-
sidered positively in Germany - the German 
SMEs, German families that show long-term 
commitment. 


For 25 years, we have not paid one single cent of 
dividends. We personally got into very high debts 
in order to move the company forward to the posi-
tion it has now. I do not expect gratitude or ac-
knowledgment, but sometimes it can be slightly 
frustrating if one only faces constant criticism 
while creating 4,000 new jobs. 





(Dr. Weimann: Do you think that we do not 
appreciate this - you do not have to com-
plain! We all acknowledge this! – Acclama-
tion: Carry on!) 


– I'm happy to hear that. 


(Klein: It is honored and respected!) 


- Thank you.  


My last remark concerning this topic: The shares 
we sold were part of the shares we got during this 
Ströer-Interactive transaction. Not a single share 
of those we got when we went public was sold.  


We already announced that before we went pub-
lic. If a company has a two-digit million amount of
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 79 


debts due to decades of investments, eventually 
the money has to come in again. 


(Dr. Weimann: Could the notary please add 
this question and the answer?) 


– Which question? 


(Acclamation Dr. Weimann – notary  
Dr. Piehler: Yes!) 


Mr. Kiel is interested in the EBITDA of business 
advertising. It was 1.6 million in 2011 and 1.1 mil-
lion in 2012. 


Mr. Weimann once again asks about adscale: 
They were only able to buy it in combination with 
other companies. Initially, they did not want to buy 
freeXmedia but had to. This is not coherent. Stick 
to one version of the story. Give us a clear an-
swer. 


This can only be a misunderstanding. Because 
the version of the story is always the same. It is 
also not just a version. It is fact that our financial 
situation only allowed us to buy adscale while we 
used shares to buy something else at the same 
time. In addition, adscale alone would have been 
too small to enter the market of online marketing. 


We did not want to buy freeXmedia alone be-
cause it was just much too small. We also would 
not have bought Ströer Interactive alone because 
it was too small. The same applies to adscale. It 
would not have made sense.  


Only the combination of the companies and the 
two deals established a basis of roughly 70 million 
euros that enabled us to enter the business with a 
manageable risk, as we were the last big  
marketer to join. In retrospect we can say that it 
was just the right time. 18 months later we had 
become the number one. Today we record a 
gross volume of 1 billion while Springer records 
450 million. That means that we have become 
double the size of Springer as an online marketer. 
I think that this is a quite remarkable result. 


(Dr. Weimann: Could the notary please add 
this question, too!) 


Mr. Weimann: Concerning the questions 2.1, 2.4 
you told us that this did not affect the company. I 
do not want to talk about breach of trust but each 
company knows the principle of legality and you 
also have to act favorably. The questions exactly 
scrutinize this: Did you act according to the prin-


ciple of legality and did you run the businesses 
like a prudent businessman? 


Second range of topics: transactions with related 
persons or companies. Muddy Waters estimates 
that Mr. Müller and Mr Ströer made a profit of 
more than 20 million euros when selling freeXme-
dia to the company through Media Ventures. 


I have answered this question too many times al-
ready. This is complete nonsense about the 20 
million. 


2.1. Does Mr. Müller agree that he and Mr. Ströer 
made a mistake by making such a high profit with 
a company they only owned a few months earli-
er? 


Indeed, it would have been wrong if we had done 
it. But we would not do that of course. May I re-
mind you again that 80% or our assets are part of 
Ströer. It would be kind of insane to impair 80% of 
our assets. I have repeatedly said that: who thinks 
that we are that insane should not invest in Ströer 
shares anyway. 


Ströer responded to the accusation by noting that 
the purchase price was not allocated to all three 
companies. - I see, those were your questions but 
not the answers yet. 


How much did Media Ventures pay for the two 
companies - - I already answered these ques-
tions. However, I am going to read out the answer 
again: 


We cannot answer questions concerning Media 
Ventures, as it was not involved in our company. 
As far as our company is concerned, we have al-
ready reported elaborately that the transactions 
were reviewed in detail and no evidence for mis-
conduct of any party was found. 


Mr. Weimann asks: If freeXmedia was evaluated 
that accurately, why did the revenue decrease 
drastically in the year after the purchase? 


I gladly repeat it again, even if I have explained it 
three, four times already. The company had lost 
three mandates before that. We were aware of it. 
Accordingly, revenue turned out to be as ex-
pected. There was no situation of drastic de-
creases that we had not seen coming. 


Mr. Weimann: Question number 2.3. has not been 
answered yet: How much money does Media 
Ventures invest in the companies before they are
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 80 


resold to Ströer. You just mentioned that you 
spent 2.5 million on expert assessments. What 
exactly was assessed here? 





Answer: Concerning this question we have al-
ready explained that the transaction was explicitly 
checked internally and externally. In addition to 
an expert legal opinion, a valuation report that 
examined the value ratio of the Ströer-Interactive 
companies, adscale and Ströer AG was re-
quested from KPMG (one of the leading providers 
of audit, tax and advisory services in Germany). 
The abstract of the report, which was created by 
KPMG in connection with the transaction, and 
which was already on display at the general  
meeting in 2013, can be found at the request-to-
speak desk.  


By the way, to avoid misunderstandings: Ströer 
Interactive itself was founded by Media Ventures. 
Ströer founded it around 10 years before. 


We cannot answer your question on how much 
money Media Ventures had invested in the com-
panies before they were resold to our company, 
as we were not involved in these processes. - I 
think this was a misunderstanding. I think the 
question was how much they paid for it. We men-
tioned that it was founded by Media Ventures, 10, 
no, 15 years beforehand, I think. 


Mr. Klein asks: Is it true that you purchased Sta-
tista GmbH for 64.7 million? Is it also true that you 
bought altogether 81.3% of this GmbH? Who 
holds the remaining shares? 


For the 78.8% we bought initially, we paid a pur-
chase price of 57,213,000 euros. Due to a capital 
increase, we also increased our shares in Statista 
GmbH to 81.3% The remaining shares are dis-
tributed to four shareholders, Dr. Friedrich 
Schwandt, Dr. Thilo Löwe, Hubert Jakob, Tim 
Kröger. They are the founders of the company. 


(Klein: Hubert Jakob?) 


– Hubert Jakob, Tim Kröger, Dr. Thilo Löwe and 
Dr. Friedrich Schwandt. 


Concerning 2.5. Mr. Weimann asks: He repeated-
ly applies for the disclosure of matters - at least 
the results. Question 2.5: Is it audited by inde-
pendent consultants? Disclosure of comments 
and opinions. He applies for unlimited disclosure. 


We have already disclosed the results of the  
assessment. According to this, there were no 
claims, neither from the supervisory board, nor 
from the consultants who performed the assess-
ment. In addition, the abstract of the report, which 
was created by KPMG in connection with the 
transaction, can be found at the request-to-speak 
desk. You have the opportunity to draw your own 
conclusion. Due to reasons of confidentiality, we 
cannot disclose this and other reports in detail. 
We ask for your understanding. 


Concerning Mr. Weimann's question number 2.6.: 
Media Ventures has an agreement that enables 
them to buy advertisements from Ströer at a re-
duced price, etc.  


I gladly repeat it again: Media Ventures pays 
market-based prices for normal campaigns - the 
same applies to any other campaign. In addition, 
there has been a contractual relation between us 
and Media Ventures for years. This regulates that 
Media Ventures has the opportunity to allocate 
remaining amount of space, which would not be 
marketable otherwise, at normal market condi-
tions. These are spaces that can be booked ten 
days before posting at the earliest, after booking 
by other customers is no longer possible. Conse-
quently, the product that is offered to Media Ven-
tures and other companies here cannot be com-
pared to normal campaigns.  


Media Ventures has the following conditions in 
detail for the booking: for the public  
video product, etc.: minus 85% (that is 15%), for 
regular billboards: approximate operating ex-
penses plus 12%. 





Mr. Weimann has the opinion that more and more 
standard answers are being given. We cannot say 
anything about other people. Concerning question 
2.7. This is another question about Media Ven-
tures.  


Our company is not entitled to mind the business 
of Media Ventures. This is why we cannot answer 
your questions concerning the business opera-
tions of Media Ventures. But if you are interested 
in Media Ventures, for example in its European 
subsidiaries, this is all documented thoroughly. 


Mr. Klein: How high were our company's retention 
provisions that we have to generate after a  
Federal Supreme Court verdict. - On December
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 81 


31, 2015 the retention provisions were 498,000 
euros. 


Mr. Klein wants to know why I do not publish the 
speech. - This speech is only meant to address 
the participants of the general meeting. We do not 
intend to publish it. 


Mr. Klein would like to know the reasons why we 
did not invite the press. - You have repeatedly 
asked this question and we have repeatedly an-
swered it. Just like in the previous year, the press 
did not show high interest in participating in the 
general meeting. This is why we do not invite the 
press. Even during our quarterly reports, the 
press does not participate and we have never re-
ceived any complaints in advance. We still inform 
the press after our general meeting.  


Once again: The general meeting is meant for the 
shareholders and gives them the opportunity to 
direct questions to the board of management and 
the supervisory board. 


Mr. Weimann, once again concerning question 
2.8. This deals with legal transactions we are in-
volved in. What are your estimates? Is it correct 
that those companies that receive contributions in 
kind from Media Ventures often pay them an ad-
ministration charge, which partly covers the costs 
Ströer charges Media Ventures for advertise-
ment? How high is this charge usually? (in per-
cent) - I think I have just explained that correctly 
and in detail. 


Mr. Weimann, question 3.2. He asks about sales 
and earnings in Turkey with regard to fraud  
cases.  


There were irregularities. However, these were 
revealed and corrected at an early stage - even 
before the consolidated financial statement was 
completed. Due to the current lawsuits, we can 
unfortunately not give any detailed information. 


Apart from that, we also purchased a group of 
companies there. More than 10 companies were 
part of the group and we, of course, also did not 
split up any purchase prices, when we bought it, 
into the individual assets. However, some of the 
group companies were significantly more valuable 
than we originally thought. That is why impairment 
was not necessary. 


How high is the employee revenue? The em-
ployee revenue - question by Mr. Klein - in 2015 
was approximately 12.8% for German companies. 


This was calculated centrally on December 31, 
2015. This number excludes certain acquisitions. 


Currently, we do not keep records about emplo-
yees who change jobs and start working for our 
competitors. The high figures are the result of re-
structuring and acquisitions. Of course, we try to 
achieve synergy effects. The result is - - After we 
bought Interactive Media from Telekom, we had 
two marketers. Subsequently, we do not need all 
employees anymore. 


Mr. Kiel asks: Again concerning the topic freeX-
media, package, etc. Mr. Kiel would like to know 
what was agreed. - We have already answered 
this five or even six times. But I can answer it 
again. - Management responsibilities, package 
deal.  


Let me repeat it clearly again: There was no 
package deal here. The KPMG valuation report 
only assessed the entire group of companies and 
no individual values. The opinion was furnished in 
accordance with standard S1 of IDW (Institute of 
Public Auditors in Germany) and reveals an ag-
gregate value of 98 million euros. 98 million euros 
- I think this question came up somewhere - was 
the value in KPMG's expert opinion in accordance 
with IDW S1. 


Mr. Weimann wants question 2.8 to be answered 
correctly. The question that deals with Media Ven-
tures and the administration charge. - We cannot 
assess which compensations Media Ventures 
usually receives for contributions in kind with  
other companies. Based on a long-standing con-
tract, Media Ventures can - okay, I don't think, I 
have to read it out again. We have probably an-
swered this ten times already. The same topic 
again, ten days previously, adhesive costs plus 
12%.  


Mr. Weimann, concerning question 3.3: I would 
be grateful if you - when you have discovered the 
relevant facts, the companies Ströer Turkey Digi-
tal. - We revealed all relevant facts in December 
2014 and took immediate corrective steps. All  
figures in the consolidated financial statement 
were therefore correct. 


There was indeed a fraud case; there is no pro-
tection against that. There was a whistleblower 
and within a very short period of time we were 
able to channel things properly again. 


Schmalzl: Mr. Kiel has a question concerning the 
topic BaFin (Federal Financial
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 82 


Supervisory Authority) and if we think that the 
BaFin will even inform us about the result of the  
assessment and the topic Muddy Waters. - 
Through our lawyers at Freshfields, we are in di-
rect contact with the BaFin. That is why we will be 
informed about the result of the assessment and 
can afterwards make an intelligent and sustaina-
ble decision on further proceedings. 


You picked out a very small affiliated company - 
Pacemaker. You had another question con-
cerning revenue and operative result, EBITDA. - 
According to IFRS balancing, the consolidated 
net revenue was 2.3 million euros last year. The 
operative EBITDA was 0.1 million euros.  


Mr. Kiel has another question during his second 
request to speak: In order to create more trans-
parency, please provide (also online) the speech 
of the second chairman. - I think, we have already 
answered this. But to make sure that each single 
question is answered: As already explained, we 
decided not to publish Mr. Müller's speech. 


Mr. Kiel has another question: As Mr. Ströer and 
the Sambara foundation deal with social matters, I 
think it is very important to answer the question, 
especially if it deals with transgressions.  


Any relations between Mr. Ströer and the Samba-
ra foundation are exclusively - exclusively- Mr. 
Ströer's private matters. They are not associated 
with his activities as a supervisory board member. 
That is why the company has no knowledge 
about possible relations between Mr. Ströer and 
the Sambara foundation. 


Mr. Kiel has another question concerning Statista. 
According to your opinion, the question on the 
growth rate (in addition, in this fiscal year) was not 
answered. It was only mentioned that double-digit 
growth is expected. Has this been implemented 
so far? - That was the question. 


In the first four months of the current fiscal year 
(after the first consolidation), Statista's growth 
rate was approximately 30%, in comparison to the 
same period of the previous year. The total in-
crease in revenue in 2015 was almost 15%. This 
shows increasing growth in the current fiscal year 
compared to the growth rates in the previous 
year, before we acquired the company. 


Mr. Klein has another question concerning the 
Sambara foundation. You appealed to Mr. Ströer 
to think this topic over again and reveal the facts. 
- Our company did not participate in any pro-


cesses that had to do with the Sambara founda-
tion. We already explained. That is why we will 
not provide any information about this. 


(Acclamation Mr. Klein) 


Mr. Weimann had another question: If there were 
any results, the next question would be how these 
would affect the balance sheet and the income 
statement? This once again deals with the topic: 
Turkey. I think this was answered by one of my 
previous speakers. But to make sure: If it hap-
pened in the course of the year we would like to 
know in which scale: were 50, 80 or 2% affected? 


Once again: We refer to what we stated before. 
There are current lawsuits. We cannot give any 
information at the moment. 


Mr. Weimann had asked for more transparency 
concerning the 2.5 million euros for consulting 
services. I think, everyone remembers the con-
text.  


As already explained, the consulting services are 
divided as follows:  


Expenses for due diligence activities. These in-
clude a market due diligence regarding the whole 
complex of online marketing, online advertise-
ment, a finance due diligence, a fiscal due dili-
gence and a tech due diligence. This shows that 
the technological components we purchased 
were neutrally assessed as well. This section 
added up to a total of around 500,000 euros for 
consulting services for these four due diligence 
components. 


Furthermore, we invested 500,000 euros in M&A 
and strategy consulting.  


There was another section of legal advice costs 
that amounts to 600,000 euros.  


Just like Mr. Müller has already explained  
thoroughly, there were relatively complex guide-
lines for the evaluation of the company. We spent 
200,000 euros on this value ratio expertise. 


The expenses for the extraordinary general  
meeting and capital increase amounted to an ad-
ditional 500,000 euros.  


Notary costs were almost 100,000 euros. 


The list of costs also indicates that the costs were 
incurred during the process and that the super-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 83 


visory board did not give a carte blanche to 
spend. I think this was part of your question. In a 
nutshell, you asked whether the supervisory 
board had stated: "Spend 2.5 million, we want to 
be on the safe side." There was a process of dia-
logue. There was no carte blanche. The costs 
were incurred during the process, as already 
mentioned. 


And just like it has been mentioned several times: 
The valuation report was created by the auditing 
company, KPMG. The legal evaluation was per-
formed by the law firm Freshfields.  


Questions about this evaluation and its results 
have been answered thoroughly and repeatedly 
in this general meeting, also concerning the fact 
that the evaluation was already performed three 
and a half years ago. 


Müller: Mr. Weimann, question 2.9: Why do 
Ströer and Müller receive grants? - That is a good 
question. Did I miss anything? We do not receive 
grants from Ströer and also no grants for invest-
ments. I did not know that we paid any kind of 
grant to anyone.  


Concerning 3.5 and 3.6. Mr. Weimann asks: What 
is the scale of the customer requirements?: 1  
million, 10 million, 100 million? Once again about 
Evolution Media Net. - Answer: The customer re-
quirements (subject to valuation allowance) 
amounted to less than 1 million euros. 


Concerning 3.5: The managing directors of  
Evolution Media filed for insolvency themselves.  


Concerning 3.6: Essentially, the balanced cus-
tomer requirements have proven non-
recoverable, which lead to an excessive  
indebtedness of the company. 


Mr. Weimann, regarding 3.7:  Cheap propagan-
da.  Here Poland crops up again, Evolution and 
so forth. – Reply:  According to the IFRS, impair-
ment tests are done at the cash-generating unit 
level.  Since the cash-generating unit's value, 
which also reflects other firms, is based on expec-
tations of future earnings, and the resulting fair 
value exceeds its carrying amount, there are no 
grounds for demanding a write-down.   


I just got through explaining that. That was a sub-
stantial number of firms, more than ten firms. 
Several of them – for example, the largest one ... 
in Turkey, which had been doing extremely well, 
and a tech service provider in the Czech Republic 


that today is building our entire infrastructure, 
building our whole tech backbone, it’s in the cash-
generating unit, and at no time did we ever have 
to write it down, never.  


Now once again the question about the 6.75 mil-
lion, question 5. Mr. Weimann conjectures that we 
are playing three-card monte with intangible as-
sets.   


This assumption is incorrect,as Mr. Metzner al-
ready explained. Whenever we enter into con-
tracts with licensors, of course they try to pin us 
down by making us pay at least a certain mini-
mum. And of course we try to pin THEM down by 
demanding that that they provide us with a certain 
minimum surface.   


In that instance our counterparty failed to provide 
the surfaces we demanded, and for which we had 
paid for the guarantee. Consequently we de-
manded something in return. That's the back-
ground. It had nothing to do with any supposed 
shifting back and forth of any intangible assets. 
Instead it was merely an account receivable that 
ensued from non-fulfillment by our counterparty of 
certain contractually stipulated services.  


Schmalzl:Here's another question from Mr. Wei-
mann. It seems to me that that question was al-
ready answered in a different context. However, 
we address each question as it was posed. 
Please excuse us if the question has already 
been asked by a different speaker in a different 
way. We are doing our best to provide thorough 
replies in the sequence in which the questions 
were asked, to make sure that all matters that are 
unclear are actually explained completely and 
conscientiously.  


This question is also about the expert opinion 
concerning the freeXmedia transaction. According 
to the expert opinion, what was the actual intrinsic 
value of freeXmedia?  Please also report the fig-
ures for the other firms.  


The assessment opinion — I think we had already 
touched briefly on that issue. The expert opinion 
was submitted by KPMG, which assessed the 
companies belonging to the Ströer-Interactive 
group as a whole. They didn’t make any firm-by-
firm calculations. The expert opinion was drafted 
in accordance with the IDW-S1 standard and re-
ported an overall value of 98 million euros. As 
was mentioned before, it was a single component 
among the various assessment parameters that
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 84 


had been used to hedge the amount that is even-
tually paid through the price. It was fully commen-
surate/appropriate and functional.   


A question relating to the Sambara Foundation. 
This one is also about reporting duties. This ques-
tion has already been answered several times 
over. The question was asked more than once. 
Again, the question was: if there are any links, the 
Foundation must submit a full report on them. Ac-
cording to Mr. Weimann, the supervisory board 
should now ask the party obligated to report, 
"What’s going on?" They are all present.  


Our company's reply: Under securities trading 
law, any reporting duty is ultimately binding on the 
shareholders, not on the company. By the by, we 
have no grounds to suspect that any reporting du-
ties were breached by anyone or in any manner 
whatever.   


(Dr. Weimann interjects) 


By the by, we have no grounds to suspect that 
any reporting duties were breached.  


Back to the second question by Mr. Kiel. Once 
again the issue of transaction costs, that is, how 
can we justify the amount of 329,000 euros post-
ed for transaction costs in the 2013 annual finan-
cial statements. Where did the remaining 1.7 mil-
lion euros wind up? Or was the figure cited during 
the conference call wrong? Annual financial 
statements are an issue that the general meeting 
is entitled to address. Accordingly, I wouldn’t try to 
evade the issue by resorting to this excuse, since 
we must issue a resolution discharging the corpo-
rate officers. In order to accomplish this goal, it is 
essential that the report disclose the truth.  


Likewise regarding this issue, we provide a de-
tailed answer. We had actually already provided it 
in reply to a different question, but just to dissi-
pate any doubts there may be.   


The transaction costs disclosed in the annual re-
port comprise solely the legal and consulting 
costs directly related to transfer of the shares. 
The other expenditures on consulting fees were 
made for the equity increase and for the capital 
contribution in kind. Accordingly, they are not 
transaction costs stricto sensu.  Secondly, the to-
tal amount of 2.5 million euros accrued in fiscal 
years 2012 and 2013. Regarding the composition 
of the consulting expenses for due diligence, 
M&A strategy consulting, legal consulting fees, 
and the expert opinion concerning value ratio, I 


believe we've already announced the detailed fig-
ures.  


Another question from Mr. Weimann, excuse me, 
from Mr. Kiel.  How much profit did Mr. Ströer and 
Mr. Müller make, since they are also officers of 
the company? The supervisory board should have 
investigated the whole affair long ago. Is the su-
pervisory board considering suing for damages on 
account of this transaction?  


In the course of this general meeting, we have al-
ready explained the background and details of the 
interactive transaction several times, and we've 
done so very thoroughly indeed. In our view it is 
impossible to investigate a related-party transac-
tion in greater detail and furnish a more thorough 
expert opinion on it, than what has already been 
done in this regard. Accordingly, we discern no 
grounds whatever for any action for damages 
against any of the individuals who were involved 
in it at that time.  


An additional question from Mr. Weimann regard-
ing Ballroom International: On this specific page 
there are no write-downs. You told some other 
shareholder that a lawsuit was underway. In reply 
to my own questions you said that no enquiries 
are being made into the breaches committed in 
Turkey. There is a written report, but its name is 
not "Project Zero." What is Project Zero anyway? 
In general terms, was there any project with that 
name? If a written report was submitted, please 
give us at least a summary of its findings. What 
was the audit question and what was the audit 
outcome?  


Project Zero had to do with the breaches. But it 
was discontinued at once as soon as the breach-
es committed by the group's management came 
to light.  The outcome of this report was that the 
breaches at Ballroom were detected and were de-
leted in timely fashion from current bookkeeping 
records. In this connection there were no tainted 
sales figures, as we have stated repeatedly.  


Dr. Metzner: Question from Mr. Weimann con-
cerning 4.4: Here too, I again request specific 
numbers.   


4.4 – a reminder --: It seems that many Infoscreen 
customers are paying for the adverts with funds 
from their out-of-home media budgets. This in-
cludes conventional billboards. Is that true?  


Obviously we have no actual figures on this issue.  
It is up to our customers how they decide to allo-
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 85 


cate their media budgets among our different 
products.  


Schmalzl: An additional question from Mr. Wei-
mann from the second time he spoke.  With re-
spect to question 4.3 you objected that in this 
connection you would likewise be grateful if we 
provided the exact amounts involved. Are lease 
costs passed on to Infoscreen? What is the con-
ventional market practice in this regard.Just so 
everyone is aware of the background to question 
4.3: Does Infoscreen receive cross-subsidies from 
the regular billboard business by means of con-
cession payments for the video billboards? 
What's the situation regarding business contacts 
of Ströer Media GmbH and the German State 
Railways (Deutsche Bahn)? Are rental costs 
passed on as a whole to Infoscreen, so that rental 
costs reduce operational EBITDA of the digital 
business division?  


I shall repeat the question: Are rental costs 
passed on to Infoscreen? What is the conven-
tional market practice in this regard?  


In reply to this query we can likewise only repeat 
what we have already announced. Infoscreen re-
ceives no cross-subsidies from standard bill-
boards.  Rental costs are unambiguously allocat-
ed to individual projects. Consequently they are 
also unambiguously allocated to the firm con-
cerned.  


Müller: Mr. Weimann - - I mean Mr. Klein: Contri-
butions to political parties and so forth – a total of 
about  
€ 475,000 was donated to various causes. Aside 
from several beneficiaries, this amount basically 
comprises non-profit organizations, the German 
Sports Aid Foundation and Caritas [Roman Cath-
olic charity]. Any donations to political parties 
were negligible.  


Dr. Metzner: A follow-up question to Mr. Wei-
mann's query from the second time he spoke. 
This has to do with the control ratios, namely prof-
it earned per employee.   


According to you that is one of the core issues be-
ing dealt with here. You said basically that this ra-
tio is not relevant to Ströer. Perhaps not for 
Ströer, you say, but for many investors this ratio is 
quite relevant. It's not enough for you to refer to 
the ratios stated on pages 26 and 27 of the annu-
al report.  So in your opinion, the traditional pa-
rameter from a business management standpoint 


is profit per employee. Please be so kind as to 
provide the information in depth.  


Our reply is as follows: The Ströer Group's growth 
and the various company buy-outs related there-
to, as well as development of our sales force, 
naturally caused a sharp rise in staff. However, 
the favorable effects of the ensuing synergies and 
improvement in the sales structure were not im-
mediately reflected in the Group's consolidated 
earnings. However, I stress that we know that our 
Group's profit per employee actually did grow 
from 16,000 to 21,000. Accordingly, this business 
management ratio likewise grew considerably.  


Replying to Mr. Weimann's next question from his 
second intervention. In reply to question 5.5: I 
didn't hear the answer. Perhaps you failed to 
state it. Questions 5.6 and 5.7 are asked again by 
Mr. Weimann, but no comments/replies are pro-
vided. I remind you that it was about tax ratios. 


Low tax ratios resulted from various process im-
provements and structural changes in the firms in-
to which the Ströer Group is legally divided. The 
issues likely to arise in this connection were dis-
cussed with tax advisers and settled accordingly. 
No substantial risks are expected.   


For the next few years we expect the tax ratio to 
remain at its current low level. What we always 
say is that if we plan conservatively – and that is 
how we plan – in 2017 we expect to face a simi-
larly low tax ratio, but that will no longer apply in 
2018.  


Next question from Mr. Klein: Which were the five 
firms that generated the most losses in our com-
pany?Which were the five most profitable ones?   


The five firms that generated the most losses in 
2015 in terms of operational EBITDA by firm ac-
cording to IFRS were Ströer Media Deutschland 
GmbH, DSM Deutsche Städte Medien GmbH, 
Ströer Media SE, Deutsche Eisenbahnreklame 
GmbH and RZV Digital Medya A.S. 


Which were the five most profitable ones in 2015 
in terms of operational EBITDA by firm according 
to IFRS?  They were DSM Rechtegesellschaft 
GmbH, City Design Gesellschaft für Außenwer-
bung GmbH, Ströer Sales & Services GmbH, In-
foscreen GmbH and SRG Rechtegesellschaft 
GmbH. 


Mr. Weimann's question from his second inter-
vention. They dealt with: Why is the margin so
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 86 


large? You mentioned a few items: fixed costs, 
cost forecasts, etc. Here too, I have the impres-
sion that that was merely a random assortment of 
items from your managerial bag of tricks. Please 
be more specific, so that an interested bystander 
can form a picture for himself on the basis of reli-
able figures.  


It was about this Muddy Waters theme. The con-
text was Muddy Waters, how come the EBITDA 
margin was so unusually large.  


Our reply: We will gladly discuss the margin once 
more. The margin is so large because we rely on 
a sustainably profitable business model.   


As mentioned before, margins improved during 
the fiscal year for various reasons. For example, 
the product mix developed very favorably in the 
course of the year. On the other hand, our out-
doors advertising business is mostly driven by 
high fixed costs. That is a most decisive factor. 
Accordingly, the sharp rise in our sales in our out-
of-home Germany division, namely by 8.1%, con-
tributed to a marked improvement in margin. We 
always call it ... If you earn an additional euro, 
how much profit do you eventually wind up mak-
ing? Obviously in such an event your margin rises 
proportionally.   


Our Group also conducted a massive cost-cutting 
program, whose effects were felt quite strongly in 
2015.  


Müller: Question from Mr. Klein: You said the fee 
was paid at a flat rate. – This was because of 
Ströer Interactive again. -- Which flat-rate fees do 
you mean? For whom, and for how many people? 
What does the flat fee comprise for risk-covered 
services?   


I don't recall our having said that the fee was at a 
flat rate. However: As we already stated, fees ac-
cruing from our market entry into the online busi-
ness were as follows: Expenditure on due dili-
gence efforts for the market and finance - -  


(Klein: Excuse me, there must be some misun-
derstanding.  I meant the Freshfields flat fee.)  


-- Oh. We misunderstood that point. In that case 
we will have to ask the back-office again.  


(Klein: Oh, well, something like that can happen!) 


-- Not to worry. Four questions remain to be an-
swered. We are waiting for the result. We will ask 


the back-office about the flat fee. I was surprised 
– it was a misunderstanding. It's the query about 
how much Freshfields was paid.  


(Klein: Where wood is chopped, splinters must 
fall.)  


Schmalzl: I have an additional question – I got a 
tip/hint that seems to have slipped out unawares 
in the reply -- from Mr. Weimann. It had to do with 
question complex 1. The second time you spoke 
you repeated, "Reply to the questions I asked un-
der 1.1 and 1.2 bearing in mind your legal duties, 
reporting duties under the Securities Trading Act."  


This is the background, so everyone understands: 
Question 1.1 and question 1.2 were as follows: 
First question complex regarding share trading. 
Mr. Müller sold shares to Matthias Rumpelhardt, a 
business partner of Udo Müller, who used to be a 
managing director of Ströer. For several years 
this deal was not disclosed, not until Mr. Rumpel-
hardt sold the shares.  


1.1: Why did Mr. Rumpelhardt engage in this 
share purchase?  1.2: Leaving the legal aspects 
to one side, how come Mr. Müller waited so long 
to disclose this deal?  


In reply to question 1.2, you also said: Mr. Müller 
is on the podium. Please ask him directly how that 
came about. Otherwise the supervisory board will 
have to do it. He must ask why the board of man-
agement failed to comply with their lawful disclo-
sure duties. -- Then in the follow-up question you 
said: "Reply bearing in mind your reporting duties 
under the Securities Trading Act." 


We reiterate our reply that these questions refer 
to events in which the company did not partici-
pate.  Disclosure duties under the Securities 
Trading Act do not bind the company, but its 
shareholders instead.  In any event we insist that 
we are unable to answer the questions. Those 
are shareholder matters, not company matters.  


Müller: The question about the Freshfields fee 
was in reference to today, am I right, Mr. Klein?   


(Klein: I didn’t dare ask about the other thing! I 
want untroubled sleep tonight.  


-- We itemized the 2.5 million. Legal consulting 
fees came to € 600,000.  


(Klein: Today the notary will earn only 15,000!)
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 87 


Vilanek, Chairman: Now we have two answers 
left.  


Müller: Mr. Weimann: Regarding number 5 the 
answers will be couched in general terms. In reply 
to 5.1 you said current advertising rights, but we 
hadn't paid for them, we had paid no concession 
fees; instead we had won a tender. This is the 
first tender I've ever heard of where the winner 
need not pay. Please summarize for us the basic 
structure of the contract.  


As a rule, the winner of tenders in which the 
Ströer Group takes part – in this case it has to do 
with city-wide or quasi-city-wide advertising rights 
– pays no one-off fees. But in this case, as I had 
just explained, the 6.8 million in question, I think 
they were, that you were enquiring about, arose 
because the licensor failed to fulfill certain duties 
toward us.   


Because one thing is perfectly clear: When you 
pay a guaranteed rent, you can only earn enough 
to cover the rental amount if you always have a 
certain number of advertising panels at your dis-
posal.  Consequently, in every one of our outdoor 
advertising contracts we strive to make payments 
contingent upon a certain number of advertising 
panels, namely the number we consider neces-
sary in order to attain the revenue required to pay 
the rent.   


So if we pay a guaranteed rent in a certain 
amount, and at the end of the year it turns out 
that in the course of the year we did not have the 
required number of panels at our disposal, then 
we get paid.  


(Klein: The suspense is building up!) 


Legal consulting costs for today are € 20,000.  – 
Yes, 20,000 euros. No hourly rate is given.  
20,000 euros today.  So it has to be a flat fee.  


(Klein: I will be satisfied with not receiving a reply 
to my question, receiving only a partial reply to my 
question, if the legal consultant indicates to me 
that the question was not answered in its entirety.  
-- Too proud to do that!) 


I can say no more than that today's fee comes to 
€ 20,000.  


So we're finally getting into the home stretch, at 
least as far as this round of questions is con-
cerned. Mr. Weimann, regarding question 3.4: If I 
understood correctly, you are seeking only civil 


remedies. Why didn't you refer this matter to the 
public prosecutor's office, instead of merely going 
to the police? If you brought a civil action, I would 
be most grateful if you would inform us concisely 
what remedy you are seeking, for example dam-
ages, notional sums of 1 million, 100 million, who 
the defendant is, namely whether it is manage-
ment, or third parties or whoever.  


Question 3.4: Once Ströer had gathered the 
needed information in Turkey, did it go to the po-
lice or to the public prosecutor's office? Was a 
civil action brought? 


In all, in Turkey – this is the reply – currently 13 
court cases are pending, of which two are criminal 
cases and three are proceedings under labor law.  


Firstly criminal cases: A criminal case was 
brought against Orkun Tekin, the former manager 
of the digital companies in Turkey. After the public 
prosecutor's office suspended the proceedings, 
there was an appeal and the court allowed the 
case to proceed. No hearings have been sched-
uled, however.  


Civil cases: There are eight more civil cases 
against former manager Orkun Tekin and other 
former employees. Currently, claims for damages 
amount to 2.8 million Turkish pounds, that is, di-
vided by 3.5, or 3.3. – by 3.3. A little more than 
€700,000 is a ballpark figure. 2.8 million Turkish 
pounds are our total claims for damages in eight 
civil cases.  


Dr. Metzner: Mr. Weimann, the second time you 
spoke - - it was specifically about Evolution Me-
dia. At the time you were very insistent that we 
avoid all consolidating into lump sums. You 
thought it important for us to state specifically the 
sales attained there in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and 
how much profit was made.  


From the company's standpoint I can only tell 
about the time span when we controlled the com-
pany – which practically speaking started in Sep-
tember 2013, that's why 2014 and 2015 are each 
12 months long --, in 2014 our net sales accord-
ing to IFRS from Evolution Media including its 
subsidiary Click Motion were € 2.6 million, and we 
made a loss of € 0.4 million. In 2015 revenue was 
€0.3 million and the operating result was minus € 
0.1 million. In 2014, net profit was minus €1.2 mil-
lion, and in 2015 net profit was minus €0.2 million.   


As I said, we didn’t start consolidating Evolution 
Media until we bought it in September 2013.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 88 


So on grounds of comparability I can say nothing 
about January to August 2013. I just told you the 
figures for 2014 and 2015.  


Vilanek, Chairman: I observe that the second 
round of questions has now ended. Pursuant to 
the announcement, the list of speakers is accord-
ingly now closed. However, two persons have al-
ready asked to speak, namely Mr. Jonas Kiel and 
Mr. Martin Weimann.  


Dr. Weimann: Ladies and gentlemen, I will be 
brief.   


– I agreed with the chairman of the meeting and 
the notary that we will use this opportunity to ad-
dress you in order to put on the record the ques-
tions that in my opinion are still pending. I will do 
so now. I handed the notary a copy of the ques-
tions I asked here today for the record. I will now 
read them into the record. The chairmain of the 
meeting has waived their full reading, so we can 
go home. Would you please confirm that for the 
record?  


Vilanek, Chairman:  That was said and that is 
the case.  


Dr. Weimann: Mr. Notary, would you be so kind 
as to put on the record that the full reading has 
been waived?  


Mr. Notary, please take note of two changes to 
point 3.1.  


3.1 reads: "Was a written report on the investiga-
tion made?  (If not, why not?)"   


Please insert by hand:  "Please state the relevant 
information - -" 


(Notary Dr. Piehler: Where?) 


In question 3.1 after the parenthesis please in-
sert:  "Please state the relevant information and 
the approximate figures involved." 


(Notary Dr. Piehler: Okay!) 


Then:  "What is Project Zero?"   


(Notary Dr. Piehler: Do you want me to insert that 
here directly?) 


– That should be added on. So two sentences 
come after that. I just read out the first one, and 


the second sentence reads: "What is Project Ze-
ro?", to question 3.1 at the end.  


Question 3.4 reads: Once Ströer had gathered 
the needed information in Turkey, did it go to the 
police or the publíc prosecutor's office? – Now 
please add on:   


"Were court proceedings initiated, and what is the 
cause of action?"  Which are the amounts at is-
sue?"  


That refers to what I gave you. We have agreed 
that I will now dictate either question and that the 
back-office makes a sound recording of what I 
dictate. The language that I will now dictate shall 
be added to the notary's minutes.  


The question reads:   


"The company supposedly incurred transaction 
costs in the amount of € 2.5 million. The 
[dis]proportion to the transaction volume and the 
amount involved are questionable. What is the 
breakdown of this amount?  Please disclose for 
each project the client, the entity accepting the 
order (the firm [name] or the partner responsible), 
the topic of the expert opinion or the order, a 
summary of the outcome, and costs (amount and 
hourly rate). What was the background or the oc-
casion for each order? Please also state the rele-
vant information." 


End of the question.  – Next question – that is, in 
principle, what I already said once – :   


"Please record the following question: Mr. Müller, 
today you spoke several times of a family firm. 
You were saying something here about long-term 
commitment and a majority of the shares. Per-
haps those words were not completely accurate. 
The fact is that once the families had consolidated 
their hold on the partnership limited by shares 
(KGaA), they sold about € 480 million worth of 
shares. Is that true?  


(Notary Dr. Piehler: You just put that on the rec-
ord.)  


I just wanted to make sure, if the language is 
identical - -  


(Notary Dr. Piehler: Then read it aloud again, 
please.)  


"Is that true? Is that your long-term commitment? 
Are you really still loyal to the interests of the
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 89 


business, or are you instead taking advantage of 
the interests of the business as a method of dis-
tributing subsidies to your other businesses?"  


– End of the record.  Please delete from the ques-
tion the remainder of what is written there.  


Next the final question. This refers again to Com-
plex 2:   


"Have I understood correctly: You just told us that 
you could only buy out adscale together with oth-
er businesses, since it was too small by itself. 
Then you could think of nothing better than of 
scurrying to the major shareholder in order to buy 
the business from him. Having noticed that you 
obviously needed it urgently, he compelled you to 
buy freeXmedia as well, which you actually didn't 
want at all. That is not conclusive at all. It would 
be better to stick to a single version of your story. 
If the new version with the covenants is true, why 
didn't you mention it in your statement concerning 
the Muddy Waters report? I concede that it's not a 
bad yarn, but it loses credibility on account of the 
sequel. Which version is the right one? Kindly al-
so explain your grounds for switching stories." 


End of the question. – And those, ladies and gen-
tlemen, were some aspects worth thinking about. 
Mr. Müller, I would like to say the following words 
to bring the event to a close. We all acknowledge 
that this is a family firm, and likewise your per-
sonal competence.  


(Interjection: Mr. Müller isn't here!)  


– He'll hear it from the back-office. Failing that, I 
ask you, chairman of the meeting, to please tell 
him very clearly once again that at least I and the 
people, my clients, fully acknowledge that this is a 
family business.  We likewise acknowledge the 
work he performs. But a joint-stock company is 
not a farm. You are morally obligated to conduct 
yourself with greater transparency. Consequently, 
it is preferable to say too much than to say too lit-
tle.I have the impression that today the quality of 
the answers has improved, but much more could 
have been said.   


I appeal to you once more to release the speech 
in some form or other during the next week. If 
what is spoken differs from what is written, take 
the writing and write at the top of the page "The 
spoken version is the valid one, or that's the way 
it happened more or less. These are not core is-
sues. But the inquisitive public should be shown 
the main thread of the speech and the diagrams, 


especially since no journalists were present to-
day.  – Many thanks for your attentiveness.  


(Applause)  


Vilanek, Chairman:  Thank you very much, Mr. 
Weimann.  – Now I invite the last speaker, Mr. 
Jonas Kiel, to take the floor.  


Kiel: I too will try to be as brief as possible. Only 
three question marks are written on this slip of 
paper.  


The first one: I made the same deal with the nota-
ry as Mr. Weimann did. He received the ques-
tions. If that is okay, thank you.  


This collective transaction was mentioned once 
again. KPMG assessed it at € 98 million. I don't 
want to be petty, but a summary of KPMG's as-
sessment results concerning the much mentioned 
collective transaction is displayed on top of the 
desk where speakers must register. Firstly, this 
summary reveals that the assessment is based 
on unaudited figures and that their source was 
the management of the buyout firm.  Now my 
question: How come?  


In the second place, the summary states, or ra-
ther it mentions on page 7 that the joint planning 
calculation was made based on the individual 
plans of the companies included in the package. 
If that is the case, then it cannot be a very difficult 
task simply to announce the results for this 
freeXmedia company. On that basis it must be 
possible to establish some kind of number that 
enables us to say, OK, that part of the package 
was this freeXmedia. And then comes the other 
question, namely, why didn't you disclose the ex-
pert opinion, instead of providing just a vacuous 
summary. 


Thank you all very much, that is all I have to say. I 
wish you all a pleasant evening.  


(Applause)  


Vilanek, Chairman: Many thanks to the final 
speaker. We therefore reach the conclusion of the 
general debate, since I have closed the list of 
speakers.  – Mr. Klein. 


(Klein: Regarding the questions I put on the rec-
ord - - Klein walks over to the notary and talks 
with him.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 90 


For the public at large it is no secret: Mr. Klein fol-
lows the logic of his predecessor at the podium. 
Let's take a look at his questions over there. We 
will place them verbatim before him. Please make 
a check mark next to the ones that wind up on the 
record.  


(Klein: Please send me a copy of the notarial rec-
ord to my address for service that I am providing.) 


– Very well, so we'll take the indirect route.  


I thank all speakers for their words. Moreover I 
give thanks to the board of management of the 
general partner for her detailed replies to the 
questions and hereby close the debate with a fi-
nal question addressed to the CEO: are you of 
the opinion that the questions have been an-
swered comprehensively? 


Müller: Yes, I can attest to that in every respect. I 
think that in any case we answered most of the 
questions, it feels like five to ten times over.  





Vilanek, (Chairman): Then we will include that in 
the minutes as well. 





We will now proceed to vote on items 1 to 12 of 
the agenda. But please allow me to point some 
things out to you first: 





If you want to make use of your voting right, 
please do not leave or reenter this room … 





End of the general meeting: 9:30 p.m.
