Ira W. Sohn Investment Research Conference 
David Einhorn, Greenlight Capital, "Accounting Ingenuity" 
May 21,2008 


I appeared at this conference six years ago and joked that my wife, while trying to help me 
prepare my presentation of the Allied Capital analysis, had a hard time staying awake. 
This is pretty ironic, since the ensuing fallout from that speech has cost us a substantial 
amount of sleep. Over the past six years I have learned a lot and grown a little, and formed 
some strong views about Wall Street regulation and the muzzle it often places on free 
speech. 


I think that research conferences like these are important. Of course, this one is 
particularly worthy because it supports a great cause: The Tomorrows Children's Fund. 
Further, it is important for investors to discuss market information and analysis to help sort 
the good companies from the bad. But, there is a structural impediment in our financial 
markets that creates a massive disincentive to share research about companies doing bad 
things. 


I can fully understand why other investors might decline to appear in this forum or to share 
a critical analysis. Who could blame them? The cost is high (think lawyers here), it 
extracts an enormous personal toll, and there are better ways to raise money for a good 
charity. I have decided to persist because I believe it is important and the right thing to do. 


Since the Allied speech, I have developed a thicker skin. Back then, when Allied COO 
Joan Sweeney said that my "plan was to scare the little old ladies," it actually bothered me. 
When Holman Jenkins at The Wall Street Journal equated my presentation to a "mugging" 
-a violent crime- I was incensed because it wasn't fair. Now, when I read book 
reviewers of Fooling Some of the People All of the Time calling me nai:ve because of how I 
used to believe the system worked, I'm just happy if they like the book. 


The Allied experience gives me less confidence today than I had six years ago that the 
regulators are even trying to enforce rules to protect investors from dishonest public 
disclosures and outright lies by unscrupulous corporate managements. Maybe they are 
understaffed or too busy with other priorities. Maybe they are not as sophisticated or close 
enough to the issues. However, my experience leads me to fear that maybe they just don't 
care. 


In Fooling Some of the People All of the Time, I point out that the SEC is not enforcing the 
existing anti-fraud rules against corporate managements. I wonder if part of the reason 
Bear Stearns lost the market's confidence was a sense that Bear had undisclosed losses and 
that the SEC was not taking proper measures to ensure that Bear reported accurate 
financials. The large losses that JP Morgan has now acknowledged on Bear's books 
support this theory. The lack of confidence in the SEC's oversight ultimately undermines 
investor confidence. 


1 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBHI_SEC07940_336846
When I speak of investors I am including hedge fund managers. An author on 
Investopedia defined hedge funds as "lightly regulated, private investment funds that use 
unconventional investment strategies and tax shelters in an attempt to make extraordinary 
returns in any market ... these factors have given them a secretive and shady aura in the 
financial community." Forbes has called us "The Sleaziest Show on Earth." Basically, 
according to some in the media, elected officials, government regulators and individuals, 
hedge funds are really gambling operations amounting to ticking time bombs with secret 
plans to destroy the galaxy. Good thing they don't say what they really think. In truth, 
hedge fund managers at their core are simply investors. 


The SEC seems much more interested in whether investors share analysis, particularly 
critical analysis, of public filings rather than whether management teams made accurate 
public filings in the first place. The SEC seems more interested in whether investors 
discuss investments among themselves on private phone calls than in whether management 
teams make truthful statements on public conference calls. The SEC seems more likely to 
bring a case against an individual investor over a small crime than it is to prosecute a large 
corporation that fudges its numbers for years on end and pays out management bonuses in 
the millions based upon inflated accomplishments. 


Imagine what would happen if a whistle-blower made a detailed public presentation 
showing a hedge fund cooked its books. Under no circumstance would the immediate 
focus start by investigating the accuser. How long would it take for the SEC to arrive and 
how tirelessly would the media investigate and cover the story? What would the chance be 
that the SEC would take five years to find exactly the type of record keeping violations 
that were alleged in the first instance and, then, inflict no meaningful penalty on the 
offender? How likely is it that the SEC would permit additional sales of equity in that 
hedge fund to new investors? How likely is it that our most prestigious investment banks 
would line-up to introduce that hedge fund to new capital? 


Imagine if a hedge fund operated a unit that defrauded the SBA federal lending program 
out of millions of dollars- engaging in what the SBA inspector general would call "the 
largest fraud in SBA history." How long would that hedge fund be in business? 


Imagine if a hedge fund hired a private investigator to impersonate the spouse of a CEO 
and obtained his home and business telephone records. Imagine if after making loud, 
public denials, the hedge fund admitted to obtaining the records, but did not explain or 
apologize, or even return the stolen records, when requested. How long would it be before 
someone was arrested? 


Of course, I don't know of a hedge fund that has done these things. Everybody now knows 
that Allied Capital has. The Allied situation persists only because of lax regulatory 
enforcement and Wall Street's continued willingness to sell new shares to unsophisticated 
retail customers. 


2 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBHI_SEC07940_336847
The double standard is evident. And Allied Capital is a primary example. Three years 
before my speech, Allied Capital's CEO, Bill Walton, made the following statement in a 
magazine interview: 


Open and consistent accounting starts with an attitude of zero tolerance for 
improprieties. People need to see that people are rewarded for candor in 
reporting and punished for slipshod practices. The CEO really has to set the 
moral tone. Without that, nothing happens. 


There's enormous pressure on public companies to maintain quarterly 
earnings momentum, and it's probably growing worse. The bigger thing 
that firms get punished for are surprises, particularly negative ones. It's 
better to face up to bad facts and reporting the business as it is, rather than 
trying to hide things and make it far worse later on. 


If you develop a reputation for candor with securities analysts and investors, 
that's about the best you can do. At the end of the day, investors understand 
that building a business is not an uninterrupted, smooth road. First, you 
have to determine whether it's a systematic problem or a people problem. If 
there's a dishonest person involved, you get rid of the person. 


If Mr. Walton is correct, why is he still employed ... and making tens of millions? 


I want to go outside the usual format for this event and ask this audience by applause ... 
who agrees with me that there should be some significant consequence to the folks at 
Allied for what they have done? 


One of the key issues I raised about Allied six years ago was its improper use of fair value 
accounting, as it had been unwilling to take write-downs on investments that failed in the 
last recession. That issue has returned on a much larger scale in the current credit crisis. 


Recently, we had the CEO of a financial institution in our office. His firm held some 
mortgage bonds on its books at cost. The CEO gave me the usual story: The bonds are still 
rated AAA, they don't believe that they will have any permanent loss, and there is no 
liquid market to value these bonds. 


I responded, "Liar! Liar! Pants on Fire!" and proceeded to say that there was a liquid 
market for these bonds and they were probably worth 60-70% of face value at the time, 
and that only time will tell whether there will be a permanent loss. 


He surprised me by saying that I was right. He observed that if he said otherwise, the 
accountants would make them write the bonds down. 


The issue of the proper use of fair value accounting isn't about strict versus permissive 
accounting. The issue is that some entities have made investments that they believed 
would generate smooth returns. Some of these entities, like Allied, promised investors 


3 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBHI_SEC07940_336848
smoother earnings than the investments could deliver. The cycle has exposed the 
investments to be more volatile and in many cases less valuable than they thought. 


The decline in current market values has forced these institutions to make a tough decision. 
Do they follow the rules, take the write-downs and suffer the consequences whatever they 
may be? Or worse, do they take the view that they can't really value the investments in 
order to avoid writing them down? Or, even worse, do they claim to follow the accounting 
rules, but simply lie about the values? 


The turn of the cycle has created some tough choices. Warren Buffett has said, "You don't 
know who is swimming naked until the tide goes out." 


I do not believe the accounting is the problem. The creation ofF AS 157 and other fair 
value measures has improved disclosure, including the disclosure of Level 3 assets- those 
valued based upon non-observable- and in many cases subjective- inputs. This has 
helped investors better understand the financial positions of many companies. 


For entities that are not over-levered and have not promised smoother results than they can 
deliver, when the assets have fallen in market value, they can take the pain and mark them 
down. It doesn't force them to sell in a "fire-sale." If the market proves to have been 
wrong, the loss can be reversed when market values improve. For levered players, the 
effect of reducing values to actual market levels is that the pain is more extreme and the 
incentive to fudge is greater. 


With this in mind, I'd like to review Lehman Brothers' last quarter. Presently, Greenlight 
is short Lehman. Lehman was due to report its quarter two days after JP Morgan and the 
Fed bailed out Bear Stearns. At the time, there were a lot of concerns about Lehman, as 
demonstrated by its almost 20% stock price decline the previous day with more than 40% 
of its shares changing hands. In the quarter, bond risk spreads had widened considerably 
and equity values had fallen sharply. Lehman held a large and very levered portfolio. 


With that as the background, Lehman announced a $489 million profit in the quarter. On 
the conference call that day, Lehman CFO Erin Callan used the word "great" 14 times, 
"challenging" 6 times; "strong" 24 times, and "tough" once. She used the word 
"incredibly" 8 times. I would use "incredible" in a different way to describe the report. 
The Wall Street Journal reported that she received high fives on the Lehman trading floor 
when she finished her presentation. 


Twenty-two days after the conference call, Lehman filed its 10-Q for the quarter. In the 
intervening time, I had made a speech at the Grant's Spring Investment Conference where 
I observed that Lehman did not seem to have large exposure to CDOs. This was true 
inasmuch as Lehman had not disclosed significant CDO exposure. 


Let's look at the Lehman earnings press release (Table 1). Focus on the line "other asset 
backed-securities." You can see from the table that Lehman took a $200 million gross 
write-down and has $6.5 billion of exposure. 


4 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBHI_SEC07940_336849
Now let's look at page 56 ofthe 10-Q (Table 2). See that same exposure of$6.5 billion. 


5 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBHI_SEC07940_336850
Now let's look at the footnote 1 of the table, explaining Other asset-backed securities: 


The Company purchases interests in and enters into derivatives with 
collateralized debt obligation securitization entities ("CDOs"). The CDOs 
to which the Company has exposure are primarily structured and 
underwritten by third parties. The collateralized asset or lending obligations 
held by the CDOs are generally related to franchise lending, small business 
finance lending, or consumer lending. Approximately 25% of the 
positions held at February 29, 2008 and November 30, 2007 were rated 
BB+ or lower (or equivalent ratings) by recognized credit rating 
agencies ... [emphasis added] 


Last week, Lehman's CFO and corporate controller confirmed that the whole $6.5 billion 
consisted of CDOs or synthetic CDOs. Ms. Callan also confirmed that the 1 0-Q 
presentation was the first time that Lehman had disclosed the existence of this CDO 
exposure. This is after Wall Street spent the last half year asking, "Who has CDOs?" 
Incidentally, I haven't seen any Wall Street analysts or the media discuss this new 
disclosure. 


I asked them how they could justify only a $200 million write-down on any $6.5 billion 
pool of CDOs that included $1.6 billion of below investment grade pieces. Even though 
there are no residential mortgages in these CDOs, market prices of comparable structured 
products fell much further in the quarter. Ms. Callan said she understood my point and 
would have to get back to me. In a follow-up e-mail, Ms. Callan declined to provide an 
explanation for the modest write-down and instead stated that based on current price 
action, Lehman "would expect to recognize further losses" in the second quarter. Why 
wasn't there a bigger mark in the first quarter? 


Now, I'd like to put up Lehman's table ofLevel3 assets (Table 3). I want you to look at 
the column to the far right while I read to you what Ms. Callan said about this during the 
Q&A on the earnings conference call on March 17. 


[A]t the end of the year, we were about 38.8 [billion] in total Level 3 assets. 
In terms of what happened in Level 3 asset changes this quarter, we had net 
sort of payments, purchases, or sales of 1. 8 billion. We had net transfers in of 
1.1 billion. So stuff that was really moved in or recharacterized from Level 2. 
And then there was about 875 million of write-downs. So that gives you a 
balance of38,682 as ofFebruary 29. 


As you can see, the table in the 10-Q does not match the conference call. There is no 
reasonable explanation as to how the numbers could move like this between the conference 
call and the 10-Q. The values should be the same. If there was an accounting error, I don't 
see how Lehman avoided filing an 8-K announcing the mistake. Notably, the 10-Q 
changes somehow did not affect the income statement, as there must have been other 
offsetting adjustments somewhere in the financials. 


6 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBH I_ SEC07940 _ 336851
When I asked them about this, Lehman said that between the conference call and the 10-Q 
they did a detailed analysis and found, "the facts were a little different." 


I want to concentrate on the $228 million of realized and unrealized gains Lehman 
recognized in the quarter on its Level 3 assets. There is a $1.1 billion discrepancy between 
what Ms. Callan said on the conference call- an $875 million loss- and the table in the 
1 0-Q, which shows a $228 million gain. 


I asked Lehman, "My point blank question is: Did you write-up the Level 3 assets by over 
a billion dollars sometime between the press release and the filing of the 10-Q?" They 
responded, "No, absolutely not!" 


However, they could not provide another plausible explanation. Instead, they said they 
would review the piece of paper Ms. Callan used on the call and compare it to the 1 0-Q 
and get back to me. In a follow-up e-mail, Lehman offers that the movement between the 
conference call and the 1 0-Q is "typical" and the change reflects "re-categorization of 
certain assets between Level2 and Level 3." I don't understand how such transfers could 
have created over a $1.1 billion swing in gains and losses. 


Others have asked Lehman about the large write-up in Level 3 corporate equities. It is 
hard to imagine, without a clear explanation, how an $8.4 billion portfolio gained $722 
million during a period when the S&P fell 10%. This is particularly odd since about one-
quarter of this bucket is Archstone-Smith, a multi-family REIT that Lehman says it wrote-
down by a sizable, but undisclosed, amount. 


7 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBHI_SEC07940_336852
Lehman had told others that it booked a large gain as a result of a pre-IPO financing round 
that was completed on a power company investment in Asia. The company in question 
was KSK Energy Ventures Limited, a power development company that operates three 
small power plants. According to Lehman, it booked a $400-$600 million unrealized gain 
on the investment in the first quarter. 


Ms. Callan told me that during the first quarter "a new party" came in and completed a pre-
IPO round in February at a much higher valuation than Lehman paid. She said Lehman 
valued the stake at a 30% discount to where the new party came in to reflect the restricted 
securities Lehman held. 


KSK Energy Ventures filed a draft red herring prospectus in India on February 12, 2008 
that revealed a different set of facts. Lehman had made an initial $112 million investment 
in KSK Electricity Financing in November 2005. The company completed a restructuring 
on January 20, 2008, through which Lehman sold its original investment for a gain of 
about $65 million and concurrently purchased about one-third of KSK Energy Ventures for 
$86.5 million. The only other significant shareholder, KSK Energy Limited, owns 65% of 
the remaining equity and did not contribute capital during this round. 


I confronted them with the evidence that there was no subsequent round and that Lehman 
was the lead, if not the only, investor in the January restructuring. Suddenly, the story 
changed. 


Management responded that it was "not sure" if Lehman was the lead on the round. It took 
what it "thought was the most conservative approach at the time and the low end of what 
all those data points produced." Management followed-up in an e-mail stating that in 
February it had "revalued" its January investment based on a variety of analyses including 
an expected pre-IPO round, a DCF analysis, forward EBITDA multiples, comparable 
companies and a third-party research report. 


One of my partners remarked, "This seems like one helluva power plug!" 


Additionally, during the quarter Lehman marked down its non-Level 3 mortgage assets by 
an average of 7%. You can see on the table that it marked down the Level 3 mortgages by 
$750 million, or only 3%. Though Lehman says that about 20% of the Level 3 mortgage 
assets are in markets that did better, such as Asia, they also contain many of the lowest 
quality assets including below investment grade residual interests, investment grade and 
below investment grade MBS and all of the subprime exposure. 


In the real world, illiquid assets carry a discount. In the current melee the opposite seems 
true: illiquid assets are more valuable because it is easier to convince the accountants that 
they have not declined in value compared to liquid assets where there is more transparent 
pricing data. 


Lehman had $39 billion of exposure to commercial mortgages at the end of the year. The 
index of AAA CMB S declined about 10% in the quarter. Lower rated bonds fell even 


8 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBHI_SEC07940_336853
further. Since Lehman's portfolio is less than AAA, it would seem its write-down 
probably should have been more than 10 points. Lehman wrote its exposure down less 
than 3 points gross. 


Part of the commercial mortgage exposure is a venture called Sun Cal, where Lehman is a 
lender and equity investor. SunCal is a large land developer, principally in California's 
Inland Empire. This is one of the hardest hit housing markets in the country. A number of 
publicly-traded home builders have written land holdings in this area down to pennies on 
the dollar. Lehman has not disclosed a material charge on its SunCal investment. 


Recently, Lehman analysts have been cutting second quarter estimates due to "hedge 
ineffectiveness." According to Lehman, hedges that mitigated the gross losses previously 
are now reversing faster than the assets Lehman owns. It seems to me that the hedge 
ineffectiveness might reflect Lehman more aggressively recognizing the gains on its 
hedges than the losses on its assets in prior periods. 


At the Grant's Conference, before Lehman filed its 10-Q, I argued that if you assumed 
Lehman's balance sheet was accurate, it needed to de-lever and raise capital. Now, I 
believe the need is much greater. 


My hope is that Mr. Cox and Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson will pay heed to the risks to 
the financial system that Lehman is creating and that they will guide Lehman toward a 
recapitalization and recognition of its losses- hopefully before federal taxpayer assistance 
is required. 


For the last several weeks, Lehman has been complaining about short-sellers. Academic 
research and our experience indicate that when management teams do that, it is a sign that 
management is attempting to distract investors from serious problems. 


I think that there is enough evidence to show how Lehman answered the difficult question 
as to whether to tell the truth and suffer the consequences or not. This raises the question, 
though, of what incentive do corporate managers have to fully acknowledge bad news in a 
truthful fashion? 


For the capital markets to function, companies need to provide investors with accurate 
information rather than whatever numbers add up to a smooth return. If there is no penalty 
for misbehavior- and, in fact, such behavior is rewarded with flattering stories in the 
mainstream press about how to handle a crisis -we will all bear the negative consequences 
over time. At a minimum, what message does this send to some of Lehman's competitors 
that probably didn't have problems quite as acute as Lehman, but who took sizable write-
downs, and diluted their shareholders with significant equity raises? 


Now, given my experience with Allied and the SEC, I have no expectation that Lehman 
will be sanctioned in any material way for what we believe it has done. I suspect that some 
of the authorities applaud Lehman's accounting ingenuity. 


9 


FOIA CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED 
BY LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC. 


LBHI_SEC07940_336854
