5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 1/10


David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job
Jun. 13, 2008 4:05 AM ET10 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


The New York Times business section has disgraced itself three times in less than three
weeks with its coverage of Fairfax Financial (FFH) and the David Einhorn/Lehman
Brothers (LEH) dust up. Regarding the latter, I posted this response to guest blogger Prof.
Steven Davidoff on the NYT Dealbook blog, and below want to rebut the hatchet job
written by Louise Story last week, “Lehman Battles An Insurgent Investor”.


Gretchen Morgenson’s “analysis” of Fairfax was completely wrong, but at least she
attempted to examine Fairfax’ exposures, balance sheet, future prospects, etc. In contrast,
Story’s article didn’t even attempt to address the important issues: instead, it was tabloid
journalism at its worst (with an inane boxing marquee graphic to boot!).


The story here is not David Einhorn vs. Erin Callan or Lehman. It’s whether one of the
largest financial institutions in the world (with $786 billion on both sides of its balance
sheet as of the end of Q1) – a firm that we now know is de facto backstopped by the U.S.
government (and U.S. taxpayers) – is dangerously overlevered and underreserved, with a
great deal of toxic waste on its balance sheet, about which it’s deceiving investors and
regulators.


Einhorn, a highly respected and successful investor, publicly shared his detailed analysis
of Lehman at the Ira Sohn conference last month and then made a transcript of his
speech widely available (I’ve posted it here; his comments on Lehman begin on page 4).
Many investors obviously think his analysis is correct, so why didn’t Ms. Story’s article
explore his arguments, present contrary opinions from the company or elsewhere, and
really educate its readers on the substantive issues here?


For example, why didn’t Ms. Story ask Lehman why it didn’t disclose that it had $6.5 billion
of exposure to CDOs until it slipped this inconvenient fact into a footnote in its Q1 10-Q,
and why it has only reserved a mere $200 million (3.1%) against this $6.5 billion of
exposure (25% of which is rated below investment grade and is likely worthless)?


Why didn’t she explore how Lehman could possibly have had $695 million of unrealized
gains in its corporate equities in Q1 – a quarter in which every major index in the world
was down substantially (the S&P 500 was down 9.5%, etc.), and when in the previous four
quarters combined, Lehman had a total of $275 million in unrealized gains?



https://seekingalpha.com/article/80311-fairfax-financial-anatomy-of-a-hatchet-job

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LEH

https://seekingalpha.com/article/80997-nyt-smears-david-einhorn-again

http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/04/business/04lehman.html

http://www.tilsonfunds.com/EinhornIraSohn08.pdf
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 2/10


Why didn’t she try to reconcile the $1.1 billion discrepancy in Level 3 assets between what
Lehman said in its Q1 conference call vs. what it reported later in its 10-Q?


Einhorn raised a number of important questions like these, which Lehman is not
answering, which is what’s causing many investors to believe that Lehman might be
fudging its books – and if it is, what else are they fudging? Why didn’t Ms. Story pursue
this? Does she not have the expertise to understand these issues? Or was it laziness? Or
the pressures of a deadline? Or a belief that all short sellers are evil?


I saw Dan Rather interview Scott McClellan this week at the 92nd Street Y and, when
Rather asked him about the role of the press in the run-up to the Iraq War, McClellan said
“they were complicit enablers...they fell down on the job.”


Right then, it struck me: his comment exactly describes regulators and the mainstream
business media in recent cases of bubbles (internet, then housing/debt/mortgage) and
corporate fraud/malfeasance. Jim Chanos blew the whistle on Enron, but did anyone pay
attention? Bill Ackman nailed MBIA and Ambac five years ago, but nobody did anything
(they ended up blowing themselves up). All sorts of people warned about the dangerous
housing/mortgage bubble, but Greenspan and the Feds not only didn’t do anything to stop
it, but actively interfered with states’ efforts to stop widespread obvious abuses and
exploitation. Finally, Mr. Einhorn documents in excruciating detail in his new book how he
discovered all sorts of damning things about Allied Capital (which we’re short), publicly
shared his findings (all of which have proven to be correct to the best of my knowledge),
yet all he got for his trouble was endless attacks, not only from the company (that’s to be
expected), but the press and, worst of all, regulators, who subpoenaed and harassed him
for a long, long time.


Einhorn much be feeling a great deal of déjà vu right now. For having the temerity to
publicly share his detailed, insightful and as-yet-unrebutted analysis of Lehman, the media
is yet again by and large doing a very poor job reporting this story, making it seem like a
he-said-she-said pissing contest rather than an extremely important and serious matter.


I’d like to go through Ms. Story’s article very carefully, pointing out its obvious bias and
numerous misleading and/or inaccurate statements:


1) For eight months now, Mr. Einhorn, a rabble-rousing hedge fund manager, has pilloried
the venerable Lehman Brothers in an effort to drive down the bank’s stock price, which he
is betting against.
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 3/10


Rabble-rousing? Pilloried? To see what a smear this is, consider that Ms. Story could have
written the sentence as follows: ”Mr. Einhorn, a well respected and highly successful
hedge fund manager who has compounded at more than 25% net over more than ten
years, first shared his skeptical analysis of Lehman Brothers, in which he has a short
position, last November at an investment conference and did so again two weeks ago at
another conference.”


2) Lehman Brothers is not amused.


This sentence implies that Einhorn views this as a game. In fact he’s been completely
serious and analytical, and has made no personal attacks or inflammatory statements. It
could have been written: “Lehman Brothers is struggling to respond to the issues Mr.
Einhorn has raised.”


3) Mr. Einhorn, who runs a $6 billion hedge fund called Greenlight Capital, has been
profiting from the Lehman’s growing pain.


How about: “Mr. Einhorn’s short position has been profitable to date, as Lehman’s stock
has declined in part due to issues Mr. Einhorn has raised publicly.”


4) Critics say he is needlessly fanning fears about the precarious health of the financial
industry at the very moment executives are struggling to stabilize their ailing companies.


Who are these critics? If Ms. Story wanted to include this sentence, then she should have
gotten someone on the record. And what does she mean by the word “needlessly”? Does
she mean “incorrectly”? If so, she should have been clear exactly what the critics said was
incorrect about Einhorn’s analysis. Or was her point that his analysis is correct, but he
(and everyone else) should just keep quiet about it? This is nonsensical, of course. If
Lehman is, in fact, dangerously overleveraged and inadequately capitalized, then it’s a
real public service Einhorn is doing to point out the truth, which appears to be leading
Lehman to raise more capital, since the U.S. taxpayer is likely on the hook if Lehman
blows up!


5) Many on Wall Street still wonder if hedge funds like Greenlight helped bring down Bear
Stearns and spread false rumors about the bank, a possibility the Securities and
Exchange Commission is investigating.


This is a despicable smear of Einhorn, as it insinuates (without naming single person of
the “many on Wall Street”) that Greenlight was involved with the spreading of false rumors
which in turn brought down Bear, and practically calls for an SEC investigation of
Greenlight. While I’m sure some jokers spread rumors for profit, Einhorn is exactly the
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 4/10


opposite: he stands up publicly, in front of hundreds (if not thousands) of people and the
media, and clearly and openly lays out his critique, giving the company every opportunity
to rebut his analysis. (The fact that Lehman doesn’t do so speaks volumes.)


6) Mr. Einhorn, fresh from his latest round of television appearances…


Oh please – this makes it seem like Einhorn is a publicity seeking media hound. As
someone who appears on television or is quoted in a newspaper almost daily, I know
something about this and Einhorn is no publicity seeking media hound – he’s usually the
opposite of this. He’s simply doing a lot of media appearances because of his new book,
not because of Lehman.


7) Mr. Einhorn said he began betting against Lehman’s stock last July, and he has been
right so far. But things have not always gone his way. His long battle against the Allied
Capital Corporation prompted the S.E.C. to investigate comments he had made about that
company, an episode he discusses in his new book, “Fooling Some of the People All of
the Time,” which he is busy promoting. And he was a board member and longtime fan of
the New Century Financial Corporation, a big subprime mortgage company that filed for
bankruptcy last year.


Ms. Story fails to mention Einhorn’s spectacular long-term track record and instead
highlights his single worst investment ever. Is that good journalism?


8) Mr. Einhorn instigated the latest dive in Lehman’s stock price two weeks ago when he
encouraged other investors to short the stock at a large conference in New York.


This is flat out wrong. I was there and also read the transcript and Einhorn did not
encourage anyone to short Lehman. Instead, like every speaker at the conference (most
of whom had long ideas), he simply laid out his analysis and disclosed his position.


9) Ms. Callan, 42, spent an hour on the phone with Mr. Einhorn answering questions
before his speech. Afterwards, she found herself rebutting some of his assertions to
investors.


This is more biased writing, as it makes it seem like Einhorn didn’t listen to or didn’t care
what Callan had to say. This could have been written: “Mr. Einhorn spoke with Ms. Callan
for more than an hour before his recent speech, raising the concerns he had and giving
her the opportunity to address them. As he noted in his speech, he did not find her
answers persuasive – a view apparently shared by many other investors based on the
many phone calls Ms. Callan has been receiving.”



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/EinhornIraSohn08.pdf
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 5/10


10) But hours before his speech two weeks ago, trading volume exploded for Lehman
stock puts, which are options to sell the stock and profit if its falls. That day, more than
200,000 put contracts against Lehman were sold, up 49 percent from recent typical
Lehman put trading.


Without any further elaboration, Ms. Story’s obvious insinuation is that Greenlight was
doing the trading or that Einhorn and/or the organizers of the conference leaked the
content of his speech to others in advance. Does Ms. Story have evidence of this? Did
she ask Einhorn about this? If not, why? If so, why didn’t she include what I’m sure was a
categorical denial? I suspect that one or more investors/traders guessed that Einhorn
might raise more troubling issues about Lehman in his speech – this wouldn’t have been
very hard, given that this is the stock he spoke about at the Value Investing Congress in
November, his well-deserved reputation for persistence, and the many new developments
around Lehman.


11) Within Lehman, workers are calling Mr. Einhorn’s strategy “short and distort.”


If Ms. Story was going to write this, why didn’t she also get a quote from any number of
people who could have said something like: “Within the hedge fund community, Lehman’s
strategy is known as ‘lie, cry and deny’”?


12) “His position on shorting Lehman is only going to get traction and be successful if he
can succeed in convincing people to drive down the stock,” said Michael Claes, a
managing director at the public relations firm Burson-Marsteller. “That’s best accomplished
with media exposure.”


I have three comments on this ridiculous quote:


1. Why might Burson-Marsteller say this? Could it be because they’re a big PR firm that
represents big corporations? Might they someday want to represent Lehman or other
big financial firms???;


2. Was Michael Claes in any way qualified to make this comment? Had he analyzed
Lehman’s balance sheet, 10-Q, etc.? Had he even read Einhorn’s speech? I’d bet my
last dollar that the answer to these questions is no; and


3. Claes shows zero understanding of the market. No short seller is capable of driving a
large-cap, widely followed stock down to any material degree for any meaningful
amount of time by simply giving a speech or appearing on TV with a bear case for the
stock. (This is also true, by the way, in the 1,000x more common cases of someone
touting a stock on the long side.) I’m sure some can point to a few exceptions, by my
experience and observation is that the only way anyone can have a meaningful impact
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 6/10


on a stock, regardless of how much publicity they get, is if their analysis is previously
unknown to the market and becomes widely believed, which in most cases means it’s
correct. That’s why Einhorn’s short thesis on Lehman is probably somewhat
responsible for the weakness in the stock – nobody has rebutted the accuracy of a
single thing he’s said! That’s also why Doug Kass’s widely publicized short thesis on
Berkshire Hathaway might have had a tiny impact on the stock dipping from $135,000
to $123,000 in the first half of last month, but then the stock quickly rebounded –
because his thesis was wrong (in our opinion).


13) Mr. Hintz of Sanford Bernstein said in a report on Monday that supporters of Mr.
Einhorn’s latest arguments are “piling on” against Ms. Callan.


When many different investors all recommend buying, say, Exxon, does anyone say
they’re “piling on”?


14) And Buckingham Research Group said his concerns were “just wrong.”


If Ms. Story was going to quote Buckingham Research’s very strong opinion, why didn’t
she quote them saying exactly what is “just wrong”? Again, the silence speaks volumes...


15) “These recent criticisms also seem will-timed to take advantage of the market’s
concern around weak second-quarter results that we expect for Lehman,” the Buckingham
analysts wrote in a report.


This is nonsense. Einhorn didn’t control the timing of the Ira Sohn conference – and he
was publicly critical of Lehman nearly six months beforehand.


16) Lehman, like its counterparts, is racing to use less leverage. The bank had a gross
leverage ratio of 31.7:1 at the end of the first quarter, meaning it had borrowed $31.70 for
each dollar of equity. Lehman has whittled that ratio down to 25:1 through its more than
$100 billion in asset sales, said the person close to the company who was given
anonymity because he was discussing a pending financial filing. A small amount of the
sales were to two hedge funds set up by former Lehman executives.


That last sentence sure caught my eye – can you say “Raptor”? It could be nothing, but
given that Lehman is “racing to use less leverage”, it certainly warrants further
investigation – which Ms. Story neglects to do.


17) Mr. Einhorn likes to point out that Lehman’s management has incentives to be positive
since compensation is tied to performance. Short sellers, he said, receive undue
skepticism, and he said he thought he would be getting far less attention if he were
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 7/10


Comments (10)


discussing a positive view on a company.


At last, buried deep at the end of the article, is a statement representing Einhorn’s
perspective. Sorry, but this is much too little, much too late to salvage a terrible piece of
“journalism.”


Disclosure: Funds I manage are short Lehman and I know David Einhorn and know
that he is an exceptionally high-grade person and investor.


 Like this article


uninvested
This was suggested to me as "a good article on the press, the public, understanding and reality." It has delivered, on
all points. Thank you for the demonstration of meaningful journalism amidst the floatsam.


13 Jun 2008, 05:36 AM


jimsep
It has been my observation, over a long period of time, that short sellers do much more inciteful analysis of financial
statements than anyone else, which makes them right more than the rest of us. They face an array of emotional
adversaries, starting with management, who first run to the SEC, investment bankers who run to the company's
defence, and PR firms who know absolutely nothing, as cited in this article. My hat's off to Mr Einhorn.


13 Jun 2008, 10:31 AM


Fish Gone Bad
Let's let the market decide. Buy (or short) Greenlight capital (GLRE). And not to let a potentially great opportunity slip
away, Buy (or short) Proshares Tr. Ultrashort Financials (AMEX: SKF).<br> 
<br> 
My bet is on Einhorn.<br> 
<br> 
Friday 6/13/2008 looked like a distribution day to me. I am thinking that Monday 6/16/2008 will be a brutal day for LEH
and the markets in general.


14 Jun 2008, 01:18 AM


blanco-dee
I admit there are better analysts than the in-bred crew who rule the stock world. However, I believe even a blind
squirrel finds some nuts from time to time, and in a financial market where lies and obfuscation by leading
international financial concerns continue to drive dollars into pennies, there are many more nuts out there,



https://seekingalpha.com/user/209617

https://seekingalpha.com/user/96014

https://seekingalpha.com/user/192252

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/glre

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/skf

https://seekingalpha.com/user/190440
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 8/10


squirreled away. Friday's enthusiasm for financials might just be more of the same old "buy on the rumour - sell on the
news"


I promise to steal Einhorn's book - it is not worth a dime.


Death to Bin Laden!


14 Jun 2008, 11:38 AM


ContraHour, Contributor
This week's most anticipated showdown was a complete mismatch. After defending themselves for months against
charges by David Einhorn that the firm was undercapitalized and aggressive in 
its accounting, Lehman's management announced this week the firm would lose more than $2 billion and needed to
raise an additional $6 billion in capital.


Turns out Lehman's CFO, Erin Callan, was set up as a mouthpiece for Lehman's dastardly CEO Dick Fuld right from
the start. David Einhorn understood Lehman's balance sheet better than CFO Callan ever did. And is it any wonder.
Callan admitted in an April interview with Portfolio magazine that she had no "accounting background."


Which makes you wonder why she was chosen for the difficult job just six months ago? Unless, of course, CEO Dick
needed someone naïve and inexperienced to help hide the ugly truth of LEH's balance sheet as long as possible. On
Thursday, CEO Dick "demoted" Callan from CFO back to the rank-and-file, essentially throwing "Wall Street's Most
Powerful Woman" under the bus. So Einhorn wins this round, with an assist from Fuld.


16 Jun 2008, 07:29 AM


fxtrader07
funny that you condem the hatchet job but do the exactly the sma ewith respect to the Monoliners. Perhaps you start
cleaning up your own closet besides (rightfully!) picking at other hatchet-jobbers?


16 Jun 2008, 07:41 AM


MEbbel
This article does an excellent job going tit-for-tat with the NYT's trash.


I'm happily long GLRE. Einhorn's book, although long and detailed, is an excellent contribution to the canon of Value
Investing literature.


To FxTrader07, the Monoline business is fundamentally flawed. Whitney and Bill have articulated this well over time.
Moody's and S&P are both re-rating a large portion of the government issues upwards. This will decrease the need
for the "bond insurance" that is supposedly provided by MBIA, Ambac, etc. I'll ask you two simple questions about
those businesses:  
1. How can a business be AAA if its existence relies on it being AAA? Without that rating the business is not relevant. 
2. How can an insurance business write insurance on hundreds of billions of dollars, but be unable to sustain a loss of
even 2% without going out of business? Few businesses are that accurate in their underwriting, and it is that easy to
so accurately underwrite the insurance, the policy probably isn't that necessary in the first place.


16 Jun 2008, 12:20 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/contrahour

https://seekingalpha.com/user/107326

https://seekingalpha.com/user/211174
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 9/10


fxtrader07
@MEbbel: Warren Buffet doesn't think the business model is flawed - provided of course, you avoid to insure toxic
waste with way too little premiums. or else he would not have set up his own Muni-bond insurer, right? In fact, the
model may be all the more valid now that the rating agencies are facing the very real threat of getting obsolete
themselves. 
That being said Mr einhorn is certainly a highly controversial guy. Apart from 'value investing' he has and had his
hands in a lot of rather questionable activties helped by the vast media network run by his buddy cramer. I sincerely
hope that the SEC will really dig deep into the demise opf bear stearns and will turn every stone there is. Maybe, Mr
Einhorn will come out clean from this. But maybe he will not. 
The SEC and Congress really need to kill the pratice of naked shorting once and for all and really quick. 
So far, however, the SEC turns a blind eye on naked shorting - with the absurd reasoning that 'the problem is too
large to be fixed' (sic!).  
That the world's largest financial market is seemingly unable (unwilling) to even arrange for the most basic
precondition of proper market functioning: i.e. delivery of goods (stocks) bought and sold is a shame and is absurd.
And it may well be one of the reasons behind the 'investing' success of men like Einhorn.


01 Jul 2008, 04:23 AM


homogenik
Mr Tilson


Im now reading this again and want to thank you for your insight. I should also disclose that I went through both
recent book and David Einhorns with a fine tooth comb and agree that Mr Einhorn was cold and analytical never
inflammatory with respect to his analysis of Lehman. Yourself, Mr Einhorn and Chanos do a great public service


07 Aug 2009, 02:41 PM


AaronBrown
This excellent column stands on its own, but just to gild the lily, here is what the New York Times is saying today, only
two years late:


<< By [examiner Anton Valukas'] reckoning, Lehman managed to “shed” about $39 billion from its balance sheet at
the end of the fourth quarter of 2007, $49 billion in the first quarter of 2008 and $50 billion in the second quarter. At
that time, Lehman sought to reassure the public that its finances were fine — despite pressure from short-sellers. >>


Um, how about, "At that time Lehman talked us into smearing the guy who was telling us this stuff in time to do
something about it."


<< Executives, including Herbert McDade, who was known internally as the firm’s “balance sheet czar,” seemed
aware that repeatedly using Repo 105 was disguising the true health of the investment bank. “I am very aware ... it is
another drug we r on,” he wrote in an April 2008 e-mail cited by the examiner’s report. >>


In April, for internal consumption, it's a "drug" to window dress the balance sheet. In June, for the public, Einhorn is a
sleazy short seller trying to harass a sound firm into bankruptcy.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/107326

https://seekingalpha.com/user/177197

https://seekingalpha.com/user/600537
5/23/2018 David Einhorn/Lehman Brothers: Another NYT Hatchet Job - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (:LEH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/81205-david-einhorn-lehman-brothers-another-nyt-hatchet-job 10/10


Why isn't the Times calling these people and asking, "Do you stand by the statements you made to us two years ago,
in light of these emails?" They wouldn't get an answer, but it's a question that should be asked. Is there a journalistic
ethic to protect an anonymous source, if the source lied?


11 Mar 2010, 10:20 PM
