5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 1/9


Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience
Sep. 11, 2012 1:21 PM ET8 comments
by: The GeoTeam


Investors who were long Audience (NASDAQ:ADNC) and ignored, or were unaware of,
the "boiler plate" risk factors in ADNC filings just saw their investments get demolished in
the Sept. 7, 2012, trading session. The stock fell $11.96, or 63.4%, to close at $6.90
when it announced in a press release that Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) would no longer use its
processor in its next-generation phones. The release stated:


Audience sells processors and licenses its processor IP to Apple Inc. and certain of
its subsidiaries (collectively, OEM) for inclusion in the OEM's mobile phones
pursuant to a Master Development and Supply Agreement (MDSA). Pursuant to a
statement of work under the MDSA, amended in March 2012, Audience developed
and licensed a new generation of processor IP for use in the OEM's devices.
However, the OEM is not obligated to use Audience's processor IP.


Audience now believes that it is unlikely that the OEM will enable Audience's
processor IP in its next generation mobile phone. Audience is not aware of any
intended changes by this OEM to its use of Audience's processors or processor IP in
prior generations of the OEM's mobile phones.


Rating downgrades before the morning bell by some "respected" analysts only added fuel
to the fire. But we believe this fire is far from being tamed and the stock will continue to
trade lower.


ADNC shareholders should be furious that analysts did not see the AAPL news coming, or
that the company was not more proactive in telegraphing it as a high probability event. On
July 26, 2012, ADNC disseminated its 2012 second-quarter financial press release, its first
earnings release since going public on May 10, 2012.


In its 2012 second-quarter 10-Q filed on Aug. 7, 2012, ADNC sneaked in a risk factor
disclosure on page 13 that mentioned that it was named in a patent infringement lawsuit.
More interestingly, the suit made reference to "our OEM" as also being involved in the suit,
but failed to specifically mention who the OEM was, which we will soon show is AAPL.


On July 3, 2012, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by a company called NoiseFree.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ADNC

http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/news.html?d=10004389

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL

http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/news.html?d=263616

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1201663/000119312512340640/0001193125-12-340640-index.htm
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 2/9


On July 3, 2012, Noise Free Wireless, Inc. filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California against one of our OEMs and against us. The
complaint:


alleges that our products infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,742,790 held by Noise Free
Wireless and that our OEM infringes the same patent based on its alleged use of
our products
alleges that we misappropriated Noise Free Wireless' trade secrets and engaged
in unfair business practices based on the alleged patent infringement and trade
secret misappropriation
makes additional allegations against our OEM


The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, costs and fees and injunctive
relief against us. The costs associated with any actual, pending or threatened
litigation could negatively impact our operating results regardless of the actual
outcome. Due to the preliminary status of the lawsuit and uncertainties related to
litigation, we are unable to evaluate the likelihood of either a favorable or
unfavorable outcome. We cannot currently estimate a range of any possible losses
we may experience in connection with this case. Accordingly, we are unable at this
time to estimate the effects of this complaint on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.


While the July 26, 2012, press release was positive overall, it omits a huge potential
negative to ADNC's story. It's an omission that, when combined with information in its
2012 second-quarter 10-Q and court documents, leads us to believe that the words "our
OEM" was a clear attempt by management to delay knowledge of who this original
equipment manufacturer is.


The keys to what we consider were manipulative actions taken by management come
from two facts:


1. It is very obvious who the OEM mentioned in the suit is. It clearly lists that AAPL is
actually the first defendant in the suit.


2. Court documents pertaining to the suit were filed on July 3, 2012, well in advance of
the 2012 second-quarter press release or related 10Q.


We surmise that AAPL may have left the building just less than six months after inking an
amended licensing agreement with ADNC due to the existence of the patent infringement
suit. We also believe it is plausible that there is risk that ADNC's other customers and its



http://docs.justia.com/cases/federal/district-courts/california/candce/4:2012cv03483/256830/1/
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 3/9


manufacture of processors could consider severing ties before they are mentioned in
future suits. AAPL's move could imply that its legal team found some merit in the patent
infringement suit.


In addition to the obvious negative "reputation" repercussions that arise from our findings,
several other negative ramifications could result from this development, including impacts
on cash flow streams and relationships with its customers other than AAPL and its supply
chain entities.


Equally as eye-opening is that ADNC could be on the hook for legal fees of customers
who use its products. Here is another risk factor quote from ADNC's filings:


Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our OEMs. Claims against
our OEMs may require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly
litigation on an OEM's behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we
generally agree to defend and indemnify our OEMs with which we have long-term
agreements from claims of infringement and misappropriation of proprietary rights of
third parties based on the use or resale of our products. Other OEMs, with which we
do not have formal agreements requiring us to indemnify them, may ask us to
indemnify them if a claim is made as a condition to awarding future design wins to
us. A party making an infringement claim against our OEMs, if successful, could
secure an injunction or other court order that could prevent our OEMs from
producing or selling their mobile devices incorporating our products. Any such claims
or injunction against our OEMs could seriously harm our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows.


We believe that investors who are banking on ADNC cash per share of around $5.50
($113 million divided by 20 million shares) to serve as a bottom could be making a serious
miscalculation.


The Aug. 7, 2012 news only highlights one of many risk factors present in the ADNC story
and investors should not take solace in management's attempt to coddle them:


...we are confident in the diversification of our business and see sustainable growth
in 2012 and beyond. As such we are raising guidance for the third quarter of 2012.
Looking ahead, we believe our expansion into adjacent markets such as Smart TVs,
automotive, and notebooks, will continue to bring growth in 2013 and beyond.
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 4/9


We take these comments with a grain of salt. We do not think the benefits of its customer
or product diversification goals are right around the corner or guaranteed. In reality, as we
plan to show in a follow-up article, ADNC is basically a one product segment company
that now, after the loss of AAPL, largely depends on one customer (Samsung) for the
majority of its revenues. In its going public prospectus filed on May 10, 2012, the company
readily admits that its dependence on a limited amount of customers will continue to be
the norm for the foreseeable future.


We came across an article on Investopedia that attempted to interject a silver lining in the
news about AAPL development. Unfortunately, the author does not discuss the patent
litigation case or several other risk factors present in the ADNC story. Furthermore, his
silver living included the following statement:


Not a Fatal Blow at This Point


Apple has been a significant customer for Audience for a while now, and losing that
relationship has always been a risk factor. However, it's important to note that Apple
was not Audience's only customer. The company also relies heavily on Samsung for
revenue (over 40% in the last quarter), and that relationship seems to be secure.
Likewise, the company has announced recent wins with HTC, Huawei and GOOG.


We performed some research regarding this passage and found that HTC, Huawei, and
Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) have been customers of ADNC for a period of time, well before
the existence of the patent infringement suit we highlighted. The question bears asking:
Will the AAPL development spread to other customers once they become aware of it?


The hit to ADNC financials is something we don't take lightly. AAPL's revenue contribution
model (not shared by other ADNC customers) was built on licensing fees paid to ADNC
based on a fee per each phone AAPL sells that incorporates ADNC processor. A good
deal of margin is captured by ADNC since the company was licensing the intellectual
property to AAPL and not manufacturing processors for AAPL. This helps to provide a
significant boost to net income. Now that the AAPL licensing revenue stream is gone, it
makes sense to assume that ADNC has to replace it with a greater share than what it lost.


The loss of the AAPL relationship is significant for several reasons:


1. Investors and analysts that were hanging their hat on an AAPL takeover to support
ADNC stock now need to look at pure valuation and market metrics to provide them
with a bottom.



http://www.investopedia.com/stock-analysis/2012/Apple-Throws-Everything-Into-Question-For-Audience-AAPL-ADNC-QCOM-CRUS0910.aspx?partner=YahooSA#axzz265EYT264

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOG
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 5/9


2. Historically, ADNC sold its products primarily to OEMs, distributors and contract
manufacturers (CMs) whose customers include OEMs of mobile devices. Beginning in
the 2012 first quarter, the ADNC/AAPL relationship was changed to that of a licensing
structure. We postulate that this move was partly made to improve margins that had
been on a precipitous decline. With the loss of AAPL as a major customer, a revenue
stream that was providing some stability to a business with unpredictable margins is
gone, once again exposing the company to margin volatility.


3. We estimate that without AAPL's licensing business ADNC may report losses
beginning in the 2012 fourth quarter when its effect will be first felt.


4. Revenues not related to AAPL (hardware sales) for the first six months of 2012 have
declined, which should give investors pause when assessing potential revenue growth
of ADNC's remaining business.


5. The big elephant in the room now becomes AAPL's abandonment of ADNC's
processor, no longer including it into its new generation phones. Even if it was not as a
result of the patent infringement suit, apparently ADNC technology may not be the gold
standard and the best one out there, contradicting its "Leading Provider" status
boasted in its company description. This begs the question: Who is AAPL now using?
Will other customers, namely Samsung, soon jump ship?


6. Did AAPL analyze the details surrounding the filing patent infringement lawsuit and
determine that it may be valid, realizing financial risk exists to companies who use
ADNC's processors? If so, will others do the same?


With so many uncertainties (including another lawsuit discussed in its going public
prospectus), how can any rational investor not see significant risk to a long investment in
ADNC shares, even at current levels?


We believe that most investors will eventually assume a worst case valuation scenario of
ADNC's proper cash per share of around $5.50. However, we believe this assumption
could be short sighted. It takes into account an assumption that its relationship with its
OEM customer Samsung is strong and that two patent infringement lawsuits against the
company (the second also against AAPL) are frivolous, leading to no cash drain on
operations. It further ignores the big possibility that the loss of AAPL related revenues will
result in a cessation or significant reduction in cash flows. Lastly, it assumes that its
customers other than AAPL or the companies it outsources the manufacturing of its
processors to will not follow in AAPL's footsteps.


In summary, our valuation is not so much based on the attractiveness of the market ADNC
serves, but more on the possible negative ramifications of:
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 6/9


Comments (8)


Risk of the unknown
Lack of customer diversification
Lack of product diversification
Two patent infringement lawsuits, one filed just days before its IPO, and another neatly
tucked away in its 2012 second-quarter filing
Observed recent and expected trends in revenue streams
Degrading margins
Samsung sales to the U.S. may be negatively impacted by its loss of a patent litigation
suit initiated by AAPL


We are continuing to do more due diligence on the story, and will provide more insight in
the following days if warranted.


Disclosure: I am short ADNC. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


daveporat
Response to Your article


1) Noise Free (NF) hardware was tested by Apple engineers and was rejected in 2007 because Apple liked ADNC
processor. ( see attached article) 
2) Lawsuit claims Apple extracted object code from NF hardware when it was tested by Apple ( see attached article) 
3) It does not make sense that Apple would take object code of a tiny company like NF when Apple was testing the
"Noise Free" processor in their lab.  
4) SA article says: it is plausible that there is risk that ADNC's other customers and its manufacture of processors
could consider severing ties with ADNC. The article forgets to mention that NF accused mainly Apple because of the
tests done by Apple ( see attached article) 
5) Sa article says wrongly “AAPL's move could imply that its legal team found some merit in the patent infringement
suit.” Apple move could be because of a lot of strategic and performance reasons. 
6) NF Lawsuit does not have claims against Samsung , goog and other smartphone companies because it was mainly
against Apple. Consequently Samsung will not phase out ADNC processor because of patents issues  
7) Apple could have a lot of strategic and performance reasons to exclude Audience processor from Iphone5 and
patent issues was not one of them  
8) ADNC stock did not decline after filing the lawsuit in 7/10/12 because WS considered it without merit for Audience.
See chart of ADNC at 7/10/12 
9) NF lawsuit also claimed ridiculously that Apple failed to return documentation and a user guide for the Noise Free



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ADNC

https://seekingalpha.com/user/951143
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 7/9


hardware when it was requested "in or around early 2009 
______________________...


AppleInsider.com 
7/10/2012


Apple accused of stealing noise cancellation technology 
By Josh


According to the company's court filing, which was tested by MacNN, Noise Free approached Apple with a
presentation detailing its new technology in September 2007. It proposed that its noise reduction system be
implemented in the then-fledgeling iPhone. The two companies agreed to hold shared information confidential and
continued meeting throughout 2008.


Noise Free claims that it provided Apple with highly confidential items, including a user guide, fully operational circuit
board, fully operational phone mockup and documentation for the technology in late 2008. 
"At one point, Apple's head of mobile phones and tablets was called into the meeting to learn about Noise Free's
technology," the filing read.


The Santa Clara, Calif.-based company went on to allege that Apple "performed a series of unauthorized tests on
Noise Free's hardware, improperly extracted Noise Free's proprietary and confidential object code" and then
replicated the technology on its own.


The complaint also claimed that Apple failed to return documentation and a user guide for the Noise Free hardware
when it was requested "in or around early 2009."


http://bit.ly/NnpnaJ


12 Sep 2012, 12:04 AM


The GeoTeam, Marketplace Contributor
Author’s reply »  Here are our responses to your reply, but the long and short of these new developments is
that ADNC is left with a commodity driven business where margins will get squeezed. Analysts have already
lowered 2013 EPS estimates by 75%. You also realize that the July 3 suit is the second suit involving ADNC
this year.


Reply to points 1, 2 and 3 
Why does it not make sense that AAPL would not muddle with a smaller company? Quite the contrary, it
makes more sense for a larger firm to steal the technology of a smaller company that has limited resources to
fight back. Why is not plausible to believe that AAPL shared some of NF’s technology with ADNC?


Reply to points 4, 5 and 6 
Don’t forget that ANDC is also involved in another patent suit unrelated to this one. We do not know the
implications of this issue on its other customers. Why are we wrong to say that “APPL's move could imply that
its legal team found some merit in the patent infringement suit?” In your response to you say “Apple move
COULD be because….” so it could be that the legal team took a look at this issue or it could be that AAPL
found a better technology? Which one is it.. Regardless, either scenario is not good.



http://bit.ly/NnpnaJ

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-geoteam

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=the-geoteam&source=comment_author_tag
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 8/9


Reply to point 7 
Really? And how does this fare for ADNC, that AAPL is ditching ADNC after 6 months of a licensing
amendment agreement. You are basically saying that ADNC might be facing formidable competition. Will
other customers see this too?


Reply to point 8 
Show us where the company said that the Lawsuit is no big deal. On the contrary, they say they do not have
enough details to render an opinion. Also, notice that ADNC shares underwent a sharp dip in August for a few
days. Someone knew what was going on.


Lastly, we have no reply to point 9 as this one and is really irrelevant.


12 Sep 2012, 10:25 AM


daveporat
Response to your response on patent


According to the iphone5 spec, Iphone is using 3 microphone noise cansellation system that is based on
Apple patent ( see attached patent link). This means that Apple did not choose and other company voice
processor and no risk that Samsung to phase out ADNC voice processor. This is very good news for
Audiance and is conflicting your claim that other smartphone makers will follow AAPL to chose another
processor . Please see the Apple patent for mobile communication. ______________________...  
Microphone Innovation Trends In The United States: Apple Assigned Patent For Microphone Proximity
Detection  
May 31, 2012, by Targeted News Service


Microphone Innovation Trends In The United States:


May 31 -- Apple, Cupertino, Calif. , has been assigned a patent (8,189,429) developed by five co-inventors for
a microphone proximity detection. The co-inventors are Shaohai Chen , Cupertino, Calif. , Richard Hung Minh
Dinh , San Jose, Calif. , Jae Lee , San Jose, Calif. , Chad G. Seguin , Morgan Hill, Calif. , and Benjamin John
Pope , Newton, Mass. The abstract of the patent published by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office states:
"A mobile communications device contains at least two microphones. One microphone is located away from
the handset receiver and serves to pick up voice of a near end user of the device for transmission to the other
party during a call. Another microphone is located near the handset receiver and serves to pick up acoustic
output of the handset receiver (a far end signal). A signal processor measures the frequency response of the
receiver. The signal processor performs spectral analysis of the receiver frequency response to determine
whether or not the device is being held at the ear of the user. On that basis, the device automatically changes
its operating mode, e.g., turns on or off a touch sensitive display screen during the call. Other embodiments
are also described." The patent application was filed on Sept. 30, 2008 (12/242,608).


13 Sep 2012, 04:06 AM


angrydude
Did you read and understand the 8,189,429 patent ? (You claim to be MSEE) ?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/951143

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4731741
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 9/9


Apparently not


The 8,189,429 patent has absolutely nothing to do with noise reduction - it only describes one more way to
detect when the user places mobile phone close to his ear or moves it away in order to use speaker phone
function. The phone then turns touch screen on or off automatically. 
That's all to it


Are you sure you have MSEE ?  


13 Sep 2012, 12:24 PM


DAVE77777
bargain hunter..bounce player


12 Sep 2012, 12:33 AM


daveporat
I am electronic design engineer (MSEE) who has a special interest for analytic research of special situation
undervalued stocks mainly in technology sector. I use my electrical engineering seduction, 35 years of experience and
analytic skills to perform thorough research and find extremely undervalued companies.


12 Sep 2012, 03:43 AM


GGZOLA
least 1 stock I can say to my grandchildren that I didnt get screwed and sold b4 a scandal... 
Now I can concentrate on getting buried with ARNA and AMRN


12 Sep 2012, 04:46 AM


Ed Porter
In the most recent 10K, the company tells us that :


"On September 14, 2012, the parties stipulated to dismiss Noise  
Free Wireless’ complaint without prejudice. On September 18, 2012, the Court entered an order approving this
stipulation, thereby dismissing Noise Free Wireless’ complaint without prejudice".


In the most recent 10Q there is no mention of this case whatsoever.


So does the company's statement mean that the case was dismissed/resolved, or does it merely say that they (and
their OEM) was going to reject the claim?


If it is the former then it was a storm in a teacup, but if it is the latter then how on earth did the company avoid putting
it in its 10Q?


10 Jun 2013, 09:31 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4703691

https://seekingalpha.com/user/951143

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4645831

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1036200
