5/19/2018 The Curious Case of Corvel Corportaion - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/254901-the-curious-case-of-corvel-corportaion 1/8


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


The Curious Case
of Corvel
Corportaion
Jan. 19, 2012 1:21 PM ET1 comment | Includes: CorVel Co…


Today we published a report on Corvel (CRVL).  It can be found in its entirety
at:  
www.scribd.com/doc/78775605/The-Curious-... 
 
Below is a piece of the report. THE REPORT SHOULD BE READ IN ITS
ENTIRETY AS THE SEGMENT BELOW ONLY CONTAINS HIGHLIGHTS AND THE
APPROPRIATE REFERENCES ARE FOUND IN THE FULL REPORT: 
 


The Curious Case of Corvel Corporation





Benjamin Button made for an enchanting story of a man whose aging process
was reversed. While it was an enjoyable movie, the concept defied the laws of
Mother Nature. Corvel Corporation (ticker: CRVL) seems to have a similarly
enchanting story. It has managed to operate quietly, with no analyst coverage
and minimal public market scrutiny, while generating financial results that
would appear to defy the laws of business. We believe that with this report,
the curious case of Corvel Corp may end poorly for shareholders of a company
that has faced a multitude of serious allegations (including criminal) from
numerous parties, including former employees.





Corvel operates in the grey area of ethical and legal business practices. On the
surface there is a sexy story around cost containment for insurance
companies. However, a deep dive into the shadows of Corvel reveals
businesses that include what others have called a fraudulent silent PPO
scheme and software that arbitrarily reprices medical bills. Some of the



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRVL

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRVL

http://www.scribd.com/doc/78775605/The-Curious-Case-of-Corvel-Corporation

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRVL
5/19/2018 The Curious Case of Corvel Corportaion - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/254901-the-curious-case-of-corvel-corportaion 2/8


company's business practices and products should face significant scrutiny as
they are finally exposed to public prosecutors and regulators. Should our
research be the catalyst that changes, or even shuts down several of Corvel's
businesses, it will unfortunately result in massive losses for existing
shareholders. While we feel a certain kinship to the Erin Brockovich's of the
world, exposing certain questionable practices that appear to be driven by
simple greed, it is unfortunate that retail investors may suffer as a result. We
believe that the impact on Corvel's business and stock price once its practices
are publicly uncovered could be far worse than the impact Tenet's treacherous
accusations had on Community Health Systems.[1]





Scandals in the healthcare payor / provider world are not uncommon. The
most recent example includes allegations of Medicare fraud at Community
Health Systems (ticker: CYH). Given the contentious relationship between
payor and provider, improprieties tend to be investigated and punished in short
order. In CYH's case, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector
General, and multiple U.S. attorney offices moved quickly to open
investigations after Community Health's practices were exposed.[2] CYH's
stock is down nearly 60% since these allegations surfaced. Based on our
findings, we would expect attorney generals, state insurance oversight bodies
and even federal regulators to have reason to question the legitimacy of
Corvel's business. We have forwarded our research and findings to some of
these officials. 





In this report, we attempt to synthesize the pieces of the unusual Corvel
mosaic, while abstaining from any assertion that Corvel acts in a fraudulent
manner. There really is no need for us to make that claim because the
allegations of fraud, criminal acts, kickbacks, unethical behavior, and self
dealing have already been made by industry experts, consultants, former
employees, accredited journalists, physicians, lawyers, and a former client's
internal audit report. In many cases, these are impartial reviews of Corvel’s
business practices. However, most of the lawsuits involving Corvel need to be
pulled from LexisNexis. The reason is the vast majority of these incendiary
accusations have mysteriously failed to make it into Corvel's SEC public
disclosures. As such, our suspicion is that most of Corvel's shareholders are



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CYH
5/19/2018 The Curious Case of Corvel Corportaion - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/254901-the-curious-case-of-corvel-corportaion 3/8


completely unaware of these risks due to Corvel's shrewd ability to avoid the
public eye (zero analyst coverage). After conducting extensive research on the
company and its products, we have uncovered some alarming finding. In this
report we will highlight:





I)              A brief background and description of Corvel. Corvel provides
managed care services for workers' compensation, accident and health, and
auto insurance in the U.S.  Its products aim to contain health care costs for
clients, which typically include insurance companies, self insured entities and
TPAs. Corvel provides a network of preferred providers, as well as claims
management, bill review, utilization management, case management, and
Medicare services. Corvel is paid based on the number of claims it manages
and is often paid a percentage of the client's savings. This compensation
scheme creates a perverse incentive to lower claim costs, by any means
necessary to generate a higher profit for Corvel.


II)            What is a silent PPO and are they illegal? Silent PPOs provide
insurance companies with a back-door method to systematically underpay
healthcare providers. These quasi-black market arrangements give a payor
access to undeserved discounts at the expense of doctors, hospitals and other
medical providers. The American Medical Association has categorically stated
that silent PPO activity may be fraudulent. Further, multiple states have gone
as far as instituting statutes that forbid Silent PPOs.


III)          Corvel appears to operate a Silent PPO. During the course of
our research, we found a litany of lawsuits that accuse Corvel of operating a
silent PPO. One lawsuit that we examine later blatantly stated that Corvel was
"running a silent PPO scheme" and "many doctors are completely unaware that
they are losing thousands each year to the silent PPO scheme." Another
lawsuit accused Corvel of "defrauding" doctors by paying discounted rates
while never delivering contracted patient referrals. A third case alleged that
Corvel and its clients "exploited the CorCare and other PPO networks as Silent
PPOs…embarking on the unlawful practice known as a 'Silent PPO.'" Corvel has
been richly rewarded in its network business, as it collects a percentage of
these potentially illegal savings.
5/19/2018 The Curious Case of Corvel Corportaion - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/254901-the-curious-case-of-corvel-corportaion 4/8


IV)          Corvel sells other questionable products aimed at providers
and individuals.  Corvel's alleged dubious Silent PPO is almost matched in
ethical gymnastics by its software that "reprices" medical bills. These software
products have been accused of arbitrarily lowering reimbursement payments
to doctors, healthcare providers and even individuals. By its own admission,
Corvel also makes "recommendations about the appropriateness of providers’
proposed medical treatment plans for patients." One would hope the immense
responsibility of deciding what medical procedures are permissible would not
be the responsibility of a company with completely perverse incentives. To the
contrary, various lawsuits allege that Corvel applies extremely aggressive
software to reprice bills lower for insurance customers. It is hard to believe
that there will not be a flood of District Attorney and Attorney General
subpoenas requesting more information about its "biased and arbitrary
computer software [used] to review medical providers’ bills"… on behalf of
Corvel's clients who in turn pay Corvel a percentage of the savings generated
from the lower bills. 


V)            Former employees alleged Corvel engaged in "Unethical and
Criminal Acts" in the Boatman Case. The Boatman lawsuit was filed against
Corvel in 2011, and should be mandatory reading for any shareholder,
regulator, client, or health care provider that touches Corvel. In the lawsuit,
former Corvel employees accused Corvel of engaging in "unethical and criminal
acts" such as false submissions to insurance regulators, overstating its
network by knowingly including physicians that were dead, underpayments to
healthcare providers, providing questionable software, and applying
retroactive discounts through backdating. What is even more indicative of
the need for DA or AG involvement is that this former Corvel employee
said he "sought to have the systemic underpayments corrected and
was told that he should 'shut his mouth' because it would cost Corvel
millions of dollars if word got out that the software was programmed
to provide underpayments." The suit alleged that these actions allowed
Corvel to skim "off large profits" for themselves. Further, the lawsuit alleged
that an employee who would not "play ball" with the illegal acts was promptly
fired. If true, these accusations suggest pervasive unethical, and perhaps even
criminal activity, has occurred at Corvel.
5/19/2018 The Curious Case of Corvel Corportaion - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/254901-the-curious-case-of-corvel-corportaion 5/8


VI)          An in-depth Broward audit of Corvel’s business practices
revealed harrowing results that led an industry expert to question if a
kick-back scheme had existed. Broward County School Board audit
provides one of the most in-depth reviews of Corvel's operation and
questionable business practices. Corvel's former client found the problems with
their work "were not subtle or a matter of interpretation, but were substantive,
overt, and revealed a fundamental breakdown in processes and
accountability." The audit succinctly details how Corvel charged its client over
$2.7 million with a failure to deliver on plan metrics. Further, the audit found
that despite Corvel's "wildly excessive" fees, the program still produced poor
results. Why? According to the audit, Corvel was primarily focused on
"obtaining a large quantity of discounted medical services rather than
facilitating quality care." The basic perverse incentives meant larger discounts
on medical bills resulted in higher fees for Corvel. The audit details how
Broward paid a Corvel case manager $2,800 to accompany an asthma patient
at the doctor's office. In another example, a Corvel claims investigator
billed for “working more than 24 hours a day, three times in one
month.” Following the reports, an industry expert questioned whether Corvel
and Broward's TPA were involved in a kickback scheme.[3]


VII)        If Corvel is exposed, what are the potential liabilities? The
potential liability from Corvel's business practices is difficult to measure, but it
would appear to be significant based on other precedents. At a very minimum,
we believe none of these risks are known/understood, let alone discounted in
Corvel's premium valuation multiple. If only a handful of the shocking
allegations in Corvel's undisclosed lawsuits are correct, we believe an
unquantifiable liability exists that could permanently impair the business and
the stock price. If the most extreme accusations are true, it is not
unimaginable to see a scenario where future liabilities could wipe out Corvel's
equity value.


VIII)      Even more peculiarities and red flags. Corvel's lawsuit scandals
are accompanied by forensic red flags that warrant attention. Corvel has
somehow managed to deliver consistently picture perfect financial results
despite one of its most important business drivers being in secular decline for
20 years. We also find it strange that Corvel's complex web of businesses is
covered by a tiny auditor with just two offices listed on its website. Excluding
Corvel, this auditor only completed five audits for public companies in the past
5/19/2018 The Curious Case of Corvel Corportaion - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/254901-the-curious-case-of-corvel-corportaion 6/8


fiscal year, with two of them containing going concern risks. The combined
market cap of its auditor's other public clients is less than $125 million. One
possible breakdown of this relationship has been Corvel's consistent failure to
disclose significant accusations and litigation in its filings. Perhaps the main
reason Corvel has been able to hide all of the issues from the public's eye is
cloaked in its veil of secrecy. Despite having a gaudy market cap of $600
million, not one sell side analyst has chosen to follow Corvel. Further, the
company has requested confidential treatment from the SEC at an alarming
rate. In September 2011 alone, the company requested confidential treatment
on twelve exhibits in their financial statements.





To be clear, we are not questioning the existence of the earnings and cash flow
of Corvel's business. Many frauds do not have real cash flow or financial
results (we do not think Corvel is a financial fraud). Let us stress, Corvel
absolutely does have real financial results. The problem is that the businesses
that drive the financial results could vanish if/when they come under
regulatory or legal attack. Drug cartels and prostitution rings are highly
profitable businesses. They may be unethical and illegal, but they generate
good cash flow. However, that cash flow is precariously created and its
sustainability is highly uncertain with risk of disappearing overnight. Clearly
the accusations that have been leveled against Corvel are not akin to the
dangerously illegal businesses of drugs and prostitution. However, a more
appropriate example may be online poker operators. The online poker industry
was highly profitable until the U.S. government began enforcing existing laws.
Today, online poker appears to be a broken business model as many
companies are seeking distressed capital to stay afloat, and one prominent site
has been exposed as a ponzi scheme.[4] Along the way, many public gaming
companies saw massively profitable financial models destroyed. If allegations
against Corvel are true, it's cash flow model could become impaired overnight
and shareholders may face a similar outcome. 





Much like the online poker industry, other healthcare reimbursement scandals
like home healthcare, or even Community Health, Corvel's shareholders and
management team have been richly rewarded. Corvel's shares have
outperformed 95% of the market over the past five and ten year periods, with
5/19/2018 The Curious Case of Corvel Corportaion - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/254901-the-curious-case-of-corvel-corportaion 7/8


the share price more than doubling. Today, the market capitalization of the
company is a formidable $600 million. The company's remarkable ability to
deliver financial results has led to a generous P/E and free cash flow multiple.
However, Corvel has faced minimal public scrutiny of its business practices. We
believe there is a high probability that most, if not all, of Corvel's shareholders
are completely unaware of its questionable business practices. As a result
Corvel's stock price could suffer greatly as the potential legal and regulatory
risks are finally exposed. As such, even if Corvel escapes the long tail risk
outcomes, its extremely lofty valuation is at risk. At a low double digit
earnings multiple, Corvel's shares face 50% downside. If in fact some of their
business practices are found to be illegal, the unquantifiable liability could
permanently impair the business, resulting in our inability to set an
appropriate downside price target.





[1]
http://www.tenethealth.com/Investors/Documents/Investor%20Page/Summar
y%20of%20Complaint.pdf AND


http://blogs.barrons.com/stockstowatchtoday/2011/04/18/community-health-
makes-new-bid-gets-hhs-subpoena-thc-and-cyh-drop-again/


[2] www.bizjournals.com/nashville/news/2011/...


[3] www.joepaduda.com/archives/001302.html


[4] bleacherreport.com/articles/858162-full-...


 
 
IMPORTANT Disclaimer – You should do your own research and due diligence
before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered
herein. As of the publication date, the author of this report has a short position
in the company covered herein and stands to realize gains in the event that
the price of the stock declines. The author does not discuss unpublished
reports, or provide any advanced warning of future reports to others. Following
publication of this report, the author may transact in the securities of the
company, and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless
of our initial opinion. To the best of our ability and belief, all information



http://www.tenethealth.com/Investors/Documents/Investor%20Page/Summary%20of%20Complaint.pdf

http://blogs.barrons.com/stockstowatchtoday/2011/04/18/community-health-makes-new-bid-gets-hhs-subpoena-thc-and-cyh-drop-again/

http://www.bizjournals.com/nashville/news/2011/04/25/multiple-agencies-investigating.html

http://www.joepaduda.com/archives/001302.html

http://bleacherreport.com/articles/858162-full-tilt-poker-ponzi-scheme-online-poker-is-more-sinister-than-we-thought
5/19/2018 The Curious Case of Corvel Corportaion - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/254901-the-curious-case-of-corvel-corportaion 8/8


Comments (1)


contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public
sources we believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such information is
presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.
The author of this report makes no representations, express or implied, as to
the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with
regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are
subject to change without notice and the author does not undertake to update
or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. This is
not an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to
any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the
securities laws of such jurisdiction.








cheated
If you have a personal injury claim against
DSW or other companies, and they assign
a CorVel adjuster to the case, 
do not give the CorVel adjuster any
information until they give you a copy of
an adjuster license issued by your state.
The state of Texas requires that claims
adjusters be licensed. When handling
Texas claims, CorVel uses undocumented, 
out-of-state "adjusters" to handle such
claims. This is apparently to avoid having
to comply with Texas law. Be careful when
dealing with CorVel, and do not expect
ethical 
treatment.


24 Feb 2016, 07:09 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/46976496
