5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 1/23


Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down?
Jan. 23, 2013 5:38 AM ET37 comments
by: Xuhua Zhou


Joy Global (NYSE:JOY) is a manufacturer and servicer of high productivity mining
equipment for the extraction of coal and other minerals and ores. One particularly relevant
fact about Joy Global is that the company reports a goodwill number of $1.38 billion as of
October 26th, 2012 and I believe it may be facing a write-down of well over $1 billion if
Caterpillar's Friday announcement were to be used as a barometer. Joy Global spent
roughly $1.4 billion in 2011 and 2012 to acquire International Mining Machinery (IMM), a
Hong Kong listed company, through its wholly owned subsidiary Joy Global Asia. It is
worth noting that Caterpillar completed its acquisition of ERA Mining Machinery around
the same time frame as Joy Global's International Mining Machinery acquisition. In this
article, I will discuss the background of the story, Caterpillar's recent write-down
announcement, the connections of the insiders and the likely implication for Joy Global.


Background and Impetus


Caterpillar (NYSE:CAT) announced on Friday, January 18th in a press release that it is
writing down $580 million related to Siwei, the operating subsidiary of its recently acquired
ERA Holdings. Dialing back the clock, on November 11th, 2011, Caterpillar announced its
intention to purchase ERA Mining Machinery for as much as $887 million to broaden its
exposure to modernization of Chinese coal mines, according to the Wall Street Journal
and its separate press release. In a separate Wall Street Journal article discussing the
most recent stumble by Caterpillar, the journalist cited about $700 million as the price
paid. In other words, Caterpillar wrote off well over 80% of its purchase price on its
embarrassing mining machinery acquisition in China. Indeed, investing in China is full of
perils for the unsuspected, even for investors with both industry expertise and the ability to
carry out a thorough due-diligence process.


In the SEC filing related to its write-down, Caterpillar stated the following:


"We believe our process is rigorous and robust and includes Caterpillar personnel
and outside accounting, legal and financial advisors. It is important to understand
that Siwei was a publicly traded company with audited financial statements. What we
discovered at Siwei following the acquisition was deliberate, multi-year,
coordinated accounting misconduct that was concealed by the persons
responsible." (Text bolded by the author)



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JOY

http://investors.joyglobal.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=646059

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CAT

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/18230/000001823013000041/pressrelease_ex9911.htm

http://professional.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204358004577029553247909414.html?mg=reno64-wsj

http://www.cat.com/cda/files/3146300/7/111011_Sequoia%20Release.pdf

http://professional.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323301104578253513565705872.html?mod=googlenews_wsj%26mg=reno64-wsj

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/18230/000001823013000041/pressrelease_ex9911.htm
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 2/23


Commenting on the nature of the accounting misconduct, Caterpillar said:


"Caterpillar first became concerned about an issue when discrepancies were
identified in November 2012 between the inventory recorded in Siwei's accounting
records and the company's actual physical inventory. This was determined by a
physical inventory count conducted at Siwei as part of Caterpillar's integration
process. Caterpillar promptly launched a comprehensive review and investigation
into the nature and source of this discrepancy. This extensive review has identified
inappropriate accounting practices involving improper cost allocation that resulted in
overstated profit. The review further identified improper revenue recognition
practices involving early and, at times unsupported, revenue recognition. This review
is ongoing."


For Caterpillar, however, a $580 million write-down is completely manageable; with a
market capitalization of roughly $63 billion, $580 million doesn't even amount to 1% of its
market capitalization. A similar situation, however, paints a much bleaker picture for Joy
Global's shareholders.


Who Are the Insiders?


To write-down over 80% of its acquisition, one would have to argue that Caterpillar was
seriously duped. The recent Wall Street Journal article by Mr. James Areddy did a great
job depicting connections behind ERA Mining Machinery; the connections, however,
foretells a bigger story Mr. Areddy has yet to see.


In James Areddy's article discussing the unusual roots of Caterpillar's blunder, two
individuals at the center of discussion are Mr. Rubo Li and Mr. Emory Williams.


"The company had been a relic of China's planned economy, but a U.S.-trained
mining engineer and coal tycoon, Li Rubo, and Emory Williams, a Beijing-based
American entrepreneur, transformed it over the past decade, seeking to tap growing
demand for industrial equipment. They got it publicly listed as a non-Chinese
company, with prominent international shareholders."


Mr. Li and Mr. Williams were entrepreneurs who started ahead in transforming Chinese
SOE (State-owned Enterprises) into private companies and eventually bring them to listing
on exchanges such as Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Mr. Williams has been the chairman
of ERA Mining Machinery as well as one of the controlling shareholders of the company
through Mining Machinery. According to relevant disclosure and a Forbes article, Mining



http://professional.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323301104578253513565705872.html?mod=googlenews_wsj%26mg=reno64-wsj

http://www.forbes.com/sites/russellflannery/2011/11/13/caterpillar-takeover-would-create-fortune-for-u-s-expat-clan-in-china/
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 3/23


Machinery is 33% held by Mr. Williams and 67% held by James E. Thompson, who is
identified as the son-in-law of Mr. Rubo Li by Wall Street Journal as well as Forbes. ERA's
operating subsidiary Siwei was created during a wave of privatization of SOEs during the
early 2000s. While Caterpillar's investigation is still on-going, the identification of the
relevant roles and economic interests of both Mr. Rubo Li and Mr. Emory Williams
exposed the vulnerabilities of Joy Global's acquisition of International Mining Machinery
(01683) and very well should prompt a detailed internal review and audit of IMM by Joy
Global, which may result in significant write-downs.


Where Are the Connections?


Before I proceed to discuss the parallels and connections between the ERA Mining
Machinery acquisition by Caterpillar and the International Mining Machinery acquisition by
Joy Global, I would like to highlight part of a very strongly worded statement by Caterpillar.


"What we discovered at Siwei following the acquisition was deliberate, multi-year,
coordinated accounting misconduct that was concealed by the persons
responsible."


"Multi-year" here is extremely significant and it goes a long way to explaining why I believe
after carrying out internal audit and reviews, Joy Global will likely write-down a significant
percentage of its purchase in IMM and will be much more severely impacted due to the
relative size of the acquisition and its own market capitalization.


While the Wall Street Journal article discussed in great details Mr. Li, who is also known
as John Lee, and Mr. Williams' relationship and involvement in ERA Holdings, it failed to
mention their ties to International Mining Machinery. As a matter of fact, Mr. Li and Mr.
Williams are co-founders of International Mining Machinery and both own significant
stakes in IMM according to public disclosures as well as other relevant information I
obtained.


For starters, when International Mining Machinery went public on January 29th, 2010, in
its global offering prospectus, Rubo Li was mentioned a whopping 122 times and Emory
Williams was mentioned 101 times. Further, there had been an extensive amount of
related party transactions reported between the company and Mr. Li and Mr. Williams. The
public disclosure at the time shows Rubo Li and Emory Williams together owned 9% of
IMM, the remaining 91% was owned by the Resolute Fund, L.P., through TJCC Holdings.



http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2010/0129/LTN20100129037.pdf
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 4/23


Emory Williams resigned as a director of the company right before it went public likely
because he is also the executive chairman of a primary competitor, ERA Holdings. Mr. Li,
however, remained a director of the company until early 2011.


Further evidence pointing to an incredibly intertwined relationship between Rubo Li,
Emory Williams and International Mining Machinery include the related party transactions
reported in the prospectus. (A) Loans to HK Siwei (yes, this is the part of ERA that
Caterpillar had to write-off) ; (B) Loans to Rubo Li; (C) Loan to Mr. Emory Williams; (D)
Loan to William Realty. TJCC apparently settled all the relevant related party transactions
and forgave the loans at the time of IMM going public according to the company's
disclosure. In the prospectus, Rubo Li was identified to have acted as the Vice Chairman
of the company prior to it going public. I was also able to find a number of other articles
that showed Mr. Li was clearly in an operating capacity at International Mining Machinery
prior to its public offering.


Below is the page listing the relevant related party transactions involving Mr. Li and Mr.
Williams at the time of the offering:


Another important piece of information involving Mr. Li and Mr. Williams surfaced when the
prospectus went on to discuss their roles in founding IMM.



http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2010/0129/LTN20100129037.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/1/6756741_13588396828418_0.png
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 5/23


"Mr. Rubo Li, our non-executive Director, and Mr. Emory Williams, our former
Director who resigned as a Director in December 2009, had assisted The Resolute
Fund, L.P. in identifying Jiamusi Machinery and Jixi Machinery as potential attractive
acquisitions and subsequently participated in the acquisition negotiations. Mr. Rubo
Li and Mr. Emory Williams were given minority interests in our Company as well as
"founder participation" in the event of repurchase or redemption of our preferred
shares as an incentive provided by The Resolute Fund, L.P."


Even though per public disclosure, Mr. Li and Mr. Williams stake in IMM was roughly 9%,
my further research indicates the group likely controlled around 45% of IMM through their
interest in TJCC Holdings or Resolute Fund.


The history of International Mining Machinery starts with combining two State-owned
Enterprises, Jiamusi and Jiaxi Machinery back in late 2005 when China was going through
a phase of privatization aimed at improving efficiency and balance sheets of such
corporates. The creation of International Mining Machinery was in fact a case study when
it comes to discussion on the topic of how foreign capital invaded traditional industries in
China. The article I linked provides a great background story on the creation of IMM.
According to the above-referenced article, the total purchase price of the two companies
combined amounts to roughly 300 million RMB or slightly less than $40 million at the
exchange rate in 2005. This discussion further highlighted breakdown in terms of
ownership interest: International Mining Machinery, at the time, was 60% owned by
interests controlled by Jordan L.P., 15% owned by Emory Williams and 25% owned by an
entity controlled by Rubo Li. While China had gone through an incredible period of
expansion, and the value of acquired subsidiaries of IMM probably increased in value, at
Joy Global's purchase price of $1.4 billion, that would have represented an appreciation of
well over 35x over the course of 5-6 years; To put that number into perspectives, the most
parabolic growth company of the last decade, Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL), increased in value
by around 10x during the same period of time.


Conclusion


Based on the evidence I presented, I believe a detailed internal review and audit of
International Mining Machinery is warranted by Joy Global in light of the recent scandal
reported by Caterpillar. While it is difficult to predict the outcome of such investigation and
what level of write-down Joy may ultimately take, it is most likely going to be very
significant given the size of its IMM acquisition, the percentage reported in Caterpillar's



http://blog.sina.com.cn/s/blog_537af1600100098m.html

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 6/23


Comments (37)


write-down and the important connections shown between IMM and ERA. A write-down
north of a billion dollar is very well within the realm of possibilities and could happen in the
very near term.


Disclosure: I am short JOY. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions.
I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company
whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Thomas Azzara
Good article.. Do you think any charges of fraud might be "found" against Li Rubo, and Emory Williams for the "multi-
year coordinated accounting misconduct" in regards to CAT's acquisition?


CAT's announced that its Dec-Q results will include a $580M ($0.87 a share) write down of its ERA Mining Machinery
unit.


CAT's is about 10 times the size of JOY, so any write down by JOY will be much harder to deal with.


Seems to me you are onto something in regards to the (same) persons being involved in what looks like similar
"accounting misconduct's" (scams) against two big companies (JOY/CAT) - which you would think would be more
careful.


Who were CAT's (and JOY's) advisors on their misguided acquisition? Big brand name international accounting firms
again?


23 Jan 2013, 07:05 AM


GreensKeeper, Contributor
Xuhua Zhou,


Your research skills are impressive and I enjoyed reading your article. You mention that you are short the stock so I
should also disclose at the outset that I am long JOY. Your article made me do some additional analysis and I am
interested in your view on the following.


Let’s assume that your theory is correct and the vendors of IMM manipulated the financial statements prior to Joy’s
acquisition in late 2011. Based on Joy Global’s Q4 results, IMM had sales of $219 million and adjusted Operating
Profits of $36.8 million in F2012. This represents 3.9% of the company’s sales for the year and 3.1% of its operating
profits. Neither of these figures is financially material. Let’s assume further that IMM is worth nothing. Joy Global
would need to take a charge to write off the $1.4 billion that they paid for the business and still carry on their balance
sheet. The bulk of the write off would be non-cash as the company booked $1.15 billion of the purchase price as
goodwill at the time of purchase. I believe that Joy Global overpaid for the business even if the IMM’s financial



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JOY

https://seekingalpha.com/user/860741

https://seekingalpha.com/author/greenskeeper
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 7/23


statements were properly presented. Writing it off entirely would merely confirm that fact and lead me to further
conclude that management was sloppy in its due diligence on the acquisition.


For fiscal 2013 the company expects sales of $4.9-$5.2 billion and EPS (ex-restructuring charges) of $5.75-$6.35. At
the midpoint of this guidance, this suggests that the stock (currently trading at ~$68) is trading at a P/E of ~11.2x.
Fiscal 2013 EPS is likely depressed given the difficult operating environment for coal producers, particularly in the U.S
. I agree with you that a $1.4 billion write down would be material relative to the company’s market cap, but I don’t
believe that IMM contributes materially to Joy Global’s earnings power or cash flow at present.


Joy Global’s balance sheet is in good shape and there is no issue with the debt covenants. I don’t know if the write off
would be included in the covenant calculations but even if it were, I suspect that a waiver (for a fee) would be
forthcoming.


My question: what am I missing? Perhaps the market would react negatively to the news and take the stock lower like
it seems to be doing this morning (-1.9%). However, it is equally plausible that people would come to the conclusion
that I did (assuming that my analysis is correct). I don’t understand the short-thesis for Joy Global based on the
Caterpillar (NYSE:CAT) news.


That said, posts such as yours are the reason that I like Seeking Alpha. Quality analysis and honest debate. I look
forward to your reply.


Best regards,


The GreensKeeper


23 Jan 2013, 09:45 AM


wil3714
This is a very good piece, I'm in your camp as cash flow n revenue growth have been increasing nicely over
the years.


27 Jan 2013, 11:33 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  GreensKeeper, thanks for the praise. I agree with you on the fundamental front. I'm not pitching the
JOY short as an investment, I'm pitching it as a trade. I think you would agree that JOY will take a sizable hit when a
significant goodwill impairment is recorded. The management loses considerable credibility after not discovering a
fraud a year post its acquisition. I think the stock will trade to the mid 50s. The reason I don't think the stock is off
more probably relates to the quality of articles published on SA in general, like the other SA article on JOY this
morning. No mutual fund manager who owns joy would come to SA looking for investment advice, nonetheless, I think
you will see impact in the market as information propagates.


23 Jan 2013, 09:59 AM


Value On The Street, Contributor
The CAT write down did nothing to the stock - would a write-down for JOY be viewed differently by the market?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/cat

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2526141

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/value-on-the-street
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 8/23


Disclosure: I am short CAT.


23 Jan 2013, 10:01 AM


IgnisFatuus
I owned JOY in the past and sold after a double. It is on my watchlist again. Thank you for the informative article.


23 Jan 2013, 12:54 PM


Brent Shelton, Contributor
Since the new accounting rules regarding amortization of goodwill changed back 2001, much of the post-acquisition
allocations go to GW, where it gets tested for impairment annually. This is an accounting strategy, allowed within the
boundaries of GAAP, no one is being duped. This accounting trick allows companies to keep most of the cost of an
acquisition on the balance sheet rather than charging it to earnings. GW can sit on balance sheets for indefinite
periods with little to no effect on valuation or earnings. There won’t be any write down in the near term. Only when the
GW gets into (negative territory) like over 100% of the allocation going to GW, then red flags may go up. 
From a valuation perspective, investor’s concerns are with the expected cash generation ability of the firm, rather than
its current trading price. Because a write off doesn’t impose an actual cash impact, investors decide between ‘good
write offs’ and ‘bad ones’, write-offs that potentially enhance performance going forward and the ones that won’t. 
Just to name a few: JDSU write down back in 2001, $44.8Billion, Delta Airlines about five years ago, $6.1 Billion,
which was almost 50% of its GW balance. 
Greenskeeper is spot on, but the bigger issue here is the possibility that this allocation is used to create a reserve that
gets leaked into income over the next two to three years.  
When and if a write down does happen, look to see if other current liabilities simultaneously drop. It’s not a
coincidence, it’s common to take the opportunity to bundle some current expenses into a write-down to clean up the
balance sheet.


23 Jan 2013, 01:12 PM


Muskiebear63
So it sounds like you're saying the Joy was also "duped" like CAT, which I take is why they did their write down.


23 Jan 2013, 02:36 PM


NeunElf
Outstanding article!


This is why I come to SA!


23 Jan 2013, 06:25 PM


WBuxton
Why don't you guys go and read the IMM IPO prospectus before posting some crap comments. You've wasted a full
page to write a speculative article when the prospectus tells you exactly why Li and Williams had their non exec
director and service agreements terminated by IMM....



https://seekingalpha.com/user/411066

https://seekingalpha.com/author/brent-shelton

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6041321

https://seekingalpha.com/user/528564

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7243371
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 9/23


Also, it took 5 months to CAT to find out about the fraud by doing a simple physical inventory check in connection with
the final yr audit and the start of the integration process (they completed ERA deal in June 2012). JOY completed the
IMM transaction in Dec 2011 and had been a substantial shareholder since June 11, plus JOY yr end is October 26th
with latest audited accounts published on 18th of December 2012... do you think that in the last 18months JOY has
never done an inventory check they had 7-12months more than CAT to realise this?


Anyway go and read the IMM IPO prospectus and you will understand why ERA was a crap deal and why IMM is
clean.


24 Jan 2013, 02:50 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I read the entire prospectus and didn't see anything about IMM terminating relationship with
the two individuals involved. Mr.Williams resigned before it going public and Mr.Li stayed on as a director. I
tend to agree that IMM seems to be a higher quality deal than ERA, but just because JOY did not catch it
doesn't necessarily imply problems do not exist. Caterpillar has a much larger existing Chinese operation
which requires integration while it's not necessarily the case for JOY. The mgmt of IMM is most likely left to
keep doing what they had been doing in the past with little outside interference. Therefore, I'm not sure
whether it would be safe to conclude all's well just because JOY hasn't done anything up until today.


On a separate note, if you could read the prospectus and know ERA is a piece of crap and IMM is clean; I do
not think ERA could have ever become a public listed company in HK. I read the IMM prospectus and I don't
have a clue whether it's clean or not...I welcome you to highlight the "we are clean" part of the IMM
prospectus and "we are a piece of crap" part of ERA's...


24 Jan 2013, 03:42 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  As a side note, Piper Jaffray's research analyst came out yesterday making a number of statements
supporting the IMM acquisition. I would like to express my view points on a few of them.


"1) IMM is comprised of four formerly state-owned companies, each with its own distinct history and product portfolio;
given this, it would be surprising (and random) if all - or any- of these companies were somehow employing the same
accounting tricks as a nonstate owned company located several provinces away;  
2) connections between Siwei and IMM shareholders are misunderstood: while Siwei's major shareholders did have a
minority stake in IMM, they were not in charge of running IMM's daily operations. 
3) IMM sells road headers, shearers, and other types of 
mission-critical mining machines, while Siwei sells more commoditized roof supports. In the former case, the value-
added nature of the products speaks for itself; in the latter case, there is arguably more incentive to exaggerate
profitability;"


I agree with the analyst that IMM is likely a better quality deal given the fact it's an IPO with a big four auditor. The
tricky part here is that CAT also claimed that it has done proper and rigorous due diligence prior to acquisition which
should equate if not exceed a regular big-four audit and the IPO process.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 10/23


Furthermore I cannot agree with the statement that since IMM is a combination of four SOEs, therefore, it's unlikely
they all use the same accounting tricks. My view is that the problem may ultimately lie with IMM itself. After the
integration, the numbers are presented as IMM's numbers, not the four prior SOEs' numbers. The fact those four
companies are completely distinct and with different history and product offering should be more worrying than
reassuring because it most likely adds much more complexity to exert proper internal control and creates more room
for manipulation if one intended to commit a fraud.


On the second point, the analyst is completely misguided and I believe Mr. Potter is the one who misunderstood the
connections here. Rubo Li has been running IMM since 2007 and I have multiple links proving this fact.


http://bit.ly/Vu9XTm 
(Mr.Li is the Vice Chairman and on a trip to negotiate a business deal with a coal mine in China) 
http://bit.ly/148afV9 
(Mr. Li on a trip promoting IMM's product offerings) 
http://bit.ly/Vu9XTu 
(Mr.Li went on a trip to enhance further cooperation with a customer)


With such deep level of operational involvement, how could Mr. Potter claim there's no involvement??


With respect to the third point, the analyst argued that Siwei had more incentives to exaggerate profitability. While this
may be true, CAT's 8K disclosure also stated improper and unsupported revenue recognition among the problems
identified.


Obviously we'll see how the situation eventually plays out, but I think JOY's management should be careful in light of
the concerning information that had been raised to the public domain.


24 Jan 2013, 05:10 AM


bilo11
keep in mind that the loans from IMM to ERA relate to an ilkl-fated attempt by IMM's private equity backers Jordan &
Co to buy ERA ahead of the IMM IPO. The deal fell apart on price and IMM was left holding the working capital loans
much to its displeasure. China Construction Bank ended up refinancing the loan. that's the same working capital loan
that CAT ended up refinancing right before they took over the company. it's all in the prospectus.


24 Jan 2013, 05:55 AM


bilo11
Keep in mind that the loans made from IMM to ERA relate to attempts by IMM to buy ERA prior to going public. The
M&A process fell apart on disagreements over price and IMM was left holding the working capital loans that were then
refinanced by China Construction Bank. It's all in the prospectus.


24 Jan 2013, 05:55 AM


WBuxton
To answer you and clarify my points, here are a few abstracts from the IMM prospectus at the time of their IPO: 
1) Regarding your comments about a possible 45% holding for these two individuals, you just need to read page 94 of



http://bit.ly/Vu9XTm

http://bit.ly/148afV9

http://bit.ly/Vu9XTu

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7258371

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7258371

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7243371
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 11/23


IMM prospectus to see that "TJCC Holdings is the only holder of IMM preferred shares. Messrs. Rubo Li and Emory
Williams don't hold any of our preferred shares.[...]The Founder Participation Agreement was part of the negotiated
deal with Messrs. Li and Williams at the time and the amount of their “founder participation” was meant to reflect their
9.0% interest in the ordinary shares, which is within the typical range of 5.0 to 15.0% equity participation provided by
The Jordan Company, L.P. to start-up entrepreneurs and management business partners so as to align the equity
incentives and orientation of all parties." 
=> also page 104, shareholding structure is summarised... so your claims are completely wrong; that's the first point,
then let's carry on


2) Mr Williams was never involved in daily managerial decisions and the US private equity who controlled IMM at the
time agreed to let him go and did not oppose to his resignation; plus they decided not to renew the consulting
agreement in 2008 (to keep the "face", it is said that Williams "resigned" but that's called let go in my language) -
abstract from IMM IPO below  
"Mr. Emory Williams participated in the overall management and development of the Company through monthly board
meetings. He was not involved in the day-to-day executive management responsibility of the Company. His
responsibilities focused primarily on providing advice and guidance as and when they were required from his
perspective as an individual with widespread industry knowledge and contacts. There was no disagreement between
Mr. Emory Williams and the Company or its senior management in relation to his resignation." Page 96 
“Prior to the Listing, our Company entered into a consulting agreement with Mr. Emory Williams, our former Director,
to engage him to provide advisory services to our Company. The consulting agreement expired on 31 March 2008
and was not renewed” Page 164 
3) Mr Li was a non-exec Director within the company: non-exec means does not take part to executive decision in a
normal language. He was also retained as consultant 
"Mr. Rubo Li has been also retained as a consultant pursuant to a consulting agreement dated 16 May 2006, which
was renewed by an amended consulting agreement dated 1 May 2009. On 4 December 2009, the amended
consulting agreement was replaced with a new consulting agreement. As a consultant, he is retained to serve in an
advisory capacity to our business, including (i) advising us on our growth strategy and allowing us to leverage his
extensive knowledge of, and contacts in the Chinese coal mining industry; (ii) sourcing investment opportunities in
China for our expansion and growth; and (iii) introducing customers to Jiamusi Machinery and Jixi Machinery"


4) Then Li and Williams were providing consulting services to IMM through TJC services but this was terminated in
connection with IMM IPO and both individuals received only 9% of the transaction and termination fees for ending the
TJC services. Page 98: 
“Compensation for early termination of this arrangement is also consistent with early termination and similar
management fee agreements by The Jordan Company, L.P. and its affiliates. As part of a separate agreement, TJCC
Services has agreed to pay approximately 9% of the TJCC Services Transaction and Termination Fee to Mr. Rubo Li,
Mr. Emory Williams and Williams Realty”


5) CAT explained to us that the issue was discovered within Siwei ; so what is Siwei - IMM prospectus page 95 says
"HK Siwei is wholly owned by Mining Machinery Limited, an investment holding company incorporated in Mauritius, of
which the sole registered shareholder is Mr. Emory Williams." [...] "Mining Machinery Limited is beneficially owned as
to 21.38% by Mr. Emory Williams, his spouse and relatives, as to 52.95% by Mr. Rubo Li, his spouse and relatives, as
to 19.67% by management of Zhengzhou Siwei, and as to 6.00% by three individuals who are independent from the
other shareholders of Mining Machinery Limited."
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 12/23


6) IMM prospectus explains that IMM looked at acquiring HK Siwei but The Jordan Company (TJC), the US private
equity owner of IMM, decided to pass (if it was such a great asset, why do you think IMM passed?)... here's what IMM
prospectus says: "In 2006 and 2007, we and The Jordan Company, L.P. entered into extensive negotiations in
connection with a potential acquisition of HK Siwei [...]Negotiation on the proposed acquisition of HK Siwei is currently
suspended due to different views on valuation and other terms of any proposed acquisition by us of HK Siwei. As of
the Latest Practicable Date, we have no plans to acquire HK Siwei." 
=> so the deal failed not just because of valuation expectations... but other terms of transactions, I let you speculate
of what these “terms” are  
In addition Page 103: it is explained that IMM had a first refusal right in connection with the Siwei/ ERA transaction yet
IMM decided not to execise this right... here's abstract: "While we continue to evaluate the ERA Agreement as
mentioned above, as of the Latest Practicable Date, we did not expect nor have any current plan to acquire HK Siwei
nor exercise any right of first offer nor right of first refusal properly provided to us in connection with the ERA
Agreement."


7) With regards to your claims on the "related party transactions", the IMM prospectus is once again very clear as to
when and why this happened. It was in connection with potentially acquiring HK Siwei, however since the deal never
happened, IMM decided to REORGANISE this loans and cancel them. Williams and Li never repaid these loans and
the private equity owner took a hit by replacing some of the loans owned by them with those owed by Li and Williams.
Page 95-96: "In contemplation of the proposed acquisition of HK Siwei, we extended loans in the principal amount of
approximately US$17.4 million (equivalent to approximately HK$134.9 million) to HK Siwei. [...] In connection with the
potential acquisition of HK Siwei, we extended loans of US$2.565 million (equivalent to approximately HK$19.9
million) to Mr. Rubo Li on 12 February 2007" 
=> Then, read Page 99: "As part of our Reorganisation, in preparation for the Global Offering, we expect to undertake
a number of steps to terminate substantially all of the related party transactions and settle any outstanding amounts
related to these transactions immediately upon completion of the Global Offering." 
=> i'm not going to post the rest but you can read by yourself to see that these loans were transferred. Page 101


8) Finally, while you mention that Siwei listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange through a reverse takeover, you
omitted to say that they listed on the GEM segment… which is less demanding than a Main Board listing. Reverse
takeover + GEM listing is more prone to fraud than a Main Board listing. Instead, IMM listed on the Main Board of
HSE… do not forget IMM was controlled by a US PE firm which would have had more to lose from a reputational risk
by doing illegal practices such as the one implied by you.


24 Jan 2013, 07:28 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Based on your response, I'm guessing you are either involved in the deal or have extensive
knowledge of the dealing in IMM's IPO and its prior related party transactions. I thank you for raising the key
points in the related party transactions but your answers do not address a couple of key concerns here.


1. The ownership structure of TJCC holdings is unclear. It's hidden behind layers of offshore funds and my
guess is Mr.Li and Williams have a stake in TJCC. I wonder if you have proof that can show otherwise. (While
it's a speculation, it is based on disclosed documents and reporting from the SOE acquisition. Williams&Li at
40%, Jordan at 60%). I never stated definitively about Mr. Williams and Li's stake in IMM, it's mere



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 13/23


speculation from the information I've seen. I would love to see the ownership structure of TJCC if you have
any insight to share.


2. While I don't see Mr. Williams involvement in IMM except for the initial acquisition. It is indisputable that
Mr.Li had extensive involvements in IMM's day to day operation. (See the links I attached in prior posting).
Your claim that Mr.Li was merely a consultant and director who is not involved in day-to-day operation simply
is inconsistent with the IMM's own disclosure. (Mr.Li was the vice chairman of the company prior to it going
public)


3.I'm not sure what you are disputing in the related party transaction aspect. I agree with you that all related
party transactions have been settled prior to it going public (otherwise HK public investors probably won't like
buying into the deal). That being said, those prior related party transactions indicate the connections between
IMM and Mr.Li and Williams. The connection is the only thing I'm highlighting here, not alleging any
impropriety whatsoever.


4. The fact IMM passed on ERA can only indicate IMM's a lot smarter in making acquisitions than CAT; I don't
think it says anything about the likelihood of itself being fraudulent.


5. I think it's moot points to talk about IMM's gone through many more layers of screening than ERA. Again, I
agree IMM is likely a higher quality company just because it had through IPO, audit and PE investing. But by
the same argument, I can argue ERA had gone through CAT's screening therefore it cannot be a fraud
(WE'VE ALL SEEN HOW THAT PLAYED OUT)


While your comments are lengthy and clearly show you have considerable insights in both IMM deal and
ERA, I'm not convinced by the validity of your arguments and the evidence you cited.


24 Jan 2013, 07:58 AM


WBuxton
1) the ownership of TJCC holdings is perfectly clear and described on the chart page 104 of IMM IPO prospectus.
TJCC Holdings is 90% controlled by The Resolute Funds (the fund managed by The Jordan Company). For full
disclosure, the remaining 10% of TJCC holdings is owned by Kee Kwan Allen Chan (3.5%; Youming Ye (4.25%) and
other (2.25%) 
=> so how can you speculate that Williams & Li have 40% of TJCC holdings, what are the facts and the docs that
make you say that?  
=> I don't have "insight", I just go by the IPO prospectus from IMM which can be consulted by anyone, including you.


2) if you agree that all related party transactions have been settled prior the IPO and of you are not disputing the
disclosures nor the legitamacy of these disclosures, then it should not be used in your argumentation...


3) Mr Li was operating as non-exec and cosnultant and his role was to promote the company, products and raise
awareness with the Authority (as per IPO prospectus) and the article you've posted do not suggest more than that.
This is not what anyone would classify as day-to day mgmt.


4) Again the fraud was within Siwei... and it's precisely Siwei that IMM did not acquire. Even if they initially thought it
could have been a potential target, IMM decided to pass... if you imply that IMM was taking part to the fraud then why



https://seekingalpha.com/user/7243371
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 14/23


not acquiring Siwei, it would not have bothered them and on paper deal would have been a fit (additional market
share, product line...)


Again, I don't have any insight but the point you've raised are more opaque than the TJCC Holding structure. I'm
happy to read the docs where you say that Williams & Li have 40% of TJCC holdings.


24 Jan 2013, 09:26 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  1. Again, don't feed words into my mouth. I never gave a definitive number on what
williams&li hold. But it's my view they do hold a significant stake through the TJCC entity. 
2. I'm using the related party transaction in the prospectus to highlight prior RELATIONSHIPS. They are
important and perfectly valid. 
3. I disagree fundamentally on the level of involvement you or the prospectus claim. I think over the next few
days, media will shed more light on Mr.Li's true role in IMM's operations. 
4. Again, your logic is completely flawed here. If Siwei could go public, why would IMM want to acquire it and
have TJCC hold a fraud? Diversifying your fraudulent companies makes perfect sense here as well. Or
Jordan simply disagree to put its own money in a lesser quality company? All of those are possibilities.


Finally, I concede the points raised here are largely circumstantial. But over the years, the insiders who are
involved in a known frauds are highly likely to be involved in a potential fraud. Time will tell whether my view
on the situation is correct or not.


24 Jan 2013, 01:38 PM


WBuxton
Not trying to put words into your mouth and I’m willing to hear your thesis; however when you make rather
bold statements such as the ones below, I would find it interesting that you provide back up to your claims
(documentation, page numbers, etc)


For example, when you write “Even though per public disclosure, Mr. Li and Mr. Williams stake in IMM was
roughly 9%, my further research indicates the group likely controlled around 45% of IMM through their interest
in TJCC Holdings or Resolute Fund.”, it is something that deserves at least some references to the sources
because the prospectus is clearly not disclaiming anything about this, even though this would be considered
as material information…


When you write “While it's a speculation, it is based on disclosed documents and reporting from the SOE
acquisition. Williams&Li at 40%, Jordan at 60%”, I would like to ask you to send us the publicly available
documents which you have consulted and which have led you to such conclusion.


In my prior posts, I have just given you references (documents, page numbers) and I would hope you could
share with us your publicly available sources since you are mentioning some publicly disclosed documents
which infer that Williams & Li could have owned 45% of IMM.


Again, I’m open to hear your claims but for something as material as this, I’d like to consult these “disclosed
docs” myself, so thanks in advance for sharing with us.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7243371
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 15/23


24 Jan 2013, 06:27 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  My calculation comes from assuming Li&Williams held steady the 40% interest in IMM since
its original formation. They could have been diluted in subsequent acquisitions but I do not know. The 40% I
referenced came from the case study I linked and other Chinese media reports regarding the Jixi and Jiamusi
acqusition. I have a reasonable level of confidence in the veracity of the articles. Feel free to read the article
with google translator if you do not read Chinese.


The 45% comes from 0.4*0.91+0.09=0.45...I'm not saying this is the right number, I'm saying they could be
owning this much. While its equally likely they have been diluted in subsequent transactions , at least I don't
have any information on that front. I'm not trying to highlight the 45% number; I'm trying to highlight the fact
Li&Williams are unlikely to be the 9% passive minority stakeholders as portrayed in the HK filings.


http://bit.ly/14aUi0i


I've attached the referenced case study for you here as well.


24 Jan 2013, 07:26 PM


WBuxton
 
Thanks very much for the link, it's interesting anyway and I have tried to look for more info in relation to this in
the prospectus. Apologies in advance for the rather lengthy comments that follows but let me know what you
think  
1) Here’s the chain of events as I understand it to express links between Williams & Li and the acquisitions
that are in the article you posted 
IMM acquired 100% of IMM Mauritius in April 06 – IMM Mauritius bought Jiamusi and Jixi in May 06.
Consequently, IMM became the holding company for both Jiamusi and Jixi


“On 14 April 2006, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of International Mining Machinery
Limited, a company incorporated in Mauritius (“IMM Mauritius”). On 16 May 2006, IMM Mauritius acquired the
entire equity interests of Jiamusi Coal Mining Machinery Co., Ltd. (“Jiamusi Machinery”) and Jixi Coal Mining
Machinery Co., Ltd. (“Jixi Machinery”), companies registered in the PRC, from Heilongjiang Coal Mining
Machinery Group Co., Ltd. (“HCMMG”). Pursuant to the acquisition above, Jiamusi Machinery and Jixi
Machinery became wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, as set out in Note 5 of Section II below.
(Appendix I / Appendix I-86 and Appendix IB-1 of IMM IPO)”


A footnote then explains that IMM Mauritius was indeed owned by William & Li.  
“The amount due from the subsidiary is in relation to the consulting fees paid on behalf of IMM Mauritius, a
subsidiary, to Mr. Rubo Li a/k/a John Lee and Mr. Emory Williams. Both Mr. Rubo Li a/k/a John Lee and Mr.
Emory Williams are the shareholders and directors of the Company. (Appendix I – 66 of IMM prospectus)” 


 This could explain part of what your article quotes at the time of the transaction although the reference to
“American International Mining Machinery Group” and “ Mining Machinery Holdings” appears inaccurate or
perhaps confusing since the deal was carried through IMM Mauritius. I’ll get back to Mining Machinery



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

http://bit.ly/14aUi0i

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7243371
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 16/23


Holdings later because it’s got relation to ERA 
According to the holding chart page 104 of the prospectus, post the reorganisation that took place at the time
of IMM IPO, there were no longer any direct holdings between IMM Mauritius and Jixi or Jiamusi 


 Since we do not have a holding chart prior to the IPO, I am not able to say whether the holdings of Jiamusi
or Jixi were through IMM Mauritius prior to the reorganisation; however, I’m guessing not since the prospectus
does not mention any holdings transfer and only refers to small assets transfers but I may be wrong and
welcome any comments:  
“IMM Mauritius initiated liquidation and the remaining assets (approximately US$5.0 in cash) was distributed
to the Company on 17 December 2009 (the “Mauritius Distribution”).” (Page 99)


In any case, pursuant to the resolution of the board of directors of IMM Mauritius passed on 17 December
2009, IMM Mauritius initiated a liquidation.


Now according to the prospectus: subs in Mauritius and Cayman Islands did not have a statutory audit
performed: 
“As at the date of this report, no statutory audited financial statements have been prepared by the Company
and the subsidiaries incorporated in the Cayman Islands and Mauritius since their respective dates of
incorporation as there is no statutory requirement for them to provide statutory audited financial statements.
We have, however, performed our own independent audit of all relevant transactions of the Company and
these subsidiaries for the Relevant Periods.” (page I-1 / Appendix I-30) 


 Hence, I can’t speculate as to whether there have been misconducts or not in the holdings TJCC Jixi/ TJCC
Jamusi which are Cayman islands registered (although it seems that have been created for tax purpose
rather than operating entities) but IMM Jixi and and IMM Jamusi which are Hong Kong registered (which I
believe were the operating entities) had a statutory audit was performed there; hence I just limit my comments
to ownerships not veracity of accounts if that’s ok because I just have to go by the quality of the audit and
don’t want to speculate here (just facts) .


 
So from the info above, Li & Williams could have had at best interest in Jiamusi and Jixi however since IMM
acquired 100% of IMM Mauritius and since IMM Mauritius was liquidated, and that IMM Jixi and IMM Jamusi
where under the umbrella of TJCC Jixi and TJCC Jamusi, it appears unlikely that these two individuals have
direct ownership in these assets (as they are 100% subs of IMM). What do you think?


 
2) As for the shareholders in IMM


The Prospectus says that IMM issued shares to TJCC holdings which confered 90% ownership to TJCC
holdings. TJCC holding is 90% controlled by The Resolute Fund (page 104). 
Here’s the chain of events as I read them from the prospectus:


“In 2006, to finance our acquisition of Jiamusi Machinery and Jixi Machinery, we issued preferred 
shares to TJCC Holdings for a total purchase price of US$64.0 million (equivalent to approximately 
HK$496.1 million). “ 
=> this confers 90% control of TJCC to The Resolute Funds (so 80% of IMM i.e. 0.9*0.9) 
The next question one should ask is who is The Resolute Funds and were Williams & Li shareholder of the
Resolute Funds... so here's what the prospectus says:
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 17/23


"The Resolute Fund, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership founded in 2002, is a private equity fund with limited
partners comprised of institutional and other investors, who are independent from, not connected or
associated with, and not acting in concert with the general partner or manager of The Resolute Fund, L.P. [...]
The investment strategy of The Resolute Fund, L.P. is to seek long term capital appreciation through primarily
North American private equity and equity-linked investments in established, well-managed and consistently
profitable businesses with enterprise values between US$50 million (equivalent to approximately HK$387.5
million) and US$500 million (equivalent to approximately HK$3,875.4 million). The investment horizon of
investments made by The Resolute Fund, L.P. is generally 4-7 years" 
=> i.e. it looks like a classic private equity structure to me  
The prospectus explains the link between The Resolute Fund and The Jordan Company:  
“The Resolute Fund, L.P. and each of the Resolute Funds, has appointed The Jordan Company, L.P. as the
manager of The Resolute Fund, L.P. and each of the Resolute Funds.” 
=> Again classic private equity structure where The Jordan Company acts as the manager of the funds. TJC
has made other investments for The Resolute Funds (Sensus/ Sequa), so I do not see a connection here with
Williams & Li, would you strongly disagree? For Williams & Li to have a higher share than 9% in IMM they
would need to be owners of the Resolute Funds since other shareholders are namely disclosed. 
So that leaves us with the 9% equity interest Williams & Li have in IMM which results from the initial “founder
participation” agreement: 
“Messrs. Rubo Li and Emory Williams, pursuant to a Founder Participation Agreement dated 16 May 2006,
are entitled to participate on an as-if basis in receiving a “founder participation” on a portion of the purchase
price of the preferred shares plus any dividends declared on such portion of the purchase price.(1) Messrs. Li
and Williams were involved in our original formation, our acquisitions of Jiamusi Machinery and Jixi Machinery
as well as our business development, working closely with The Jordan Company, L.P. and The Resolute
Fund, L.P. The Founder Participation Agreement was part of the negotiated deal with Messrs. Li and Williams
at the time and the amount of their “founder participation” was meant to reflect their 9.0% interest in the
ordinary shares, which is within the typical range of 5.0 to 15.0% equity participation provided by The Jordan
Company, L.P. to start-up entrepreneurs and management business partners so as to align the equity
incentives and orientation of all parties.” (Page 94) 


 Does anyone reasonably think Williams & Li would have had a share in Resolute Funds, thoughts?


3) Your article mentions Mining Machinery Holdings which as a company owned by Li and Williams 
The IMM prospectus says  
“On 9 October 2009, ERA Holdings Global Limited (Stock Code: 8043), a company whose shares are listed
on the GEM Board of Hong Kong Stock Exchange, has, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into an
agreement with Mining Machinery Limited (an investment holding company incorporated in Mauritius, which
controls 100% equity interest in Zhengzhou Siwei through its wholly-owned subsidiary, HK Siwei) (the “ERA
Agreement”) to acquire the entire issued share capital of HK Siwei. (page 103)” 
[…]Mr. Li is a director of Mining Machinery Limited, a company incorporated in Mauritius, which controlled
100% equity interest in Zhengzhou Siwei through its wholly-owned subsidiary HK Siwei. […]Mr. Emory
Williams, one of our shareholders and our former Director (who resigned on 4 December 2009 in order to
devote a substantial amount of time and efforts to other interests outside of the Company), is the registered
sole shareholder of Mining Machinery Limited, an investment holding company incorporated in Mauritius.
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 18/23


Mining Machinery Limited, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, HK Siwei, controls 100% of the equity interest
in Zhengzhou Siwei.


 Hence, in the case of ERA, there appears to be a clear connection with Mining Machinery Limited => is it
what the article refers as “Mining Machinery Holdings”;  


 or is there confusion with International Mining Machinery Limited which is a subs of IMM registered in
Mauritius? But the prospectus does not mention that Mining Machinery Limited retained any interest in IMM
Mauritius nor Jixi, nor Jiamusi (so the article is confusing in that sense; is it possible that you have other
disclosures that would confirm that Williams and Li had 40% of IMM post Jixi and Jamusi transactions)


4) Coming back to the topic of daily management of IMM operations, the prospectus mentions that The
Jordan Company has appointed their own operations team (members of the TJC operations management
group)


“The day-to-day management of the Company is carried out by the executive Directors, namely, Mr. Kee-
Kwan Allen Chan, Mr. Kwong Ming Pierre Tsui, Mr. Yinghui Wang, and Mr. Youming Ye and various members
of the senior management of the Company with Mr. Thomas H. Quinn overseeing the performance of the
operation and management of the Group. The aforesaid executive Directors and members of the senior
management form the 
core management group of the Company which has been responsible for the daily management 
of the Company, including assisting the Board in deriving sound management decisions, 
carrying out the decisions of the Board, performing overall strategic financial planning and 
analysis for the Group, overseeing the business development, project development and 
management, finance and accounting issues, the sales and financial aspects of management of 
the business and other essential operations of the Company. Mr. Kee-Kwan Allen Chan and Mr. Youming Ye
were historically members of the Operations Management Group of The Jordan Company, L.P. Messrs. Chan
and Ye will resign from these positions prior to the Global Offering. (Page 151)”


 
Ok that’s all I found, let me know if you have more thoughts or if you find other info, as I’m keen to review any
other docs.


25 Jan 2013, 06:58 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Thank you for posting the insightful response. I wish I were in a position to paint a clearer
picture which may answer your questions, but I could simply speculate based on what I think is reasonable.


1) I think the point of contention here is whether Li&Williams had additional interest in IMM through resolute
funds. I think the disclosures in the prospectus reveal important information but it's not 100% reliable either.
For example, one thing that's noticeably omitted is Li&Williams original stake in IMM Mauritus. According to
Chinese disclosures at the time of the SOE acuqisitons, Li&Williams held significant stake in the entity rather
than the HK prospectus disclosure stating them as involved in the original formation (language is vague...)


2) Something doesn't add up. If you agree with me that Li&Williams had 40% stake at the formation, it
becomes impossible to argue that they got completely washed out after rounds of structuring in preparation of



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 19/23


IMM going public, not to mention they are directors and insiders here. I can't see where their 40% original
economic interests went...Therefore, to me, it really matters less what the disclosure says and I'm guessing
the smart lawyers simply buried their names under the layers. It's just impossible to argue that Li&Williams
40% stake vaporized into thin air....Also there are five parallel resolute funds that have stakes in TJCC
holdings...I think some of them are for Jordan and some of them are for Williams&Li...That's an opinion not a
fact, but I think we'll find out in the future.


Thanks for digging up all the information. I think I'm going to leave the further due diligence to JOY's mgmt.
They have far wider access to information and afterall, they are the ones who spent 1.4 bil acquiring IMM.
The article simply pointed out the missing links and on many levels, the mkt has already responded..JOY's off
almost 10% since the posting (of course other news had been in the mix)..We will see what happens
eventually, but the risk appears to have been priced into the stock.


25 Jan 2013, 11:35 AM


WBuxton
Fyi, the stake in IMM Mauritius is disclosed in the prospectus (see my post it's disclosed notably in Appendix I
– 66)


I can't comment on the 40% stake you mentioned because i have not seen any reference to it other than in
the article you sent and the article seems to contain a few confusing elements in it (ex names of entities seem
inaccurate) and so it's hard for me to rely on this only.


The only chain of event I see is IMM buying IMM Mauritius, then IMM Mauritius buying the two Chinese
companies, then IMM issuing shares to TJCC (for TJCC to take control of IMM), then IMM Mauritius being
entirely dissoluted in connection witht he IPO.


With regards to the five Resolute Funds, again I can't speculate but it happens that PE choose different funds
(as each funds have different investors), hence I have no evidence of Williams & Li involvement here.


If you dig new elements to support your thesis, please let us know; otherwise surely JOY will bring some light
to the situation.


25 Jan 2013, 01:12 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I agree with your assessment of the situation. I think JOY most likely will bring light to the
situation.


As a side note, Chinese media reported the completion of acquisition of the two SOEs in late 2005..the
formation of those entities seem to have occurred in 06.


The thesis has been supported by the market I would argue. I'm not claiming anything definitive here. The
point of the article is to point out the linkage given CAT's disclosure last Friday. I think the stock price here has
reasonably priced in the risks, down over 700mil in mkt cap this week. Of course, if a write-down is really
forthcoming, there would be a lot of sentiment issues surrounding the stock and we could easily see it head
lower to the 50s.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/7243371

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 20/23


25 Jan 2013, 01:35 PM


Thomas Azzara
JOY Global's management and lawyers will ultimately clear this up - and I expect we will be reading about it
somewhere soon - other than on SA. With the Caymans and Mauritius tax havens involved
confidentiality/secrecy laws prevent you and others from seeing and knowing who "really" are the
shareholders of these offshore entities . Even JOY investigators are going to have tough time "accessing
information".


Scamsters/fraudsters can manipulate records after the fact for some things offshore in secrecy jurisdictions.
And it's easier to get away with this type of fraud and deception when the companies are organized in places
like the Cayman Islands.


Like I said, JOY is certainly well aware of the problems - since seeing and hearing of CAT's $580 million dollar
write off (i.e., which amounts to -.87 cents on CAT's coming quarter's EPS - which reps. more than 1/2 of
CAT's total EPS for the coming quarter) seemingly/possibly? caused by some of the same characters surely
tipped them off weeks ago..


25 Jan 2013, 01:42 PM


tallguyz
Excellent article and discussion thread. Thanks for the work to put this together.


I can't sort it out, but I just put a "sell" order in on my JOY shares. I'll take a modest profit and find another stock
without a cloud over it.


24 Jan 2013, 09:46 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  http://on.ft.com/W36FZC


E&Y and Deloitte both looked into the books of ERA....makes E&Y's IMM audit a bit less credible I'd have to say..


24 Jan 2013, 03:16 PM


WBuxton
I'm not trying to put words into your mouth. I'm just trying to understand your facts and I'm willing to listen to the thesis
but it needs to have legs when you raise strong argument such as the one below.


You've written above "Even though per public disclosure, Mr. Li and Mr. Williams stake in IMM was roughly 9%, my
further research indicates the group likely controlled around 45% of IMM through their interest in TJCC Holdings or
Resolute Fund." => this is a strong statement hence I'm just asking what evidence do you have to say that these two
chaps owned 45%?  
Then, you are writing that "While it's a speculation, it is based on disclosed documents and reporting from the SOE
acquisition. Williams&Li at 40%, Jordan at 60%" => can you please supply a link to the SOE documents since you



https://seekingalpha.com/user/860741

https://seekingalpha.com/user/966055

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

http://on.ft.com/W36FZC

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7243371
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 21/23


mention they have been disclosed and that there are facts in there that lead you to believe that Williams & Li have
stake in TJCC holdings when prospectus does not disclose this rather material information.


I'm very happy to follow your thinking but I wouldn't mind reading these publicly disclosed documents first myself.
Thanks for sharing in advance.


24 Jan 2013, 06:27 PM


Thomas Azzara
Muddy Waters said something about Joy Global on Street Insider on Jan 24 at 11:47 am, but there was no elaboration
as to what it is all about.


25 Jan 2013, 03:54 PM


JFollansbee
As a CAT shareholder and skeptic of most China based securities, I found your article to be quite thought provoking,
especially given the equally intelligent responses of WBuxton. Given the shared macro challenges to JOY and CAT in
China and the thesis of your article, a few puts on JOY were in order. Hopefully management will address your
concerns.


26 Jan 2013, 01:23 AM


Thomas Azzara
Doesn't look like Joy Global is going to have the same problems CAT had with their China acquisition.


See this link


http://bloom.bg/WAr08d


I'll be putting in my BUY order for JOY today. Already have a bid in for QCOM (1000 shares).


Standard and Poors recently raised their target price for JOY to $91 a share from $70. This was on January 25th
2013.


31 Jan 2013, 10:11 AM


functor
This is a wonderful article, thank you. I completely agree, and JOY  
might be a good short sell, given the likelyhood of a billion-dollar  
writedown in the next few months.


I took a small position in JOY a year or so ago when the stock got  
beaten down by macro scares, but sold immediately upon reading  
about their IMM acquisition. I have no business owning stocks of  
companies that buy such garbage from hong kong or mainland china. Kudos to the chinese and their western
kickbacks for  
setting up these long-term grand schemes to take money from  



https://seekingalpha.com/user/860741

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7350111

https://seekingalpha.com/user/860741

http://bloom.bg/WAr08d

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6304641
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 22/23


clueless american CEOs - we call all learn from them how to be patient and invest long-term for remarkable returns.  
And, apparently, what they are doing is even legal in China, so they are not breaking any laws over there.  
It seems that in China you can get the death penalty if you rip off chinese investors (the ones with connections), but
ripping off foreign investors is legal and even can turn one into a Robin Hood,  
sort of.


My concerns with shorting JOY is


(a) overall apparently improving economy and a rising stock market.  
(b) current low P/E ratio for JOY.  
(c) not much debt, so JOY won't go bankrupt after the writedown.


But of course 1B writedown should overwrite these positives, at least short/medium term. Will JOY need to do
additional borrowing  
to run their operations assuming the entire purchase is written off?


I don't see the 1.4 billion cost of acquisition in the link you provided 
in the first paragraph of your article. Can you find a better ref?


08 Feb 2013, 05:02 AM


wil3714
JOY has been following this company for 6-7 years now and made the acquisition. You need to have
confidence in management thatt they know what they are doing. Writedown has been financed already, no
need to take on additional debt just goodwill charge to assets


08 Feb 2013, 09:58 AM


GreensKeeper, Contributor
Yesterday's Wall Street Journal article should put this issue to rest:


MILWAUKEE—Joy Global Inc.'s JOY +0.21% chief executive officer, Michael Sutherlin, said the maker of mining
equipment hasn't found any accounting problems at the Chinese company it acquired 14 months ago, unlike rival
Caterpillar Inc., CAT -0.48% which recently had to write down the value of a Chinese investment by $580 million after
finding what it called accounting "misconduct." ...


16 Feb 2013, 07:25 AM


Aricool
after almost 3 years, any updates on this article? no one seems to have questioned/impugned JOY's accounting
carrying valuation of IMM. So, does this mean that the risk of such a (fraud based) write down as feared has passed?


01 Dec 2015, 01:27 PM


Charles A. Smith, Contributor
You're kidding, right? We've already seen the "writedown" more than 5X over! The value of the company is
down $5.1 billion since the day this article was written.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/2526141

https://seekingalpha.com/author/greenskeeper

https://seekingalpha.com/user/481832

https://seekingalpha.com/author/charles-a-smith
5/23/2018 Joy Global: When Will We See The $1 Billion Write-Down? - Joy Global Inc. (NYSE:JOY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down 23/23


01 Dec 2015, 02:51 PM


Aricool
Charles, are you speaking rhetorically? stock price fluctuation is not an accounting write-off.


JOY's goodwill is still around $1.5B, steady for the past few years; hence, no write downs due to any
purported IMM fraud or impaired assets as the article claimed.


a more constructive comment from you would be in order.


02 Dec 2015, 04:42 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/481832
