5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 1/38


Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators
Jun. 20, 2013 2:33 PM ET94 comments
by: Xuhua Zhou


Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) is one of the largest specialty retailers of hardwood flooring
in the United States running a total of close to 300 retail stores in 46 states. Its product is
found to contain illegal levels of formaldehyde -a known carcinogen.


Introduction


Lumber Liquidators reported net revenue of $813 million and $47 million in net income for
the year 2012. At $82 a share, the stock trades at around 50x its 2012 earnings. This
stock is the definition of a high flier: trading at over 50x fiscal year 2012 earnings, amazing
for a building material retailer. The rationale for this huge multiple is twofold:


1) Huge gross and net margins, despite selling a commodity product


2) An aggressive growth plan to double the number of retail outlets


At the current level, Lumber Liquidators presents a compelling short opportunity for
investors for reasons beyond its egregious valuation. This report shows that Lumber
Liquidators lacks a proper product quality control system and its products may be
hazardous to the unsuspecting consumers. Given the issues presented, Lumber
Liquidators faces significant risks in executing its business plans. The margin expansion
may reverse when additional quality control processes are put in place. Further, enormous
risks are present for the Company may be required to recall its noncompliant products
sold. Investors in Lumber Liquidators are likely unaware or unfamiliar with the significance
of selling noncompliant composite wood products to consumers. The stock may
experience significant decline if the Company were to be forced to recall its products.
Moreover, sell-side estimate will become unreliable should consumers abandon Lumber
Liquidators for health and safety concerns.


The Company's stock has been on a tear, rallying 300% over the last year, primarily on
dramatic expansion of its gross and net margins. Management has often made reference
to the significance of its acquisition of Sequoia Floorings Inc., based in Shanghai, as a
primary reason for the tremendous improvement in margins. Sourcing product in China is
certainly hardly unknown to competitors, and skeptics have wondered how an $8 million



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

https://www.box.com/s/mhzih9apu2q2gdeuty8i
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 2/38


acquisition could have such a dramatic effect on gross margin and bottom line, and more
importantly, enable Lumber Liquidators to undercut fierce price competitors such as Home
Depot (NYSE:HD) and Lowe's (NYSE:LOW).


That piqued my curiosity, but nothing improper was found about the acquisition of Sequoia
itself. I then directed the investigation towards the quality of flooring sold by Lumber
Liquidators that is imported from China. And that is where we found the problem being
reported today.


While a darling for its investors, Lumber Liquidators is among the lowest rated flooring
retailers according to Resellers Review. Quality issues such as durability abound for
customers who purchased flooring products from Lumber Liquidators. Few, however,
would think their health and well-being are also in danger when they put in flooring
products from Lumber Liquidators. The issue concerns the Company's quality control
process on formaldehyde emission standards when it imports engineered and laminated
wood flooring products from countries such as China. While the Company boasts strict
compliance with CARB Phase II, my research uncovers product sold by the Company to
consumers in the state of California that is in gross violation of the emission standards set
forth by the California Air Resources Board. Such a violation does not only apply in the
state of California. On May 29th, 2013, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
took the first step to implement the Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood
Products Act signed into law by President Obama in 2010. Those standards are identical
to the emission standards established by the California Air Resources Board.


Investors in Lumber Liquidators have been riding on a housing boom backed by the
Company's efforts to expand its gross margin through more efficient sourcing initiatives in
China. In 2011, Lumber Liquidators purchased certain assets of Sequoia Flooring Inc. in
China and has since experienced significant margin expansion. Its gross margin improved
from 34.8% in the year 2010 to 40.4% in the first quarter of 2013. Lumber Liquidators
attributes its gross margin expansion to its efficient Chinese sourcing operation. But does
the efficiency come at the cost of product quality and safety?


Background


Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (Lumber Liquidators) is a retailer of hardwood flooring,
and hardwood flooring enhancements and accessories. The Company offers an
assortment of wood flooring, which includes prefinished domestic and exotic hardwoods,



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HD

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LOW

http://www.resellerratings.com/store/Lumber_Liquidators

http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/compwood/compwood.htm

http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/formaldehyde/faq.html
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 3/38


engineered hardwoods, unfinished hardwoods, bamboo, cork and laminates, as well as
resilient flooring. Its hardwood flooring products are available in various widths and
lengths. It offers approximately 350 different flooring product stock-keeping units.


Lumber Liquidators has come a long way since the housing bust. Over the past year
alone, LL's stock price almost tripled, boasting a valuation of over $2.4 billion. With the
market blindly investing in all stocks housing related, investors in Lumber Liquidators
ignored critical questions about the true source of the Company's margin expansion.
Among flooring retailers, Lumber Liquidators has a reputation of being able to offer
customers the lowest priced products. According to conversations with the sales
representative at a Lumber Liquidators retail store, the prices offered at Lumber
Liquidators for comparable products are often $1 or more cheaper than those at Home
Depot or Lowe's on a per square footage basis. Despite the ultra-low price it charges
consumers, Lumber Liquidators has managed to achieve a gross margin of over 40% in
the first quarter of 2013. The management's assertion that margin expansion all came
from direct sourcing efforts in China should raise concerns for investors. Is the Company
sacrificing quality to achieve such margins; if so, will the quality issues turn into safety
issues and trip up the Company with the regulators. Further, what kind of brand image
impact may ensue when consumers became aware the flooring products from Lumber
Liquidators may in fact be emitting carcinogenic chemicals beyond the limit mandated by
the government?


Formaldehyde Scare in China


A&W, Anxin Weiguang Flooring, was a leading hardwood flooring company in China until
February of 2012 when a consumer advocate broke the news on the Internet that A&W
branded engineered hardwood flooring products do not meet regulatory formaldehyde
emission standards. For investors who are unfamiliar with formaldehyde, it is listed as a
known carcinogen in June of 2011 by the National Toxicology Program. In addition to
being a known human carcinogen, formaldehyde is also shown to cause childhood
asthma and female reproductive issues. A&W is a major Chinese flooring company
counting Carlyle as one of its investors. Media nicknamed the issue "toxic flooring gate"
and drew an incredible amount of attention from consumers. Among the allegations, the
advocate detailed A&W branded engineered hardwood flooring products used in certain
condominiums developments significantly exceed the regulatory limits and such flooring
products were sourced directly from A&W. The issue turned into a major controversy
forcing China Vanke, the largest residential real estate developer in China, to re-test all
the flooring products sourced from A&W. After comprehensive testing of the flooring



http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/11/health/11cancer.html?_r=0

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2854756/

http://www.thetruthaboutstuff.com/pdf/%28199%29%20Birth%20Defects%20and%20Formaldehyde%20Exposure.pdf

http://www.house365.com/d0t1l2p3/1000000/2012/03/01/224106/

http://news.house365.com/gbk/njestate/system/2012/02/20/020310407.html
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 4/38


products in question, Vanke identified at least one of its developments where the
formaldehyde emission level of the flooring products was noncompliant. The incident
caused significant public concerns and subsequently, A&W experienced a drastic sales
slump and almost went bankrupt as a result of the incident. In addition to supplying
products to real estate developers in China, companies such as A&W also export flooring
products to the United States. Per relevant regulations, the importers bear the
responsibility of ensuring the safety of their imports. Does Lumber Liquidators have proper
assurance procedures in place to ensure products installed in people's homes in the U.S.
meet the formaldehyde emission standards set forth by relevant regulatory bodies?


Press coverage on this issue in English can be found here, here and here


Consumer Reviews Spell Troubles


Lumber Liquidators' management has successfully executed its planned store expansion
and growth strategy in addition to the noted gross margin expansion, yet investors also
assumed its future expansion and marketing strategies will be smoothly executed. For the
optimistic investors, universally negative consumer reviews should serve as an alarm bell.


According to 63 reviews posted on the website Reseller Reviews, on a 10-point scale,
Lumber Liquidators scored a miserable 3.61 on pricing and service while another local
reseller scored 9.62. The bull argument so far seems to be that consumer opinions do not
matter; granted, Lumber Liquidators has managed to grow its same-store sales and
achieve significant margin expansion over the past year with all the negativity. The
continuation of its success is hardly guaranteed. When consumers learn they may have
rested on the empty promises of the Company to ensure the environmental safety of their
homes, their reactions could be much more draconic. If the Chinese flooring company,
A&W, were of any guidance, putting consumers' health at risk in exchange for margin
expansion can hardly be a sound business strategy.


As noted before, Lumber Liquidators is no stranger to negative consumer reviews. A
significant number of consumer reviews seem to focus on the observable factors such as
the planks are not the same width across their length or the products are not durable
enough. In a number of consumer reviews, the consumer noted the weird odor they smell
after installing Lumber Liquidators' products in their homes. The majority of U.S.
consumers do not seem to be well-versed in the role of formaldehyde in engineered
flooring products and the significant health risks that come with prolonged excessive



http://finance.sina.com.cn/roll/20120228/013311464985.shtml

http://www.wantchinatimes.com/news-subclass-cnt.aspx?id=20120226000087%26cid=1502

http://www.china.org.cn/business/2012-02/21/content_24689966.htm

http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/bizchina/2012-02/22/con

http://www.resellerratings.com/store/Lumber_Liquidators
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 5/38


exposure. However, a number of complaints hint at the issue at large. In a note posted on
Complaints Board, Tommy detailed a miserable experience he had with Lumber
Liquidators in 2011:


"We bought 1600sf Bellawood floor from Lumber Liquidators and installed it in our
house. Right after the installation, my family started suffering irritated eyes, skin
rash, and burning throat, respiratory stress. Indoor air testing showed the
formaldehyde level was above 0.2ppm, which is 25 time higher than the normal level
(0.008ppm). We have to move to other place to avoid exposure. The Lumber
Liquidators and their insurance company Liberty Mutual kicked the ball back and
forth, and made us a homeless for 8 months. I would like to tell other customers of
Lumber Liquidators, if you are suffering some respiratory symptoms, check the
Formaldehyde level in your house. If you are going to buy products from Lumber
Liquidator, please think about my experience."


Another note posted by Max77054:


"We installed 16oo sf bella wood floor in my house in 2009. Right after the
installation, all of my family members started to have allergic reactions, headache,
dry eyes, burning throat, skin rash, etc. We did indoor air pollution analysis, and
found a high concentration of formaldehyde (25 times higher than it should be) in my
house. Wood floor material analysis found it contains a large amount of
formaldehyde in the top finish of the bellawood floor. Please contact me if you have
the same experience. 713-829-2172."


While most consumers did not bother to understand what the weird smell is, others went
the extra step to test the indoor Formaldehyde level after installing Lumber Liquidators
products. They certainly are not alone when it comes to having formaldehyde issues with
Lumber Liquidators' products. In another note posted on Floormasters.com, a site
dedicated for wood flooring professionals, one installer expressed his concerns regarding
Lumber Liquidators' product quality:



http://usaconsumercomplaints.com/shops-trade/209907-sell-defect-products.html

http://www.complaintsboard.com/complaints/bella-wood-c383939.html

http://floormasters.com/flooring-pros/viewtopic.php?f=1%26t=10074
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 6/38


"Just bid 800 sqft install. Customer found some Strand Bamboo at LL and loves the
color and grain. I'm hesitant to install any Strand Bamboo for several reasons:
Dimpling where there are cleats, instability, cracking tongues, and the finish is very
sensitive to moisture. Obviously the price of $3.60/ sqft is appealing to the customer,
but I've read many reviews stating that LL uses a specific type of Formaldehyde that
gases off and causes odor issues and medical issues if you have a sensitivity to it. I
think that I will be able to persuade them into a exotic that will be happy with, but
with a new LL in town, I think this will become more frequent. I have installed a
couple Bellawood floors and thought they were ok, not great, but with such a lack of
quality control, I am seriously considering not installing any LL products. I always try
to educate the customers, but price can be a difficult obstacle to overcome. How do
you all approach customers when LL is considered? Have many of you installed
their Strand Bamboo before?"


The flooring professional noted "many reviews" stating Lumber Liquidators products cause
odor issues and medical issues. With a significant price discount to its peers, Lumber
Liquidators understandably may appeal to certain consumers who care less about
durability or overall quality of their flooring, but they certainly did not sign up to purchase
products that will emit excessive level of a known carcinogenic toxic chemical for many
years to come. The substantial health risks associated with prolonged exposure cannot be
quantified in monetary terms.


Stated Product Compliance and Regulatory Environment


Lumber Liquidators officially states that all of its products are CARB compliant. In fact,
labeling on the boxes of its flooring products clearly states the product is California 93120
Phase 2 compliant for Formaldehyde in plywood. Also, Lumber Liquidators' representative
stated the following on the Q&A section of its own website:



http://www.lumberliquidators.com/ll/home
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 7/38


"Q: Does this product use urea formaldehyde and does it have low or no VOC?


Asked on 12/2/2012 by Aimee from Houston, TX


A: The adhesive that is used in bonding our Bamboo, Cork, Engineered, and
Laminate flooring products contain very low amounts of Urea Formaldehyde. We feel
that our products are very safe and most meet California CARB Phase I or California
Phase II regulations, which is listed on the boxes. We also list MSDS sheets for most
of these products on the Lumber Liquidators website "Flooring 101."


Answered on 12/10/2012 by cc-2"


Significant amounts of governmental regulations pertain to the use of formaldehyde in
composite wood products such as engineered or laminated flooring products. The state of
California pioneered the Airborne Toxic Control Measure (OTC:ATCM), which applies to all
composite wood products sold in the state of California. In 2010, President Obama signed
the Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products Act into law. The emission
standards contained in EPA's proposed implementation are identical to the CARB
regulations.


Specifically, the California Air Resources Board requires formaldehyde emission standard
compliance from distributors and importers. Lumber Liquidators is certainly subject to
CARB regulations.


Compliance Schedule and Emission Standard:


Specifically, CARB dictates that all HWPW (Hardwood Plywood) products sold in the state
of California should emit no more than 0.05 ppm (parts per million) as determined per
relevant testing methods. Violations of CARB regulations may result in severe penalties



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ATCM

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/6/6756741_13717424582240_rId26.png
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 8/38


assessed against the offending entities. A general overview of the relevant CARB
regulations can be found here.


Enforcement against Noncompliance


Lab Testing Shows Lumber Liquidators Lacks Effective Product Quality Control


I recently conducted independent lab testing - engaging Berkeley Analytical, an IAS
accredited testing laboratory -- on a sample of Lumber Liquidators house brand flooring
("Mayflower" brand), and the results that came back weren't pretty: Over 3.5x the
maximum legal level for formaldehyde. (This product was purchased retail from a
Southern California retail store.) Fully understanding the importance of this finding, we
submitted samples from the same package to a second laboratory, this one the "gold
standard" lab for the National Wood Flooring Association, NTA. This second lab confirms
the product is in violation of the legal limit for formaldehyde.


Lumber Liquidators officially states its products are CARB compliant despite all the
negative consumer reviews. It is naturally suspicious due to the apparent disconnect
between those concerning consumer reviews and the Company's position on its product
quality. To investigate, some products were purchased from a retail store in Los Angeles
and were sent for lab testing for CARB compliance. Due to the prohibitive costs and
efforts in carrying out the testing, only a limited number of samples were collected. The
testing specifically focused on the Company's brand name Bellawood and the Company's
imported product from China. While the Bellawood product came back compliant with the
relevant regulations, the imported product from China tested emitting 0.17 ppm, three and
half times the government mandated maximum emission level. The test was carried out by
Berkeley Analytical, an IAS accredited lab. The same test performed by another
independent accredited lab, NTA, also shows noncompliance.



https://www.google.com/url%3fsa=t%26rct=j%26q=%26esrc=s%26source=web%26cd=2%26ved=0CDUQFjAB%26url=http%3a//www.namm.org/files/Emissions%2520webinar%2520powerpoint_0.ppt%26ei=PgmZUZTRJYXo9ATzioDgBQ%26usg=AFQjCNGhtScYrX_UAy9VGv6nzLfkNRONvQ%26sig2=iw-3SwQF1r01fr07RwWjLg

http://berkeleyanalytical.com/

http://www.ntainc.com/testing-services/

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/6/6756741_13717424582240_rId28.png
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 9/38


Noncompliant Product:


Lab Results:


Compliant Product:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/6/6756741_13717424582240_rId31.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/6/6756741_13717424582240_rId32.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/6/6756741_13717424582240_rId33.png
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 10/38


Lab Results:


Lab reports can be found here and here.


The results show some of Lumber Liquidators' products significantly exceed the
government mandated limits and the Company does not have proper internal quality
control process to ensure the safety of its products. The tested product, Mayflower 5/16" x
5" Bund Birch Engineered, emits a staggering three and half times over the government
mandated maximum emission level. The product is clearly not CARB compliant yet
Lumber Liquidators tagged CARB compliance on the box. As retailer and importer of this
product, Lumber Liquidators is strictly liable for the violation per ATCM. It is unclear how
many types or batches of Lumber Liquidators' products are noncompliant but certified as
compliant. The gross violation of the one product tested shows a clear lack to product
quality control process. With the rampant negative consumer reviews, it is very likely a
material portion of Lumber Liquidators' 210 million USD inventory could be noncompliant
and they should be re-tested and properly certified before being sold to any consumer.
Further, reading prior reviews submitted by other consumers referenced above, Lumber
Liquidators appears to be no stranger to the issue of formaldehyde. Instead of taking
drastic actions to ensure product quality and preventing toxic products from entering
people's homes, noncompliant product is still being sold today by Lumber Liquidators. The
Company appears to be willfully violating regulations in an egregious fashion.


Regulatory and Legal Consequences of Violations


Arguably, should the formaldehyde issue gain traction with consumers, the consumer
market itself should cause grave economic consequences for Lumber Liquidators. Just
like with A&W, consumers will simply walk away and purchase products from better
brands such as Home Depot and Lowe's. Yet as a U.S. Company, Lumber Liquidators



https://www.box.com/s/mhzih9apu2q2gdeuty8i

https://www.box.com/s/iu4wyh0x4mrcz01mp5fr

http://www.lumberliquidators.com/ll/c/Bund-Birch-Engineered-Mayflower-MFENBB5/10024298

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/6/6756741_13717424582240_rId34.png
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 11/38


could face additional consequences beyond abandonment by consumers. Prior
enforcement action and class action lawsuits related to formaldehyde suggest the
Company could be on the hook for significant class action settlements and government
enforcement actions. It will likely be required to recall all problematic products sold to
consumers, which would be prohibitively expensive for a flooring company. Further,
Lumber Liquidators will need to conduct a comprehensive review of its inventory to assess
the extent of its noncompliance. At the end of first quarter 2013, Lumber Liquidators has a
total cash balance of $72 million. With significant overhead running coupled with legal
consequences, if the Company were to face mass consumer exodus due to a lack of
confidence in the safety of its products, bankruptcy is not an inconceivable scenario.


"Stationary Sources and Consumer Products (Part 4 of Division 26, HSC)


There are civil penalties (sections 42401 through 42403) and criminal penalties
(sections 42400 through 42400.8). Violators may be punished using either, but not
both (section 42400.7). Most violations are punished civilly. Maximum penalty
amounts are based on the degree of a violator's intent. The range begins at $1,000
per violation per day, which can be imposed with no finding of intent (strict liability).
Penalties top at $1 million per violation per day for corporate violators and $250,000
per violation per day for individuals, in cases of willful and intentional emissions of air
contaminants that result in great bodily harm or death. ARB also can obtain a court
order or "injunction" to stop violations from taking place (section 41513). In criminal
cases, violators also face possible jail sentences of 30 days to 1 year per violation
per day.


Part 4 penalty provisions also apply to violations of ARB's consumer products
regulations (Title 17, California Code of Regulations, sections 94500-94575), and
indoor air cleaner regulations (sections 94800-94810). The list of factors that must
be considered in determining a penalty under Part 4 (section 42403) is similar to
those required under SB 1402 (section 43024)."


Investors should also pay close attention to two formaldehyde related class-action
lawsuits and enforcement actions.


The California Air Resources Board took enforcement action on a hair product. In the
settlement related to the suit, Brazilian Blowout Products was required to refund all
products sold. The number comes out to be roughly $4.5 million for the company. It is
difficult to assess the amount of damage should Lumber Liquidators be involved in such a
suit. The penalty will definitely depend upon the length of time over which Lumber



http://oag.ca.gov/news/press-releases/attorney-general-kamala-d-harris-announces-settlement-requiring-honest

http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/06/business/brazilian-blowout-agrees-to-a-4-5-million-settlement.html?_r=0
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 12/38


Liquidators was non-compliant, but it seems reasonable the Company could be liable for
the full value of whatever revenue it received from selling the noncompliant flooring
products, at a minimum.


"In a class action suit, 10 plaintiffs in March negotiated a preliminary $4 million
settlement with GIB, which includes payments to consumers of $35 an application,
with a limit of three, and a $75 reimbursement per bottle to stylists. The plaintiffs
estimate that over the years up until December, about 15,700 U.S. stylists had
purchased Brazilian Blowout directly from GIB and about 100,000 customers had
paid for the treatment. The settlement also proposes to resolve a pending federal
class action suit."


Another similar class action lawsuit relates to excessive formaldehyde emission from
trailers provided for hurricane victims. The lawsuit was settled for over $30 million.


The "cause for action" are fraud, negligence, and false advertising. The lawsuit was
brought in a federal district court, with the plaintiffs from all over the U.S.


It is impossible for an investigator such as me to fully assess the impacts of Lumber
Liquidators' vulnerabilities to its business from this finding. How many brands and SKUs
show formaldehyde contamination. How long has such product been distributed in the
U.S.? (all US product is distributed from a single point of supply, so it is highly unlikely that
my finding is isolated.) In addition to the sky-high valuation, investors in Lumber
Liquidators should be aware of the following risks facing the Company.


1. Amount of installed product in customers' homes and businesses to be removed and
replaced -- unknown


2. Amount of product to be withdrawn from inventory -- disposition and costs unknown
3. Litigation liability for misrepresentation, financial and health damages -- likely through


consumer class action -- impacts unquantifiable
4. Shareholder lawsuits against management for gross misrepresentation -- damages


unknown
5. Regulatory fines and costs for misrepresented products -- damages unknown
6. Reputation damage -- impossible to quantify -- lower revenues, tarnished brand
7. Growth plans -- likely suspension for a significant period
8. Margin contraction -- likely lowered due to removal from sales mix of low-cost, high-


margin substandard Chinese products


Note from Grant's Interest Rate Observer on Lumber Liquidators



http://classactiondefense.jmbm.com/2009/01/fema_class_action_defense_case_2.html
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 13/38


The proposed short thesis above does not deal with the valuation of the Company.
Therefore, it is probably helpful for investors to get the perspective from a leading financial
publication. Grant's is an independent, value-oriented and contrary-minded journal of
financial markets edited by Jim Grant. It boasts unparalleled reputation among institutional
investors and Lumber Liquidators was featured as a short idea last month when the stock
was trading at $87 a share.
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 14/38


"Idea No.3 is a short position in Lumber Liquidators Holdings (LL on the Big Board),
the biggest specialty retailer of hardwood flooring in North America. Let us first
acknowledge that we are picking on a marketing juggernaut and a stock-price
momentum rocket ship. Sales and earnings per share are on a roll, and operating
margins have been widening-to 11% in the first quarter of 2013 from 7.1% in the like
period of 2012. The balance sheet shows $72.7 million in net cash. Hustling to stay
bullish enough, sell-side analysts are ratcheting up their price targets even as the
latest S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index, for February, shows a 9.3% year-over-
year gain, the most since May 2006. In short, here is an apparent state of perfection.
But only apparent: "The bullish Lumber Liquidators' story revolves around the
potential opportunity for the company to open 600 stores in the United States over
the next couple of years and to take market share from independent floor-covering
retailers," Peligal relates. "Lumber Liquidators owns a 10.5% market share,
management estimates. Other contenders in the American hardwood and laminate
market are home centers like Home Depot and Lowe's, with a combined share of
27%, and everybody else with 62%.


While one can understand the bullish thesis, it's interesting to note that LL's sales
per store are flattish over the past couple of years. "Now it's true," Peligal continues,
"that new stores cannibalize old stores, but let's make the generous assumption that
a mature LL store can generate $3.5 million of revenues per year. Furthermore,
assume LL can open a total of 600 stores, and that total revenue at some point in
the future will be $2.1 billion (600 stores times $3.5 million per store). Say, in
addition, that LL can take share from independent retailers and that operating
margin climbs to 14%. You would then have $294 million in earnings before interest
and taxes ($2.1 billion in future revenues times a 14% margin). Because, at this
indeterminate point in the future, LL will have become a mature retail concept, apply
a multiple of 14. You get about $2.6 billion of value, or perhaps $2.4 billion, as the
stores don't just build themselves.


And that is essentially where the stock is valued today. If you put any kind of
discount rate on it, the share price would immediately sink, because it might take six
or eight years to finish the construction. Thus, at these levels, LL is a different kind of
lottery ticket. In a way, you're buying a low-cost put on housing. If a surprise
outbreak of inflation pushed up mortgage rates, or a surprise outbreak of deflation
pushed down house prices, the price of a share of LL could come down from the
ceiling to a spot much nearer the floor." Peligal got on the phone to check with some
of the independent flooring retailers on whose market share Lumber Liquidators will
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 15/38


ostensibly feast. "What is their name?" a New Jersey merchant rhetorically asked in
reply to Peligal's question. "Lumber Liquidators," he answered himself." You know
what liquidators means? It's the stuff nobody else wants." The man from the Garden
State asked to remain anonymous. So did a retailer from Maryland. "I'm the general
manager of this company, and I've been in the industry for 26 years now," our
informant said. "The reputation of Lumber Liquidators is that they are the dumpster
of the industry." The author of a Yelp review of the Lumber Liquidators' store on E
1st St. in Manhattan, dated Dec.10, 2012, was only one-half anonymous. "The wood
that they sell you is of poor quality, even if it's Bellawood hardwood," wrote Sarah F.
"The planks are not the same width across their length, and they are not durable at
all. I've had my floor for less than six months and it looks awful already." The Web
site Reseller Ratings posts 63 customer reviews of Lumber Liquidators. On a 10-
point scale, LL scores 3.61 for pricing and services, 0.63 for shipping and packaging
and 0.56 for customer service. "Save yourself a major headache by running as
quickly [as possible] in the other direction as if your hair was on fire!" writes
customer Kate Olen, of Kissimmee, Fla. Evidence that not every single Internet
commentator is angry are the reviews posted on Reseller Ratings for True
Hardwoods of Calhoun, Ga. Here, the scores run 9.62 for product and service 9.81
for shipping and packaging and a perfect 10 for customer service; 39 customers
contributed. Reached for comment, the LL investor-relations contact replied that the
majority of her company's products are first quality, with odd lots and second  quality
goods accounting for only 5% of volume. As for hardwood, she said, it's a natural
product, and people have unreasonably high expectations about the uniformity of the
wood. "Well," she explains, "that's how the trees grow."


Notably, the short sellers in LL are not the only sellers. Thomas Sullivan, founder
and chairman of Lumber Liquidators, has been a consistent seller over the past two
years, including 200,000 shares between May 3 and May 6 at prices in the low $80s
(which leaves him 708,998 shares). Follow the leader, we say."


Conclusion


As described in Grant, investors in Lumber Liquidators today are certainly ignoring all the
conventional valuation metrics. The discount rate or total addressable market certainly
does not come into investors' minds. However, investors should not overlook the issue
surrounding Lumber Liquidators' product quality; especially when the quality issue extends
into the safety and well-being of Lumber Liquidators' customers.
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 16/38


Comments (94)


To be completely candid about what this analysis is and what it isn't. It isn't my job to be
the company's quality control department. One seriously non-compliant batch of product
was found in a total of three samples of the Chinese imports, and verified the result at two
independent labs with top credentials. What does it mean? Could this be a near-
meaningless oversight or could it be "the floater in the punchbowl"?


It might not be dissimilar to the China Vanke situation, where only a small minority of the
installed wood products were contaminated, yet the consequences were widespread.


The company sold approximately 200,000,000 square feet of product last year. If 10% is
contaminated, that would be over 20,000,000 square feet of product producing toxic
outgas into US homes and businesses, maybe 250,000 rooms. If even 10% of that
amount, say one sample in a hundred, is contaminated, that's still 2 million square feet of
contaminated product, maybe 20,000 rooms worth. I have no idea.


The company's response to this report will tell the investing public a lot more about
Lumber Liquidators than this Seeking Alpha article. If the company launches a major,
highly transparent campaign to acknowledge the problem, do the right thing, retest and
recall all contaminated product, redouble its efforts to insure the safety and quality of its
products, and stand behind all contaminated product sold to the public, that will tell you
something. If they attack the messenger, it will tell you something else. I stand ready to
supply the company with the remaining product we tested and copies of the lab results.


Attached here is an open letter sent to the chairman of California Air Resources Board.
The product quality issues at Lumber Liquidators warrant immediate regulatory attention
and further consumer scrutiny. The U.S. consumers should not unknowingly live in an
environment with excessive formaldehyde exposure given the regulatory structures are
already in place.


Disclosure: I am short LL. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I
am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company
whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


DC Capital, Contributor
Very nice due dilligence.



https://www.box.com/s/sersbbp92neqpdfusy7e

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

https://seekingalpha.com/author/dc-capital
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 17/38


20 Jun 2013, 02:37 PM


juscheckingin
Having worked at LL for many years, I would agree, very nice due diligence.


21 Jun 2013, 03:23 PM


JeffLassle
I have sent the author a private letter and have asked him to debate me on his assertions, a career
commodity trader in this sector with science degrees and former EPA scientist and agent, and who was the
chief lobbyist on the CARB rules since 2006 and had worked with this rogue agency also on the diesel rule on
PM2.5 particulate matter and find much of the science coming out of CARB is agenda driven, not science.


I would hope the author will debate me on his assertions but can say he is not reporting factual premises on
the CARB rule and that LL was not following the regulations. The author has no idea on what the industry
standard is for this regulation within the composite panel, import furniture, and flooring domestic and imported
sectors of the US forest products industry. The industry that has started this agenda was of course the MHRV
industry and Xuchou may consider looking into their quality control; as all buys are from third party sources
who may or may not have any QC overseas at all (more like 99% do not) and just trades paper in an office
setting.


20 Jun 2015, 09:18 PM


TimeOnTarget
@JeffLassle --


Wait a minute. How are his assertions "a career commodity trader in this sector with science degrees and
former EPA scientist and agent . . . ." ???????


And why would he want to debate you? You don't make any sense. Seriously, anyone who can't express a
single thought coherently gets no time from me.


21 Jun 2015, 02:35 AM


JeffLassle
Why would he want to debate me is because he is asserting false information. His assumptions of the
science, intent of law, and the practices of the entire US industry is lacking truthfulness, in fact it is libelous.
Most competitors of LL were not even following any attempt to comply with CARB and CARB wasn't enforcing
the regulation for a reason. As a self proclaimed investigator he has ignored the facts and if, as an
investigator, he should want the facts as every professional does. That is why he should debate me publicly.


21 Jun 2015, 03:11 PM


DenaliOcean



https://seekingalpha.com/user/13416492

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40586805

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4572391

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40586805

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 18/38


There is nothing false from the author of this article at all. To call it libelous is simply not valid. Clearly you
have some objective here.


Nearly all of Lumber Liquidators Chinese laminate floor boards which have been tested did not comply with
current CARB formaldehyde regulations or even phase 1, and clearly were mislabeled. The Chinese factory
workers flat-out admitted this. It is as plain as day. This is a matter of fact.


And there have been numerous reports , including my own experiences, where people have been and are
being negatively physically affected by these Chinese high formaldehyde HDF core floorboards. Primarily
respiratory symptoms. Formaldehyde is dangerous and elevated levels within buildings is harmful and not
acceptable.


The president of HPVA Laboratories (Kip Howlett) confirms and validates the findings of 60 Minutes: 
http://bit.ly/1NNcp5M


And has called upon the State of California, the US Justice Department, and the Federal Trade Commission
to investigate the mislabeling by Lumber Liquidators.


It certainly is not acceptable to have formaldehyde levels 10 times over .11 ppm (using the ASTM D 6007 test
method of the core board). This is not acceptable anywhere in the world. In Europe, they have slightly tighter
standards that CARB phase 2 and in Japan they are even tighter (half of the European E1). It is illegal to put
composite wood products over .10 ppm in a home in Germany and other European countries.


23 Jun 2015, 02:15 AM


Waldo Mushman
And next week......


"Issues regarding formaldehyde levels in one of our products has prompted us to do a thorough company wide test of
all of our inventory. We have already done a sample test at the site that drew the public attention and the problem has
been identified and corrected. We expect system wide inspections to require approximately 90 days and less than 1
cent per share revenue impact. This actually presents us with an opportunity to introduce our newest line of green
flooring endorsed by Pope Benedict and Bono.


Your claims are unfortunately easy to defend against and the corrective action they can take seems fairly
straightforward. Looks like a tough short to me. I am afraid most shoppers (and all HF's) will ignore consumer criticism
if they get a deal.


Very impressed with the work. 
John


20 Jun 2013, 03:06 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  John,


Thanks for the comment. I would agree with you if the lab test was merely an isolated incident and LL is
widely praised by consumers in general. The situation, however, is the complete opposite. As I noted in the



http://bit.ly/1NNcp5M

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 19/38


article, the formaldehyde issue should not be new for LL's management. There has been extensive amount of
document complaints online with regards to formaldehyde complaints related specifically to Lumber
Liquidators. You could not find the similar complaints if you search for Lowes and Home Depot products. They
are extremely telling and would make mockery of the response you suspected the management may post.
Frankly, the lab test is merely a way to certify LL as major violator of the relevant laws and regulations. It can
now be presented to the regulators to show, in addition to consumer complaints, the products sold at LL are
factually noncompliant. That is important. Also, you may have underestimated the ease at which 210 million
dollar worth of inventory could be tested...


21 Jun 2013, 01:23 AM


Magic Eightball
Waldo, if LL wants the endorsement to carry some weight, they'd do better to enlist the current Pope, Pope
Francis, he is more of a man of the people. Pope Benedict was more the scholarly type and retired to
southern Italy a few months ago.


On a more serious note, if you are at all in touch with home construction faux pa's. You'll recall that the
Chinese stinky drywall fiasco of a couple years back and the Chinese leaking plastic water pipe of the 1990's
each cost in the BILLIONS to correct..


Add to that the damage to their reputation, the cost of disposing of all that TOXIC inventory (hazardous
waste), the cost to remove all the installed hazardous waste flooring by HAZMAT teams, and then the
expense of installing higher cost replacement flooring, and to top it off ALL THOSE LAWSUITS about health
issues from the homeowners.


I don't think it's going to be a penny per share and hit to future earnings will be significant on multiple fronts.


21 Jun 2013, 10:26 AM


msg1104
Very interesting article.


21 Jun 2013, 12:22 PM


Waldo Mushman
My point is to show how easily the charges can be refuted with some simple PR. The underlying financial
realities will not be itemized and will very likely sink into some sort of suspense fund - amortized over 4 or 5
years.


I looked at the name as a possible short and it seems to be a fairly weak play. LL is very unlikely to see any
material revenue drop due to this issue. It is also unlikely that any litigation will get traction. I expect that the
macro issues of new home count, sales per store, operating margins, etc will drive this train and the problems
you identify are predictive of a JCP type descent into mediocrity. In 34 years.


And I think you misunderstand - they aren't going to test a damn thing. They are going to say the did and who
is going to call them out on it? Next we can start a national movement against Dairy Queen for under



https://seekingalpha.com/user/919821

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13412262

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 20/38


sprinkling the Jimmies.


Hopefully I am not sounding overly dismissive but suggesting BK and a rain of consumer fury is a bit
overwrought. Equally unlikely is any material impact on either the top or bottom line based on regulatory
enforcement. The key reason this doesn't work as a short is that they can be brilliantly successful without the
formaldehyde. That chemical is not a key ingredient to anything they do and they can (easily) and will
(quickly) eliminate that concern.


John


21 Jun 2013, 10:31 PM


Magic Eightball
This could go either way.


All this needs to do is gain some populist traction with some kind of investigative news outlet. Then all of the
investigative news outlests will glom on to it. Then come the class action lawyers. It's just a viral thing.


Will it happen? Who knows.


But personnaly, I think it SHOULD happen. The Chi-coms could care less about harming/killing Americans, for
them (and the management at LL) it's all about the money.


Wait until the Chi-coms buy Smithfielf Foods, we'll be importing and you'll be eating ham laced with melamine
on a daily basis.


22 Jun 2013, 03:00 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  John,


I would respectfully disagree with you on the issue. The reality is, the company could get away if nobody else
follows up on the situation and the company puts in place proper control going forward on this issue. I'm
actively campaigning against the Company by proactively reaching out to the regulators and members of
congress to prevent them from getting away with their past violations. We'll see how it may play out. The
three members of congress I wrote to have in the past addressed issues related to formaldehyde in the
Brazilian blowout case. I'd have to imagine they should be plentifully interested in the largest US hardwood
flooring company selling contaminated products -- a lot of political capital to gain from taking action. Also
through my research, it appears LL has major product quality issues beyond formaldehyde and that's likely its
primary driving force behind the margin expansion. A sheer number of complaints about the Company should
be cause for concerns. How could a company with unhappy customers succeed? sure they may post growth
temporarily but a lasting business cannot be built upon such a shaky foundation. I think in general, Chinese
consumers are much more vigilant about product quality concerns than US consumers simply because risks
are much greater in China but that is not to say US consumers are oblivious of such risks. The lead toy case
is a good example. With the current valuation in place, LL cannot afford a PR disaster.


With regards to the risk of bankruptcy, I will concede it is not a high probability event but I can offer you a
conceivable scenario. The formaldehyde flooring issue gains widespread attention over the next few months



https://seekingalpha.com/user/919821

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 21/38


and CARB investigates the matter ( the only body actually enforces the issue) and finds serious violation
since the emission standards were put in place. LL could be required to recall products and pay fines.
Recalling flooring products would be prohibitively expensive even if they are only required to do so by law in
the state of California. Now the Company faces a major dilemma as to whether recall all products sold in the
US. It would be tough to know how much that would cost but could easily run upwards of 50 million. As a
result of that, the company's reputation will suffer and could experience at least a temporary decline in
revenue. With a 6% operating margin, LL very well may start posting losses while it reviews the 210 million
dollar inventory. With 70 million dollar in cash, it is certainly not outside the realm of possibility that LL could
go under. Even though it is a 2 billion dollar company at the moment, LL's a very asset light company with
significant overhead expenses. Is this an extremely probable scenario? probably not. But could it happen, I
certainly wouldn't rule it out.


23 Jun 2013, 08:24 AM


Waldo Mushman
XZ -


I am afraid I am a bit jaded. Dealing with some of the Chinese stocks that didn't even have a business was
eye opening. LL seemingly has real stores and real money. Contrast that starting point to Sino-Forest who
didn't actually own any forests. Regulators are relatively indifferent to outright fraud so poor product quality is
unlikely to wind them up. If poor products were of great import half of the NYSE names would be zeros.


John


23 Jun 2013, 10:25 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Well I can't argue with that. It's next to impossible to find another stock that can match sino-
forest..or the wave of china fraud that had occurred..


23 Jun 2013, 12:00 PM


TimeOnTarget
Waldo Mushman--


You stated:


"Hopefully I am not sounding overly dismissive but suggesting BK and a rain of consumer fury is a bit
overwrought. Equally unlikely is any material impact on either the top or bottom line based on regulatory
enforcement."


I don't know the weather for the entire country, but in my area there is a giant storm cloud getting ready to
pour on LL. I'm that cloud. My wife just bought and had some LL flooring installed. She wound up getting
snookered, which they might have regarded as a money maker at the time: It is, however, not going to have a
happy ending for them since I have a fairly straightforward case under a statutory cause of action in my state
called the Deceptive Trade Practices Act. I expect that other states have similar statutes.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4572391
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 22/38


This DTPA issue wouldn't normally be relevant to this article; there are, however, other provision in the DTPA
that may well have the issue described in this article within their ambit. The gist of it is that certain prescribed
behaviors are defined by the statute to constitute a "deceptive trade practice." These include:


(7) representing that goods or services are of a 
particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of a 
particular style or model, if they are of another;


(24) failing to disclose information concerning goods 
or services which was known at the time of the transaction if such failure to disclose such information was
intended to induce the consumer into a transaction into which the consumer would not have entered had the
information been disclosed;


Based on the information in the article (which I thought was excellent and contained very valuable
information--thanks), it sounds to me as if LL may have been in possession of information concerning excess
emissions from some of its products--time will tell what they knew and when they knew it (time and a little bit
of "encouragement").


When I went to pick up the flooring my wife bought, I don't recall seeing any signs to the effect of "unsafe
flooring sold here." I know that there was no such warning on the flooring itself. Unless there were very
explicit warnings in that regard, I think the product was offered as one that was suitable for installation and
use in a residence, when in fact that may not be the case.


Any one who is inclined to poo-poo the potential seriousness of the air emissions described in this article
should investigate the matter a little further. Formaldehyde is no big deal, provided you are already dead.
While you are alive, it is not something you want to be exposed to. It is a hazardous air pollutant (also
referred to as a toxic air pollutant). http://1.usa.gov/1aHKGgQ


People tend to be worried about things like the refinery in their town causing them to get cancer. What they
should be worried about is indoor air quality and pesticides on foods: For most people the risk from those
sources is roughly two orders of magnitude greater (i.e., 10,000 times) than exposure to industrial sources.


Since I have practiced environmental law for 25 years, I have a bit of knowledge and perspective about risks
posed by various things. I have two kids, including a 7 year old daughter who plays on the floor constantly. I
am not going to have much patience at all if my wife was sold a product to go in our house that is off gassing
high levels of formaldehyde. Since my practice was also a heavy litigation practice for 10 years, I have no
problem whatsoever suing people that deserve to be sued.


I was already planning on hitting these people with a DTPA claim: I think I am going to have a little testing
done myself before I do that.


I expect that there are more customers out there like me than you suspect. If I determine that my wife was
sold an unsafe product to put in our house, LL is going to be in for quite a ride.


One good thing about the DTPA is that not only does the statute provide for treble damages, if you
successfully exercise a DTPA claim you are entitled to recover your attorney's fees.



http://1.usa.gov/1aHKGgQ
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 23/38


Not only that, if this problem is prevalent, I would expect the attorney generals of the various states to get
involved. Most of those will have consumer protection divisions (or divisions that perform that function) and
will have the ability and resource to address an activity that is impacting citizens of that state. I would
encourage anyone that has a problem like that described in this article who doesn't want to personally pursue
litigation to contact their attorney general's office and provide them will all the information and evidence they
have.


24 Jun 2013, 11:35 AM


Waldo Mushman
Now I am being dismissive. Your silly DTPA won't get anywhere and LL probably has 10 of those sort of
cases filed every week. Most retailers recognize these nuisances as a part of doing business. Irate customers
with an inflated sense of importance clog the legal system with petty complaints and they are routinely tossed
out.


I wish you the best and I hope you get some satisfaction but your activities will go totally unnoticed by the
market, the shareholders and probably LL itself. The stock remains an indifferent short sale.


John


25 Jun 2013, 02:28 PM


TimeOnTarget
Sure, I can see why you would say that--and most such suits probably follow that type of track. I think what
you are missing is that as an inital matter I already have a DTPA case that I am very comfortable in filing: I
have experience litigating DTPA cases and the particular facts of my case are very strong-- almost couldn't fit
the statutory language any better.


Frankly, even with treble damages and attorneys fees, I probably wouldn't normally mess with it--it was just
one room--roughly 600 square feet. Although I have a lot of litigation experience, I am not litigious by nature.
But in this case, I do think they were sleazy, so I will mess with it. And if all there turns out to be in the
"normal" sleazy DTPA type claim, yeah, they won't even blink.


The air emissions are the potential kicker. If I find out that is a problem, I am going to be quite angry and not
inclined to settle even though the air emissions may not independently have much of an effect the economic
damages, since I have a claim that covers those, or most of those, already.


What I believe would get the company's attention is getting dragged through a trial that includes air emission
issues. I'll retain counsel, of course, but I have always been pretty vigorous and thorough with how I conduct
pre-trial discovery. If there is a pervasive problem, then you get to the point where there would likely be media
interest. That would be about when the company would really start paying attention. I've also been in-house
counsel for a large company--one well over 10X as big as LL-- so I know how suits are handled and what
most companies are likely to be concerned about and what they aren't. If there are pervasive problems with
excess toxic air emissions, they will start getting concerned when I don't want their check.


25 Jun 2013, 05:18 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4572391
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 24/38


chris_dress
what do you think now?


04 Mar 2015, 06:39 PM


TimeOnTarget
I didn't screw with suing them, the amounts involved just weren't worth the time it would have taken. But I still
think they are major scumbags.


I haven't sifted through all the more recent air stuff yet, but I plan to.


Here is a quick observation: If it is in your house, it is in your house. Anyone who thinks that volatile
compounds aren't going to come out of flooring is deluding themselves. Perhaps slower, perhaps quicker, but
you will breathe it.


I'd never buy from this company and my wife never will again.


09 Apr 2015, 09:11 AM


asdf11234
Guess you might be wrong about that, maybe.


09 Apr 2015, 10:51 AM


JeffLassle
Xuhua Zhou - I have asked earlier for a debate on this report you have written. Is there a reason why there
has been no response? Your report is very one sided and full of misinformation and needs to be rebutted. I
am a real commodity trader in this sector and have been involved with the development of the CARB rule
since day one and know just a tad more than you on this subject and the standards in place for this US sector
both domestically and internationally and who are a and who are not complying with these onerous
regulations.


Since your assertions appear to be based on emotionalism and not facts, it may be wise for you to step back
and take a look at your premises as stated in your diatribe above.


21 Jun 2015, 03:59 PM


biohawks
One of the most researched and well written pieces I have ever read on SA. Well done!


@Waldo These claims are not at all easy to defend against if samples can easily be pulled and independently tested.
They would actually have to correct the problem otherwise issuing a fluff PR like you suggest does nothing but further
undermine their credibility.


20 Jun 2013, 10:15 PM


prowalt2



https://seekingalpha.com/user/40655

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4572391

https://seekingalpha.com/user/15523452

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40586805

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4028931

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4017791
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 25/38


Could never understand consumers' love affair with LL. I found their service to be the worst. Purchased some flooring
from a local LL store and they promised delivery on a specific day and within a time window. When that day came no
delivery was received. I then went to the local store and asked the manager where was the delivery. The manager
appears to call a delivery person and then tells me that the delivery truck is on its way. Rushed home (only a couple of
miles away) and my wife tells me no one showed up. Waited another 4-5 hours - no delivery. Went back to the store -
store closed. 
Tried them again a year later for some wood flooring. Got a great deal on price. Only to learn the next day, they were
"out of stock" and would not expect any new material in the near future. Similar material that they tried to push on me
was almost double the price. 
Probably my bad luck, but I found much better looking flooring at Lowes and HD at even better pricing.


20 Jun 2013, 10:24 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Thanks for the comments. We will see if the Company comes out and address the issues raised
here. It's my view the Company's expansion plans should be put on hold immediately pending further audit of its
quality assurance procedures. It is not OK to sell toxic flooring products to consumers. I have copied contents to
relevant regulatory agencies and members of congress. Would be interesting to see how they respond.


21 Jun 2013, 01:01 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Additional Letters addressed to congressional members:


http://bit.ly/13XybKv 
http://bit.ly/13XyeFT 
http://bit.ly/13Xyd50


21 Jun 2013, 07:58 AM


Moon Kil Woong, Contributor
Sounds like regulation in this industry is about as good as the SEC and Fed in the banking industry. What is sad is
even China environmental regulators found out about the noncompliance before the US. That is really sad.


21 Jun 2013, 10:01 AM


dahammer
From a consumer standpoint, and based on my only purchase, I would only recommend LL to my worst enemy. The
product we bought was very poor quality, the installation company was awful, I would never use them again. I was
stunned when the cartons said "made in china". The bitter taste of poor quality lingers long after the sweet taste of low
price is gone.


21 Jun 2013, 10:05 AM


Minnie da Mulcher



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

http://bit.ly/13XybKv

http://bit.ly/13XyeFT

http://bit.ly/13Xyd50

https://seekingalpha.com/author/moon-kil-woong

https://seekingalpha.com/user/394201

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8830991
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 26/38


Thanks XZ for an informative & well-written article. 
I've also read many LL consumer reviews (on the solid wood flooring, not the engineered or laminated product lines)
and learned that you'd better have an experienced & expert installer work on your LL hardwood floor. The variability
from box to box was not a job for amateurs. 
(On a side note, I checked out the specs on bamboo floors in general and decided I wouldn't use that material, no
matter the supplier. I was looking for more durability.) 
I've had LL in my portfolio for a couple of years now (thank you Motley Fool), and I've pondered from time to time how
the company's stock has continued to rise so irrationally. I think it's time to take my profits and go buy some mining
shares (joke, joke) (too soon for that). 
Thanks again, XZ.


21 Jun 2013, 10:14 AM


Aristides Capital, Contributor
Nice article. I think you've illustrated nicely why shorting isn't just theoretically good for the markets, but also good for
society. If you didn't have a profit motive/potential reward for doing so, you wouldn't have bothered testing the LL
products.


21 Jun 2013, 10:28 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Not to mention how expensive it is....


21 Jun 2013, 10:29 AM


CassandraSees
Quality - - It's the reason products from Europe and USA cost more - - 
Pet food, dry wall, now flooring, - - What cyber surprises will we get with the computer chips, phones, computers that
we buy from China?


21 Jun 2013, 10:33 AM


Manjunath Sharma, CFA, Contributor
Timing of this article shows a great coincidence with market weakness. Coinciding with market meltdown yesterday
(June 20, 2013), long stock holders will hit the exit. A leading newspaper heaped praise on this stock with great
fundamentals and was in its buy list also. I am sure many people lost their shirt. Sold covered calls to reduce my
breakeven (long stock), but should have got some puts too.


21 Jun 2013, 10:51 AM


Manjunath Sharma, CFA, Contributor
June 21, 2013: As usual sell side analysts will come defend the stock after the huge drop in LL this morning. Hearing
Piper defending LL; believes co has stringent quality control, reiterates $97 tgt. Wonder what is the basis for
statement? Independent lab tests. Shorts made money and longs got hit.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/aristides-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/user/964758

https://seekingalpha.com/author/manjunath-sharma-cfa

https://seekingalpha.com/author/manjunath-sharma-cfa
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 27/38


21 Jun 2013, 12:16 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  http://bit.ly/12fNNVc


Piper Jaffary analyst responded to the note and I think the argument merits investors attention. Piper analyst notes
three things. 
1. quality control taken seriously at LL. I find this to be hilarious given all consumers hate their products and the sheer
number of the complaints that are readily available for everybody to read. EVERYBODY IS COMPLAINING ABOUT
PRODUCT QUALITY. Also the analyst notes CARB phase 2 is a higher standard than CARB phase 1. CARB phase 2
is required to sell products in the state of california. LL may have been able to get rubber stamped for compliance but
as a consumer walks into the store of LL, I'm sure he or she cares more about whether the product he purchases is
actually compliant. 
2. Extensive testing is completed. To respond to this, I have no knowledge on LL's internal quality control. Don't think
doing enough testing is a good argument against toxic products. 
3. Testing suffers from sampling error. The response, of course the testing suffers from sampling error as are the case
with all testings. It costs a significant amount of money to test a single product and buying and moving around 70
pound boxes isn't exactly an easy task either. Again, it's not my job to be the company's quality controller. Finally I just
want to note the absurdity of the analyst's argument that it's ok to have some noncompliant products. I'm curious
whether Mr. Keith would want to take the chance with changing his flooring into LL's flooring if there's let's say a 10%
probability those floors will emit carcinogenic chemical to him, his family and kids for the next 10 years. Bottom line is
this, you cannot have a single product that's noncompliant.


21 Jun 2013, 12:19 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Also why is this coming from an equity analyst instead of a formal press release from the Company.
Btw, I have not been contacted by the company....I may ask for refund on the box I spent 120 dollar buying from
them...


21 Jun 2013, 12:24 PM


juscheckingin
Having worked for LL for many years, I find the due diligence of this article to be very interesting. Xuhua, I can see
you did a lot of homework in preparing for this presentation.


21 Jun 2013, 03:23 PM


FollowBarrons
after reading your article, I began looking into this a bit - just curious if you know the reasoning for such negative
reviews on the site Reseller Reviews, yet when I go to google shopping reviews, where there are many many more
reviews, they seem much more overwhelmingly positive. Not challenging or supporting your thesis, but wondering if
you have any idea as to why this may be.. thanks. also - i've heard mgmt is open to taking calls with investors - would
be very interested to hear if you do reach out and speak with them



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

http://bit.ly/12fNNVc

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13416492

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6148351
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 28/38


21 Jun 2013, 03:37 PM


dukeoftralee
This is a hit piece on a company that advertises on conservative radio.


21 Jun 2013, 03:41 PM


rlp2451
Nothing more than a smear job with little evidence to go on.


21 Jun 2013, 04:36 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Oh I am totally happy to hit and smear a company that sells consumer toxic flooring
products. This company should go away and that makes the world a better place...The sample I tested
probably went to somebody's home where kids are playing on the floor.


21 Jun 2013, 04:47 PM


FollowBarrons
Have you tried to speak with management?


24 Jun 2013, 09:16 AM


rlp2451
There is no formaldehyde standard for "flooring" in California. 
But, if LL did carry products that the author referred to: 
"All finished products (panels and finished goods) sold or supplied to California are required to be compliant. Due to a
transitional period, which allows businesses to sell noncompliant inventories for a specified amount of time, there may
be some products still on the market that only meet Phase 1 emission standards. Retailers  
(such as big box stores, small retailers) are allowed to sell Phase 1 compliant products until December 31, 2013.
While many retailers sell/supply Phase 2 compliant products, legally they can also sell  
Phase 1 compliant products from their existing inventory through December 31, 2013."


It seems to me your argument should be with the CARB who oversees this regulation. However, to date, despite
many inspections of LL, HD and LOW (among others), they have yet to issue any fines or C&D orders.


21 Jun 2013, 06:03 PM


dukeoftralee
Hit piece on a company that advertises on conservative media!!!


22 Jun 2013, 10:23 AM


dahammer



https://seekingalpha.com/user/9966561

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6148351

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9966561

https://seekingalpha.com/user/394201
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 29/38


Duke, you repeat yourself, empty barrels make the most noise! Do yourself a favor, go buy some flooring from
this outfit and have it installed, then write back. The supposed hardwood we installed is getting marred by
furniture and after a few months I am disappointed. You do get what you pay for, it has nothing to do with LL
advertising with Limbaugh. It's cheap Chinese crap sold by a company with poor customer service, I had to
pick up the material myself, then the installer was late, I had to install it with my own guy.


24 Jun 2013, 10:42 AM


McMarc
While on the face of it, the test results of 0.17 ppm might appear high, CARB does not regulate finished products. As
rlp2451 above stated, California does not regulate formaldehyde emissions for flooring.


CARB only regulates composite panels. A fabricator who processes panels, either by shaping or laminating veneers
or other surface treatments onto panels, is only required to use CARB certified panels. Such finished products which
include CARB Phase 2 certified panels must be labeled with the CARB certification information of the panel
manufacturer.


As the regulations stand now, I can buy proper CARB Phase 2 certified plywood or particle board or MDF or HDF,
then apply a veneer using an adhesive with a very high formaldehyde content, and my finished product would be legal
to sell in California. California currently does not regulate the finished products, only the hardwood plywood,
hardwood/composite plywood, or particle board/MDF/HDG panels used in the production of the finished product
(flooring, kitchen cabinets, furniture, etc).


CARB has very stringent testing rules for establishing compliance of such panels, using test methods different than
almost every other country in the world. European E0 or E1 certified panels both are considered very safe for indoor
usage. E1 allows up to 0.15 ppm. Slightly lower than the test results Mr. Zhou claims. But is 0.15 ppm by European
testing methods truly equivalent to 0.15 ppm using California testing methods?


I see a test report from Berkeley Analytical, which is not a CARB certified third party testing facility. Does 0.17 ppm
even translate into the same number under CARB testing rules? I do not know but will try to find out. Even so, CARB
only regulates the input panels, not the finished product produced by a fabricator (company that does further
processing to the CARB certified composite panel).


The other test was done at NAT, which IS a CARB certified third party testing facility, but with no data or reports from
them in the above report, how does anyone know whether they did their test according to CARB regulations? Since
CARB only allows for certification of plywood or composite panels, and does not allow certification for finished flooring
(like the flooring in question), how could they do a CARB test? CARB regs specifically state that they have no rules or
regulations in place for testing finished products.


Plus I find the lack of any data from the NAT test to be troublesome. Why are the Berkeley Analytic results shown, but
the NAT results not? Is there something about the NAT results that make it inconvenient not to make public? For
example, the test report states that test results do not show non-compliance with CARB regs due to CARB regs only
applying to composite panels, not to finished products?


25 Jun 2013, 03:23 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/13401232

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 30/38


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  The only point you are missing is the testing was done on the back side of the wood product
with the veneer covered. So it is in fact non CARB compliant.


25 Jun 2013, 10:17 PM


adbrothers
Xuhua Zhou, could you please post the NAT results. That would be very helpful. Also I am confused by your posting
of the Berkeley Analytical test results. Because on the report it says that it follows ASTM D 6007 2 testing but in the
body of the report it states that it is testing using ASTM D 5197. So could you please explain what part of the results
are due to the ASTM D 6007 2 testing and which is the ASTM D 5197 testing? Also could you please post the COC
that went along with these samples. Thank you.


26 Jun 2013, 12:55 AM


McMarc
The point you are missing is that what you describe as the test method is not a valid test method according to CARB
regulations.


Have you read all the rules and regulations?


The only valid test you can do on finished product would involve somehow magically removing the wear layer, finish,
and adhesive used to apply the wear layer, in order to get the original plwyood in it's original form.


In other words, "extracting" the original plywood from the finished product.


Did you do this before submitting the sample to Berkeley?


And where is the report from NAT?


26 Jun 2013, 01:12 AM


Commonman1111
McMarc, are you saying that because the test was not done on the original plywood, it is not valid despite the test
showing there was formaldehyde emissions in the overall product? This seems like a technicality that wouldn't change
the situation in that LL is selling hazardous material. Please correct me if I'm wrong. Thanks.


26 Jun 2013, 08:59 PM


McMarc
Commonman1111, CARB only regulates the plywood, not the finished product. So in that sense, yes, the test is not a
valid test to see whether the flooring is CARB compliant, in my opinion. The only way to find out if the product is
compliant according to the CARB regs the way they stand now is to test only the plywood.


Is this test useful? Probably. I suspect that CARB one day will implement regs for finished products, not just the
plywood/composite panel inputs. I assume CARB had to start somewhere, and the sheer volume of
plywood/MDF/particle board that goes into furniture, decorative wall panels, flooring, etc made it the best place to
start. I saw one comment above about someone returning a picture frame to the store when he saw some disclaimer



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5407531

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13401232

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6506781

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13401232
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 31/38


about formaldehyde. Even if a picture frame had high levels of formaldehyde, the amount of formaldehyde that would
off-gas in his house would be diluted by the huge volume of air in his house. The reason the FEMA trailers had
problems was the very small space into which so much plywood/MDF was off-gassing. If a picture frame was made
with the same material as those FEMA trailers, formaldehyde would off-gas at the same rate, but only from less than
one square foot of plywood, not hundreds of square feet like the trailers were made of.


Is 0.17ppm measured using the method in the Berkeley report actually hazardous to your health? I have serious
doubts, since thin MDF was allowed 0.21ppm during CARB Phase I, and 0.13 (iirc) in Phase II, and European E1
interior regs to this day allow up to 0.15ppm.


CARB specifies a testing method that is different than Europe adopted. I assume this means that ppm measurements
using the European method do not directly correlate to ppm measurements using CARB's method. I am not technical
enough to really understand the difference, but CARB regs specifically say they do not accept ppm measurements
using the European method. To me this says that CARB is very picky about testing methods and very clear about
what constitutes a valid test.


Europe allows up to 0.15ppm measured using their method. On the face of it, it seems a stretch to me to say that
0.17ppm is as scary as the writer is making it out to be. I might be wrong, I am not that technical. But I see no such
disclaimers in the original article.


False correlations and anecdotal evidence abound in the original article. Strong, scary accusations coming from
someone who appears to be much less knowledgeable of CARB's actual regulations, and who appears to be even
less technical than I am. While a few comments above praise the writer for such an in depth report, I think most
readers see chicken little running around saying the sky is falling. The fact that LL stock is back to 78.19 as of the
time I write this tells me that not too many investors think the original article is the slam dunk that the writer seems to
think.


27 Jun 2013, 01:28 AM


DenaliOcean
"Is 0.17ppm measured using the method in the Berkeley report actually hazardous to your health"


The answer to this is a resounding yes! This is actually a very high level of formaldehyde in the air.


However, the emission level from a board does not translate to the formaldehyde level within air. It depends
upon the ventilation rate and the amount of flooring within a space.


Nevertheless, the hard evidence is that people have been seriously affected by the Chinese floors sold by
Lumber Liquidators. These people were exposed to the high levels of formaldehyde continuously. This is what
brings on the symptoms and makes them persistent.


I know I am one of these victims, but with flooring from another supplier.


Studies show that formaldehyde can cause noticeable effects even at .05 ppm in the air that we breathe in.
This is simply not healthy.


I experienced serious effects with levels that were high but not very high: 
http://bit.ly/17iUznF



https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/17iUznF
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 32/38


I still am in the process of recovery.


21 Feb 2015, 10:07 AM


i^2 = j^2 = k^2 = ijk = -1
Perhaps you are more sensitive than the majority of population? 
Some are allergic to peanuts, but you can't sue Planters if you die from eating or smelling a peanut.


the real question in this debate, is WHY the limits were set. Perhaps 15ppm is a line in the sand, significantly
below the levels at which the regulators thought was safe. So while seeming high to some bc it is the limit, it's
really a rather low level. 55mph was a low driving speed for a highway, but to some 60mph driving was
"crazy" and should be ticketed.


Just going for clarification, not knowledgable on this specific case. More interested in the hedgie-debate
raging inside this name.


05 Mar 2015, 03:28 PM


adbrothers
Excuse me Xuhua I misspoke. I meant could you provide the test results from NTA please. You said that they were
the gold standard and I would like to see what they wrote. Also you didnt respond to the testing method I asked about.
If ASTM D 5197 and ASTM D 6007 were performed isnt there two seperate numbers for the tests? One for ASTM D
5197 and the other for ASTM D 6007? 
Thank you.


27 Jun 2013, 04:44 PM


afr6262
Xuhua Zhou, 
Sounds like yesterdays news might be related to this issue you raise. care to give us an update on your
thoughts?


Thanks


27 Sep 2013, 08:17 AM


rlp2451
As the stock has risen 50% since this article appeared, I wouldn't be too concerned. The author has probably
disappeared.


27 Sep 2013, 08:46 AM


rlp2451
Sounds like the raid has to do with immigration policies (ie., hiring illegal aliens) instead of the topic the author
pretended was an issue.


27 Sep 2013, 09:44 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/346372

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5407531

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1595351

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 33/38


SimonSaysShort
If SA had a comment hall of fame, this would be inducted in the first round.


04 Mar 2015, 07:29 AM


rambler1
To the author hope you were able to maintain a short in LL. I haven't cared for it based on it's p/e & relatively slower
growth in home building in general. It's been a tough call, but I give you credit for discovering this issue.


27 Sep 2013, 10:01 AM


rlp2451
It wasn't an issue until he made it one.


27 Sep 2013, 10:04 AM


rambler1
Nothing ever is, and someone reacts to it.


27 Sep 2013, 10:22 AM


rlp2451
How's that short position workin' out for ya?


23 Oct 2013, 09:35 AM


bnjackson
Looks like it's working out pretty well now.


04 Mar 2015, 01:45 AM


rlp2451
Yes it appears to be, but there are still a lot of unanswered questions. Knowing 60 Minutes reputation isn't all
that stellar either, the company should be given enough time to either refute or comply with the standards, if
they in fact are in non-compliance. In which case they should pay the legislated penalty of $1000 a day for
each day they sold the product.


Granted the CEO didn't do himself any favors on the interview and if he wasn't the founder the likelihood
would have been (and may still be) a replacement. He should have shown the company's test data (which is
on their website), described the testing procedures required (if different from the 60 Minutes procedures), and
placed some of the blame on California regulators if they weren't conducting adequate testing on imported
products.


04 Mar 2015, 07:57 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/13349042

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1023113

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1023113

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/10808211

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/346372
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 34/38


i^2 = j^2 = k^2 = ijk = -1
Don't underestimate the ability of the media to underreport the information they gathered. The CEO has
already stated that only clips of what he said was included in the tv program. surprised?


05 Mar 2015, 03:40 PM


rlp2451
As I said, 60 Minutes is not a stellar program of late. But on the other hand, they certainly didn't do the CEO
any favors in their portrayal of him. I'd think he'd want to do the business news route (Bloomberg, Fox, CNBC)
and give his side of story.


05 Mar 2015, 03:48 PM


DenaliOcean
I recently experienced serious respiratory effects and neurologic effects from a Torlys hardwood floor named "Artisan
Premier Hardwood".


The problem was also from formaldehyde. I have extensively documented this on my YouTube channel: 
http://bit.ly/17iUznF


I conducted my own testing of the floorboards and identified the specific chemical emissions.


Please get in touch with me if you have similar experiences.


20 Feb 2015, 03:39 AM


DenaliOcean
I experienced serious respiratory effects and neurologic effects from a Torlys hardwood floor named "Artisan Premier
Hardwood".


The problem was also formaldehyde. I have extensively documented this on my YouTube channel here: 
http://bit.ly/17iUzUG


I conducted my own testing on the Torlys floorboards and there are videos showing the testing.


If you have a similar experience, get in touch with me.


20 Feb 2015, 03:39 AM


Sam's Picks, Contributor
Bravo


01 Mar 2015, 10:38 PM


Zachary Prensky
Xuhua had the call two+ years ago. Intellectually honest, very insightful and an eye for spotting when the market is
leaning the wrong way. Kudos!


02 Mar 2015, 01:28 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/346372

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/17iUznF

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/17iUzUG

https://seekingalpha.com/author/sams-picks

https://seekingalpha.com/user/523822
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 35/38


Barinder Sangha
Wow. Great work.


04 Mar 2015, 11:31 AM


Charles A. Smith, Contributor
Keynes said markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent. Classic case here.


04 Mar 2015, 01:36 PM


bazooooka
Xuhua fantastic job. =) T.O.T. comments were spot on as well.


>> 
To Waldo: there likely is still time to trade this one; as it seems it will head to zero or rebound from here.


*I'm more inclined to think that they will be buried with lawsuits going forward.


05 Mar 2015, 03:48 AM


augustom
(to RIP 2452) Man, even after it is clear that Xuhua was 100% right you still try to justify your stubborn stance.


A trader has no love for a positon, should identify an oportunity and go for it.


Xuhua, I hope you made a bundle, because you deserved it, great piece.


I got creamed for shorting RIMM (now BBRY) back in 2010 and understand how long loving investors can be when
you tell them that what they bought is worthless.


Look at how they treat my short Tesla comments.


05 Mar 2015, 09:08 AM


rlp2451
Maybe he was right, maybe not. LL is up pre-market so evidently somebody out there still believes in the
company.


05 Mar 2015, 09:26 AM


realist1900
Dude what is wrong with you. He nailed it. Why can't you just be silent or give him props.


09 Mar 2015, 09:26 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/6520901

https://seekingalpha.com/author/charles-a-smith

https://seekingalpha.com/user/319702

https://seekingalpha.com/user/645069

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1559981
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 36/38


skapas
It took 21 months…


05 Mar 2015, 03:15 PM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
"All this needs to do is gain some populist traction with some kind of investigative news outlet"


That is quite a prediction with the benefit of hindsight.


06 Mar 2015, 11:03 PM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
I would be very interested to know how your opinions have changed, if at all, based on recent developments.


06 Mar 2015, 11:07 PM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
Are you willing to venture a guess about the odds of bankruptcy in the next year?


I really have no idea, but a wild guess would be 15%, maybe higher.


06 Mar 2015, 11:10 PM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
Very good points.


I also imagine direct damage from regulators will be manageable, perhaps meaningless, even now that they are
thumping their chests and pointing to the 60 Minutes story.


The real risk in my view is that LL develops a widespread reputation as an inferior product, so the first thing
contractors, designers, realtors, etc. do when their clients shop for flooring is warn them about LL.


06 Mar 2015, 11:19 PM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
"The stock remains an indifferent short sale."


Not such a great point on this one.


06 Mar 2015, 11:42 PM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
I am very sorry for all the frustration. Hopefully the rant was cathartic.


I would be very interested to know how your story unfolded.


06 Mar 2015, 11:45 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/285733

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 37/38


Mark Alexander, Contributor
One more point, lawsuits are usually little more than a nuisance. One potential exception is if lawyers can crank them
out in assembly-line fashion (think asbestos).


My guess is that this will probably not happen here, but who knows. What do you think?


06 Mar 2015, 11:49 PM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
Do you think this is the reason LL is saying the 60 Minutes tests are invalid? If so, this is a very strong point. I wonder
why LL does not come out and say it. Maybe they want to get all their ducks in a row and address the issues cleanly
and at one time.


07 Mar 2015, 12:10 AM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
Agreed. I would really like traditional media to survive, but this is about 100 times more interesting.


07 Mar 2015, 12:13 AM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
Good points.


07 Mar 2015, 12:14 AM


Mark Alexander, Contributor
Funny, his initial comments were nearly worthless (empty barrel), but you decide to criticize when he finally makes a
good point.


07 Mar 2015, 12:18 AM


Sartre
XZ, incredibly perceptive article...If LL had listened to you they wouldn't be in such a mess today. You gave them a gift
and they didn't take it; they just covered it up more.


15 Mar 2015, 08:05 PM


DenaliOcean
You are 100% correct.


Others in the industry are doing the same thing, ignoring the hard facts that some of these Chinese HDF core
floorboards have high levels of formaldehyde but yet they continue to source and sell them.


What has happened to Lumber Liquidators is also going to affect other major suppliers as well who also
source HDF floorboards out of China. Like the major Canadian supplier Torlys. So this is an industrywide
problem.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mark-alexander

https://seekingalpha.com/user/188595

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686
5/23/2018 Illegal Products Could Spell Big Trouble At Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators 38/38


Time will tell if I am right.


18 Mar 2015, 05:10 AM


Hanson So, Contributor
Finally today, the stock falls


30 Apr 2015, 02:24 AM


TimeOnTarget
Yep. You were right dude -- these guys are scumbag of the first order.


17 May 2015, 03:05 AM


masronhunteth
We installed 1800 sf of Bellawood bamboo flooring from LL last year. How do we find out if ours is toxic?


20 May 2015, 06:12 PM


DenaliOcean
If it is from China, consider it toxic. I recommend getting a test kit from this company: 
http://pati-air.com


Get one that tests for formaldehyde and volatile organic compounds and place the sampling pump near the
floor in a room where you have the bamboo flooring and close the door.


21 May 2015, 12:15 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/hanson-so

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4572391

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40214426

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://pati-air.com/
