5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 1/15


Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts
Aug. 21, 2013 8:16 AM ET26 comments
by: Richard Pearson


Editors' Note: This article covers a micro-cap stock. Please be aware of the risks
associated with these stocks.


Overview


Management of Biolase (NASDAQ:BIOL) has repeatedly tried to mask bad news through
the use of euphemistic and creative wording in disclosures and press releases. Biolase
has also tried to create a false boogeyman of "illegal naked short sellers" even though
there is demonstrably no naked short selling going on with the stock. I will demonstrate
this clearly below. The continued weakness in the share price is not due to short selling.
Instead it is the result of a complete loss of confidence by long investors who are not
being fooled by the continued shenanigans of management.


The continued driver of the share price will be Biolase's liquidity position along with the
upcoming stock offering at a discount.


There is nothing illegal or immoral about shorting the stock of a company. Companies who
deliver on performance will see their share prices rise. Those which do not will see their
share prices fall.


Shorts have done far less selling than longs


I recently wrote two articles on Biolase. At the time of both articles, the share price was
around $1.80 and had already plunged by 50% following a moderate earnings miss
announced on August 7th after the close. I did not cause this plunge. Instead I was writing
about it after it already happened.


The moderate earnings miss was certainly not justification for the steep plunge. Instead it
was solvency concerns and the expectation of an equity offering at a discount. As soon as
earnings were announced, the stock fell by more than 20%.


The share price continued its steep dive nearly every day and within a week was down by
more than 50%. The falling share price triggered a short sale restriction, such that short
sellers could only sell upon an uptick. This means that one could only sell short when a
buyer chose to lift the price and buy at the ask. Short sellers could not hit the bid.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BIOL

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1639952-biolase-what-will-happen-next
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 2/15


This means that short selling would not have been able to put any pressure on the
share price whatsoever. Instead, it was a rush for the exits by long holders of
Biolase stock.


Biolase continues to take the same action over and over again, but each time expects
different results. When bad news hits, Biolase has tried to use creative wording and
euphemisms to smooth over the issues with shareholders. Judging by the share price, it
clearly isn't working.


When disclosing the violation of bank covenants (a loan default) in its 10Q, Biolase chose
to trumpet the fact that is was still in "compliance" with its loans covenants … with the
exception of just one little default. The market was not fooled and the stock price plunged.


Biolase then re-released identical information in a press release but positioned the news
as a very positive statement that Comerica bank had "waived" the default. In fact,
Comerica had really given Biolase just a one month deadline to renegotiate the loan and
fix the problem. Again, the market was not fooled and the stock price dropped sharply.


Despite the failures of this strategy, Biolase continues to try to spin the facts with creative
interpretations. The strategy continues to fail.


In its latest press release, Biolase makes a number of statements which are clearly
inaccurate. It also makes a clear attempt to create a false boogeyman out of "illegal naked
short sellers" which do not even exist.


A subsequent article on Seeking Alpha entitled "Biolase CEO Takes Dead Aim at Naked
Short Sellers - Main Street Cheers" attempts to highlight the wisdom and effectiveness of
the Biolase strategy against naked shorts. The author predicted that there would be a
"stampede" of buying due to Biolase's savvy strategy.


The only problem is that there is no naked shorting of Biolase going on. As I will show
below, author RS Analytics did nothing more than conveniently quote a press release from
Biolase. Had the author even bothered to check any data on short sales or fails to deliver
(as I have included below), he would have known that there is no naked shorting here. As
a result, the notion of a short squeeze is downright wrong.


But it is a very convenient misconception just ahead of Biolase's upcoming stock offering.


These continued efforts at PR spin have only aggravated the frustrations of shareholders.
As a result, Biolase shareholders have continued to sell.



http://www.secinfo.com/d1fnT1.x93.htm

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/biolase-receives-waiver-comerica-bank-130000559.html

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/biolase-discloses-projected-cash-burn-130000304.html

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1645772-biolase-ceo-takes-dead-aim-at-naked-short-sellers-main-street-cheers
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 3/15


What is "naked" short selling ?


In order to legally short a stock, one must obtain shares by borrowing them. One then
sells the borrowed shares with the intention of buying them back at a lower price. At that
time they will be returned to the lender and the short seller will profit. If there are no shares
available to borrow, then the stock cannot be sold short.


In some cases, less reputable brokers might allow the short sale to go through, with the
hopes that the shares to borrow could be located before settlement. If the shares were
unable to be located by that time, there would be a "fail to deliver."


We can see from data released by the SEC in August that there have been fails to deliver
on just 5,022 shares of Biolase. It is almost nothing. For historical data, the SEC doesn't
even bother to track the data if the number is below 10,000 because such small numbers
are de minimis.


This should not be surprising to anyone who follows Biolase. When there are borrowable
shares, there can be no naked shorting, except when a broker makes a brief oversight. It
is often the case that many retail oriented brokerages do not maintain an inventory of
shares. For Biolase stock, this typically includes ScottTrade and Ameritrade. It is typically
impossible to short Biolase at those firms. But on any given day, Interactive Brokers has
had several hundred thousand shares available to short. Fidelity tends to have even more
at over 600,000 over the past week. These are just the numbers that are automatically
displayed. When these firms run low, it is possible to call them and simply ask for more.


This battle against "illegal naked short sellers" is therefore 100% bogus because there
continues to be more than ample supply of shares to short.


I repeat: "Stock dividends have no value to investors"


When Biolase stock plunged to $1.20, the company quickly halted its own stock as it
sought to counter the drop with positive news. Biolase needs to imminently issue stock to
raise money, so it is important for Biolase to prop up the share price.


One of the measures announced by Biolase was a stock dividend. We can see from
message boards and comments that many small investors mistook this for a cash
dividend. On the day of that announcement, shares of Biolase soared by over 60% and
ended back at $1.81.


Instead, we can see that this is a stock dividend. Biolase has first attempted to make the
statement that this stock dividend in some way "rewards" investors. It does not. Period.



http://www.sec.gov/foia/docs/failsdata.htm

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/biolase-declares-stock-dividend-2013-130000191.html

http://finance.yahoo.com/mb/forumview/?&v=m&bn=f7e2b2b7-5b04-3756-90e5-a00c1e221ebb

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/biolase-discloses-projected-cash-burn-130000304.html
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 4/15


Any undergraduate student in Corporate Finance 101 can tell you that from the point of
view of an investor, a stock dividend is identical to a stock split. An investor who owns 1%
of the company prior to the "dividend" will continue to own precisely 1% of the company
after the dividend. Each investor receives a small number of new shares, but the total
share count increases by just as much. There is simply no economic benefit or "reward" to
shareholders. Anyone who needs further convincing on this subject can simply Google
"stock dividend vs. stock split" to find extensive examples and explanations.


Biolase's second attempt at explaining this "dividend" is that the stock dividend creates an
audit of shares which helps to prevent illegal naked shorting. But as we can see from the
above, there is no naked shorting going on because there is ample stock borrow.


Despite the obvious evidence to the contrary, Mr. Pignatelli has hitched his wagon to the
"illegal naked short selling" theory, stating


It is my belief that a large amount of naked shorting is currently in existence
in our stock, and therefore by August 30, 2013, such illegal trading will be
forced to be covered by purchases in the open market.


Mr. Pignatelli has now made a bold prediction with a very near term deadline. The findings
I presented above should serve to demonstrate that this is entirely incorrect. But within 9
more days (August 30th), we will all be able to judge for ourselves.


Mr. Pignatelli made this bold prediction about "a large amount of naked shorting" on
Monday August 19th. This is actually a very easy thing to disprove.


The NASDAQ Reg SHO Threshold List posts the names of all stocks which had a fail to
deliver of greater than 10,000 shares. There are only 24 NASDAQ stocks listed. Biolase is
not one of them. There is no naked shorting of Biolase's stock.


Mr. Pignatelli's statements regarding naked short selling are therefore entirely
without any factual basis whatsoever. The data which proves that there is no naked
shorting is easy for anyone (including Mr. Pignatelli) to find.


His prediction of an imminent short squeeze is based on nothing at all other than
his desire to inflate the share price immediately ahead of a much needed stock
offering.



http://finance.yahoo.com/news/biolase-discloses-projected-cash-burn-130000304.html

http://www.nasdaqtrader.com/trader.aspx?id=RegSHOThreshold
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 5/15


There are already two shareholder investigations underway by two separate law firms.
These firms are investigating misleading statements and omissions by Biolase
management. Judging by the comments posted on recent articles and the postings on
message boards, it is clear that there are numerous investors who have relied upon the
predictions of Mr. Pignatelli when buying the stock.


Likewise, Biolase recently ran a paid "infomercial" describing its products on several TV
channels. But these ads are targeted towards Fox Business, CNBC and Bloomberg TV.
These are all stock market channels, not channels which would boost product sales by
targeting dentists. The purpose of the infomercials is to boost the share price in advance
of the stock offering. But so far, like the other efforts, it does not seem to be working.


Biolase had previously announced two stock dividends in the first two quarters of 2013. At
both times, the share price was under no pressure at all and sat at around $4.00. In the
past, there was no mention of issuing a stock dividend in order to thwart "illegal naked
short sellers." Therefore there does not appear to be any correlation with short selling in
the past.


Biolase's Chairman and CEO Federico Pignatelli stated


I advise management of all small cap companies that are subject to attacks
from naked short sellers to uncover such illegal activities and protect their
shareholders by issuing stock dividends on a quarterly, or even monthly, basis.


But given the continued plunge in Biolase shares this week, it is unlikely that many
management teams will be stampeding to follow any advice from Mr. Pignatelli. What
Pignatelli doesn't understand is that there is no naked shorting. The selling going on at
Biolase is continued selling by long investors who have lost all confidence in
management. The valueless stock dividend will do nothing to bring investors back into the
stock.


As management continues to waste time and effort tilting at windmills, the clock continues
to tick down towards the September deadline imposed by Comerica bank in regards to the
defaulted loan.


For the first 6 months of 2013, Biolase has now burned over $5 million in cash. This is a
statement of fact. Yet Biolase management continues to direct investors' attention to what
it burned last year ($1.7 million) and what it hopes it will burn for 2013 in total
(approximately $4 million).



http://finance.yahoo.com/news/biolase-informational-news-segment-airs-130000216.html
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 6/15


The fact is that Biolase now has a habit of failing to hit guidance, such that its recent
realized performance is very relevant. In addition, the fact remains that Biolase has now
confirmed that it will log in yet another year of losing money and burning cash. This also
reconfirms that Biolase needs to raise money by selling stock at a discount. Biolase needs
to do this within a limited number of days due to the default on its loans. So once again,
with Biolase the "good news" is still just more bad news.


In regards to my articles, Mr. Pignatelli also stated that


As the Chairman of BIOLASE, it is my duty to protect the interests of our
shareholders as well as the Company's credibility and we will be doing all that
we can to thwart these injurious efforts


Mr. Pignatelli clearly believes that his recent PR campaign and a valueless stock dividend
is the best use of his time and effort. But the share price is proving that shareholders do
not agree.


Rather than wasting time and blaming false scapegoats. Mr. Pignatelli should be focused
on finally turning an annual profit and resolving the solvency crisis.


Yet Mr. Pignatelli continues to deny that there are even any concerns over solvency.


Shareholders have now had ample time to evaluate the statements from Biolase
management and they have clearly come to a different conclusion. I am not fabricating
this crisis to "create anxiety" among shareholders. Instead, I am explaining the crisis even
after it is already in midstream.


Biolase's shareholders equity is now down to just $8 million but it owes the bank $6
million. As of June 30th (1 ½ months ago) the company was already down to just $2
million in cash after burning $5 million in the past 6 months. We don't know what the cash
balance is down to as of today.


The bank has already taken as collateral all of Biolase's assets. The bank has also taken
the dramatic step of placing all of Biolase's receivables in a "lock box" such that Biolase
cannot even touch the cash from its own sales until that cash is released by the bank.
Biolase now has a limited number of days in which to rectify the situation and renegotiate
with its bank. These are not normal operating conditions. It appears that the only ones
who are not worried about this situation are the members of management at Biolase.


Conclusion



http://finance.yahoo.com/news/biolase-discloses-projected-cash-burn-130000304.html

http://www.secinfo.com/d1fnT1.x93.htm

http://www.secinfo.com/d1fnT1.x93.htm
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 7/15


As an investment banker, I helped numerous companies raise money when they had
fallen into a state of distress. My job was to advise them on how to ensure the survival of
their company.


In times of distress, investors need to see that a company recognizes and takes
responsibility for problems. They also need to see a clear and overwhelming plan to
eliminate even the remotest possibility of failure (bankruptcy).


Biolase has refused to even acknowledge the severity of its liquidity position. Management
has also refused to acknowledge its own role in directly creating this crisis. Instead,
Biolase has wasted time and effort in blaming the false scapegoat of "illegal naked short
sellers" when there is not even any naked short selling happening whatsoever.


Biolase management has made this inaccurate statements, predicting a sudden rise in the
share price due to a "naked short seller" short squeeze, at just the time when it plans on
issuing equity and needs a higher share price. Investors should view these statements
within that context.


Futile gestures such as a stock dividend do nothing to add value or change the company's
situation. Cutting the size of the S3 filing to just $5 million helped to boost the stock for a
day, but leaves substantial uncertainty about Biolase's ability to fund itself to the end of the
year. This is the exact opposite of what investors need to see during a crisis. And this is
why the share price continues to fall.


It is clear that short sellers are not the ones causing these declines. It is even more clear
that "illegal naked short selling" has precisely nothing to do with the declines. The current
selling is the result of continued disappointment by long shareholders and it will continue
until Biolase begins to take steps to fix the company's very obvious problems.


The next significant leg down for the stock will occur when Biolase attempts to raise $5
million from new investors. Given the continued declines in the stock, I now expect that
this offering could come at a price of below $1.00 and would require the issuance of at
least 5 million new shares. Given the September deadline from Comerica, we will all know
for sure in a very short time.


Disclosure: I am short BIOL. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BIOL
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 8/15


Comments (26)


Blue Corn Investments, Contributor
Hi Richard, 
Please get your facts straight: 
1. I did not predict a short squeeze WOULD occur in Biolase. So I had no reason to look up the failure to del on BIOL
- I WAS COMMENTING ON THE STRATEGY OF ISSUING A STOCK DIVIDEND and what the intent of it is. 
2. I was not commenting nor writing about Biolase's underlying business and in fact went on to point out near the end
of the article that issuing a stock dividend is no subsitute for not having a good viable business. 
3. I was commenting on the strategy and how it is rare and, in my opinion, refreshing to see CEO come out and issue
that type of press release.


Lastly, I have no position nor have I ever had a position in Biolase long or short.


Reread my article and get it right. 
http://bit.ly/1d1lghU


You are the one with a vested interest by being short who continues to write articles on BIOL and apparently the CEO
took issue with your articles. Call and complain to him.


I'm just reporting on the strategy of what a stock dividend COULD(Not WILL) mean to highly shorted companies.


21 Aug 2013, 08:34 AM


barryg714
The headline of your article clearly insinuates that there is significant naked shorting taking place in biol.
"BIOLASE CEO TAKES DEAD AIM AT NAKED SHORT SELLER'S, WALL STREET CHEERS" 
what naked short sellers are you referring to? if your article was not supporting the allegations that there is a
substantial amount of naked short selling being done in BIOL what is the point of your headline? are you
saying you are simply congratulating BIOL management for misleading investors about there being a large
naked short in the stock that needs to be covered by aug 30th?


i am sure mr pignatelli (or would hope) is involved in some charities or other good deeds, why didn't you
include some of mr pignatelli's other good deeds ?


are you really trying to imply that you would have written the exact same article if you knew with 100%
certainty that there was no short position in BIOL? why not just be honest, everyone makes mistake's. 
instead of making a ridiculous comment defending yourself, simply say "you believed mr pignatelli would have
had the common sense to spend 2 minuets confirming that his inflammatory statements were accurate as any
responsible officer of a public company would do and you relied on his information" 
instead you just ruined your credibility and come off sounding like a foolish liar.


21 Aug 2013, 10:24 AM


Blue Corn Investments, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/blue-corn-investments

http://bit.ly/1d1lghU

https://seekingalpha.com/user/556585

https://seekingalpha.com/author/blue-corn-investments
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 9/15


Clearly the point of my article went over your head. Plus you didn't even quote the headline correctly - talk
about misleading - when you put something in quotes you should be accurate - talk about credibility. 
Why don't you brush up on your reading comprehension - then re-read my article and try to understand the
point of it.


I absolutely would've written the article if there were no short position in BIOL - as long as the CEO issued a
press release like that. The point of the article was a CEO actually putting a press release out about issuing a
stock dividend as a strategy to try and thwart naked short selling. How many times have you heard of that
happening? It is certainly newsworthy and also debatable how effective of a strategy it really is.


I was focused on what the CEO said and how that might work whether for BIOL or any other company. Why
are you so angry about that?


I have no investment in BIOL long or short nor any plans to initiate a position.


21 Aug 2013, 10:46 AM


bullcrap
R.S. Analytics:


Thank you for an honest article. I believe R. Pearson's article to be both inaccurate and self-serving. He may
be correct in Biolases need to sell more stock, but that's to pay for the newer patents and products which
should make them profitable if they shall survive the next year. Survive they wouldn't have been an issue had
it not been for the corrupt and self-serving with an adequate podium.


21 Aug 2013, 01:32 PM


j_amsterdam
Why do you think there are no short sellers? Because they give a stock dividend that anyone -- ANYONE -- knows is
meaningless. This is as basic as you get. When I saw your first article about that, you conveniently left that out. I think
you need to work on your own disclosure policy, sir.


21 Aug 2013, 09:39 AM


sskcar
The articles you write are good so that small cap's learn a lesson and take appropriate steps not to fool their share
holders. So the stock price already reflects all of this, the risk it is associated with. If the financing works, then the
management can make better decisions going forward and having their commitments set straight.  
I do think management is concerned about the shareholders and they want to get the stock price back to a better
condition so that they can have a good deal on financing. But your articles are pushing it down and pressurizing the
management team (who never expected this, as they are not in investing business).


There are other analysts that think this company will do better and have a buy rating. I am not sure what they are
missing.  
The other advantage that you had was the market condition. Your articles came out at the right time (for you) and



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1011534

https://seekingalpha.com/user/880928

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3970361
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 10/15


worked out better when the market is bearish and investors were concerned on fed plans on cutting down the bond
buying.


Disclosure: I am long on this stock recently.


21 Aug 2013, 10:13 AM


barryg714
In the last 15 years i can not think of 1 instance where i was short a stock with a market cap of 60 million dollars, for
that matter i would be hard pressed to be able to name more than 3 or 4 stocks that i have been short with a market
cap of under 300 million. shorting a stock with a market cap of a minimum of 500 million dollars and a market price of
at least 10 dollars would be a clear representation of 95% of the stocks i have shorted in the last 15 years. 
the economics of shorting a 60 million dollar market cap with a stock price of 1.85 (the price i initiated my short in bill)
are not very good. 
when you LEGALLY short a stock below 5 dollars a share you have to put up 2.50 a share in margin, wether the stock
is .10 or 4.99. the case for shorting BIOL is so compelling that less than 1 hour of research was enough to see that
shorting well over 100k shares was a no brainer.


Pignatellis comments the past few days has me adding to my short at 1.52, how any investor is not alarmed at his
false and misleading comments and does not feel there is the very real risk of this stock being a zero defies all logic.


to keep this as brief as possible i will just give one example where you can see pignatelli is clearly trying to manipulate
the stock price by making false statements. if pignatelli truly believed his stock was being targeted by short sellers
who were engaged in naked shorting large amounts of his companies stock, any ceo who was doing his fiduciary
responsibility and as pignatelli said in his pr he would do whatever he had to in order to protect his shareholders,
pignatelli's first phone call should have been to nasdaq to report what he believed to be a massive naked short selling
campaign against his company. 
how can anyone believe before making a public statement saying that he would not have contacted nasdaq? we know
he did not contact nasdaq because they would have told him there are no fails to deliver in biol, therefor all the stock
that has been shorted has been borrowed and legally shorted.


this is just on example of a dishonest ceo, telling lies to try and artificially keep his stock price up. we can talk about
his reducing the size of the s-3 a day after filing an amended s-3 trying to get the 30 million dollar shelf registered, but
we can address that at another time.


mr pignatelli, feel free to sue me for saying you are lying to shareholders in several of your recent statements and
trying to manipulate the stock. respond to this post and tell me a time you would like me to call you, i will give you all
of my information, name, address and whatever else you or your attorneys need to serve me with a lawsuit. the
thought of getting the opptnty of taking your deposition under oath is a short sellers dream.


21 Aug 2013, 11:03 AM


Mickle Sun
Even BIOL has to sell $5 million under $1.00, the dilution is not that terrible. Their business is growing and represents
the future of dentistry. There is not a least possibility that this company will bust because of cash crunch.


21 Aug 2013, 01:55 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/556585

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2105781
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 11/15


Doctor Why
Biolase provides incredible instruments to advance medical practice --with strong patent protection. Medical
professionals are slow to respond, but I can tell you the numbers of practitioners that use Biolase technology is
growing. Medical types often reluctantly embrace new methods, but then become enthusiastic, died-in-the-wool
advocates. In our little area of Northern California, I have found more than 15 dentists who advertise their use of the
product with high customer satisfaction. Check out their strong promotional campaign at http://bit.ly/1bTAWQd. Yea,
Biolase could use more money to support their strong sales promotion. That's not surprising. What is sad is that a
growing company with excellent technology that needs a pittance of money to continue to grow is savagely derided
for the sake of a cheap buck. This is American technology made in America --it's a real product. I am long Biolase and
happily would support a public offering to fund its growth needs.


21 Aug 2013, 02:19 PM


bizmdl
I am hearing that there are more than a handful of firms that have approached BIOL to "take down the whole deal" ie
buy all the shares needed to fulfill the $5 million S3...they are NOT asking for warrants nor a discount price. While this
is third hand info, it makes intuitive sense...the stock has clearly come under abnormal selling pressure; the company
is selling for a price to revenue of well less than one times revs (with other med-techs sometimes fetching 4-6 times
revs); and the company is heading into its strongest selling season (late Q3 and al of Q4) Those who have followed
the markets for years can smell an outsized opportunity.


It seems to me that any buyer who wants to buy 10,000 or even 100,000 shares will remain on the sidelines until the
deal is done. After-all the stock has continued to find new lows, and so retail non-professionals have stayed on the
sidelines. Large institutional buyers who want to own 3 to 4 MILLION shares have heretofore ALSO been on the
sidelines, again for the same reason, but if the word is out that the deal IS GETTING DONE, and it will get done
WITHOUT a discount and WITHOUT warrants attached, then there is no reason to wait for the deal to start
buying...since you are playing a game of "flinch" with other large buyers. So if there are 5 firms willing to take down
the whole deal (ie buy 3 million shares at the current price)...and they recognize that the current price is WAY below
intrinsic value, perhaps they will all come to the conclusion that it would make sense to start buying 1/6 of their
ultimate goal ...or 500k shares, after all if they buy 1/6th at 1.65 and the deal gets done at 1.50 the fact that they paid
1.65 for a small amount will pale in comparison to the pop they perceive will come when the deal gets done...and of
course if the deal gets done at $2.00 (because the price is lifting as more and more buyers sense that the deal will in
fact get done) then they will have fewer shares to buy to get to their target.


If 5 firms each buy 1/6 or 500k shares that creates 2.5 million of share demand PRIOR to the deal getting done.


As soon as the market senses that the deal is easily done, the stock should lift mightily, and if there is sufficient real
interest in the name (not just as a short term trade) and the deal is placed in "sticky hands" then the mere fact of the
deal being consummated will be the catalyst for a quick trip back towards $3.


21 Aug 2013, 02:27 PM


Jibo



https://seekingalpha.com/user/625789

http://bit.ly/1bTAWQd

https://seekingalpha.com/user/15254862

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3746421
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 12/15


Looks like this guy and some of his “close friends” behind him are losing their pants on their short positions, that’s why
he works day and night sending to us his “warning messages” :))))


26 Aug 2013, 09:16 AM


razorback47
BIOL should disclose participants in the credit facility to monitor trading. Any tips /rumors from banks/funds/ or their
lawyers with access are material.


26 Aug 2013, 10:17 AM


Jibo
Federico Pignatelli, Chairman and CEO, stated, "Last week two articles written by Richard Pearson, who appears to
be a blogger and occasional contributor to Seeking Alpha.com, made several inaccurate and therefore misleading
statements on this website about BIOLASE and its current financial position, including assertions that BIOLASE has
historically burned cash at $3 million per quarter (equal to $12 million annually) and has been on the brink of
insolvency. I believe that these comments were intentionally directed to create uncalled-for anxiety amongst our
shareholders, with the intent to drive our stock price down. Mr. Pearson clearly states that he holds a short position in
our stock and it is extremely disappointing that a short investor and self-described 'activist investor' can use a high
caliber publication to spread inaccurate and misleading information. Mr. Pearson's clear intent must be to personally
profit by spreading deceitful information and purposely creating a panic thereby substantially reducing the value of
BIOLASE's common stock, in order to cover his short position while injuring our investors. As the Chairman of
BIOLASE, it is my duty to protect the interests of our shareholders as well as the Company's credibility and we will be
doing all that we can to thwart these injurious efforts."


27 Aug 2013, 02:50 PM


Jibo
"In addition to Mr. Pearson's false written statements about BIOLASE's cash burn rate, his comments about our
periodic stock dividends are also false and can have no other purpose than to mislead investors. Mr. Pearson likely
knows that one of the purposes of issuing a stock dividend, aside from the primary purpose of rewarding our long-
term shareholders, is to cause a regular audit of BIOLASE's issued and outstanding common stock, as dividends can
only be paid to validly issued shares. This prevents speculators from illegal naked shorting. It is my belief that a large
amount of naked shorting is currently in existence in our stock, and therefore by August 30, 2013, such illegal trading
will be forced to be covered by purchases in the open market. Further, by stating, 'The confusion over a "dividend" did
contribute to the substantial rise in the stock price. But once investors fully understand that there is absolutely no
benefit or impact from a "stock dividend," this rise may prove to be short-lived,' Mr. Pearson is pretending that he is
unaware of a basic process of his full-time chosen discipline of shorting small-cap stocks. The Board of Directors
declared the stock dividend for the benefit of our long-term holders, not for the benefit of Mr. Pearson and others who
short our stock."


27 Aug 2013, 02:53 PM


Paul the Big Finn



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3375331

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3746421

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3746421

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13673982
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 13/15


Now that 3 weeks have passed and Comerica has renegotiated the credit line perhaps it is time for an update.
Comerica reduced the line by $2,000,000 and got warrants for 100,000 shares at $2/share.


What is the impact of the line of credit on the need to issue more shares. The share price also appears to have
stabilized around $2/share. If the $5,000,000 were raised at that price only 2,500,000 new shares would be issued.


Does this take the insolvency issue off the table?


18 Sep 2013, 10:02 AM


Jibo
According to the experts: 
"This is either a "dog and pony" show to deflect investor criticism that the board is asleep or a sincere attempt to
finally sell the company or take it private. If the latter is true, the company is probably worth twice the revenue most
other medical device makers are typically trading, which would imply a 63% upside" 
$3. X 1.63 = $4.89 not bad:)


20 Jan 2014, 09:05 AM


Paul the Big Finn
There is a problem with your evaluation. Most medical device makers do not sell OEM devices for a straight
commission. Only about 70% of Biolase's revenue comes from equipment they manufacture, reducing the multiple
accordingly. The current price to sales ratio is 1.4 which would imply a price to sales ratio of 2 with the OEM sales
removed. Not much upside potential,


01 Feb 2014, 06:49 PM


firsttracks
Leave it to Pignatelli to do a press release victory lap on a number that MISSED THE LOW END OF GUIDANCE! In
November Bioloase provided full year 2013 estimates of $57-$59mm, meaning 4Q revenue would be $15.8-$17.8.
Where did Biolase come in? $15.25mm. Rather than acknowledge the miss, they trot out some meaningless
statistic...2nd best revenue quarter since the Shein separation? That has about as much to do with anything as the
price of tea in China. Probably equally glaring in the press release is the absence of any other statistic, like net
income, cash flow, and cash position. This company has burned over $65mm of cash in the last 10 years and did not
have one free cash flow positive year in that time. About the only thing more astonishing than the constant barrage of
positive press releases that never bare any relationship to financial success, is that the market seems to fall for for his
spin every time....until the full financials show the real story.


06 Feb 2014, 02:13 PM


firsttracks
The PR machine is in full swing. Apparently one press release about a $5mm capital raise wan't enough. Biolase put
out a press release on Tuesday titled, "BIOLASE Raises $5 Million in Private Placement" The following day they put
out a press release titled "BIOLASE Comments on $5 Million Private Placement With Oracle Investment



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3746421

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13673982

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6767221

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6767221
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 14/15


Management, Inc." Why would they put out a second press release? Pignatelli reminds us of 80s huckster Crazy
Eddy. http://bit.ly/1mcI5nq


13 Feb 2014, 09:37 AM


firsttracks
To anyone listening to the fourth quarter call and trying to comprehend Pignatelli's incoherent reply to reconciling the
announced cost cutting estimates concurrent with the large increase in sales force reps, I am reminded by the
following scene from The Big Lebowski. Just imagine Pignatelli as the part of the Dude and shareholders are The Big
Lewbowski:


http://bit.ly/1fHQyeM


05 Mar 2014, 05:23 PM


firsttracks
Brutal 1st Q that is Pignatelli is laughably attempting to attribute to weather and an activist shareholder lawsuit.


12 May 2014, 12:13 PM


firsttracks
These comments may be falling on deaf ears, but Biolase violated its umpteenth amended loan and further amended
the maturity to August 1 2014. The loan as amended in may shrank the size from $8mm to $4mm. They have $3.6mm
outstanding now with less than 2 months to repay. Liquidity is genuinely a concern as they had $1.8mm in cash at
3/31/14 and assuredly less cash as of today.


12 Jun 2014, 12:08 PM


User 4599631
Not falling on deaf ears at all firsttracks. Good work keeping the events up to date.


24 Jul 2014, 06:13 AM


firsttracks
I exited my short position when Oracle successfully booted Pignatelli. I have no idea what the guys at Oracle
are thinking but they appear willing to throw endless money at the company--witness the $12mm private
placement. While Pignatelli was a massive impediment to value at Bioloase, money isn't going to fix the
problem. Their primary business is selling 10 year old technology, commodity soft tissue lasers while
pretending product offering is "cutting edge" (pun intended). From my due diligence, it seems the hard tissue
lasers are only sold to the related party dentists that Biolase pays (or sells to at cost). The hard tissue
revolution in dentistry ain't happening. That said, the company is controlled by a fund with skin in the game
and presumably a plan. With the liquidity crunch sidestepped, $0 stock price isn't an option. I see no great
catalyst to be short--though I can't wrap my head around what value Oracle sees in the biz.


24 Jul 2014, 08:53 AM



http://bit.ly/1mcI5nq

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6767221

http://bit.ly/1fHQyeM

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6767221

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6767221

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4599631

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6767221
5/22/2018 Biolase: Management's Statements At Odds With The Facts - Biolase, Inc. (NASDAQ:BIOL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1648572-biolase-managements-statements-at-odds-with-the-facts 15/15


Jibo
Is fisttracks Richard Pearson's new nick?:))


03 Oct 2014, 08:27 AM


Jibo
"I have no idea what the guys at Oracle are thinking but they appear willing to throw endless money at the
company--witness the $12mm private placement"


George Soros Picks KIOR, RSH, BIOL Soar on Monday!?


03 Oct 2014, 03:12 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3746421

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3746421
