5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 1/28


Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More
Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business
Nov. 13, 2012 2:38 PM ET38 comments
by: The GeoTeam


On Sep. 27, 2012 we published a due diligence report discussing several Kandi
Technologies (NASDAQ:KNDI) related party transactions involving at least nine individuals
and several entities. We also summarized other issues, including the status of KNDI's
electric vehicle ("EV") business. KNDI has not addressed our findings since the
publication of our report. However, management wasted no time in issuing three press
releases; a press release on September 28, 2012, a day after our report and one on
October 1, 2012 discussed details about a project to "facilitate faster development of
China's electric vehicle" that is supported by an alleged "Strategic Cooperation" KNDI has
with certain entities including China Aviation Lithium Battery (Luoyang) Co., Ltd. ("CALB").
In a third press release issued on November 5, 2012 KNDI mentions that it:


"…intends to expand into Hainan's pure EV market by establishing and investing in a
manufacturing plant that will have the capacity to produce key components
and parts for up to 100,000 EVs annually."


The releases paint a bright future for its Electric Vehicle ("EV") business. It is our opinion
that these press releases are just a means to promote KNDI's stock price maybe just long
enough to benefit shareholders who hold warrants at exercise prices of $6.3. Our opinion
is supported by additional due diligence our team has completed that should lead
investors to conclude that KNDI appears to have intentionally concealed some important
information regarding its EV business and its relationship with CALB. We actually cannot
believe how sloppy KNDI has been regarding specific details about its "strategic
cooperation."


KNDI also claims that it inked a contract with CALB Hangzhou where it will manufacture
5,000 EVs as part of a bigger program to launch 20,000 EVs in Hangzhou China:



https://seekingalpha.com/article/892201-connecting-the-dots-kandi-s-clever-but-apparent-related-party-transactions

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KNDI

http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/kandi-zotye-co-developed-pure-electric-passenger-vehicle-receives-chinese-government-nasdaq-kndi-1707141.htm

http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/kandi-china-aviation-lithium-battery-hangzhou-co-ltd-enter-sales-contract-5000-pure-nasdaq-kndi-1707455.htm

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kandi-technologies-negotiates-new-ev-expansion-agreement-to-gain-access-to-hainan-province-177278481.html
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 2/28


"Kandi Technologies, Corp.(NASDAQ: KNDI announced that the Company's
wholly owned subsidiary, Zhejiang Kandi Vehicles Co., Ltd. has signed the sales
contract with China Aviation Lithium Battery (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. ('CALB
Hangzhou') to provide the first 5,000 EVs for the currently largest pure EV
commercialization launch in China -- the 20,000 pure EV leasing program in
Hangzhou.


According to the letter of intent between Kandi Vehicles and China Aviation Lithium
Battery Co., Ltd ('CALB') of July 16th, 2012 for the purpose of promoting the 20,000
pure EV leasing program in Hangzhou, CALB established a wholly owned
subsidiary, China Aviation Lithium Battery (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. in Hangzhou city to
specifically facilitate the implementation of the leasing program."


CALB is a subsidiary of a public company called Sichuan Chengfei Integration Tech Corp.
(SHE:002190) ("Chengfei Integration") which trades on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange in
China. Chengfei Integration has disseminated public information to its shareholders that
contradicts KNDI's claims regarding the relationship among State Grid, CALB and KNDI,
Hangzhou project's implementation and others. CALB also established a project company
for Hangzhou project called CALB Hangzhou on September 20, 2012. The relationship
between Chengfei Integration, CALB and CALB Hangzhou is as follows:


Summary of New Findings


KNDI's claim that it inked contract to deliver 5,000 EV to CALB Hangzhou by the end
of 2012 appears to be a material misrepresentation. Based on the content of this
alleged agreement, this "contract" would actually just be a letter of intent since CALB
Hangzhou can decide when or even if to ever take delivery of any EVs. Furthermore,
unless CALB Hangzhou is able to secure further grants, the amount of funds that
CALB has dedicated to the potential purchase of EVs cannot cover 5,000 EVs, and
certainly not 20,000.
More importantly, we have not been able to locate details of this alleged "contract"
other than a press release issued by KNDI.
Recent comments by CALB's parent company, Chengfei Integration, clearly state that
the commencement of the potential project covered by the alleged LOI is far from a
guarantee.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2012/11/13/saupload_chengfei-calb-relationship.png
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 3/28


"The feasibility of the business model has yet to be demonstrated as it is still in
the planning stage….There is uncertainty regarding the implementation of the
project agreement…"


Recordings with Hangzhou EV Enterprise Development Co., Ltd. (marketing company
of Hangzhou project) confirm that KNDI has delivered ZERO EVs under the
Hangzhou project and there is no timeline regarding the delivery, despite KNDI's
claim that it will deliver 5,000 EVs from September 2012 to December 2012.
Our findings indicate that if CALB were to proceed with its EV plans in Hangzhou City
that it would not be able to purchase its EVs from KNDI. The government approved EV
model for the project, JNJ6290EV, is to be manufactured by a different company
that is actually listed on a government site as the only firm that can manufacture
this model.
We will show that KNDI's EV is clearly not favored by the Chinese government based
upon the Energy Saving and New Energy Vehicle Industry Development Plan issued
on June 28, 2012 by the State Council (Chinese Central Government).
Chinese financial markets have downplayed the importance of the Hangzhou project to
Chengfei Integration, the parent company of CALB. This assertion is supported by the
fact that Chengfei's stock price is lower than it was after it announced its potential
involvement in the project. Yet KNDI still trades above the price when it issued its initial
press release discussing the Hangzhou project.
KNDI claims that:


The State Grid Cooperation of China ("State Grid") will cooperate with
Aviation Industry Corporation of China (OTC:AVIC) through CALB for a
20,000 pure EV project through personal leasing method in Hangzhou,
Zhejiang.


This is a very misleading statement. Our research shows that there is no formal
agreement between entities involved in a "strategic" cooperation and the State Grid.


Regarding KNDI's November 5, 2012 release, we will discuss the absurdity of KNDI's
goal to build a manufacturing plant for EV components and parts in an area that makes
no logistical sense. Given the state of the company's financials, in order to build the
plant it would require the assistance of outside capital from very fickle investors at
prices well below current levels.


We believe it is unwarranted that the market is valuing KNDI at a P/E of 40 when so many
loose ends exist with the company's story. However, we believe KNDI's days of premium
valuation are numbered since the market can effortlessly verify our findings by referencing
statements made by a publicly traded Chinese company.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AVIC
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 4/28


The Comprehensive Details Supporting our Findings


Argument One - Cooperation Letter of Intent NOT stamped with Official Seals


KNDI fails to point out the fact that the CALB admits that its Cooperation Letter of Intent
with China Aviation Lithium Battery (Luoyang) Co., Ltd. ("CALB") was "not stamped with
the official seal of each party; that lack of a seal does not follow the internal approval
procedure for each party and does not have legal binding authority."


KNDI issued several press releases prior to our first report. For example, on July 16,
2012, KNDI's press release reads:


"There were over ten Strategic Cooperation LOIs signed between the companies
from Jinhua city and major State Owned Enterprises of China at the Cooperation
Forum in Beijing. The LOI signed by Kandi and CALB is to facilitate faster
development of China's electric vehicle industry and to secure Kandi and Aviation
Industry Corporation of China ("AVIC") leading positions in the EV and lithium battery
industries. Their cooperation is also intended to promote structural development of
China's automobile industry and accelerate transformation of economic growth
pattern to fulfill the national goal of sustainable development. The State Grid
Cooperation of China ("State Grid") will cooperate with AVIC through CALB for
a 20,000 pure EV project through personal leasing method in Hangzhou,
Zhejiang. Under the project, AVIC/CALB will be responsible to produce automobile-
use lithium batteries and purchase 20,000 electric vehicles for personal leasing,
while the State Grid will be responsible for the construction and supply of the
charging network to power the operation of 20,000 EVs as well as the procurement
of integrated automobile-use power battery sets. The Hangzhou municipal
government will provide financial subsidies and create supporting policies that are
beneficial for the promotion of EVs."


CALB is a subsidiary of a company called Sichuan Chengfei Integration Tech Corp.
(SHE:002190) ("Chengfei Integration") which is a company listed on the Shenzen Stock
Exchange in China. On July 17, 2012, Chengfei Integration issued a very different press
release to its Chinese shareholders as follows:



http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/kandi-vehicles-co-ltd-signed-cooperative-letter-intent-with-china-aviation-lithium-battery-nasdaq-kndi-1680268.htm

http://www.cninfo.com.cn/finalpage/2012-07-18/61283215.PDF
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 5/28


"Hangzhou Electric Lease Rental Project (hereafter referred to as "Hangzhou
project" or "the Project ") the feasibility of the business model to be demonstrated as
it is still in the planning stage. As of today, CALB has not signed any strategic
cooperation agreement with the National Grid and/or the Hangzhou Municipal
Government, buy only signed a Cooperative Letter of Intent with entities that
attended the "Strategic Cooperative Meeting Between Central Government owned
Enterprises and Jinhua City" sponsored by the city of Jinhua in Zhejiang Province.
The Cooperative Letter of Intent is part of the Government-led behavior and only a
cooperative intention between two parties, only carries the signature of each
party, is not stamped with the official seal of each party, does not follow the
internal approval procedure of each party and does not have the legal binding
authority. There is uncertainty regarding the implementation of the project
agreement…"


As of now, the initial plan of the project is as follows:


"According to the initial pre-project planning, EV launching will depend on market
response to EV. This project shall be implemented from September 2012 to August
2013 in several installments. Based upon the initial plan, from September 2012
to December 2012, 1,000 EV would be launched per month, totally 4,000 EV in
2012. From January 2013 to August 2013, 2,000 EV would be launched per
month, totally 16,000 EV in 2013. The plan for the entire project is to launch 20,000
EV. The specific number of EV launched to the market shall depend on the
market development, with different installments to gradually launch rental EV."


Comparing these two different press releases, we conclude that KNDI seemingly
concealed the facts illuminated by CALB that:


The Cooperative Letter of Intent "is not stamped with the official seal of each party,"
The Cooperative Letter of Intent "does not follow the internal approval procedure
of each party,"
The Cooperative Letter of Intent "does not have the legal binding authority,"
CALB is still in the early stages of determining the feasibility of the project,
CALB has not signed a contract with KNDI, but only an unofficial LOI,
The State Grid and/or Hangzhou municipal government does not have an
agreement with CALB and/or KNDI regarding the Hangzhou Project.


Argument Two - JNJ6290EV is Branded as "Zoyte"
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 6/28


KNDI does not present the fact that JNJ6290EV, a pure electric passenger vehicle
approved by the Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information Technology for the
Hangzhou project, is branded with "Zoyte" under a company called Hunan Jiannan
Vehicle Manufacturing Co. Ltd., rather than branded with "Kandi" or under any company
related to KNDI.


On September 28, 2012, the day after we published our report, KNDI did not directly
comment on our report but did issue a press release in an attempt to seemingly portray its
legitimacy to investors:


"Kandi Technologies, Corp.(the 'Company' or 'Kandi') ( NASDAQ : KNDI ), a
leading Chinese manufacturer and developer of pure electric vehicles (EVs) and all-
terrain vehicles (ATVs), today announced that JNJ6290EV, a pure electric passenger
vehicle jointly developed by Kandi and Zhejiang Zoyte Holding Group Co., Ltd.
("Zoyte"), has been approved by the Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology ("MIIT"). The approval paves the way for Kandi's Pure EVs to meet the
requirements for subsidies under the previously announced 20,000 electric vehicle
leasing program to be launched in Hangzhou City.


According to No. 45 public announcement of MIIT, JNJ6290EV model is among the
latest lists of "Approved Passenger Vehicles (No. 240)" and "Recommended Models
for Energy Saving/New Energy Vehicle Demonstration and Promotion in China." As
a result of this approval, the purchaser of such pure EVs will now be qualified to
receive all levels of national and local subsidies and incentives for EVs."


We found the announcement of MIIT stating that JNJ6290 EV is on the list of "Approved
Passenger Vehicles (No. 240)" and "Recommended Models for Energy Saving/New
Energy Vehicle Demonstration and Promotion in China." However, in the published official
list, the approved JNJ6290 EV is under the name of a company called Hunan Jiangnan
Vehicle Manufacturing Co., Ltd. with the approved brand "Zoyte." The relevant
information is as follows:


Recommended Models for Energy Saving/New Energy Vehicle Demonstration and
Promotion"



http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/kandi-zotye-co-developed-pure-electric-passenger-vehicle-receives-chinese-government-nasdaq-kndi-1707141.htm

http://www.miit.gov.cn/n11293472/n11293832/n12845605/n13916898/n14827766.files/n14827723.doc

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2012/11/13/saupload_ev-type-JNJ6290EV.png
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 7/28


Based on KNDI's disclosure, the approved JNJ6290 EV is entitled to the subsidies under
the 20,000 EV Hangzhou project to be potentially launched in Hangzhou City. However,
the electric vehicle will be branded with "Zoyte" under a company called Hunan Jiangnan
Vehicle Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ("Jiangnan Vehicle"), rather than the brand "Kandi" or
under any subsidiaries of KNDI. Based on our research, Hunan Jiangnan Vehicle
Manufacturing Co., Ltd. is a subsidiary of Zhejiang Zoyte Holding Group Co., Ltd.
("Zoyte").


In sum, the Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information Technology approved Jiangnan
Vehicle to manufacture the EV with the brand "Zoyte" for the Hangzhou Project. However,
KNDI did not fully disclose the content of the governmental approval, only claiming that its
pure electric passenger vehicle it allegedly co-developed with Zoyte "received Chinese
government approval for a subsidy in the Hangzhou Leasing Program." Furthermore,
based upon the governmental approval, we can't even be sure whether the approved
JNJ6290 EV is a "Kandi-Zoyte Co-Developed Pure Electric Passenger Vehicle." We would
have expected to find information about the KNDI-Zoyte relationship in SEC filings.


On August 15, 2012, KNDI claimed to sign a cooperative letter of intent ("LOI") with
Zhejiang Zoyte Holding Group Co., Ltd. ("Zoyte") to establish a strategic alliance and
cooperate with each other's competitive strengths to advance the EV development in
Hangzhou. The major provisions of the LOI are as follows:


"In order to obtain the local government subsidies support, parties intend to jointly
establish a new company of Hangzhou Zoyte-Kandi New Energy Co. Ltd. ("Zoyte-
Kandi") in the area of Hangzhou city.


For the specific terms of cooperation, parties will sign a separate agreement based
upon Hangzhou municipal government's requirements and the progress of the
projects.


To satisfy the EV demands in Hangzhou, before the establishment of Zoyte-Kandi,
parties will utilize their respective competitive advantages to start the initial
cooperation for mutual development and benefit. The details will be further
discussed and negotiated."


The planned joint venture is not yet established and there are no SEC disclosures
regarding the details of the strategic alliance between Zoyte and KNDI.



http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kandi-signed-cooperative-letter-of-intent-with-zhejiang-zotye-holding-group-co-ltd-166261626.html
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 8/28


Argument Three - In Our Opinion, The Claimed 5,000 EV Sale To CALB Hangzhou In
2012 Is Not Achievable


The contract between CALB Hangzhou and KNDI is not a contract, but still an LOI.


On October 1, 2012, KNDI announced a Sales Contract (based on the related LOI) for
sale of electric vehicles ("Sales Contract") with China Aviation Lithium Battery (Hangzhou)
Co., Ltd. ("CALB Hangzhou") as follows:


"Under the Sales Contract, CALB Hangzhou will purchase 5,000 pure electric
vehicles without battery from Kandi Vehicles for a total price of RMB 199,000,000
(approximately US$31,587,301). The unit price of the electric vehicle is RMB 39,800
(approximately US$6,317) and the delivery place for the electric vehicles will be in
Hangzhou City, China. The purchase period of the Sales Contract will be from
September 29, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Kandi Vehicles will deliver the electric
vehicles upon CALB Hangzhou's delivery confirmation notice by batch, delivery to be
made within 7 working days of receipt of the notice and CALB Hangzhou's full
payment for the vehicles identified in the confirmation notice.


The purpose of CALB Hangzhou's purchase is to promote the use of electric
vehicles in Hangzhou City on a large scale and CALB Hangzhou has the right to
adjust vehicle delivery times to conform to the implementation of this
promotion, to market responses as well as to the actual running conditions of
the electric vehicles, including vehicle quality and market adaptability."


Considering the last statement above and quotes from CALB we highlighted earlier in this
report, in our opinion, this Agreement is only a letter of intent and not a firm contract.
Furthermore, KNDI has yet to deliver any EVs.


CALB Hangzhou Has Not Allocated the Necessary Funds In Order To Purchase RMB
199 Million 5,000 EVs


Based on the disclosure of Chengfei Integration, the controlling shareholder of CALB,
CALB Hangzhou is wholly owned by CALB and was established on September 20,
2012, only nine days before the execution of the claimed Sales Agreement by KNDI.


Furthermore, CALB also planned to provide a personal guarantee with the credit line of
only RMB 120 million to CALB Hangzhou. In the disclosure, Parent Company Cheng
Integration also states the following:



http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/kandi-china-aviation-lithium-battery-hangzhou-co-ltd-enter-sales-contract-5000-pure-nasdaq-kndi-1707455.htm

http://money.finance.sina.com.cn/corp/view/vCB_AllBulletinDetail.php?stockid=sz002190&id=966309
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 9/28


"The (Hangzhou) project can enjoy the preferential loan treatment as a green energy
project and the CALB Hangzhou can enjoy the treatment with the principal/loan ratio 1:4
with basic loan interest issued by the government. Therefore, based upon CALB's
registered capital RMB 30 million, CALB Hangzhou can apply RMB 120 million loan with
the basic loan interest rate. For the progress of Hangzhou project, based upon the
cash flow projection, the initial capital requirement of the project shall be around
RMB 120 million."


Basically, CALB Hangzhou only can prepare a maximum of RMB 150 million (RMB 30
million registered capital as principal and RMB 120 million as a possible bank loan) for
the Hangzhou Project. It also states that the projected initial capital requirement of the
Hangzhou Project is only RMB 120 million. However, KNDI's claim that the RMB 199
million "contract" with CALB Hangzhou is far greater than RMB 120 -150 million, the
capital potentially allocated by CALB Hangzhou for the Hangzhou project.


Furthermore, on October 8, 2012, Chengfei Integration only disclosed the establishment of
CALB Hangzhou and not the execution of any EV orders. It also mentioned that as of
October 8, 2012, CALB Hangzhou received ONLY RMB 6 Million from CALB as the paid
capital. Chengfei Integration has not disclosed the alleged Sales Agreement by KNDI to its
Chinese shareholders.


On Oct. 26, 2012, our investigator visited the office of CALB Hangzhou based upon the
registration information. To our surprise, the CALB Hangzhou office was still under initial
construction and no one was working in the office yet.


As of the end of October, 2012, no EVs have been delivered to the public and no EVs
are available for public through lease arrangements under the Hangzhou Project. It
appears improbable that KNDI will deliver and CALB can accept 5,000 EVs by the end of
2012.


KNDI's disclosure made on September 28, 2012 states:


"Based on the recently published status from State Grid, there are currently five QBE
stations, 62 charging/service stations and 620 charging poles already in service in
Hangzhou City. It is expected that State Grid will build an additional 25 QBE stations
in the future to support the infrastructure needs for the leasing program. The ultimate
goal is to allow the EV driver to be able to locate a charging station within every 5
kilometers radius in downtown."



http://www.cninfo.com.cn/finalpage/2012-10-08/61622626.PDF
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 10/28


Regarding leasing EVs under the Hangzhou project, on Oct. 9, 2012 our investigator
called Hangzhou EV Industrial Development Co., Ltd., the marketing company of the
Hangzhou Project. The officer clearly said that there were still no EVs leased to
public, none available to lease under the Hangzhou Project and no timeline to
launch EVs under the Hangzhou project. On Oct. 29, 2012 our investigator made a
second call regarding the EV lease business. The officer confirmed that there were still no
EVs leased to public and no timeline had been defined to launch EVs under the Hangzhou
project. (Listen to Recording; Read Transcript)


The unofficial July 16, 2012 LOI between CALB and KNDI called for the delivery of 1,000
EVs per month from September to December. Based upon this plan, KNDI would be
scheduled to deliver 4,000 EVs by the end of 2012. Furthermore, based upon the claimed
contract signed on September 29, 2012 (which we now know is an LOI) with CALB
Hangzhou, KNDI claims that it is now contracted to deliver 5,000 EVs, one thousand more
than the original plan, by the end of 2012. However, in reality, as of the end of October
2012, KNDI has delivered ZERO EVs under the Hangzhou project which is not even
officially launched yet. For all the reasons we explained above, we do not think that
KNDI can or will deliver a substantial number of EVs under the Hangzhou project by the
end of 2012.


Argument 4 - KNDI's EV and its battery change model are clearly not favored by the
Chinese government.


On June 28, 2012, the Chinese State Council (Central Government) issued an Energy
Saving and New Energy Vehicle Industry Development Plan. The Plan explains the details
for the development of the Plug-in EV Model, including a key technology development
plan and business operation plan, but only briefly mentions that it will explore the
feasibility of the EV Battery Change Model.


The EV Battery Change Model means that an EV must be taken to a charging station to
exchange the battery after it runs out of power. The Plug-in EV Model means that the EV
can recharge its own battery at designated destinations after it runs out of power. KNDI,
along with CALB, are sticking with the EV Battery Change Model. (KNDI manufactures the
plug-in EVs while CALB manufactures the lithium batteries).


Following the issuance of the Plan by the State Council, the plug-in EV Model is already
equipped with its own "EV AC charging pile energy metering" which is scheduled to go
into effect on November 1, 2012. However, the EV Battery Change Model still does not



http://blog.geoinvesting.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/call-hangzhou-ev-102912.mp3

http://blog.geoinvesting.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/transcript-hangzhou-ev-102912.pdf

http://www.gov.cn/zwgk/2012-07/09/content_2179032.htm
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 11/28


have a national standard for the size, interface and layout of the battery. The majority of
commentary suggests that the EV Battery Change Model will lose the battle with the Plug-
in Model in the Chinese market. Sina Finance, Roll.sohu, 21cbh


Argument 5 - Chinese Investors Have Reacted Differently To The Shares Of
Chengfei Integration When Compared To KNDI.


As we discussed before, CALB is a subsidiary of and 63.63% owned by Chengfei
Integration. We can reference how U.S. and PRC investors view the relevance of the
Hangzhou project by taking a look at the price action of Integration's stock price traded on
the Shanghai Exchange and KNDI traded on the NASDAQ. The Chengfei Integration price
chart is as follows:


On July 18 & 19, 2012, the stock price of Chengfei Integration increased more than 10%
due to what we believe was speculation that the Hangzhou project could result in an
increase in sales of CALB's lithium battery. However, the stock price of Chengdu
Integration quickly lost these gains, arguably after Chinese investors realized the lack of
feasibility of the Hangzhou project and that no substantial progress has taken place. The
current price of Chengfei Integration has gravitated to levels lower than those before the
announcement of the Hangzhou project. Chinese investors have seemed to disregard the
impact of the Hangzhou Project when valuing shares of Chengfei Integration.


Here is the price action of KNDI in the same period:



http://finance.sina.com.cn/roll/20120725/074912662739.shtml

http://roll.sohu.com/20120806/n349938048.shtml%20/

http://www.21cbh.com/HTML/2012-6-11/5NNDE2XzQ1MTQ5Nw.html

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2012/11/13/saupload_she-002190-6-mo.png
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 12/28


Except for the time period after our report on September 27, 2012, KNDI's stock price had
been substantially bolstered by the "prospects" that the Hangzhou Project would have on
KNDI, fueled by many misleading press releases. KNDI's shares briefly attained $5.13 per
share and currently trade at a P/E higher than 40. Apparently, KNDI's U.S. investors are
not as fully informed as Chengfei Integration's Chinese investors and seem to still have
high hopes for the Hangzhou Project. We find it amazing that KNDI is able to trade at a
P/E higher than 10 in a space that has been mired with fraud.


6. Aside From The Hangzhou Project, KNDI Just Released A New EV Expansion
Agreement That We Feel Is Unrealistic.


On Nov. 5, 2012, KNDI issued another press release:


"…Zhejiang Kandi Vehicles Co., Ltd ('Kandi Vehicles') has recently negotiated,
conditional upon approval by the board of directors of the Company, a framework
agreement (the 'Framework Agreement') with Wanning city government of Hainan
Province, under which Kandi intends to expand into Hainan's pure EV market by
establishing and investing in a manufacturing plant that will have the capacity to
produce key components and parts for up to 100,000 EVs annually.…


The release goes on to state the following:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2012/11/13/saupload_kndi-6-mo.png
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 13/28


"…


A. The Hainan manufacturing facility will be built by Kandi. When fully completed and
reaching its ultimate production capacity, the facility is expected to generate up to
RMB 3 billion of annual revenue;


B. The Wanning City will list this Kandi project as a top priority and apply for various
preferential policy supports from the province government in Hainan;


C. The Wanning City will provide Kandi up to 500 mu (or about 82 acres) of land at a
favorable price to build the manufacturing plant;


D. Upon the initial investment by Kandi, Wanning City will work actively to gain
national, provincial and municipal supportive policies for the EV industry, and will
fully promote the use and acceptance of Kandi EVs as well as its business model in
Hainan province. In principle, the government will have a special subsidy policy for
no less than 20,000 EVs every year;


E. Kandi will receive favorable tax incentives and rebates from Wanning City;


F. Kandi agrees to complete the construction of the manufacturing base within two
years of obtaining the favorable land-use rights


…"


We were able to locate a Chinese source showing that KNDI's chairman visited Wanning
City on September 22, 2012 to discuss the feasibility of an EV project. However, no public
information exists that shows that Wanning City government and KNDI executed any
binding agreement regarding the EV project. KNDI seems to think that engaging in a
conversation is as good as inking a contract.


Based upon the press release, we believe that the Wanning project substantially lacks
feasibility and makes no business sense:


1. Wanning City is a small county level city with only 610 thousand residents and USD
2,516 GDP per capita, which is 30% less than the GDP per capita of Hainan province,
where it is situated. The local EV market in Wanning City is very small. Therefore,
KNDI's assertion that "In principle, the government will have a special subsidy policy
for no less than 20,000 EVs every year" is in our opinion totally ridiculous.


2. Wanning City is more than a thousand miles away from KNDI's current campus; and to
add even more logistical issues, it's on an island! KNDI claims to be planning the



http://wanning.hainan.gov.cn/wngov/jrwn/201209/t20120929_782910.html
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 14/28


establishment of a manufacturing plant that will have the capacity to produce key
EV components and parts. We assume these planned EV components and parts will
be assembled for use in KNDI's EVs. Thus, these components and parts would be
delivered to KNDI's facility from an island located over a thousand miles away from its
home base. It also makes little logistical sense to ship EV components from Wanning
City to other EV companies located outside the island. Why not just build a plant next
to existing headquarters? Currently, only one EV manufacturer exists on this island in
Hainan province called FAW Haima Automobile Co., Ltd. ("Haima"). Haima is also the
only car manufacturer on the island. We do not see any indication that KNDI's
planned manufacturing plant will provide components and parts to Haima.
Furthermore, if KNDI wanted to sell EVs in the small island market, it would still have
to compete with Haima for the market share.


3. KNDI's current cash flow cannot provide the funding to begin this project. As of the first
six months in 2012, KNDI had operating cash flow of negative USD 14.5 million and
had a cash balance only totaling USD 4 million. The tight capital markets for China
Hybrids may not allow KNDI to continue to access funds from the capital market,
especially at its current premium valuation.


Something smells with regards to this press release. Why is the company planning to
divert funds to a project that makes little economic sense?


Conclusion:


We view a long position in KNDI to be very risky at any price.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2012/11/13/saupload_wanning-kndi-distance.png
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 15/28


Comments (38)


KNDI U.S. investors should have a right to full disclosure with respect to the Hangzhou
Project and KNDI's EV business; the same information that has been afforded to Chinese
investors of Chengfei Integration, the controlling shareholder of CALB.


However, KNDI appears to have intentionally concealed key information about its EV
business and the Hangzhou Project in what appears to us as an effort to bolster the
company's stock price. Now that we have compiled even more information, building upon
what we have already uncovered in our first report, we are of the opinion that investors
who are banking on the Hangzhou Project as a way to fuel KNDI's EV business may need
to search for other opportunities to jump start their portfolios. It appears that KNDI is
twisting the truth to exaggerate its involvement in a "potential" project. Furthermore,
KNDI's EV business is still far from successful and may even lack the viability it needs to
be successful given the lack of infrastructure and charging stations.


Once investors consider the variables Chinese investors have already taken into
consideration when pricing Chengfei Integration, we believe U.S. investors will do the
same and value KNDI under $3 per share, which is commensurate with the price of KNDI
prior to the announcement of Hangzhou project. However, $3.00 per share does not take
into consideration the undisputed related party transaction issues we discussed in our first
report and that KNDI may have grossly misrepresented the prospect of its EV business
through loosely claimed contracts and statements. Investors would also be hard pressed
to find a China Hybrid RTO that trades at a P/E greater than 10 (equating to a price of
$0.90), especially ones that seem to misrepresent information to investors.


Disclosure: I am short KNDI. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Arthur Porcari, Contributor
Before GeoInvesting suckers you in again to short the stock based on unresearched hyperbole. Read this;


As they claim this is the second attack article they have put out on KNDI in as many months. The first time was a
disaster for them and their short position. But even more so for the 700,000 shares short that was already in place
when they put out their “piece”. Yes, they did drive the stock down in a matter of minutes some 35%, but by the next
day, the stock recovered all of the prior days drop. What makes matters worse, the reported short didn’t go down, it
got larger.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KNDI

https://seekingalpha.com/author/arthur-porcari
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 16/28


Regarding this worthless piece today. Obviously they did not do any research on this “opinion piece” for if they did,
they would have noticed that on the same day KNDI put out their PR on the CALB contract, the Company also filed an
8k with the SEC. In that 8K, they filed a COPY OF THE CONTRACT. Even a first year investor knows to look at the
SEC filings before trying to snooker ignorant investors to blindly follow their hyperbole.


In their article they claim "...we have not been able to locate details of this alleged ‘contract’ other than a press
release issued by KNDI.”


Obviously, they either didn’t care or didn't do enough homework to realize that the Company put out an SEC 8K along
with the PR, and attached the contract. Here is the link to both the 8K and the Contract on the SEC site.


http://1.usa.gov/SKebDD


The CONTRACT:


http://1.usa.gov/PSg6sI


GEO claims the CALB PR is different than the KNDI. This is true. The CALB article is actually more bullish than the
KNDI press release in that it paints out their whole 20,000 EV 18 month order delivery schedule. CALB (which BTW is
70% owned State Owned Enterprise by the PRC who can easily get whatever cash it needs to deliver on any
contract.) The reason there is a difference is because the CALB release came out weeks before the actual contract
was executed. (But since GEO didn’t even know there was a contract, I expect they have an excuse for showing their
ignorance.)


Re the recent KNDI PR on Hainin. GEO is trying to insinuate that this likely fabricated by KNDI. Well if that is the
case, then KNDI is also snookering in a lot of high level New Energy representatives from the Companies. As you can
see from this China article which just came out today, KNDI’s Hainan project is already getting major attention by a
New Energy Delegation Visit in Hainan. From the below translated article, Delegation attendees included the likes of
BYD (Warren Buffets Investment), Jianghuai Automobile ( State Owned JAC Auto- One of the largest auto
manufacturers in China), Seimens and China Putian; along with more than a dozen others specifically came to Hainin
to learn about the KNDI project.


New energy automotive industry key enterprises delegation visit to Hainan


http://bit.ly/SKebTX


(Quote from this article) 
“The delegation visited the electric vehicle production base in Zhejiang Condit Vehicle Industry Co., Ltd. started
construction soon in Wanning. The base is expected to put into operation two years after the completion of an annual
output of electric vehicles will reach 100,000. Wanning City responsible people to come to the delegation interested in
the problem - do answer, and said: "the city attaches great importance to the development of new energy automotive
industry related businesses for investment in new energy come Mannings will give full supported. "as Wanning City,
Hainan tourist destinations at the same time to continue the development of tourism resources, the development of
new energy, new industries .”


An import point to note; Just as in the last attack, GEO has carefully avoided accusing KNDI of any fraud or illegality.
They know just how close they can come to the line of just spouting their opinion. They don’t deny KNDI is a real



http://1.usa.gov/SKebDD

http://1.usa.gov/PSg6sI

http://bit.ly/SKebTX
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 17/28


company; how could they? Their own article they outline numerous relationships KNDI has with all levels of China
Government.


Regarding GEO’s agenda, I suggest you read this opposing SA article put out a few weeks ago. It intelligently
explains just how GEO uses at best, questionable tactics, to con ignorant investors into helping GEO out of self-
imposed traps. They understand the time tested theory that it is “much easier to scare and investor out of a stock,
then to scare them into a stock”. Facts not important.


“Did Geoinvesting Commit Securities Fraud and Use Their Own Message Board Followers as Pawns?”


http://seekingalpha.co...


Bottom line. If you are ignorant enough to blindly follow groups like GEO without doing your own DD, then I strongly
suggest you short the stock. GEO will certainly appreciate you helping them cover their own short position.


But if you have a modicum of intelligence, I strongly suggest you take a good hard look at KNDI and all of the recent
Seeking Alpha articles which were recently issued based on facts and numerous links to KNDI in the China media,
not opinions with an “agenda” such as this, and go long KNDI stock which is clearly the top EV leader in China; again,
based on facts, not opinion with an agenda. But don’t trust me for this comment, trust the PRC. Read this recent SA
article and be sure to read the link to the PRC Policy Paper anointing their preferred EV model for the future with the
name, “Hangzhou Condi Model”. (Condi is KNDI translated)


“What Percentage Of The 120M China EV Bike Owners Will Kandi Technologies Convert?” 
http://seekingalpha.co...


Food for thought: What if GEO opinion is wrong? And KNDI does deliver on only what they have recently announced.
(all of which involves Government agencies or State Owned Businesses and have been reported in thousands of
articles in China). You are looking at contracts and agreements that could generate Over $200 million next year for
this $100 million market cap company and be on track for over $1.5 Billion in 2015. Would you rather be long or short
such a situation? I can assure you that by praying on the fears of ignorant investors and desperately publishing this
“skid mounted”, They have clearly decided it is now time for them to cover their short. But they know they can only do
that with ignorant sellers, long or short’s help. As Jim Cramer has often commented from his hedge fund days. “You
make a stock look weak when you want to buy it, and strong when you want to sell it. Facts are not important.”


13 Nov 2012, 02:42 PM


The GeoTeam, Marketplace Contributor
Author’s reply »  Art,


Regarding the amateur SA BLOG entry (not an article, btw) about GEO and this phantom securities fraud you
so excitedly refer to, our answer to that piece is and will always be NO. Once again, however, we need to
remind everyone that you yourself are in fact no stranger to allegations regarding a little thing called insider-
trading.


"Porcari and Fearnow both were fined and suspended by the NASD for violating insider-trading and fair
practice rules at their now-defunct firm, Porcari, Fearnow and Associates Inc.



https://seekingalpha.com/p/4tsi

https://seekingalpha.com/a/jqoh

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-geoteam

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=the-geoteam&source=comment_author_tag
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 18/28


The SEC also brought administrative proceedings (http://1.usa.gov/QENepa) against Porcari in 1994. It said
that while he was working as a financial relations consultant for a public company, he sought to engineer a
“short squeeze” by making baseless predictions about its share price to brokers and urging them to make
coordinated purchases of stock." source: http://bit.ly/Pt0Gr3


We know you are probably tired of reading that, but we just need to give people perspective on who KNDI's
lead cheerleader is.


---


Now on to the only other point that we think matters w/r/t your sloppy, curiously quick-triggered, self-gratifying
response. You say,


"Obviously, they either didn’t care or didn't do enough homework to realize that the Company put out an SEC
8K along with the PR, and attached the contract. Here is the link to both the 8K and the Contract on the SEC
site."


You are obviously missing the point and represent the Old School way of thinking, blindly following what is put
right in front of you. When the only one corroborating that a Contract was inked is the filer itself, wouldn't you
see it fit to conduct a differential analysis?


When we say that "we have not been able to locate details of this alleged ‘contract’ other than a press release
issued by KNDI", we mean in China...WHERE IT MATTERS, or from CALB and other good reliable
sources...not in an 8k issued by the company! We and everyone else saw it (the 8k)...you should know by
now that supplementary due diligence on US Listed Chinese companies goes much further than ink on an
SEC document!


You think you are insulting us, but you are really insulting the whole investing community with your short-
sighted assumptions.


---


And yes, regarding the quote below, we would not expect anything less out of you regarding the following (if
we only had a penny for every time we heard a pump like this)


"You are looking at contracts and agreements that could generate Over $200 million next year for this $100
million market cap company and be on track for over $1.5 Billion in 2015. Would you rather be long or short
such a situation?"


Thanks for showing your true colors.


GT


13 Nov 2012, 04:32 PM


Arthur Porcari, Contributor
OMG, you busted me! For the fourth or is it fifth time? I should know better than to use my real name when
writing for SA. I should just hide behind some anonymous alias like most of you who prey on innocent
shareholders fears using half truths and innuendos. Yeah Right.



http://1.usa.gov/QENepa

http://bit.ly/Pt0Gr3

https://seekingalpha.com/author/arthur-porcari
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 19/28


I use my own name because I am proud of my 39 years as a Market Professional. Ten of the first 15 as a
Merrill Lynch Investment Banker as well as the CEO of a Brokerage Firm where I was also head OTC Market
Maker. During that time I learned every deceitful trick in the book that Short Sellers used to defraud
Companies and shareholders out of their investment dollars.


As a MM in the late seventies and early eighties, I am not proud to say I was likely an unknowing co-
conspirator with scum short-sellers like of Aspen Capital . When I sold my firm, I took my knowledge learned
of what deceitful and underhanded things vermin short-seller do and helped put several out of business.
Including the one who complained to the SEC about Cedar Group. BTW, I noticed you only published the
accusation by the SEC for my supposed 1989 transgression, not the final resolution. Not surprising since
knowing your penchant for only showing at best half truths.


I have no qualms about short selling in general as long as both sides are playing on an even field. That is
dealing with true facts, good or bad. What I can't stand is short sellers who could care less about facts, and
when trapped, stoop to tactics like you have exhibited in this article and prior ignorant malicious attacks on
KNDI based solely on lies, misinformation and obfuscation. You and I both know the 750,000 shares short are
in trouble. If you really thought KNDI was bogus, you would get out of the way and relish the thought of
shorting more at $8, 10 or higher. After all, you would make a lot more money shorting down from the higher
levels. Your only goal is to "forget about the cheese, let me out of the trap".


I have spent over five years and more than 3000 hours researching thousands of documents on KNDI, to
include making a personal trip to visit the Company in China. During those five years I could not be more
proud of the honorable and dignified way KNDI has attempted to deal with the chinaphobic bigots who could
care less about KNDI's shareholders who also have worked hard doing their homework uncovering this gem,
and only want to paint the company with a broad brush of "Guilt by Nationality". And even more proud of the
advances the Company has made in clearly becoming the EV leader in China.


My agenda is plain to all. I am a proud long term holder who has openly supported KNDI through the years.
Over the years, I have been accused by ignorant bashers and shortsellers as being a pump and dump artist.
But I am still proudly and openly here with considerably more shares today than five years ago. Compare this
to short term speculators like you who knows full well has trapped himself in a wrong way bet and will do
"whatever it takes" to wiggle his way out. What this Company has accomplished in the greatest potential
market in the world against all odds is nothing short of amazing. I sleep comfortably knowing that I will be
here when this stock is ten times and more the current price. I only hope my exposing of "agenda based",
speculators like you will allow many more to share in the future rewards that I know will soon be obvious to
all.


14 Nov 2012, 04:24 AM


Surf Dog
Great job Art. Hopefully these idiots will lose their shirts anf go away.


26 Nov 2012, 07:05 PM


MICP1345



https://seekingalpha.com/user/905926

https://seekingalpha.com/user/346439
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 20/28


Art - very well stated! Interesting timing, one or 2 days before the 10Q.


13 Nov 2012, 03:17 PM


randix
When someone puts out an article and states an alleged "fact" that clearly is false had they only read the 8k, hard not
to conclude the agenda of that writer is one thing: manipulation


Seeking Alpha should be ashamed of itself; this behavior has appeared on SA before with regard to Kandi. In that
instance SA REMOVED the article after it was brought to their attention, but only after the fact. The time to get critical
is at the submission stage.


13 Nov 2012, 03:28 PM


Treehill
While the article may be intended to manipulate, I think I would prefer that Seeking Alpha runs it. Such
articles can affect my stocks and because SA runs it and sends me an alert, I am made  
aware of what is going on. Furthermore it provides a forum for others to respond. If SA didn't run it, it would
be more difficult for investors to know why the volatility is happening.


13 Nov 2012, 04:52 PM


Todd Krajniak, Contributor
I agree Tree. For me, the more differing opinions and information the better.


If it weren't for the efforts of both Art and Growing money with green, I wouldn't have done nearly as much
research on KNDI as I have. I would be holding it based on the Jinhua SGCC Qbex venture and then likely
not looking at it for another 5 years or so. It was their ongoing banter which made it necessary for me to make
the trip to Atlanta.


GT's first hit piece also drove me to dig further. I enjoy them posting as well.


Unfortunately passions and ambition in this business tend get people throwing the proverbial kitchen sink a
little too freely.


When in Atlanta, Art was a perfect gentleman and welcomed me into his traveling group as he did with so
many others that day. I know I've screwed the pooch many times in my life and stand back up trying to do
things better. Maybe I'll get it right before I have to die.


I was hoping to meet Growing W/ Green there as well, but he was unable to make it. Just as I would enjoy
meeting the guys from GT, I look forward to the opportunity of meeting GWG if our paths are able to cross as
well.


Thank you gentlemen for the passionate dialogue on KNDI.


You all have helped reinforce my desire to remain long.


13 Nov 2012, 05:34 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/632731

https://seekingalpha.com/user/680684

https://seekingalpha.com/author/todd-krajniak
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 21/28


Todd Krajniak, Contributor
http://yhoo.it/UoZJAq 
http://bit.ly/ZtA6Va


Looks good enough for me. 
Long kndi.


14 Nov 2012, 10:30 AM


frellgem
No undisclosed information (see Form 8K & attachment) 
No twisting the truth. (see independent media re Hangzhou, Hainan, Shandong, etc). 
No credibility for Geo - again!


13 Nov 2012, 03:40 PM


growingmoneywithgreen
I don't trust a thing KNDI prints or says. Sell before it's halted.


13 Nov 2012, 04:03 PM


jmap
I smell crap coming from Geo's shorts :)..LOL w/ my nose plugged


13 Nov 2012, 05:30 PM


Makwan
I hold a big position in Kandi and now I am getting concerned. This is because by now Kandi should have delivered at
least 2000 EVs for the Hangzhou project. How come we have not received any press releases confirming delivery of
these cars. And if they have not been delivered yet, what is the schedule for delivering 5000 cars by Dec, 12. 
Does anyone have any answer.


13 Nov 2012, 05:32 PM


Arthur Porcari, Contributor
Makwan- I personally have no idea if any of the EVs have yet been delivered. Of course, as all, I would be
much happier to see the Company putting out PR's on a monthly basis announcing delivery, but after
spending over five years researching the company and understanding the Chinese mentality, I have learned
that things just don't go as fast as everyone wants. But also, while consistently late, virtually everything the
Company has announced in the past three years since beginning internal commercialization of their EV
business in China ultimately comes to pass.


Will they get all 5000 out by years end? At this late date I am guessing not all based on what I said above.
But what I am certain of is that they and only they do have the contract and will also get the additional 15,000
car balance of the order completed by mid to late 2013. I do not state this on blind faith on the Company PRs,



https://seekingalpha.com/author/todd-krajniak

http://yhoo.it/UoZJAq

http://bit.ly/ZtA6Va

https://seekingalpha.com/user/925277

https://seekingalpha.com/user/262844

https://seekingalpha.com/user/684397

https://seekingalpha.com/user/380025

https://seekingalpha.com/author/arthur-porcari
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 22/28


I base this on thousands of articles in the China media that make this claim on KNDI's behalf. Several of
these articles can be found within these links on the Yahoo Private KNDI Chat Forum. http://bit.ly/MbRgOa


But most telling that this 20k will happen in Hangzhou will happen is within the recently announced invitation
to KNDI by Hainan Province to build a large manufacturing facility within their province. As reported; within
their agreement, Hainan has committed to purchase a minimum of 20,000 EVs a year from KNDI to put into a
subsidized program.


One must believe that these local Governments speak to each other. I believe it is more than just coincidental
that both projects involve 20k subsidized EVs. No one can convince me that Hainan would have signed this
recent framework agreement without having received confirmation from Hangzhou that their project was
underway and solid.


http://prn.to/SUT2XB


BTW, also more than coincidental that Shandong Province has also struck a similar deal for 20k EVs per year
from KNDI once that plant is completed.


It is these two deals which each anticipate adding up to 3 Billion rmb ($470k US) by 2015 added to Hanzhou
is how I get the the $1.5 billion revenue potential in 2015.


http://mwne.ws/MDZqEo


14 Nov 2012, 04:58 AM


Sailbad
Kandi is on the US presidential election cycle and now they need "four more years". Four years have passed
since Admiral Art made the post above and still the ship hasn't come in. CALB hasn't purchased a single EV
from Kandi, the Hainan factory still isn't finished, and 184 EV produced in the last 3 months has revenue
tracking a bit lower than the $1.5 billion projection.


11 Nov 2016, 04:42 PM


captainccs
Funny, just yesterday JEB1517, a first time Seeking Alpha commenter, asked: "Any ideas as to why they haven't filed
an 8-K yet with respect to this order? I would think an 8-K would be appropriate given the magnitude of the order. Do
you think it will be mentioned in the Q3 earnings report?" http://seekingalpha.co...


But, of course, Kandi did file an 8-K: http://bit.ly/TtZ56h


Might JEB1517 be related to The GeoTeam?


13 Nov 2012, 06:20 PM


Jeb1517
LOL I thought the exact same thing when I read the article. And to answer your question, NO I have no
relation to them.


13 Nov 2012, 11:46 PM



http://bit.ly/MbRgOa

http://prn.to/SUT2XB

http://mwne.ws/MDZqEo

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12221211

https://seekingalpha.com/user/207073

https://seekingalpha.com/c/6ubch

http://bit.ly/TtZ56h

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5579601
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 23/28


RAJS
Normally when a company starts delivery of such a large order they publish photo with reports. They have had reports
for LOI or intended 'contract', but a delivery picture would be the their BIGGER promotion for them. But no photo or
report. Does any one know about the 'delivered' vehicles?


13 Nov 2012, 07:05 PM


captainccs
>>>More importantly, we have not been able to locate details of this alleged "contract" other than a press release
issued by KNDI.<<<


Try harder! http://bit.ly/TtZ56h


13 Nov 2012, 07:48 PM


Ba1k3es
Do you read? This is the press release by KNDI. The author's whole point is that he can find it in the press
release, but it doesn't seem to exist in China. You know the place where said contract is supposed to be.


There are still about a dozen other things that no one has satisfactorly explained or addressed.


14 Nov 2012, 12:43 AM


captainccs
>>>Do you read?<<<


I read, you right, they rithmetic! LOL


>>>The author's whole point is that he can find it in the press release, but it doesn't seem to exist in China.
<<<


The fact that the author "can't find it" is not proof that it does not exist. All it proves is that the author has said
that he hasn't found it. Why do I mention the 8-K? Because lying to the SEC is a pretty serious offense. Kandi
stated in the 8-K:


"On September 29, 2012, Zhejiang Kandi Vehicles Co., Ltd. (“Kandi Vehicles”), a wholly owned subsidiary of
Kandi Technologies, Corp. (the “Company”) entered into a Sales Contract for sale of electric vehicles (“Sales
Contract”) with China Aviation Lithium Battery (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. (“CALB Hangzhou”).


"Under the Sales Contract, CALB Hangzhou will purchase 5,000 pure electric vehicles without battery from
Kandi Vehicles for a total price of RMB 199,000,000 (approximately US$31,587,301). etc."


 
The GeoTeam article forces me to chose who to believe, a KNDI short which gives him reason enough to pan
the company to drive the price of the stock down for profit and a company that would get into serious trouble
for lying to the American authorities. I've made my choice which seems to be the opposite of yours. Good
luck!



https://seekingalpha.com/user/222561

https://seekingalpha.com/user/207073

http://bit.ly/TtZ56h

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/user/207073
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 24/28


14 Nov 2012, 03:33 AM


Ba1k3es
"Because lying to the SEC is a pretty serious offense."


You must be new to the china space. This has happened and proven a large number of times, a very high
percentage of U.S. listed china stocks. This IS the author's concern. I have no position here, I just hate scam
companies, especially the Chinascams.


14 Nov 2012, 09:29 AM


captainccs
>>>You must be new to the china space.<<<


Not really. I've had some horrendous experiences with Chinese stocks and KNDI is the only one I currently
own and I have no plans of adding any other Chinese investment to my portfolio. But loosing money on Enron
or Bear Stearns is as painful as losing it on a Chinese scam, don't you think?


Your concern is justified, no doubt, which is the reason one has to do extra due diligence in risky plays. How
can one do that if one does not trust the company itself? One has to follow the business through sources
independent of the company. There has been a torrent of information about Kandi and EVs in the Chinese
press and agreements with government entities and competitors. Of course, it's possible that Kandi has
duped them all but it becomes increasingly unlikely.


i have followed Kandi for two years and I have not seen any hanky-panky, instead, the story has unfolded
more or less according to the script. Here is my first take on Kandi, note how it starts on a note of skepticism
about Chinese investments: http://bit.ly/PQev7I


14 Nov 2012, 06:16 PM


captainccs
>>>Our findings indicate that if CALB were to proceed with its EV plans in Hangzhou City that it would not be able to
purchase its EVs from KNDI. The government approved EV model for the project, JNJ6290EV, is to be manufactured
by a different company that is actually listed on a government site as the only firm that can manufacture this model.
<<<


"Beijing time on September 29, the Condi car industry announced the company and Zhejiang Zotye Holding Group
Co., Ltd jointly developed JNJ6290EV pure electric car has received government grants of the Ministry of Industry and
qualifications, so that the company can get the previously announced Hangzhou 20,000 electric car leasing project
grants." http://st26.net/4qoo2t


13 Nov 2012, 07:56 PM


captainccs
The Wanning city of Hainan Province deal makes perfect sense seen in the proper light. I doubt the article's purpose
was to shed such light.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/user/207073

http://bit.ly/PQev7I

https://seekingalpha.com/user/207073

http://st26.net/4qoo2t

https://seekingalpha.com/user/207073
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 25/28


Chinese provinces expect local projects to have local content and to provide local jobs. If Hainan Province is to
subsidize EVs, it expects them to be made locally. I'm fairly sure we will see many more Kandi joint ventures as the
various provinces get on with their local EV projects.


13 Nov 2012, 08:28 PM


MICP1345
Yes, this is the way it is in China. I am looking forward to the day that Hainan Province has no ICE cars, the
same as Old Venice has no ICE vehicles. Different reasons, but same eventual objective.


13 Nov 2012, 10:16 PM


MICP1345
Everyone here has read the Geo article, but how many read the very top line? "I am short KNDI". In my opinion an
author who admits being 'short' can not have an unbiased article. I think that the entire article is an attempt to drive
down the price of a thinly traded stock for the profit of the 'Short'.


13 Nov 2012, 10:19 PM


Ba1k3es
Do you feel the same way about people who are long stocks and right positive articles?


14 Nov 2012, 12:36 AM


Ba1k3es
write* (sometimes I wonder what my fingers type)


14 Nov 2012, 12:44 AM


MICP1345
No, not always. But, when all of the information is verified by news from other sources, then yes. I personally
check the Chinese Newspapers nightly. When Google Translate leaves me befuddeled I turn to my Chinese
girlfriend for translation help. There are just too many references from too many outside sources not to
believe what is happening.


14 Nov 2012, 09:03 AM


Dutch Trader, Contributor
I don't have an opinion because I don't follow this company. The only thing I can say be cautious when you invest in
US-listed China stocks,


14 Nov 2012, 03:07 AM


Bert Peters



https://seekingalpha.com/user/346439

https://seekingalpha.com/user/346439

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/user/346439

https://seekingalpha.com/author/dutch-trader

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4727311
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 26/28


We speak the same language Dutch, but when it comes to investing we are a little different. We are home in Chinese
stocks but you follow a lot of stocks and that asks a lot of time. I follow a few stocks closer. I read your article about
the going private of Tibet but did more research. I came to know that the business of Tibet was not so good as it
should be. I advised my investment friends to sell there shares before the stock dropped down.


Now about kandi, you need to do a lot of research to know how much this stock is undervalued. That's also the
reason why there are not many investors believe in kandi. I'm sure if you do you’re research good you very much like
Kandi just as you like LPH, SIAF and TRIT. 
I also own shares of LPH, SIAF and TRIT but Kandi is my number 1 investment.


14 Nov 2012, 07:45 AM


Dutch Trader, Contributor
It's true that I follow a lot of US-listed China stocks, but thanks God I have narrowed my range quite a
bit.......hahaha.........


The problem with the China space is the parties involved. From short sellers, pumpers, promoters, SEC,
authors like me who think they have found the next Apple, etc. .......


The first group has driven stock prices to insane lows with or without merit.


14 Nov 2012, 08:31 AM


LASF
KNDI is not just a US-listed China stock like, say, ABAT. I'm not an expert on these matters, but wouldn't lying
to the SEC jeopardize KNDI's substantial ATV business in the USA?


14 Nov 2012, 09:25 AM


Ba1k3es
IF kndi is committing fraud, which do you think is making insiders more money: the atv business or stealing
money from investors?


14 Nov 2012, 12:59 PM


PJSFern
You want something better than the largest energy company in China embraced the project KNDI?


Any investor must do your own research to not be swallowed.


This info is from September, but has concrete facts and shows how Condi's ahead in the new era of electric cars in
China 
. They are from STATE GRID Company and are not invented to make it look like they want (GEO).


"For electricity shortened manpower costs by 50% to 66% reduction in space utilization increased by 30% July 23,
from Hangzhou, Zhejiang Electric Power Bureau was informed that the council combined with quick-change system



https://seekingalpha.com/author/dutch-trader

https://seekingalpha.com/user/574658

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5563601

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/geo
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 27/28


integration technology research and equipment development undertaken by the National 863 Plan - battery pack, the
successful development of the electric vehicle automatic chassis for electricity technology, for power time by 50%, a
decrease of 66.7% for electricity human cost, the same models of interior space utilization increased by 30% or more,
effectively improve vehicle structural design reasonable security for power mode and change the power-up sequence
convenience.


Work on both sides of the two robots in Condi little power to run for 
electricity, with a vacuum suction cup arm stretch at the chassis of the vehicle, remove the two battery, turn the same
specifications as the battery is fully charged install up. In Hangzhou the ancient Hill Road Electric car for power plants,
for electric robot is Condi small electric ran for electricity, the entire process takes only 1 minute. Unlike most electric
vehicles trunk battery compartment, where the electric vehicle power tanks are located in the chassis at not only
saving interior storage space, the counterweight equilibrium. Hangzhou Power Authority application testing electric
vehicles Automatic chassis for electricity technology scene.


For power mode for a pure electric car trunk space utilization is low, not high conversion electric convenience,
Hangzhou Power Authority began the development of electric vehicles automatic chassis for electricity technology.
Chassis for electric batteries arranged in the bottom of the electric car, the lower its placement, more complex
operating requirements for electricity, council 
organized R & D team, after months of technical research, completed based on industrial robots for electricity system
design and commissioning work, the entire smart for-electric scheme contains a robot control system, visual
identification system, security system, for power mechanism design, using industrial robots for electricity, greatly
reduced staff labor intensity, 
increase for power efficiency and for electricity quality.


At the same time, the council has completed the the power cabin assembly design and development based on the
chassis for electricity, has been run in Condi small electric new Ocean known beans, Zotye Lang Wyatt, public trial
installation of Thailand 5008 and the completion of several electric vehicles, which Condi little power to run basic kind
of car testing, the test contains the 
driving range test hard acceleration, cornering, bumpy road test, the cumulative five test vehicles traveling over 10
thousand kilometers in two power The battery can meet single driving range of about 100 km.


Practice has proved that the electric car developed by the Council fully automatic chassis change electric technology
investment, low cost, versatility, the system is stable, has a strong application value. Its main advantage is that the
development applicable to the chassis for electricity standard battery the key module by the authority of the state
motor vehicle testing center certification; fully automatic plate changing electric robot innovative use of visual
positioning and visual feedback-based adaptive control technology and other cutting-edge technology to achieve
precise automatic for electricity;  
battery bearing system applies to more than 70% of passenger cars, versatility; 
typical design-based electric car battery replacement station to the State Grid Corporation of preparation can change
at the same time meet the trunk electrical and chassis for electricity mixed filling station building programs conducive
to large-scale promotion."


http://bit.ly/TEJChu\ 
_1.html



http://bit.ly/TEJChu
5/23/2018 Kandi Twisting The Truth - Undisclosed Information Reveals A More Realistic Picture Of Its EV Business - Kandi Technologies Group, Inc…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1003881-kandi-twisting-the-truth-undisclosed-information-reveals-a-more-realistic-picture-of-its-ev-business 28/28


14 Nov 2012, 11:37 AM


MarkJ78
http://bit.ly/Ty9zm4


Good info on:  
Arthur Porcari and the KNDI scam


29 Dec 2012, 09:48 PM


MarkJ78


http://bit.ly/Ty9zm4


29 Dec 2012, 09:48 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/704209

http://bit.ly/Ty9zm4

https://seekingalpha.com/user/704209

http://bit.ly/Ty9zm4
