www.presciencepoint.com
2


Disclaimer


This research presentation report expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are 
based upon publicly available information, and all of which are set out in this research presentation report.  Any investment
involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and 
should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in this report may 
include forward looking statements, expectations, and projections.  You should assume these types of statements, 
expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Prescience Point LLC’s control.  This is not 
investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Prescience Point LLC’s research is at your own risk.  You should
do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.


You should assume that as of the publication date of any presentation, report or letter, Prescience Point LLC (possibly along
with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has
a short position in all stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without 
limitation LKQ Corporation, Inc. (“LKQ”), and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its 
stock declines. Following publication of any presentation, report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities
covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any
person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  Prescience
Point LLC is not registered as an investment advisor.


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does
not omit to state material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been 
obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the 
stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other 
person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Prescience Point LLC.  However, Prescience Point 
LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the possession of LKQ Corporation, Inc. or other insiders of LKQ 
Corporation, Inc. that has not been publicly disclosed by LKQ Corporation, Inc. Therefore, such information contained herein 
is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  Prescience Point LLC makes no other 
representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to 
the results to be obtained from its use.
Report Highlights
0.0


10.0


20.0


30.0


40.0


50.0


60.0


70.0


80.0


90.0


100.0


$0.00


$5.00


$10.00


$15.00


$20.00


$25.00


$30.00


$35.00


$40.00


10/6/2003 10/6/2005 10/6/2007 10/6/2009 10/6/2011 10/6/2013


Penny s tock 
promoter RedChip
ini tiates coverage


Acquires 
Keystone Auto 


for $811m


Co-CEO role created, 
mgmt comp increases, 
Di rector of IR resigns


CFO Mark 
Spears Resigns


Acquires Euro Car 
Parts  for $347m


Code of Ethics 
pol icy updated


Acquires Sator, issues $600m 


HY bonds, JP Morgan resigns 


as lead banker


Control ler and Chief 
Accountant Resigns


Reverses Couse Back to US 
Targets, Acquires Keystone 
Auto. Industries for $450m


4


From Penny Stock Promoter to $10bn+ 


Wall Street Darling:  The Story of LKQ
5


Prescience Point Believes, 


Caught in a Massive Margin Squeeze Gross Margins Are In Persistent Decline, and 
Inventory Accounting Methods Are Likely Blunting the True Problems. North American 
Organic Growth Very Likely To Be Overstated and Not Reconcilable to Our Research


1


2


3
Problems With the New Growth Story To Divert Attention from its North American 
Problems, LKQ Bolted to Europe in Hopes of Spinning a New Growth Story; Our 
Research Suggests LKQ is Already Facing Problems and Quickly Scrambling to Cover


4


Previous Accounting Fraud and Failures at Waste Mgmt/Discovery Zone Associated 
With Numerous Members of the Management Team Have Cost Shareholders Billions 
of Lost $’s in Aggressive Roll-up Strategies


5


Price Target: $10 - $15 per share >>> 50% – 70% Downside


Dramatic Overvaluation to Aftermarket Auto, Recycling and Industrial Distributors, and 
Supported by Sell-Side Analysts’ Failing to Question Assumptions, and Not Considering 
the Fundamental Problems Facing the Company 


LKQ Is An Ineffective Roll-up The Company Has Generated No Cumulative Free Cash 
Flow Adjusted for Acquisitions and Becoming Increasingly Dependent on External 
Capital to Perpetuate the Illusion of GAAP Profits. LKQ Will Need Larger and Larger 
Targets to Keep the Growth Game Alive
6


Report Highlights (cont’d)


High-Level Indications of Fabricated GAAP Profits, Unsustainable Business Model: LKQ is a classic roll-up, fueling growth through acquisitions. Roll-up 
business models provide management with a significant amount of discretion in presenting financial results. Roll-ups tend to exhibit strong earnings, CFO, 
and earnings quality metrics due to the inherent financial statement mechanics of paying for growth through acquisition outflows, which do not affect 
earnings or CFO. Because of this, free cash flow after acquisitions is an important metric for analyzing roll-ups; it presents a better picture of the 
business’s economics. LKQ’s free cash flow after acquisitions has been negative in 8 of the last 9 years. 


Furthermore, our analysis indicates LKQ is an ineffective rollup – wealth creation from years of acquisitions has been nil. Since 2007, LKQ has reported 
cumulative Earnings and EBIT of $1.22B and $2.15B, respectively. Meanwhile, it has burned cumulative free cash flow after acquisitions of -$1.62B, and 
raised cumulative net capital of $1.63B, suggesting it has never earned a cash-on-cash return on invested capital. Put another way, the immense wealth 
generation represented by LKQ’s historical GAAP profits is not observable in the company’s cash flows – it appears to be ‘paper’ wealth generated by 
accounting gimmickry.


In light of this and a broad array of other red flags discussed in this report, we are forced to look through management’s representations. We believe the 
credibility of LKQ’s financial statements is questionable and that LKQ bears a heightened risk of a crippling inventory and/or goodwill write-down or 
financial restatement. 


Reported Organic Growth for LKQ’s North America Business Appears Overstated:  LKQ’s aggressive roll-up strategy also gives it a high level of flexibility 
to inflate revenue growth. LKQ reported organic revenue growth averaging ~6.5% from 2008 – 2012 and ~6% for its North America (NA) Parts & Services 
(P&S) business (~75% of P&S revenue), with far less variability vs comps, and not a single quarter of negative growth.  LKQ does not provide clarity around 
the calculation or the impact on earnings, making it difficult for investors to confirm its validity. However, based on our research, LKQ’s reported organic 
growth rate does not appear reconcilable with trends in the primary fundamental factors that drive it. We believe it is overstated. We believe LKQ’s NA 
growth rate, normalized for a 2013 spike in collision frequency, more likely measures in the range of 0-2%. 


From 2008 to 2012, annual insurance claims paid for repairable accident claims have been flat according to industry consultant The Romans Group, LLC. 
Additionally, from 2010 to 2012, growth in Alternative Parts Usage (“APU”) (i.e., market share of alternative auto parts, which LKQ sells, relative to OEM 
parts), which had risen steadily for 3 decades and was a primary driver of LKQ’s historical organic growth, has flat-lined; going forward, CCC Information 
Services – provider of the industry’s dominant estimate writing platform and LKQ’s source for APU data – expects it to taper or reverse. Based on industry 
data sources and our conversations with industry sources, this is resulting from a recent expansion in OEM price-matching programs; they have become 
more aggressive in pursuit of retaking lost market share by undercutting alternative parts prices, thereby negating LKQ’s value proposition. Internal dealer 
documents we have obtained indicate the OEMs are increasingly subsidizing dealers to sell parts at levels 33% below aftermarket list prices (i.e., LKQ’s 
price), making them whole on the loss, and paying them an additional 14% profit on the cost for the part. (Refer to dealer source document on page 12.) 
As a result, for the first time – according to Mitchell International – parts prices in general deflated in 2012. LKQ management tells investors APU rose 
100bp in 2012; however, their own data source and LKQ’s SEC filings refute their claim.
7


Report Highlights (cont’d)


Short-Term Thinking Pervades Decision-Making, Signals Desperation to Keep Financials Inflated & Meet Targets: With NA growth waning, LKQ looked 
to Europe for acquisition candidates. In Q4’2011, it made its 2nd largest acquisition ever, acquiring UK-based Euro Car Parts (ECP), a distributor of 
mechanical aftermarket parts operating out of 89 branch/store locations. As LKQ pitched investors on the open-ended growth opportunity provided by 
buying ECP, to our knowledge, it never publicly disclosed that the UK aftermarket parts industry was in significant contraction (2011E -5.8%, according to 
Datamonitor), or that it is projected to continue contracting; but, LKQ touted ECP’s 30%+ ‘organic’ revenue growth rate from 2009-2011. 


Now 2 years separated from the date of acquisition, and with its industry still weak, LKQ continues to report 30% organic growth rates for ECP, which 
would seem to defy logic. It shouldn’t; LKQ does not define ECP’s ‘organic growth’ in the way investors might expect for a business characterized by 
storefronts (i.e., as same store sales growth); it defines it to include both SSS and revenue generated by newly opened ECP stores. As such, LKQ’s 
reported organic growth rate is fueled by opening new ECP branches; the more new ECP stores LKQ opens in a given period, the more it can inflate its 
consolidated organic growth rate. 


Rapidly expanding the number of ECP branches was not an LKQ priority when it announced the acquisition, evident in guidance issued on LKQ’s ECP 
M&A call (held on 10/4/11): “we have a plan to grow 10 to 12 branches per year for the next few years… to complete out the major U.K. markets.” Within 
just a few months – apparently a direct response to NA growth weakening and the threat of a guidance miss – LKQ  abandoned its plan; throughout 
2012, it repeatedly raised its guidance for the number of stores to be opened in 2012, from 20, to 30, and finally to 42. By Q4’2012, based on our 
estimates, ECP accounted for a full 75% of consolidated P&S organic growth, up from ~4% only one year prior!  In 2012, ECP also started running 
periodic, steep online sales promotions (30-45% discounts) of parts across the board – with many promotions implemented right at the end of the 
quarter, just ahead of reporting to investors, indicating an obsessive desire to meet financial estimates.  The combination of a ramp-up in branch 
openings and steep discounting juiced LKQ’s organic growth rate just enough for it to hit the low end of guidance for 2012 P&S organic growth. 


LKQ has also repeatedly raised guidance for the maximum number of full-sized ECP branches the UK market can absorb, from 120 to 150 to 175 to 200, 
giving it further room to continue ramping the number of branch locations. At YE’2012, LKQ operated 130 branches, in only one year surpassing the 
store count it initially guided would result in saturation of the UK market, 120. On the Q1’2012 earnings call, LKQ CEO Wagman raised his projection for 
the market-saturating branch count to 150, stating that at that number, “branches in major metropolitan areas can be 5 miles or so apart” and that 
“there's not necessarily cannibalization” should they be! LKQ has since raised the ceiling on the maximum branch count to 200, hinting of desperation.


LKQ appears to operate ECP with the primary intent of unsustainably inflating its financials and meeting guidance targets, at the long term shareholder 
expense of entrenchment in a contracting market. Inevitably, as ECP reaches its market saturating location capacity, we expect – and we believe 
management has anticipated – its reported organic growth rate to plummet and converge to the industry average.
8


Report Highlights (cont’d)


Increasing Dependency on Acquisitions to Inflate Financials, Conceal Cumulative Manipulations:  LKQ’s gross margins have been in persistent decline, 
contracting from 47.1% to 41% from FY 2005 to the LTM period ended 9/30/2013. We believe the decline is in part the result of the reversal of cumulative 
past accounting manipulations while, at the same time, competitive and pricing pressures are intensifying; it appears that over time, LKQ’s is growing 
increasingly dependent on ever larger acquisitions to prevent an unraveling of its financials. As previously mentioned, due to the inherent mechanics of 
acquisition accounting, acquisitions have a flattering, but unsustainable effect on earnings and CFO that has nothing to do with the performance of the 
business. When the benefit expires, a hole is left to be filled in its place just to maintain the status quo.


LKQ has been rapidly accelerating its deal making, both in quantity of deals and in dollar value. Within the past 2 years, LKQ has made 3 of 4 of its largest 
acquisitions ever. LKQ acquired 30 companies in 2012 alone, against the backdrop of having acquired a total of 71 companies in the 3 years from 2010-2012 
and over 170 since its 1998 inception. Notably, LKQ reported a record 17 acquisitions in just Q4’12. 


Yet, despite this, LKQ missed dramatically on 2012 CFO guidance, which came in 19% below revised guidance issued on 10/25/2012, only 2 months before 
year end. Making the most acquisitions it has ever made, in a quarter a gaping hole in CFO exposed itself indicates LKQ may be making acquisitions, as we 
believe, in order to inflate its financials and paper over past accounting manipulations. Management justified the miss as primarily attributable to an 
investment in inventory that wasn’t exactly anticipated. An alternative explanation is that the cumulative deal size was insufficient to bail the company out.


We believe LKQ entered Europe in search of a fresh pool of large-scale acquisition targets. After purchasing ECP – its 2nd largest purchase ever at the time –
in Q4’2011, LKQ began unsustainably juicing its organic revenue growth rate via the rabid opening of ECP stores, something completely outside of its plans 
for the company when it acquired the company. Because of these openings, ECP currently accounts for ~50% of LKQ’s organic revenue growth.  We believe 
as ECP branch openings slow and new stores mature, its reported organic growth rate will plummet from current levels, converging to the negative industry 
rate of growth and resulting in a new hole LKQ will predictably seek to plug with more acquisitions. Operating ECP as it has, with seemingly little regard for 
building long term value, may be an indication of desperation to keep its financials together as it searched for a larger target. 


LKQ moved quickly, buying mainland European company Sator in April 2013, amounting to its 3rd largest purchase ever, at the time. As a result, its European 
reporting segment now includes both ECP and Sator. This new reporting will obscure future financial deterioration at ECP. 


In December 2013 it acquired Keystone Automotive Operations, a company distributing a fundamentally different type of automotive product from that of 
its core business. The acquisition was LKQ’s 2nd largest ever. 


We believe management’s short-term focus on managing the business to hit financial guidance is unsustainable. LKQ’s increased pace of deal making, as 
gross margins deteriorate, are supportive of questioning the company’s motives.
9


Report Highlights (cont’d)


Gross Margins (GMs) Appear Inflated, as Inventory Turnover is Stable:  Caught in a massive margin squeeze with used auto parts prices deflating, and 
salvage vehicles rising, LKQ’s GMs have been in persistent decline since 2005, down 590bps, while consolidated inventory turns have been relatively 
stable. We believe there is more deterioration in LKQ’s GMs than observable on the Income Statement. We believe LKQ may pull 2 primary accounting 
levers to manipulate GMs and inventory turns: 


1. Aggressive Inventory Policy Enables Overstatement of Inventory – LKQ uses an aggressive policy for accounting for its Salvage and Remanufactured 
Inventory that allows for a high level of discretion which management can use to inflate gross margin by leaving costs on the balance sheet in the 
form of overstated inventory. The recent surge in LKQ’s salvage inventory coupled with gross margin deterioration is consistent with this trend and 
the overall concern of costs being left on the balance sheet. In isolation, this policy results in inflated gross margins and CFO, and exerts downward 
pressure on the rate of inventory turnover. The generally high level of Salvage & Remanufactured inventory – to which the aggressive policy applies 
– is a high level sign the company may be manipulating its margins. We believe LKQ is likely inflating its gross margin and earnings by failing to 
record a necessary expense for excess and obsolete inventory. Omissions of expensing obsolete inventories result in future margin compression.


But the surge in Salvage & Remanufactured inventory, the account subject to the aggressive inventory accounting policy, serves as a higher level sign 
that margins and CFO may be manipulated. How would LKQ be able to keep consolidated inventory turns from declining in the face of GM 
manipulation?


2. Acquisition Accounting Enables Understatement of Acquired Inventories – The acquisition fair market value process enables LKQ to understate the 
values of acquired company inventories, and to allocate the plug figure to goodwill. The result is that inventory costs, which should be future period 
expenses, can be instead permanently deferred. Based on conversations with a recycled auto consultant who consults recycled parts distributors 
that are selling to LKQ, we estimate acquired inventory values make up 33%-67% of the acquisition purchase price (adjusted for real estate). From 
2003-2012, LKQ has allocated only 22.7% of the cumulative acquisition purchase price (ex PP&E) to inventory, which would be consistent with 
utilizing this policy. In isolation, this would result in inflated gross margins and CFO, and exert upward pressure on the rate of inventory turnover, 
thereby counterbalancing the downward pressure caused by increases in Salvage and Remanufactured inventory and stabilizing consolidated 
inventory turnover. 


We believe LKQ’s GMs will continue to decline through 2014 against the backdrop of intensifying pricing pressures, and as past accounting 
overstatements have to be reversed; we believe LKQ is at elevated risk of a crippling goodwill write-down. As of 9/30/13 LKQ carries $2.1bn of goodwill 
+ intangibles on its balance sheet (47% of Assets / 92% of Book Equity) for a collection of industrial assets that would ordinarily sell for little premium to 
book value. We note that LKQ attempts to explain GMs declining as a function of rising costs to acquire salvage vehicles. However, the Manheim Index 
peaked in 2011 and has already started to decline. When asked for guidance on a sustainable gross margin target, LKQ still cannot give investors any 
clear guidance on the matter and now cites the move into Europe as a complicating factor for the decline.
10


Report Highlights (cont’d)


LKQ’s Business Strategy and Trajectory, Right out of the Waste Management Playbook:  LKQ was founded in 1998 by Donald Flynn, with the financial 
backing of Dean Buntrock and AutoNation Inc., led by Wayne Huizenga.  Flynn, Buntrock, and Huizenga were all previously executives of Waste 
Management, Inc. (WM), a company notorious for having perpetrated a massive, multi-year financial fraud, resulting in the largest restatement in 
corporate history at the time. 


Following a board-led probe of the company’s accounting practices in 1997, WM was forced to restate its financial statements for the period 1992 –
Q3’1997, acknowledging that it had misstated its pre-tax earnings by approximately $1.7 billion and took a $3.5 billion charge. The SEC charged certain 
executives with financial fraud. According to the SEC complaint, “defendants fraudulently manipulated the company's financial results to meet 
predetermined earnings targets. The company's revenues were not growing fast enough to meet these targets, so defendants instead resorted to 
improperly eliminating and deferring current period expenses to inflate earnings.”
• Donald Flynn (LKQ’s founder) was a Waste Management Audit Committee member from 1994 until 1997 – a period at the heart of the perpetuation 


of the fraud –and also served as Audit Committee Chairman during a period coinciding with the fraud. He was previously WM’s CFO from 1972 –
1989. 


• Dean Buntrock (an LKQ founding backer & former director) co-founded WM with Wayne Huizenga (LKQ founding backer).  Buntrock was WM’s CEO 
during the period of the fraud and, according to the SEC complaint, “the driving force behind the fraud.”  


Waste Management’s aggressive rollup strategy gave its management a high level of flexibility to inflate revenue growth and margins, and to conceal 
doing so for years. Many individuals previously associated with Waste Management would go on to build businesses using the WM playbook. 
Specifically, a closely-knit group of WM alumni and  associates (including LKQ’s founders) have repeatedly co-invested in and built several companies, 
with each company replicating WM’s aggressive roll-up or an acquire-and-build strategy, either setting out to consolidating a fragmented industry or 
flooding an industry with store openings in an effort to build a dominant market position as quickly as possible. Some of these companies include 
Blockbuster Video, Discovery Zone, Boston Chicken, AutoNation, Swisher Hygiene, and LKQ. 


Many of these companies have either failed to deliver on their sales pitches to investors, failed outright, or were tarred by allegations of fraud, 
manipulative accounting, and/or unjust management enrichment. Based on our analysis, in the majority of cases these WM alums and associates built 
businesses with the intent to create the illusion of growth, as opposed to focusing on creating value through operational excellence, resulting in little to 
no lasting value. 


In light of our belief that LKQ is inflating its financials, it is worth noting that Discovery Zone, another company previously founded by LKQ founder 
Donald Flynn – and in which Dean Buntrock, Wayne Huizenga, and several other WM alums were associated -- similarly utilized an acquire-and-build 
strategy. It ended up in bankruptcy and was alleged to have engaged in accounting manipulations. Many current and former officers – notably 
accounting officers – from both WM and Discovery Zone are current and former accounting officers with LKQ (refer to page 13). We also note that, in 
light of our opinion that LKQ may be engaging in inventory accounting shenanigans, LKQ’s Director of Accounting and Inventory was previously 
employed by both WM and Discovery Zone.
11


Report Highlights (cont’d)


Flawed Corporate Governance Rewards Bad Practice:  We believe that management’s incentive structure is at the foundation of its failed 
capital allocation record. Management is rewarded by the roll-up strategy with annual bonuses and incentives, incentivizing empire-building 
at any cost.  Annual bonuses are tied to revenue growth and long-term incentives are tied to Revenue, EPS, and ROE with the following 
weightings revenue (47.5%), earnings (47.5%) and ROE (5%). There are no stipulations that revenue has to be organic, and therefore, the 
management team is perfectly incentivized to acquire and overpay for revenue and game the accounting to inflate profits.


The CEO’s total comp has increased 374% in the past 4 years while free cash flow is up only 9% in the same period. Approximately 50% of the 
comp increase has come in stock, but as a whole the management team has been net sellers of stock. Insiders have sold shares aggressively 
since the IPO, when former owners of acquired companies, affiliates and management owned 22%. Since 2009, insider selling pressure has 
intensified, with insiders currently owning less than 2%. Insiders even sold stock recently in Dec 2013, just days after touting the merits of 
the Keystone deal. There is now an almost complete break in the linkage between shareholder interests and executive wealth.


In another cautionary sign, in an 8-K filing during April, LKQ revealed that J.P. Morgan was no longer a secured lender under its credit 
agreement. J.P. Morgan had supported both Keystone and LKQ for a number of years. While we do not know the why the relationship was 
severed, when a bulge bracket investment bank turns away from a fee generating client of LKQ’s size, there is risk of smoke before fire.  


Valuation as a “Premium Midcap Growth Story” is Unwarranted: We believe The Street’s view of LKQ as a proven acquirer with an “open-
ended” growth opportunity does not stand the test of logic. Trading at 2x, 15x, and 25x 2014E sales, EBITDA, and EPS, respectively,  LKQ’s 
stock is priced at an unjustified premium to Aftermarket Auto, Metal Recyclers and Industrial Distribution peers, and fails to reflect few, if 
any, of the serious issues our research highlights. Specifically, our analysis indicates LKQ appears to be engaging in aggressive deal-making 
and accounting to manufacture GAAP profits, and appears to make bad economic business decisions in order to meet predetermined 
financial targets. We believe that management has taken to masking the company’s weakening growth prospects by gaming the accounting 
to inflate organic growth, and that it is dependent on ever-larger acquisitions to keep the growth story alive, while insiders cash out. As a 
result of our concerns over the integrity of its financial reporting, we believe LKQ is at high risk of having to restate its historical financial 
results. We believe the growth story management has spun to investors is a bill of goods. Given concerns about the reliability of its financial 
statements, we believe the company has an intrinsic value of $10 – $15 per share, close to its book value, representing 50-70% downside 
from the current price.
12


LKQ’s Only Competitive Advantage is Price…


GM’s Price Matching Program Is Designed 


Specifically to Thwart LKQ


Keystone List Price


OEM price-match, 33% 


discount from Keystone 


Price (Keystone list has 


generally been 20-25% 


less than OEM; OEM is 


now undercutting 


Keystone’s price by 33%)


GM reimburses dealer 


for loss on part cost


GM pays dealer 14% 


return on part cost


We have sourced an 
internal GM dealer 
document detailing GM’s 
price-matching program, 
“Bump the Competition.”  
We are told it specifically 
targets LKQ-Keystone.  GM 
subsidizes dealers to sell 
parts (in this case a fender 
and a door) at levels 33% 
below aftermarket list 
prices, makes them whole 
on the loss, and pays the 
dealer an additional, 
guaranteed 14% profit on 
the cost for the part. 


Source: Felder's Collision Parts, Inc. v. General Motors Company et al, Complaint Exhibit 4, filed 10/12/2012
Same Players, Same Strategy, Results 


Marred by Accounting Irregularities & Failures


13


John Melk
Investor


Charged with 
accounting fraud, one 


of the largest in 
history;


Aggressive rollup 
strategy


Discovery ZoneBlockbuster Boston Chicken AutoNation Swisher Hygiene


Dean Buntrock
Co-founder, CEO


Dean Buntrock
Investor, Franchisee


Dean Buntrock 
Founding Backer, Director


Dean Buntrock
Investor, Director


Donald Flynn
CFO, Director -Audit Committee


Donald Flynn
Investor


Donald Flynn
Founding Backer, Director


Donald Flynn 
Founder


Donald Flynn
CEO/Chairman


John Melk
President WM International


John Melk
Founding Backer, Director


John Melk
Founding backer, Director


John Melk
Investor, Director


Lawrence Beck
Co-founder


Lawrence Beck
Investor, Franchisee


Lawrence Beck
Investor, Franchisee


Peer Pedersen
Director


Peer Pedersen
Investor, Franchisee


Peer Pedersen
Director


Peer Pedersen
Investor


Scott Beck
Investor, COO, 
Vice Chairman


Scott Beck
Investor


Scott Beck
CEO/Chair


Steven Berrard
CFO, then CEO


Steven Berrard
Co-founder, Co-CEO


Steven Berrard
CEO, Director


Victor Cassini
Gen Counsel,Secretary


Victor Cassini
Gen Counsel, Secretary


Wayne Huizenga
Co-founder


Wayne Huizenga
CEO/Chairman


Wayne Huizenga
Investor (via Blockbuster), 


Director


Wayne Huizenga
Investor


Wayne Huizenga
Founder, Co-CEO


Wayne Huizenga
Chairman


Wayne Huizenga
Founding backer (via 


AutoNation)


Bought out 
by Viacom for $8.4B;


Aggressive 
acquire-&-build 


strategy


Goes bankrupt;  
Allegations of fraud;


Aggressive 
acquire-&-build 


strategy


Goes bankrupt; 
Accounting gimmicks 
to obscure financials;


Aggressive 
acquire-&-build 


strategy


$$ Billions Lost; 
Pooling of Interests 


acquisition accounting;


Aggressive rollup & 
acquire-&-build strategy


Accounting 
irregularities;


Financials restatement,
Acquisition Accntng Issues


Ongoing SEC inquiry;


Aggressive rollup 
strategy


??
An array of accounting 


red flags & 
misrepresentations;


Aggressive rollup & 
acquire-&-build strategy


Dean Buntrock
Franchisee


Steven Berrard
CEO post-Viacom


LKQ
14


WM and DZ – Previous Employers of Many 


LKQ Executives & Accounting Personnel 


Flynn Enterprises Common Shareholder


John Quinn
Various Positions


John Quinn
SVP and CFO


Mark Spears
Controller, Head Acct


Mark Spears
Former SVP, CFO


Frank Erlain
Fmr. VP Finance 


Controller, Accountant


Victor Casini
Gen. Counsel & 


Secretary


Walter Hanley
Asso. Gen. Counsel


Walter Hanley
SVP, Development


Victor Casini/
Gen. Counsel & 


Secretary


Ken Frese
Acct’g Mgr


Ken Frese
Accountant


Ken Frese
Dir. Accounting & 


Inventory


Joe Holsten
COO, CEO WM Int’l


Joe Holsten
Fmr. CEO, Chairman


Frank Erlain
VP & 


Controller


Sinon Galvin
SVP, Revenue 
Optimization


Sinon Galvin
Various Positions


WM Int’l


Fraud Allegations, Improper 
Capitalization of Expense; Files 
for Bankruptcy, March 1996


Charged w/ $1.7 
billion Accounting 
Fraud, March 2002


Stephen Eckel
Dir Oracle Fin Apps. 


Fmr. Acct’g/Ass. Cont’ller


Stephen Eckel
Assistant Corporate 


Controller


Source: SEC filings; LinkedIn®


Kevin Flynn
Former Director


Kevin Flynn
VP, Midwest


Vaughn Hooks
Chief Tax Officer


Vaughn Hooks
VP Taxes


Dan Shoener
VP


Dan Shoener
VP of Finance


LKQ
15


Current Capital Structure


LKQ Corp Capital Structure


$ in mm except per share amounts


Stock Price $33.00 Metrics LTM 9/30/13 2013E 2014E 2015E


Shares outstanding 300.6 EV/Sales 2.5x 2.3x 2.0x 1.8x


Net Options @ $7.04 avg strike 5.6 EV/EBITDA 19.3x 18.9x 15.0x 12.4x


RSUs outstanding 2.6 Price/EPS 33.3x 30.6x 24.3x 19.2x


Fully Diluted Shares 308.8 Debt/EBITDA 2.9x 2.8x 2.2x 1.8x


Market Capitalization $10,190.9


Debt Outstanding Rate Maturity Unused Covenants


Receivables Securitzation $10.0 1.01% 2015


Term Loan A $444.4 3.08% 2018 max lev: 3.5x min EBITDA cov: 3.0x


Revolver (1) $649.8 3.08% 2018 $700.0 max lev: 3.5x min EBITDA cov: 3.0x


Senior Unsecured Notes $600.0 4.75% 2023


Notes Payable $38.9 1.80% 2018


Other Debt $18.9 3.50% N/A


Total Debt $1,762.1 3.61%


Less: Cash $107.3


Total Enterprise Value $11,845.6


1) Assumes $450m Keystone acquisition is fully funded on the revolver as per company press release
Background and Business
Background – LKQ Corp


 LKQ Corporation (LKQ), a wholesale replacement auto parts distributor, was founded in 1998 by Donald Flynn, and  
with the financial backing of Dean Buntrock and AutoNation Inc., the automobile retailer founded and led at the 
time by Wayne Huizenga; Flynn would recruit Joseph Holsten to serve as LKQ’s CEO.1 Flynn, Buntrock, Huizenga, 
and Holsten are all former executives of Waste Management, Inc. (WM)


 LKQ has set out to consolidate the fragmented wholesale alternative auto parts industry by implementing an 
aggressive roll-up strategy, fueling growth through acquisitions. Since 1998, LKQ has grown through over 171 
acquisitions, primarily in the US and Canada, becoming the largest provider of aftermarket & recycled collision 
auto parts in North America


 In May 2006, the company acquired Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc. (Nasdaq:  KEYS), a provider of 
aftermarket vehicle collision replacement parts, for $48.00 per share in cash or $811m in total enterprise value. 
The deal was the largest in the company’s history


 In October 2011, LKQ expanded into foreign markets with the acquisition of UK-based Euro Car Parts Limited; this 
was followed by the April 2013 acquisition of Netherlands-based Sator Holding.  Using an acquire-and-build 
strategy to grow in Europe, LKQ has become one of the largest European suppliers of mechanical aftermarket auto 
parts.  LKQ generated $4.1B of revenue in 2012, split 72%/32% between North America and Europe


 LKQ’s business strategy – and as later discussed, the strategies of numerous other companies founded by the 
aforementioned and other former Waste Management executives – appears taken right out of WM’s old 
playbook. The following slide provides a brief elaboration of Waste Management’s strategy and significant events 
in relation to LKQ’s founders


(1) International Directory of Company Histories, Vol. 71. St. James Press, 2005 17
18


Background –


Waste Management Inc, 1968-1998


 In 1968, Dean Buntrock and Wayne Huizenga (both LKQ founding backers), along with Lawrence Beck, founded Waste 
Management (WM). In 1972, Donald Flynn (LKQ’s founder) joined WM as CFO. WM set out to consolidate the highly 
fragmented garbage hauling industry via an aggressive roll-up strategy. By the time WM went public in 1971, it had acquired 
133 garbage haulers and was generating >$10m in revenue. In the first 9 months of 1972 it had acquired another 133 firms
and generated FY 1972 revenue of $72m. From 1971 to 1980, WM’s revenue grew at a rate of 48% per year, reaching 
$656m in revenue in 1980. By 1986, WM had become the largest waste disposal firm in the world. 


 Donald Flynn was given credit as the “financial genius” behind Waste Management’s extraordinary growth from the 1970s 
to the early 1990s in a 1993 corporate history commissioned by the company


 By the late 1980’s and early 1990’s, WM had undertaken a botched international expansion in a push to become the world’s 
first global ‘environmental services’ company.  “That ambition led Waste Management to acquire a range of profit-draining 
businesses.  The eventual result was angry shareholders, turmoil in the board room and a disruptive series of management 
purges and sudden resignations, followed by revelations (in late 1997) of accounting irregularities.”


 Buntrock remained as CEO until 1996, and Flynn as CFO & director until 1989 & 1997, respectively.


 From 1994 until 1997, a period at the heart of the perpetration of the fraud, Donald Flynn was a Waste Management Audit 
Committee member, the panel responsible for overseeing accounting policies and procedures, and also served as Audit 
Committee Chairman during a period coinciding with the fraud. 


 According to the SEC, former WM CEO Dean Buntrock, was “the driving force behind the fraud,” and that, “He was the 
primary beneficiary of the fraud and reaped more than $16.9 million in ill-gotten gains from, among other things, 
performance-based bonuses, retirement benefits, charitable giving, and selling company stock while the fraud was ongoing”


Additional source: http://www.sec.gov/news/headlines/wastemgmt6.htm


In 1997, a new CEO ordered a review of WM’s accounting practices. The probe turned up a massive financial fraud that went undetected from 
1992–1997. The fraud involved inflated asset values and profitability, resulting in a $3.5B charge in 1998 and the largest financials restatement 
in history at that time. SEC charges ensued.



http://www.fundinguniverse.com/company-histories/wmx-technologies-inc-history/

http://articles.chicagotribune.com/1999-08-08/news/9908080386_1_gambling-boats-casino-waste-management/2

http://www.corporations.org/wmi/merger.html

http://www.chicagobusiness.com/article/20001014/ISSUE01/100015186/old-dealings-dog-casinos-big-backer

http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2002-05-20/news/0205200203_1_illinois-gaming-board-audit-committee-chairman-emerald-casino

http://www.sec.gov/news/headlines/wastemgmt6.htm

http://www.sec.gov/news/headlines/wastemgmt6.htm
Background – LKQ Corporate Evolution


 LKQ began in 1998 to roll-up wholesale recycled auto parts distributors (i.e. salvage yards), establishing a network of such 
businesses and serving the collision repair industry. By 2003, it had become the largest provider in the fragmented recycled 
products market in the U.S.


 LKQ soon began diversifying through acquisitions of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured product suppliers 
and manufacturers, and self service retail businesses. 


 In October, 2007, LKQ made a transformative acquisition  in buying Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc., becoming the 
industry’s dominant distributor of both recycled and aftermarket products in the U.S. Keystone is LKQ’s largest acquisition to 
date, costing $811m; Keystone generated ~$730m in revenue in 2007.  As a result of the acquisition, LKQ’s Parts and Services 
revenue split shifted from 71%/29% to 39%/61% recycled products vs. aftermarket products. 


 In 2008 LKQ entered the heavy-duty truck parts recycling industry through various acquisitions. The heavy-duty truck parts 
recycling industry has operating and sales functions that are similar to the auto recycled parts business.


 In October 2011, LKQ made its third largest purchase in its history, expanding to the United Kingdom with the acquisition of 
Euro Car Parts Holdings Limited (ECP). ECP's product offerings are primarily focused on wholesale automotive aftermarket 
mechanical products. LKQ purchased ECP for a total consideration (including earnouts) of $432m; ECP generated $509.6m in 
revenue in 2011 and had grown revenue at a CAGR of 33% from 2009-2011.  As of October 2013, ECP operated out of 138 
branches, supported by a national distribution center. 


 In May 2013, LKQ made its second, significant acquisition in Europe, buying Sator Holding, an automotive aftermarket parts 
distribution company based in the Netherlands, with operations in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Northern 
France. LKQ bought Sator for $272m (EUR 210m); Sator generated $374m in revenue in 2012. The acquisition expanded LKQ’s 
geographic presence in the European automotive aftermarket products market into continental Europe.


Sources: LKQ 10-K for 2012; 10-Q for Q2’2013; 2007 Investor Presentation; http://www.lkqcorp.com/us/en/about-us.aspx 19


Acquisition of Keystone Automotive Results in Dominant Competitive Position as a US Aftermarket Parts Distributor:


Recent International Expansion with 2 Large-Scale Acquisitions European Aftermarket Parts Distributors:  



http://www.lkqcorp.com/us/en/about-us.aspx
Background – LKQ Business Overview


 LKQ provides alternative auto parts used for vehicle repairs. Alternative auto parts can be used in vehicle repairs in place of 
new, branded auto parts made by vehicle manufacturers, or “OEMs”


 To be clear, buyers of replacement auto parts have 5 options to choose when repairing their vehicles: 


1. New OEM parts – branded auto parts produced by vehicle manufacturers (i.e., “OEM”)


2. Aftermarket parts – new, generic parts that were not produced by the OEMs.  LKQ sources the majority of the 
aftermarket parts it sells in North America from Taiwan and other Asian countries


3. Recycled products – used parts that were originally produced by OEMs; LKQ sources its recycled inventories by 
buying salvaged vehicles at auction, then disassembling them at its salvage/junk yards 


4. Refurbished parts – used products that have been refurbished; LKQ processes these from cores obtained from 
salvage vehicles 


5. Remanufactured parts – used products that have been remanufactured; LKQ processes them from cores obtained 
from its salvage operations


 The value in using alternative parts in place of new OEM parts is that they have traditionally been less expensive.  


Source: LKQ 10-K for 2009 and 2012 20


or any of the below alternative auto parts, all of which LKQ provides:


For example, if you get into an accident and need to replace the vehicle bumper, you have 3 options: 


1. Replace it with a new, branded bumper manufactured by General Motors (i.e., a new OEM part)


2. Get a new, generic bumper that  was made in Taiwan (i.e. an “aftermarket part”)


3. Get a bumper from the junkyard (i.e., a “recycled part”)


Options 2 and 3 are examples of alternative parts. There are others, discussed below 


According to its filings: “We compete with the OEMs primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and 


quality.” In essence, LKQ sells nothing more than commodity products, which we will show has a diminishing 


competitive price value proposition. Furthermore, numerous customer complaints and an “F” Rating from the 


Better Business Bureau (see Appendix), severely calls into question its service and quality performance
21


Background – LKQ Revenue Growth 


Driven by APU


 LKQ sells its products and services primarily to collision repair shops (i.e., ‘body shops’), but insurance companies are 
its ‘indirect,’ de facto customer. Pressure exerted by insurance companies on body shops to hold claims costs down by 
using alternative auto parts resulted in a 30 year-long rising trend in the market share for usage of alternative parts vs. 
OEM parts in collision repairs. This trend has been a core pillar of the LKQ growth story since it went public in 2003. 


 This trend is measured by the “Alternative Parts Usage” (APU), or the percentage of total replacement part dollars 
spent on alternative parts vs. OEM parts. The APU has risen from 23% in 2000 to 37% in 2012, according to CCC 
Information Systems, provider of the industry’s dominant estimate writing platform  


 LKQ has displayed a chart encapsulating this trend as a centerpiece of its growth story in all of its investor 
presentations spanning at least the past 5 years, until recently; the company has excluded it from all of its 2013 
presentations.  As explained later in this report, we believe this share shift has stalled and may reverse


Source: LKQ 10-K for 2012, LKQ conference calls, LKQ 2009 investor presentation


“Recently, CCC published their annual crash course 
publication. The industry's average use of alternative parts for 
collision repairs increased by almost 300 basis points to 35% 
for 2009 from 32% in 2008, sharply accelerating from the 
decade-long trend we have seen of 100 basis points per year 
increases… Reflecting the increase in APU, demand for LKQ's 
wholesale parts remain strong during the quarter. Our first 
quarter organic revenue from the sale of parts and services 
increased 5.6% even with reductions in miles driven of 1.6% in 
January and 2.9% in February.”


– Joseph Holsten, LKQ Chairman, Q1’2010 Earnings Call (4/29/2010)
European Business Growing as a 


Percent of Consolidated Revenue


 For the past 3 quarters, LKQ’s European Parts and Services business has demonstrated an organic growth rate >5x that 
of its North America counterpart; over this period, Europe grew at an average rate of ~34% vs. ~6% in North America


 Fueled by organic and acquisition growth (including the relatively large purchase of Sator), as of 9/31/2013, European 
Parts and Services Revenue had grown to 28% of consolidated revenue, from 15% one year prior


(1) ‘North America’ & ‘Europe’ categories represent geographic sources of Parts and Services Revenue  


(2) ‘Other’ Revenue is comprised of sales of scrap  metal and aluminum ingots and sows


(3)  Revenue  shares were computed by annualizing Q3’2012  & Q3’2013 reportable category revenues


22


LKQ Organic Revenue Growth by Category Europe Growing in Terms of Revenue Contribution
1,2,3


As of Q3’2012 As of Q3’2013


Organic Parts & Services 
Revenue Growth by Geography
High-Level Indications of Fabricated 


GAAP Profits, Unsustainable Business 


Model
 LKQ is a classic roll-up, fueling growth through acquisitions. In the following slides, we elaborate on our view that LKQ is an ineffective 
roll-up; undeserving of its rich valuation. By contrast, an effective roll-up can create enormous value, which warrants a rich P/E:


24


LKQ is a Roll-up; Dynamics of 


Roll-up Strategies


(1)  Paul F Kocourek, Steven Y Chung, and Matthew G McKenna, “Strategic Rollups: Overhauling the Multi-Merger Machine,” Strategy & Business, second quarter 2000.


"The bet underlying a rollup is that it can reduce costs and drive growth to create enormous value. In fact, kindling organic growth – driven by a 
superior value proposition – is particularly important as the pace of acquisitions begins its inevitable decline. When all goes well, we find a cycle 
of value creation that takes on a life of its own (refer to the figure at lower right)… The market rewards this kind of growth with a higher P/E 
ratio, which creates the currency for more acquisitions. “1


 But, Wall Street is littered with companies that have failed to properly effectuate it, 
and that have over time destroyed vast amounts of shareholder wealth. Among such 
companies are Waste Management (WM) and AutoNation (AN). In this report, we 
elaborate on our view that LKQ, with common backers, very much resembles both 
companies. 


 For example, like LKQ, AN set out to build a one-stop-shop, establishing presence in all 
aspects of its markets – new and used auto sales, auto rental, and auto servicing. It 
tried to consolidate a highly competitive, low margin, mature/low growth industry; 
as such, AN’s success was dependent on stealing market share from existing 
competitors. Like LKQ, it also had no ability to drive down its most basic cost – that of 
buying used cars; it had to compete at auctions with other dealers to build its 
relatively huge inventory, which depreciated in value at a very fast rate.1 Using public 
capital, it acquired hundreds of businesses. It used a concerning acquisition 
accounting methodology, pooling of interests (which is no longer allowed by GAAP), 
that likely inflated its reported earnings. In its early stages it was a Wall Street darling 
– touted as a strong buy by sell-side analysts – and valued for perfection; but, reality 
caught up with its over- expansion and -extension into money-losing endeavors. Over 
a 3.5 year period, its market value of >$12B fell by >80%  from peak to trough, with 
shareholder losses exceeding $10B. 


Dynamics of an Effective Rollup
 The roll-up strategy inherently flatters earnings and CFO metrics. Roll-ups usually show both strong earnings and strong CFO (i.e., 
high earnings quality) due to the inherent financial statement mechanics of paying for growth through acquisition outflows (which 
do not affect earnings or CFO).  Cash spent to acquire businesses runs through the Investing section of the Statement of Cash Flows, 
so the acquirer is able to inherit a new CFO stream without any CFO outlay (i.e. working capital investment). Moreover, as the 
acquirer liquidates the working capital of the acquired company in the normal course of business – collecting on receivables or 
selling inventory – it can realize an unsustainable CFO boost that has virtually nothing to do with the performance of its business. 


 As such, free cash flow after acquisitions is a key metric for analyzing roll-ups, presenting a better picture of the business’s 
economics. In LKQ’s case, it demonstrates that LKQ is an ineffective, consistently cash-degenerative roll-up. LKQ’s free cash flow 
after acquisitions has been negative in 8 of 9 years from 2004-2012, and is negative in the last twelve month period through 
September 30, 2013, a cautionary sign that its strong, positive CFO is not what it appears


25


LKQ Appears to be an Ineffective, 


Consistently Cash-Degenerative Roll-up


**Adjusted Free Cash Flow is free cash flow after acquisitions (i.e. CFO  – capex – acquisition outflows)


LKQ’s Free Cash Flow Adjusted for Acquisitions LKQ’s Earnings Quality ‘Appears’ High
26


High-Level Indications of Fabricated GAAP 


Profits, Unsustainable Business Model


 Furthermore, our analysis indicates LKQ may be engaging in aggressive accounting to engineer GAAP profits. 


 Since 2007, LKQ has reported cumulative Earnings and EBIT of $1,222m and $2,153m, respectively. 


 Meanwhile, it has burned cumulative free cash flow after acquisitions of -$1,623m, and raised cumulative net capital 
of $1,625m, suggesting it has never earned a cash-on-cash return on invested capital. 


 Put another way, the immense wealth generation represented by LKQ’s historical GAAP profits is not observable in 
the company’s cash flows – it appears to be ‘paper’ wealth generated from accounting gimmickry and enabled by an 
aggressive roll-up strategy and accounting practices.


** Capital Raised  =  equity + net debt + option proceeds
** Adj FCF = CFO – capex – business acquisitions


LKQ Appears Increasingly Dependent on External Capital 
to Generate Any EBIT and Net Income
Reported North America Parts & Services


Organic Revenue Growth Appears 


Overstated; Pricing Pressures Intensifying
28


North America (NA) Organic Growth  


Appears Overstated


 LKQ reported organic revenue growth averaging ~6.5% from 2008 – 2012 and ~6% in the 9 months ended 
9/30/2013 for its North America Parts and Services (P&S) business, which accounts for ~75% of 
consolidated P&S revenue.  These growth rates do not appear reconcilable with trends in its primary 
driving fundamental factors or representative of LKQ’s sustainable North America organic growth rate, 
which we believe likely falls in the range of 0-2%. 


 Data for insurance claims paid for repairable accidents indicates no growth 


 Growth in market share of alternative auto parts relative to OEM parts (i.e., APU), which has risen 
for 3 decades and served as a primary driver of LKQ’s organic growth, flat-lined from 2010 – 2012 
and may taper or reverse


 For the first time, replacement auto parts prices deflated in 2012, as competitive pressures 
intensified


 Market share gains from alternative parts competitors are limited by LKQ’s market dominance; 
already owning 25-30% of the market, market share is LKQ’s to lose 


 LKQ’s North American P&S organic growth rate also appears unhinged from growth rates reported by 
dominant companies in its primary end market. For example, the Boyd Group (TSX: BYD.UN), a large 
publicly traded multi-service operator in the North American collision repair industry has reported 
average same store sale growth of just 2% over the same period LKQ has reported organic growth of 6.5%. 
While Boyd’s results have shown significant cyclicality, LKQ’s results have been highly consistent and 
steadily positive – such patterns in an otherwise cyclical business are often a hallmark of companies 
over-concerned with meeting Wall Street estimates and financial transgressions
NA Organic Growth – Insurance Collision 


Claim Payouts Are Not Growing


 According to LKQ, ~85% of all repairs are paid for by insurance companies; in effect, they are the ultimate 
payee for replacement auto parts


 The total value of Insurance Collision Claims paid for Repairable Accident Claims (which excludes Total 
Loss data) has been stable at ~$28 billion over the past 5 years time. This is the result of steadily 
increasing severity despite a downward trend in accidents and cars repaired


 Per the table below, the 5yr CAGR for total insurance claims paid for repairable accident claims is 0%!


29


Source: The Romans Group LLC
30


OEM Price-Matching Programs Also Forcing 


Aftermarket Auto Part Price Deflation 


 LKQ has historically benchmarked its prices against OEM parts prices, which historically have risen 1.0% – 2.0% p.a.


 “… maybe another way to look at that is that we typically price our parts based on new OE parts…” 1


 “We track OE prices relative to what they're doing. They are still averaging consistently 1.5% to 2% increases, 
though we tend to follow right on their heels. When they raise, we're right behind them.” 2


 Recently, OEM’s have expanded their price-matching programs, wherein they are matching alternative parts prices. 
They’ve set their sites on regaining market share previously lost to alternative parts suppliers by empowering their 
dealers’ parts departments to match aftermarket parts prices, and are succeeding. 


 We believe these programs have become widespread and much more pervasive than LKQ has led investors to believe 


(1) Joseph Holsten, former CEO on Q4’2008 earnings call 


(2) Robert Wagman, CEO on Q3’2011 earnings call 


We believe that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by OEMs, with the balance being supplied 
by distributors like us. The OEMs are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. We compete with the OEMs 
primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. From time to time, OEMs have experimented with reducing prices on 
specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products. If such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a 
material adverse impact on our business.


– LKQ 10-K for 2012 (Risk Factors)
31


NA Organic Growth – OEM Price Matching: 


Interview With Aftermarket Distributor


Prescience Point (“PP”):  Can you describe what's been happening in the industry? 


Aftermarket Parts Distributor (“APD”)1: The OE's dealerships are selling below their cost. This is happening nationwide. It 
started around 2008.


PP: How is it impacting aftermarket parts distributors?


APD: It's put 4 out of business within 200 miles of here, and it put me out of business too. So that's 5 out of 5. The only 
one left standing is LKQ.


It's a really strange deal; I called the 4 companies and asked them why they went out of business, and they said it was 
because of the OE's matching their prices.


They are being dis-intermediated by the OEM's. They're not selling parts either. By way of example, The gentleman who 
runs (the local) LKQ-Keystone and I have been competitors ever since I've been in business. He started out w/ a company 
that LKQ bought out, then he went to another company and LKQ bought them out, and now he works for LKQ. For this 
entire time we've been competitors. Anytime I've ever asked him about how's he's doing, he's said, ‘We're doing great; 
we're just selling shit left and right…' for about 18 years that's been his answer. 3 weeks ago I called him, and he says, 
“Talk to any one of my salespeople and they will tell you how badly we've been hurting. If you want to know how bad it is, 
talk to anyone of my salesmen; we aren't selling shit”.. It was the first time he's ever in his life made a negative comment 
about his business…


PP: Do you think this will continue to impact LKQ's ability to generate business in North America?


APD: If it continues it will put them out of business as far as aftermarket and salvage parts go


(1) “Aftermarket Parts Distributor” is an owner of an aftermarket collision parts distributor
OEM Price Matching: Interview With 


Aftermarket Distributor (Cont’d)


32


Prescience Point (“PP”): What would motivate the OE dealerships to sell products at a loss? How can the dealerships 
take these losses?


Aftermarket Parts Distributor (“APD”) 1: Because the OE's are paying them (the dealers) back on their money, making 
them whole, and then giving them a 14% profit (on top of that). 


I have a document that shows how this is happening... This specific document relates to a door… GM is telling its dealer to, 
“Forget the dealer list price; sell it 33% below Keystone's list price. We'll give you all your money back plus a 14% profit.”  
LKQ cannot then step in and offer the part at the same price ($456); it wouldn’t be able to sell the part because the body 
shop prefers the OE part. Body shops are happy because they are getting OE parts for aftermarket prices.


PP: LKQ's investor presentation contains a slide demonstrating its ‘Clear Value Proposition’. They give specific examples. 
For example a new OEM front door might cost $1300, vs a recycled OEM front door that would cost $800, for a savings 
of 40%. So is that not the case for a new vs recycled products?


APD: If an insurance company writes the recycled part for $800, the OEM will sell its $1300 (dealer list price) part for $800 
and give the dealership a 14% profit.


PP: The presentation also gives another example for an aftermarket product. It says a new OEM fender might cost $200, 
but an aftermarket fender sells for $160, for a 22% savings. Same thing there? The OEM will match that price?


APD: Same deal, the dealer will sell it for $160. GM reimburse them for their $40 loss, and give them a 14% return on top 
of that.


(1) “Aftermarket Parts Distributor” is an owner of an aftermarket collision parts distributor
33


LKQ’s Only Competitive Advantage is Price…


GM’s Price Matching Designed to Thwart LKQ


Keystone List Price


OEM price-match, 33% 


discount from Keystone 


Price (Keystone list has 


generally been 20-25% 


less than OEM; OEM is 


now undercutting 


Keystone’s price by 33%)


GM reimburses dealer 


for loss on part cost


GM pays dealer 14% 


return on part cost


We have sourced an 
internal GM dealer 
document detailing its 
price-matching program, 
“Bump the Competition.” 
We are told it specifically 
targets LKQ-Keystone.  GM 
subsidizes dealers to sell 
parts (in this case a fender 
and a door) at levels 33% 
below aftermarket list 
prices, makes them whole 
on the loss, and pays the 
dealer an additional, 
guaranteed 14% profit on 
the cost for the part. 


Source: Felder's Collision Parts, Inc. v. General Motors Company et al, Complaint Exhibit 4, filed 10/12/2012
34


GM’s “Bump The Competition” Directed 


at Outcompeting LKQ, Retaking Lost Share 


 Launched in 2009, the “Bump the Competition” program from General Motors was designed to capture 
share of the aftermarket by lowering the price of its OEM replacement parts relative to the competition. 
The initial rebates took the form of fast cash Visa® Award Cards…. 


http://www.gmrepairinsights.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/Repair-Insights-Q2-2013.pdf


http://gmbtc.ca/login.php


www.genuinegmparts.com



http://www.gmrepairinsights.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/Repair-Insights-Q2-2013.pdf

http://gmbtc.ca/login.php
35


OEM Price Matching Programs Date to 2009; 


GM Expanded its Programs in 2013 to Be Even 


More Price Competitive, Applied to More Parts


Source: http://www.gmlam.com/guidelines/parts/conquest_bulletin.pdf
Source: Felder Collision Parts Inc. vs. General Motors Company et all, 10/12/12
http://www.mcmlsp.com/sandbox/podmock/2431Collision/tools/BTC_Calculator_010109v1a.xls


GM’s push to 
Bump the 


Competition 
Dates back to 


2009, & Recent 
Evidence it has 


become 
“More Price 


Competitive”



http://www.gmlam.com/guidelines/parts/conquest_bulletin.pdf

http://www.mcmlsp.com/sandbox/podmock/2431Collision/tools/BTC_Calculator_010109v1a.xls
36


Mazda’s “Collision Parts AdvantageTM” 


Program Also Directed at Displacing LKQ


 Launched in 2011, the “Collision Parts Advantage
TM


” program was launched by Mazda, to warn its customers that 
aftermarket Like Kind and Quality are generally of lower quality than certified OEM parts. The program offers its 
customers and chosen repair shops the choice to use its OEM parts with a price matching guarantee


http://www.mazdaserviceinfo.com/PDFs/Collision%20Parts%20Advantage.pdf



http://www.mazdaserviceinfo.com/PDFs/Collision Parts Advantage.pdf
OEM Price-Matching:


APU Has Flat-Lined, Likely to Taper/Decline


 The OEMs are aggressively reclaiming market share by competing away LKQ’s price advantage – the prime basis of its value 
proposition. Their efforts have successfully halted the three decade-long trend of steadily increasing APU. CCC Information 
Services, provider of the dominant estimate-writing platform, indicates APU has leveled off over the past 3 years and the share 
shift may reverse. CCC’s assessment is that a decline or tapering in APU is likely to materialize.


 A rising APU was a primary driver of LKQ’s organic growth. We note that every single LKQ investor presentation we have 
studied dating back to 2007 has given prominence to a slide displaying the decade long trend in APU. For the first time 
ever LKQ has chosen to exclude this slide from its 2013 presentations. We believe this change is a tacit admission that 
this metric no longer figures into the company’s ‘growth story’


Sources: LKQ Third Quarter 2012 Investor Presentations, CCC Crash Course 2012


37


Collision Replacement Products Market Shift 


APU 
has 
flat-
lined


The Autumn Update to Crash Course 2011 included a 
discussion on the impact of  the aging fleet on parts 
utilization, and showed that the increase in industry-
wide non-OE part utilization was driven in large part by 
the growing share of older model year vehicles, where 
non-OE parts availability is higher. As consumers begin 
to purchase more new vehicles, and as more 
manufacturers provide price-matching programs for 
their dealers, non-OE share of parts dollars (i.e. APU) 
will likely taper or decline. 


– CCC Crash Course 2012, published on 3/7/2012
38


LKQ Appears To Be Deceiving Investors 


About the Current APU Problems


 According to CEO Robert Wagman on the Q3’2011 earnings call, LKQ claims APU rose from 37% to 38% in 2012


 Its own data source refutes that claim.  As its source for APU data communicated in conference calls and investor 
presentations, LKQ cites the annual results released by CCC Information Services: Per Robert Wagman on the Q3’2011 
earnings conference call, 


Discussion What LKQ Tells Investors What LKQ’s Data Source Says


Alternative Parts 
Usage (APU) rate


Source: Q3'12 conference call on 10/25/2012 --
As mentioned on previous calls, we were confident that the 
historical trend of 100 basis point improvement in alternative 
part usage would continue in 2012.  And today, I am pleased to 
announce that, that goal (for a 100 basis point improvement in 
APU in 2012) was achieved through the end of the third quarter. 
According to CCC Information Services, APU now stands at 38%.


Source: CCC Crash 2012 Fall Update, published 10/17/2012 --
The percent of the total dollars spent on replacement parts that were 
OEM was essentially flat year-over-year: 63.2 percent at mid-year 
2012 versus 63.1 percent at mid-year 2011.
(i.e. From mid-year 2011 to 2012, APU fell from 36.9% to 36.8%) 


CCC Crash Course 2013 report, published 3/28/2013 --
At the close of 2012, the industry’s share of replacement part dollars 
was split at 63 percent OEM versus 37 percent non-OEM.


Assessment of 
Trend in APU


Source: Q3'12 conference call on 10/25/2012 --
As we enter the last quarter of 2012 and prepare for 2013, our 
outlook continues to be positive. I'm encouraged by the trends in 
miles driven, the continued growth in APU, the recent reduction 
in vehicle pricing at auctions, the strength of Euro Car Parts and 
the robust pipeline of acquisition opportunities we are witnessing.


CCC Crash 2012 Crash Course, published on 3/7/2012 --
The Autumn Update to Crash Course 2011 included a discussion on the 


impact of  the aging fleet on parts utilization, and showed that the 
increase in industry-wide non-OE part utilization was driven in large part 
by the growing share of older model year vehicles, where non-OE parts 
availability is higher. As consumers begin to purchase more new 
vehicles, and as more manufacturers provide price-matching programs 
for their dealers, non-OE share of parts dollars (i.e. APU) will likely 
taper or decline.


“As mentioned on previous calls, we were confident that the historical trend of 100 basis point improvement in alternative part 
usage would continue in 2012… According to CCC Information Services, APU now stands at 38%.…As we enter the last quarter 
of 2012 and prepare for 2013, our outlook continues to be positive. I'm encouraged by… the continued growth in APU …”


“… we only get the annual results from the estimating company as to what's happening to the APU trend…”
NA Organic Growth – APU


LKQ Appears to have Deceived Investors


What LKQ Tells Investors


In its March 2013 Investor Presentation, LKQ 


claims that APU had reached 38%, in 


accordance with previous guidance


Sources: LKQ 10-K for 2012, March 2013 Investor Presentation (Raymond James 34th Annual Institutional Investors Conference)
39


What LKQ Says in its SEC Filings


We believe, however, that as the insurance 


and repair industries continue to recognize 


the advantages of aftermarket, recycled, 


refurbished and remanufactured products, 


the alternatives to new OEM replacement 


products will account for a larger percentage 


of total vehicle replacement product sales. 


Since 2008, alternative parts usage has 


increased from approximately 32% to 


37% of the collision replacement product 


market. We compete with OEMs on the 


basis of price, service and product quality


Even as it tells investors APU rose 100 basis points in 2012, LKQ contradicts itself in its own filings with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, which report that APU did indeed not rise
40


OEM Price-Matching:


Parts Price Deflation Began in 2H’2012


 The expansion of OEM price-matching programs have become so expansive that they drove deflation in parts 
prices in 2012. Industry data source Mitchell International reported a decrease in the indexed price of vehicle 
parts for its market basket for the first time in the 10 years Mitchell International has been collecting data.


 Prices began deflating in the second half of the year; it is clear that the OEMs are expanding their price matching 
programs to cover more parts and that the programs are being implemented by more and more dealers. 


Source:  Mitchell Industry Trends Report, Q2 2013


“For the first time, we saw a decrease in the indexed 
price for the market basket. Loyal readers of the 
Industry Trends Report will see that the 2012 
decrease was not evident when we ran the index 
report early in 2012, so the decrease was in the 
latter half of 2012… The domestic vehicle parts 
market basket experienced such a decrease that it 
offset the moderate increases in the Asian and 
European market basket… So what we are seeing is 
the impact of the expansion of the competition parts 
price matching programs from the domestic OEs 
driving the decrease in the overall index…”


– Mitchell Industry Trends Report, Q2 2013
41


OEM Price-Matching (Cont’d):


Parts Price Deflation Began in 2H’2012


 >50% of LKQ’s consolidated revenues are generated from the sale of aftermarket parts


 According to CCC Information Systems, aftermarket parts deflated by 2.4% in 2012. 


“Between 2011 and 2012 … the average price paid per replacement part fell by 0.3 percent. Average price paid per replacement part varied by 
part type, with reconditioned parts increasing 2.0 percent, aftermarket parts decreasing by 2.4 percent, and recycled parts increasing 0.8 percent.”


– CCC Crash Course 2013 report, published 3/28/2013 


Source: CCC Crash Course 2013
42


State Farm Insurance’s New PartsTrader 


Platform to Drive Even More Pricing Pressure


www.partstrader.us.com


 Insurance companies exert significant influence in the 
vehicle repair decision since they ultimately pay for the 
majority of collision repairs of insured vehicles. 
Therefore, they are incentivized to drive auto parts 
prices as low as possible to maximize their profits


 In May 2013, State Farm Insurance, the largest US auto 
insurer, confirmed the end of the pilot phase, and a 
national rollout of PartsTrader, an electronic ordering 
system to its Select Service direct repair facilities.  The 
national roll-out is expected to be completed by 2014*


 PartsTrader is a web-based collision replacement parts 
market connecting OEM, aftermarket, remanufactured, 
specialized and recycled automotive parts suppliers with 
collision repairers looking for replacement parts


 As an online competitive marketplace designed to allow 
collision shops to make better procurement decisions 
with information on part quality, delivery time, supplier 
reputation, and prices, PartsTrader is expected to drive 
more competition amongst alternative parts 
distributors, lowering auto parts prices and serving as 
another blow to industry organic revenue growth


* http://www.fenderbender.com/FenderBender/May-2013/State-Farm-Initiates-PartsTrader-Expansion/



http://www.fenderbender.com/FenderBender/May-2013/State-Farm-Initiates-PartsTrader-Expansion/
43


NA Organic Growth –


Not Reconcilable w/ End Market Growth


 LKQ’s reported NA Parts and Services organic growth rate also appears unhinged from the growth rates 
reported by companies in its primary North American end market, collision repair shops


 For example, Boyd Group (TSX: BYD.UN) is a Canada-based company that is consolidating the US/Canada 
collision repair industry as a multi-service operator (MSO). Boyd has 228 locations in five Canadian 
provinces and 14 U.S. states. 


 According to the Romans Group LLC, Boyd is a player in the fastest growing segment of the collision repair 
industry and is outperforming its peers in that segment.1 Specifically,


 Boyd is a part of “the $20+ million U.S. collision repair segment (which) continues to grow market 
share and brand relatively faster than other segments of the collision repair industry”, and 


 Boyd has significantly grown its market share relative to the other top $20mm+ operators since 2006


(1) A Profile of the Evolving Collision Repair Marketplace, Parts 1 & 2. The Romans Group, 2012.
LKQ’s NA Organic Growth is Too Predictably 


Positive and Smooth in a Cyclical Industry


 The significance in disparity between LKQ and Boyd’s organic growth rates defies logic:  Boyd Group – again, an 
outperformer amongst collision repairers – has reported organic growth of 2% on average since Q1’2009, with 
significant variability in its growth rate (6.1% standard deviation), and has reported negative growth in several 
quarters; on the other hand, LKQ has reported organic growth in Parts and Services of 7.0% on average over the 
same time period, with relatively little variability in its growth rate (standard deviation of just 1.8%), and has 
never reported a period of negative organic growth


Note that LKQ changed its reporting of organic growth categories on 3/3/13. As a result, this analysis 
runs through 12/31/12 for the purpose of presenting a fair, apples-to-apples comparison.


44


Source LKQ Press Release Source: Boyd Group Press Releases


LKQ Quarterly Parts and Services Reported Organic Growth Rate SSS Growth - Boyd Group - Multi-Service Operator of Collision Repair Shops


0.0%


2.0%


4.0%


6.0%


8.0%


10.0%


12.0%


-10.0%


-5.0%


0.0%


5.0%


10.0%


15.0%
Average: 2.0%
Std Dev:  6.1%


Average:  7.0%
Std Dev:   1.8%
The European “Growth Fantasy” –


Short-Term Decision-Making Signals 


Desperation to Keep Financials Inflated & 


Meet Guidance Targets
Euro Car Parts –


LKQ’s Largest Contributor to Organic Growth


 In Q4’2011 LKQ began expanding into Europe. Its acquisition of UK-based Euro Car Parts (ECP), a 
distributor of mechanical aftermarket parts, was made – and this was never disclosed by LKQ – as the UK 
aftermarket industry was significantly contracting (which is projected to continue), amounting to a high 
risk gamble using shareholder capital. At the time of purchase, ECP operated out of 89 branch/store 
locations, and opened an average of 10 new branches per year in the period 2007-2011.


 LKQ pitched the purchase primarily as an open-ended opportunity to replicate its North American success 


in Europe, by driving APU – currently at 5% in the UK vs. 37% in the US – for collision repairs. 


 We believe LKQ is operating ECP to inflate its financials and meet guidance targets, at the long term 


shareholder expense of entrenchment in a contracting market, which will result in a new financial hole 


LKQ will predictably seek to plug with more acquisitions (which it has already begun making)


46
Euro Car Parts –


LKQ’s Largest Contributor to Organic Growth


 History of Acquisition: In October, 2011, LKQ acquired Euro Car Parts (ECP), a leading distributor of mechanical
aftermarket parts in the U.K., for a total of ~$432m (including the paid in full performance-based contingent 
component). ECP was founded by Sukhpal Singh Ahluwalia, who today serves as Chairman of LKQ Europe. 


 LKQ reported that ECP had grown revenue at a CAGR of 30%+ from 2009-2011; it generated 2011 revenue 
of $523m, equating to ~15% of LKQ sales. 


 At the time of purchase, ECP operated 89 branch locations, and opened an average of 10 new branches per 
year in the period 2007-2011


 LKQ pitched the acquisition as,


a) an opportunity to continue expanding ECP’s branch network, and 


b) an open-ended opportunity to drive alternative part usage (APU) for collision repairs in the UK –
where APU is ~5% (vs. 37% in the US) – by educating insurers about the value proposition of 
alternative parts.  Per Chairman Joseph Holsten on the October, 4 2011 ECP acquisition call,


 ECP is LKQ’s single largest driver of reported organic growth. LKQ reported ECP’s organic growth rate to be 30%+ 
beginning in Q4’2012 and in each quarter since


47


“… the opportunity is that whereas APU in the United States has moved from really even a sub-20% level when we first 
formed LKQ to 37% last year, the U.K. market today stands at 3-7% APU utilization rate.”
ECP – 30%+ Organic Growth in a 


Contracting Industry?


 In its investor presentations, LKQ  cites ECP’s growth rate and the potential to increase collision-repair APU to imply the 
acquisition presents a new doorway for growth. It cites Datamonitor Group as its source for sizing the expansive UK 
aftermarket parts industry, an ‘$18bn market’


 LKQ never mentioned that according to the same source (Datamonitor Group / MarketLine), the UK aftermarket parts 
industry was in significant contraction at the time LKQ acquired ECP. According to Datamonitor’s February 2012 publication, 
the UK industry was expected to contract in 2011 by -5.8%, and is projected to continue contracting: 


 How can a U.K.-based distributor of aftermarket auto parts regularly report ‘organic growth’ exceeding 30% as the 
industry around it is contracting? 


48


“The United Kingdom automotive aftermarket sector shrank by 5.8% in 2011 to reach 
a value of $17,259.5 million… In 2016, the United Kingdom automotive aftermarket 
sector is forecast to have a value of $16,877.1 million, a decrease of 2.2% since 2011.”


“The UK automotive aftermarket sector entered a period of decline from 2008 
through to 2011. The sector is expected to continue to recover with marginal growth 
in 2012 before falling into decline once again from 2013 through to the end of the 
forecast period in 2016”… It contracted at a “compound annual rate of change (CARC) 
of -3.5% between 2007 and 2011.”


“The performance of the sector is forecast to decline further, with an anticipated CARC 
of -0.4% for the five-year period 2011-2016, which is expected to take the sector to a 
value of $16,877.1 million by the end of 2016.”


– Datamonitor / MarketLine, Automotive Aftermarket in the United Kingdom, February 2012
ECP –


‘Organic Growth’ That Isn’t Really ‘Organic’


 LKQ doesn’t define ECP’s ‘organic growth’ in the way investors might expect for a business characterized by sales 
originating at storefronts, for which ‘organic growth’ would be represented by a same store sales growth:


 LKQ treats ECP revenue from stores existing for >1 year and revenue from stores opened during the year as 
organic revenue1


 As such, its reported organic growth rate is fueled by opening new ECP branches, and the more new branches it opens in 
a given period, the more it can inflate the reported organic growth rate


 Because ECP is in the midst of a rapid branch expansion, it is able to report ‘organic’ growth of 30%+ even as the broader 
UK aftermarket parts industry contracts


 While ECP’s reported growth rate sheds light on the company’s size, in comparing data that are fundamentally 
incomparable, it provides little information on the performance and health of its existing branch network. Further, it 
obscures LKQ’s consolidated organic growth metric; LKQ uses a different standard for reporting its North America organic 
growth, which according to management only includes salvage yards open and within the system for a year. In essence, 
the company is mixing two different measurement approaches and potentially misleading investors


(1) LKQ Earnings conference call for Q2’2012
(2) Q3’13 earnings release


49


2


Different 
measurement 
approaches 


Yet each 
described as 


‘Organic’
50


 Throughout 2012, LKQ repeatedly raised guidance for the number of 2012 branch openings, from 20 to 30 to 42. ECP has 
also repeatedly raised guidance for the maximum number of full-sized ECP branches the UK market can absorb, from 100 to 
120 to 150 to 175 to 200, giving itself more and more room to continue ramping the number of branch locations. As 
demonstrated in the pages to follow, these revisions were made with the purpose of meeting P&S revenue growth guidance


 The table below summarizes LKQ’s repeated revisions of guidance for the number of branches to be opened per period and 
for the maximum number branches the UK market could absorb. The slides to follow detail these revisions


Source:
Guidance for New 


ECP Branch Openings
Guidance for Maximum # ECP Branches UK market could 


absorb
Article in The Telegraph 


(4/21/2009)
90 to 100 total ECP branches to give presence across the UK


ECP Acq. call (10/4/2011) 10-12 per year


Q4’2011 earnings call 
(2/23/2012)


Guidance for 2012: 20 openings
Change vs prior guidance: +10 openings
Total store count if guidance met: 110 branches


120 full sized branches + 15 satellites


Q1’2012 earnings call 
(4/26/2012)


Revised guidance for 2012: 30 openings
Change vs prior guidance: +10 openings
Cumulative change vs initial guidance: +20 opens
Total store count if guidance met: 120 branches


2013E guidance: 20-25 openings


150 full sized branches + 25 satellites
(175 total)
Change vs prior guidance: +40


Q3’2012 earnings call  
(10/25/2012)


Revised guidance for 2012: 42 openings
Change vs prior guidance: +12 openings
Cumulative change vs initial guidance: +32 opens
Total store count if guidance met: 132


150 full sized branches + 25 satellites
(175 total)


Q4’12 earnings call
(2/28/2013)


Guidance for 2013: 10 openings 
Change vs prior 2013 guidance: -10 openings 
Total store count if guidance met: 142


150-175 full sized branches + 25 satellites
(175-200 total)
Change vs prior guidance: +25
Cumulative change vs initial guidance: +65


Q1’2013 earnings call
(4/25/2013)


Revised guidance for 2013: 15 openings 
Change vs prior 2013 guidance: +5 openings
Total store count if guidance met: 147


Q2’2013 earnings call
(8/1/2013)


175-200 full sized branches + 25 satellites
(225 total)
Change vs prior guidance: +25
Cumulative change vs initial guidance: +90


Short-Term Decision-Making Signals Desperation 


to Keep Financials Inflated & Hit Guidance
51


 In an article published by The Telegraph on 4/21/2009, ECP founder (currently Chairman of LKQ Europe) Sukhpal Singh Ahluwalia
stated that he thought ECP could have a total of 90-100 branches, “giving it a presence across the UK”


 On the October, 2011 conference call detailing the ECP acquisition, LKQ told investors it had a plan to open 10-12 branches per 
year for the next few years. At that time LKQ appeared more focused on the opportunity to grow collision repair APU in the UK


 On the Q4’2011 earnings call, LKQ raised the number of branches it had planned to open to 20 in 2012.  LKQ stated that the UK 
could support a total of 120 full-sized stores and 15 smaller, ‘satellite’ stores, so “when we're all said and done, we could be in 
the 135 range”


Source:
Plans for New 
ECP Branches


Guidance for Maximum # ECP Branches 
UK market could absorb


Article in The Telegraph 
(4/21/2009)


Sukhpal Singh (from The Telegraph article, Sukhpal Singh’s Next Goals for 
Euro Car Parts)
I think we could increase to 90 to 100 branches. We need to have a presence 
across the UK


ECP Acquisition Call 
(10/4/2011)


Robert L. Wagman
Yes, we -- right now, Craig, we have a plan to grow 10 to 12 branches per year for the 
next few years -- for the upcoming years to complete out the major U.K. markets, 
major markets that they're in. 


Q4’11 Earnings Call
(2/23/2012)


Given the market opportunities in the U.K. and the attractive unit economics at ECP's 
locations, we anticipate ramping up our total branch openings for 2012 to roughly 
20.


Craig R. Kennison
RE ECP… what do you think that market, the U.K. market can support, long-
term, in terms of the number of stores that you operate.


Robert L. Wagman
We think the right number is going to be somewhere around 120, Craig, to 
fully develop the network. So we think we'll be at 20 by the end of this year. 
As far as the what the market -- the overall market, 120 seems to be the 
number, what we'll also do is open some satellite stores. They won't be 
full branch stores to support some of the remote areas of the U.K. So I 
think when we're all said and done, we could be in the 135 range.


Short-Term Decision-Making Signals Desperation 


to Keep Financials Inflated & Hit Guidance
52


 On the Q1’2012, LKQ announced an increase in anticipated store openings to 30 in 2012, which would result in a total of 120 
stores (the previously stated market saturating count). Furthermore, it announced plans to open another 20-25 stores in 2013, 
which would take the total number of stores to 140-145, well beyond previous guidance for UK market saturation.  It followed by 
raising the ceiling on the number of stores the market could absorb to 150 full-sized stores and 25 satellite branches (175 in total), 
which would seem to indicate branches in major metropolitan areas being “5 miles or so apart”(akin to a Starbucks model)! LKQ 
would continue to raise, from this level, the maximum number of stores the UK could absorb


 On the Q3’2012 earnings call, for the 3rd time LKQ revised higher guidance for the number of branch openings planned to 32 for 
2012 (from initial guidance for 10-12), which would make for 132 branches in total. LKQ also stated, “We've said we believe the 
total store count is going to be somewhere around 150 to 175”


Source:
Plans for New 
ECP Branches


Guidance for Maximum # ECP Branches 
UK market could absorb


Q1’12 Earnings Call
(4/26/2012)


And due to favorable market conditions and ECP's management's proven ability to effectively and efficiently 
open branches, we anticipate accelerating new branch openings to 30 in 2012, which is 10 more than the 20 
we were anticipating on our last call..


Robert L. Wagman
So we believe we'll get to roughly 120 locations by the end of this year, if all goes to plan. We want to add 
probably another 20 or 25 next year, which adds to about 150.


Unknown Analyst
Would you tell us just a little bit there about ECP and talk about the footprint? I mean, with the 
growth expansion-- if you look at how far these are apart, any chance of cannibalizing in those 
markets?


Robert L. Wagman
…We think that surely branches in major metropolitan areas can be 5 miles or so apart. So 
there's not necessarily cannibalization, it's just better service for the customers…. And then on 
the last call, we talked about these ancillary locations, not full sized branches. Our average branch 
over there is a 10,000-square foot branch. These would be smaller offshoots in more rural areas. 
That may be another 20 to 25 locations. So when this is all said and done, we'll be at about 
roughly 175 locations in the U.K. Cannibalization, there is a slight -- when you put one 5 miles 
apart from each other, we do move some of the revenue from one branch to the other. But
again, because of the better service levels we can provide, we do see an uptick in the revenue 
pretty quickly.


Q3’12 Earnings Call 
(10/25/2012)


During the quarter, we opened 10 new branches in the U.K., bringing our total branch count to 120. Since the 
acquisition of ECP in early October 2011, we have opened 31 branches, surpassing the target number of 30, 
I mentioned on the last call. Given that market conditions in the U.K., combined with the continued success of 
ECP, we have approved an additional 12 new branch openings for the fourth quarter bringing our total target 
to 132 branches by year-end.


John R. Lawrence
Rob, would you take a -- if you look at ECP overall out for the next 12 to 18 months -- how do you 
look at allocating CapEx dollars? Obviously, you're doing that with some more stores, but longer 
term, that marketplace -- the viability to spend more capital over there?


Robert L. Wagman
We've said we believe the total store count is going to be somewhere around 150 to 175. We 
believe that number is still to be true. And in fact, we may actually be able to go a little bit above 
175, with those satellite stores to feed the more remote areas.


Short-Term Decision-Making, Cont’d
53


 On the Q4’12 call, LKQ indicated that the 12 stores opened through January 2013 were pulled forward from the 25 it had projected to open in 
2013, and that it would take a break from opening new stores until Q2’2013, at which point it could have evaluated the progress of the newly 
opened stores.  There was a deceptive change in language in guidance for possible total store count, calling for 150-175 full sized branches and
an additional 25 satellites (200 in total)! (Recall that on the Q1’12 call, then reaffirmed on the Q3’12 call, they guided that the market could 
absorb to 150 full-sized stores and 25 satellite branches (175 in total)


 On the Q1’2013 earnings call, LKQ announced plans to open another 15 in Q3 and Q4, 2013, which would make for a total of 147 ECP branches 
(against initial guidance that the UK could absorb 120)


 On the Q2’2013 call in August 2013, LKQ again raised the limit on its estimate for the total number of stores the UK could absorb, to 175-200 full 
sized branches (from 150-175 before that, 150 before that, and 120 before that)!


 Then on November 12, 2013, in a press release announcing ECP’s founder had been promoted to serve as chairman of LKQ Europe, he stated, 
“The UK alone will have 200 Euro Car Parts branches within three years”!


Source:
Plans for New 
ECP Branches


Guidance for Maximum # ECP Branches 
UK market could absorb


Q4’12 Earnings Call
(2/28/2013)


Robert L. Wagman
During the fourth quarter, we opened 10 new branches, and we opened 2 additional branches 
in January, bringing our total branch count to 132… 
…With the 12 we did in Q4 originally scheduled for 2013 so we pushed them in 2012. So as John 
said, we're going to reevaluate this in Q2, but I would expect if we feel comfortable, we'll add 
another 10 in 2013 to fill up, to get to 142, with still some growth for 2014 and '15 as well.


Robert L. Wagman
…We're still standing by our projections of 150 to 175 what we call, Tier 1 ECP 
locations and an additional 25 or so, Tier 2, the smaller or remote markets. 


Q1’13 Earnings Call 
(4/25/2013)


Now turning to Euro Car Parts. We continue to be impressed with the performance of Euro Car 
Parts and its ability to capture market share. In Q1, ECP achieved strong organic revenue 
growth of 32.1%. With the continued performance in ECP's financial results and the strength of 
ECP's management team, I am pleased to announce that we have approved an additional 15 
new branches for 2013 that are scheduled to open in the third and fourth quarter of this year.


Q2’13 Earnings Call
(8/1/2013)


John S. Quinn
…. We've targeted 15 for the balance of this year. That will take us up to circa 147. 


John S. Quinn
... We think the right number is probably somewhere in 175 to 200 for what we 
consider a full branch, and then there will be some satellite opportunities in 
addition to that. Over time, as we grow that, we're going to have to look at the 
infrastructure associated with that regional hubs and the 2 main central hubs.


LKQ PR announcing 
leadership change


Sukhpal Singh Ahluwalia ‘I have never been more hungry, excited or determined to 
maximise our potential for the next decade and beyond. The UK alone will have 200 
Euro Car Parts branches within three years and we have ambitious targets for paint, 
collision parts and e-commerce.’


Short-Term Decision-Making, Cont’d
12/28/2012: Right before 2012 Yr. End 
“Our Biggest Sale Ever! Up to 45%” We have a 
Sale on at the moment where you can save up 
to 45% off on Car Parts..but it doesn't last 
long - must end midnight 1st Jan... so hurry!


8/16/2012: ”Mid Month Madness 30% off Car 
Parts Selected Car Parts” Owning to popular 
demand (everybody likes a big juicy discount!) –
we’ve decided to bring the big daddy back – yes 
that’s 30% off Car Parts as well as ALL Engine 
oils


9/27/2012: Right before Q3’12 Ended 
ECP ran a promotion “The Boss is Away! 
31% off Promo Code Inside…Ends Sunday!” 
Our biggest ever discount offered on almost 
ALL car parts…cash in before the boss is 
back!


• In 2012, ECP started heavy price discounting of parts across the board. Most discounts touted up to 30% off, often on all 
products sold. By the end of the year, the savings discounts reached up to 45% off


• Many of these sales appeared right at the end of the quarter, in what appears to be an attempt to juice results ahead of 
reporting to investors 


http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?topic=236138.0 http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?topic=238645.0 http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?topic=246135.0


Short-Term Decision-Making: Steep


Discounting to Hit Numbers in 2012?


54



http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?topic=236138.0

http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?topic=238645.0

http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?topic=246135.0
5/24/2013 –”The Online Bank Holiday Sale, Up to 
50% Off Everything!”


“It’s BACK again! – Up to 50% OFF 
EVERYTHING! No promo code required! Must 
End Midnight Monday, 27th May…”


9/27/2013: Before the end of Q3’13


“End of Summer Clearance, up to 50% off 
Everything Online!”..and you don’t need a 
promo code as current prices reflect the 
discount by default.”


3/28/2013: Before the end of Q1’13


“Our Biggest Ever Sale – Up to 50% off 
Everything!”


55


http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?PHPSES
SID=rffknoatjiinf0n2nuhh828uv6&topic=251262.0


http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?PHPSESSID
=rffknoatjiinf0n2nuhh828uv6&topic=254275.0


http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?PHPSES
SID=rffknoatjiinf0n2nuhh828uv6&topic=259869.0


 In 2013, discounts increased noticeably from 30% to upwards of 50% off. Each promotion is touted as its “biggest sale 
ever.” ECP has continued its practice of running promotions right towards the end of the quarter


 Not one time has LKQ attributed such discounts as a driver of its persistently declining gross margin


With Even Bigger Promotions in 2013!



http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?PHPSESSID=rffknoatjiinf0n2nuhh828uv6&topic=251262.0

http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?PHPSESSID=rffknoatjiinf0n2nuhh828uv6&topic=254275.0

http://www.golfgtiforum.co.uk/index.php?PHPSESSID=rffknoatjiinf0n2nuhh828uv6&topic=259869.0
On the Q4’2011 call (2/23/12), LKQ guided for 20 stores to be opened in 2012 and guided for 


2012 Parts and Services organic revenue growth 5.5-7.0%. (Guidance for P&S organic 


growth includes the impact from anticipated ECP store openings)


On the Q1’2012 earnings call (4/26/12), guidance was revised lower to 5.0-7.0%, even as 


LKQ raised the number of anticipated 2012 store openings by +10 to 30, indicating the 


intent to make up for unanticipated weakness in North America with new branch 


openings. LKQ stated that in order to meet 2012 guidance, certain anticipated tailwinds 


would have to materialize, specifically stating APU would likely rise from 37% to 38%:


On the Q3’2012 earnings call (10/25/12), LKQ raised the number of anticipated 2012 store 


openings by +12 to 42 and raised the lower end of the range for organic growth by 50bp to 


6.0-7.0%. In Q3, the opening of new ECP branches alone accounted for 40% of Parts and 


Services organic growth. 


The increase in the number of stores openings during Q4’12 resulted in ECP growing to 


account for 75% of LKQ’s Q4’2012 P&S organic growth, by our estimates, enabling it to 


report 6% organic revenue growth and meet the low end of the guidance range


In sum, LKQ stated a reliance on APU rising to 38% to meet the initially released 2012 


guidance levels; although LKQ appears deceptive with investors in claiming this APU target 


was met, the data released by its information source refutes its claims, reporting that at the 


end of 2012 APU was 37%, unchanged from 2011. This left LKQ reliant on other sources of 


organic growth to meet guidance. 


In 2012 LKQ juiced its organic growth rate by opening double the number of ECP 


branches initially guided for, indicating LKQ made strategic decisions related to ECP 


openings at the expense of long-term value creation to inflate its financials and hit 


guidance 2012 guidance for organic revenue growth 56


“We included in the internal growth and the earnings guidance the new ECP locations opened to date and 
planned for the balance of the year. Rob mentioned that we plan to increase the number of branch 
openings… To reach our guidance, we're obviously assuming that the rest of the year gets better and we 
do think there are some tailwinds to help us in that regard... In 2011, we saw alternative part usage rate in 
the industry of 37%. Based on what we're seeing in the market today, we believe that in 2012 we'll see that 
rate increase to at least 38%...


How Did This Play Out In Pacifying 


Wall St. Estimates?
ECP – ‘Organic’ Growth Contribution to LKQ 


Parts and Services Org Growth is Now >50%


 ECP’s reported organic growth rate has grown to account for >50% of LKQ’s consolidated Parts and Services 
organic growth rate


 ECP’s organic growth rate is a short-term phenomenon


 As ECP’s reported organic growth rate begins to fall and converge with the industry rate of growth, it will result in 
yet another large financial hole LKQ will predictably seek to plug


(1) Q2’2013 ECP SSS # adjusted for 2 extra selling days; SSS provides little insight, as it is inflated by the revenue ramp of newly opened branches, which take 3 years to mature 


(2) NA organic growth contribution is a PP estimate, imputed by backing out organic growth from ECP from reported Parts and Services organic growth 57


ECP Reported Organic Sales Growth1 ECP Contribution to Parts and Services Organic Growth2
**PP model: Uses 2006 as anchor year and is based on the number of per year ECP branch openings since 2006  and our projection of store 
builds through 2016, which reflects LKQ’s Europe Chairman’s expectation of 200 stores within 3 years. Assumes that at maturation, each 
store generates $5.4m, ECP’s average reported revenue/store in the period 2010-2012. ECP generally experiences the most significant 
growth benefit from a new branch in the year of first generating sales, and benefits continue to accrue through a 3 year store maturation 
period (LKQ earnings conference call for Q3’2012)


ECP – ‘Organic’ Growth Rate Unsustainable, 


Driven by Accelerated Store Expansion


 ECP had a total of 89 branches when LKQ bought it in October, 2011 and had opened an average of 10 new branches per year from 2007-
2011. In 2012 alone, LKQ opened 40 new branches. In just 2 years, at 9/31/2013, LKQ had 138 total branches and intends to have 200 by the 
end of 2016


 The chart to the right below contains a simulation approximating the revenue build and growth rate for ECP that would result solely from 
opening new ECP branches. The levels of organic growth projected by the estimated growth rate trend are reflective of the levels reported by 
ECP (after taking into account that our simulation understates ECP’s reported growth rates in its earlier periods due to assuming no new 
stores were opened in 2006 and prior).  As such, we believe ECP’s growth is almost entirely explained by branch openings, as opposed to 
same store sales growth for matured (i.e., >3 years old) branches, a result we would expect given the industry may be contracting 


 This means that as ECP approaches its market saturating goal of 200 total branches, its reported organic growth rate will plummet, 
converging to the industry rate of growth  – which is negative


58
**Historical Data from ECP 2009 Annual Report & the ECP Heritage webpage.  


2014-2016E from  “200 Euro Car Parts branches within three years “


ECP Current and Projected Store Base** Simulated ECP Growth Solely from New Branch Openings**



http://corporate.eurocarparts.com/about/heritage

http://www.bodyshopmag.com/News-euro-car-parts-announces-management-shuffle.aspx
 LKQ appears to operate ECP with the primary intent of unsustainably inflating its financials and meeting guidance targets, at the 
long term shareholder expense of entrenchment in a contracting market. We believe the result is predictable: A new financial 
hole will be left in the wake of a slowdown of in ECP branch openings that LKQ will seek to plug with more acquisitions (which 
have already begun taking place):


 Growing ECP branches was not an LKQ priority when it justified the acquisition, and this is evident by its initial plan to open 
only 10-12 stores per year. On the ECP Acquisition call (11/4/2012), LKQ stated that it had a strategic “plan to grow 10 to 12 
branches per year for the next few years”. It broke from that ‘plan’ just one quarter later and following repeated revisions 
branch store openings, opened 40 branches in 2012. Coincidentally, growth in North America was weakening. Based on our 
estimates, by Q4’2012 ECP accounted for a full 75% of consolidated P&S organic growth and enabling LKQ to hit guidance


 LKQ has repeatedly raised the ceiling for the maximum number of ECP branches the UK market can absorb. On the Q1’2012 
earnings call, LKQ stated, in another revision, that the UK could absorb a maximum of 150 full-sized ECP branches, and 
indicated that at that level “branches in major metropolitan areas can be 5 miles or so apart”, which would clearly result in 
cannibalization. LKQ has since raised the ceiling on the maximum branch count to 200!


 As of 9/30/2013, LKQ had a total of 138 stores (and growing), and plans to have 147 by YE2013, exceeding by 27 branches its 
initial guidance for the maximum number of stores the UK market could absorb (120 full-sized stores), which was likely the 
most credible number it has espoused given that it preceded the repeated store ramp-up and apparent quest to meet 
guidance. It may have already saturated the UK market, yet LKQ continues to invest shareholder capital into building new 
branches


 LKQ appears to be juicing ECP sales with heavy discounting of parts, with many such promotions offered right at the end of 
LKQ’s fiscal quarters 


 Inevitably, as ECP reaches its market saturating location capacity, we expect – and we believe management has anticipated – its 
reported organic growth rate to plummet and converge to the industry average. LKQ moved quickly to buy Sator in April 2013, 
amounting to its 3nd largest purchase ever, at the time. As a result, its European reporting segment now includes both ECP and 
Sator. This new reporting will obscure future financial deterioration at ECP


59


LKQ’s Short-Termism Results in Increasing 


Dependency on Acquisitions to Stay Afloat
60


Other Red Flags: ECP’s Receivables 


Growing 2x Faster Than Revenues


The recent acquisition of Sator appears designed to hide the problems occurring at Euro Car Parts. By removing Sator’s Q2 
2013 revenue and accounts receivable contribution, we find that ECP’s receivables grew at 2x faster than reported 
revenues. This is a major red flag for investors to consider.


Source: Company financial filings


European Segment Quarterly Operating Results
$ in millions


Euro Car Parts Results Only Sator/ECP Pro Forma 


3m Ended 3m Ended 3m Ended 3m Ended 3m Ended 3m Ended 3m Ended Sator ECP Only


Dec 2011 March 2012 June 2012 Sept 2012 Dec 2012 March 2013 June 2013 Contribution(1) June 2013


Revenue $138.5 $160.7 $165.2 $181.3 $188.8 $212.6 $297.8 $68.8 $229.0


  QoQ growth -- 16.0% 2.8% 9.7% 4.1% 12.6% 40.1% -- 7.7%


  YoY growth -- -- -- -- 36.3% 32.3% 80.3% -- 38.6%


Acct's Receivables, Net $50.9 $59.0 $60.0 $68.9 $70.2 $78.7 $143.7 $53.1 $90.6


  QoQ growth -- 16.0% 1.7% 14.8% 1.8% 12.1% 82.7% -- 15.2%


  YoY growth -- -- -- -- 37.9% 33.3% 139.3% -- 50.9%


(1) LKQ Quarterly filing, Note 9
61


The Real ECP:  A Lemon with Terrible 


Customer Feedback


http://www.reviewcentre.com/Online-Car-Part-Suppliers/Euro-Car-Parts-www-eurocarparts-com-review_2041339



http://www.reviewcentre.com/Online-Car-Part-Suppliers/Euro-Car-Parts-www-eurocarparts-com-review_2041339
Increasing Dependency on Acquisitions to 


Inflate Financials, Conceal Cumulative 


Manipulations
Apparent Dependency on Acquisitions to Inflate 


Profits and Conceal Cumulative Manipulations


 LKQ’s move to expand internationally, beginning with its acquisition of ECP, was reminiscent of another chapter 
from the Waste Management Story – the final chapter that ended with fraud and failure


 On the October 4, 2011 ECP Acquisition conference call, LKQ Chairman (and former President of Waste 
Management International) Joseph Holsten, unprompted, assured shareholders that LKQ would not repeat Waste 
Management’s international expansion mistakes


 The ensuing realities, however, have reflected little in the form of caution


63


Now a few of us in LKQ have kind of been down a similar road before in the waste business, when we founded Waste 
Management International in the early 90s. And we ran down the road kind of fast and probably got into markets that 
were not good markets to be in. And as I go out -- you will see it from this management team. It’s a team that learns from 
that lesson and will be more cautious in its market entries in Europe. We have a very strong commitment to our board 
that job one is to make sure that the deal in the U.K. is functioning and functioning extremely well before we move into 
further markets.
 We believe LKQ entered Europe in search of a fresh pool of large-scale acquisition targets, and that it is dependent on 
acquisitions to continue inflating its organic growth rate and GAAP profits, while papering over cumulative past 
misstatements. 


 LKQ entered the UK market with the express, primary purpose of driving APU for collision repairs, and has made very little 
progress in doing so to date. 


 Despite Chairman Holsten’s pledge of caution, LKQ has invested shareholder capital to aggressively ramp the ECP branch count,
while the industry around it contracts 


 Furthermore, just a year and a half following the ECP acquisition – again, not having yet proven “the deal in the UK is 
functioning extremely well” when measured against its stated, core purpose – LKQ acquired Netherlands-based Sator Holding, a 
distributor of spare parts to the automotive aftermarket industry in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, for a total of 
$273m. Sator was LKQ’s 3rd largest acquisition ever at the time.  LKQ pitched the acquisition as an opportunity to “achieve 
significant synergies, and ultimately, in the coming years, use Sator in our highly successful Euro car parts operations as 
platforms for further expansion into collision parts or other revenue and profit streams in Europe.” In the same way that it did 
ECP – as an open-ended opportunity of driving APU for collision repairs, currently at 7% in Western Europe vs. 37% in the US. 


 In commenting about the acquisition, founder and President of ECP Sukhpal Singh Ahluwalia, appears to have had its sites set 
more on acquisitions than on expanding collision-repair APU


 In a November 12, 2013 LKQ press release announcing that Sukhpal Singh Ahluwalia would be promoted to serve as Chairman 
of LKQ Europe, Singh stated, 


 With time, Holsten’s assurances of caution and LKQ’s pitches for open-ended opportunities to drive collision European collision 
APU have been exposed to be diversions 64


“… Our goal is also to use this transaction as a springboard for further acquisitions in Europe.”


“… Under my Chairmanship, we will continue to hunt for new acquisitions, maintain relationships with our key suppliers and push 
forward to access new markets.  My vision is to develop a group of European aftermarket companies exceeding $5bn in 


annualised revenue within five years. The UK alone will have 200 Euro Car Parts branches within three years and we have 


ambitious targets for paint, collision parts and e-commerce.’.”


Dependency on Acquisitions to Inflate Profits 


and Conceal Possible Cumulative Manipulations



http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/retailandconsumer/10018075/UKs-biggest-car-parts-company-to-merge-with-Dutch-rival-in-176m-deal.html

http://www.bodyshopmag.com/News-euro-car-parts-announces-management-shuffle.aspx
 LKQ is rapidly accelerating its deal making, both in number and in dollar value:


 LKQ acquired 30 companies in 2012 alone, against the backdrop of having acquired a total of 71 companies in 
the 3 years from 2010-2012 and 171 since its 1998 inception. Notably, LKQ reported a record 17 acquisitions in 
just Q4’12.


 Within the past 2 years, LKQ announced 3 of 4 of its largest acquisitions ever:  


 Its acquisition of Keystone Automotive Operations on December 5, 2013 is its 2nd largest ever. Its 
acquisition of ECP in Q4, 2011 is its 3rd largest ever. Its acquisition of Sator in Q2’2013 is its 4th largest ever


65


# of Quarterly Deals Completed


Rapid Surge in 
Acquisitions in Q4'12 


Acquisition Fair Value


Includes $303.7m 
paid for ECP


Includes $273m 
paid for Sator


$450m paid for Keystone 
Automotive Operations 
(announced 12/5/2013)


Dependency on Larger and Larger Acquisitions to 


Inc. Profits and Conceal Cumulative Problems
2012 % change from midpoint


High Low Actual Results - 2/28/13 Actual Initial Guidance Final Guidance


2012 Guidance  -2/23/12


Organic Revenue (parts/services) 5.50% -- 7.50% Organic Revenue (parts/services) 6.00% 0.50% 0.50%


ECP branch openings included in guidance 20        -- 20        Income from continuing ops $261.2 -2.5% -2.7%


Income from continuing ops $258.0 -- $278.0 Diluted EPS $0.87 -2.5% -2.8%


Diluted EPS (1) $0.860 -- $0.93 CFO $206.2 -22.2% -19.1%


CFO $250.0 -- $280.0 CAPEX $88.2 -18.0% -7.2%


CAPEX $100.0 -- $115.0


2012 Guidance  -4/26/12


Organic Revenue 5.00% -- 7.00%


ECP branch openings included in guidance 30        -- 30        


Income from continuing ops $262.0 -- $282.0


Diluted EPS $0.88 -- $0.94


CFO $250.0 -- $280.0


CAPEX $100.0 -- $115.0


2012 Guidance  -7/26/12


Organic Revenue 5.50% -- 7.00%


ECP branch openings included in guidance 30        -- 30        


Income from continuing ops $265.0 -- $282.0


Diluted EPS (1) $0.89 -- $0.94


CFO $250.0 -- $280.0


CAPEX $100.0 -- $115.0


2012 Guidance  -10/25/12


Organic Revenue 6.00% -- 7.00%


ECP branch openings included in guidance 42        -- 42        


Income from continuing ops $265.0 -- $272.0


Diluted EPS (1) $0.88 -- $0.91


CFO $240.0 -- $270.0


CAPEX $90.0 -- $100.0


(1) Adjusted for 2:1 stock split on 8/17/12. In April, guidance was adjusted to  include $0.03c legal settlement


While LKQ met 2012 revenue and barely missed on EPS guidance, it 
missed dramatically on CFO guidance.  2012 CFO came in -19% below 
revised guidance issued only 2 months before year end on 
10/25/2012, even as consolidated inventory turnover rose to 2.7x in 
2012 (vs. 2.5x in 2011). 


As previously discussed, acquisition accounting inherently and 
unsustainably boosts CFO. LKQ made a record number of acquisitions 
in Q4, just as a gaping financial hole in CFO exposed itself. We believe 
LKQ may be making acquisitions with the intent of inflating its 
financials and papering over past accounting manipulations. 


The cumulative deal size was insufficient to bail the company out, but 
we note that in 2013 LKQ proceeded to raise the stakes, making its 2nd


and 4th largest acquisitions since its inception.


66


Dependency on Acquisitions to Inflate Profits 


and Conceal Cumulative Manipulations


Note: 
Yellow 
shading 
indicates 


changes in 
guidance
67


..As LKQ’s Deal Making Gets Progressively 


Worse and More Desperate


 The recent acquisitions of Euro Car Parts, Sator and Keystone Automotive Operations exhibit progressively lower 
gross margins, and have been acquired at multiples that are substantially lower than LKQ’s own current valuation. We 
believe these acquisitions are partially used as a cover to explain away possible overstatement and deterioration of 
margins in its core business


$ in mm 2007 2011 2013 2013


Revenues
% growth(a)


$726.9
13.6%


$509.6
25%


$374.0
~4-6%


$700.0
--


Gross Margin 44.8% 43.8% 33.1% Low 30%


EBIT
% margin


$49.1
6.8%


$33.4
6.6%


$26.0
7.0%


--
--


EBITDA
% margin


$64.9
8.9%


$38.9
7.6%


$31.0
8.3%


$70.0
10.0%


EPS Accretion(b) -- 0.15 - $0.18c $0.01c --


Purchase Price(c) $811 $347 $272 $450


EV/LTM EBITDA 12.5x 8.9x 8.8x 6.4x


EV/LTM Revenues 1.1x 0.68x 0.73x 0.64x


Source: Company financials, converted from local currencies
(a) Sator growth described as low single digits on investor conference call
(b) As stated to investors in the deal announcement
(c) ECP deal excludes $76m of earnout payments to be made in 2013 and 2014


Euro Car Parts Sator Holding
Keystone Auto 


Operations
Keystone Auto 


Industries
68


Even Tuck-in Acquisition Quality 


Smells of Desperation


 Aside from large announced deals, LKQ has continued to acquire various businesses in an opaque and unannounced fashion. 
Below, we analyze information found in the footnotes of its SEC filings for trends in its recent deal-making.


 We find further evidence that its deals are getting increasingly desperate with smaller sized and lower EBIT contribution


$ in mm 2012 YTD 2013 (a) Observation


Number of Deals 30 9 At 25-30% market share, it must 
be harder to find smaller deals


Total Deal Value /
Goodwill Recorded


$284.6 / 
$197.6


$41.1 /
$26.1


Goodwill amounting to ~65% of 
recent deals


Avg. Deal Size $9.5 $4.5 Avg. Deal Size Down 50%


Revenue Contribution $116.3 $12.4


EBIT Contribution $11.0 $0.5


Implied Avg. EBIT Margin
Contribution


9.4% 4.0% Avg EBIT Contribution Margin 
down 540bps indicates lower 


quality businesses being added


Source: Company financials (Note 9)
(a) As the 6 months ended June 30, 2013 and excludes the Sator acquisition
69


..As Leverage Rises at the Same Time


 With margins under persistent pressure, growth in the U.S. stagnating, and the need to produce increasing revenue and EPS 
targets, LKQ has brazenly pushed into Europe with two recent acquisitions 


 Recently in an unexpected manner, LKQ announced the acquisition of Keystone Automotive Industries for $450m, a deal that is 
currently being financed by short-term borrowing. Pro forma for the incremental $70m of acquired EBITDA, we estimate the 
company’s leverage to be 2.2x Debt/EBITDA


$
 in


 b
ill


io
n


Note: Pro forma for debt financed Keystone deal


$601 


$956 


$1,118 


$1,312 


$1,762 


1.80x


2.30x 2.20x
2.14x


2.23x


0.00x


0.50x


1.00x


1.50x


2.00x


2.50x


$0


$200


$400


$600


$800


$1,000


$1,200


$1,400


$1,600


$1,800


$2,000


2010 2011 2012 9/30/2013 PF 2014E


Total Debt Debt/EBITDA


D
e


b
t/E


B
IT


D
A
Inventory Accounting: 


Is Creative Accounting Inflating Gross 


Margins?
71


The Art of Inventory Accounting


Inventory Chicanery Tempts More Firms, Fools More Auditors, Wall St Journal,  Dec 14, 1992


"When companies are desperate to stay afloat, inventory fraud is the easiest way to produce instant profits and dress up the 
balance sheet," says Felix Pomerantz, director of Florida International University's Center for Accounting, Auditing and Tax 
Studies in Miami.“  Even auditors at the top accounting firms are often fooled because they usually still count inventory the old-
fashioned way, that is, by taking a very small sample of the goods and raw materials in stock and comparing the count with 
management's tallies. In addition, Mr. Pomerantz says, outside auditors can fail to catch inventory scams because they "either 
trust management too much or fear they will lose clients by being tougher.“
72


No One Knows What LKQ’s Sustainable Gross 


Margin Rate is, Potentially Even Management


http://seekingalpha.com/article/1595912-lkq-management-discusses-q2-2013-results-earnings-call-transcript?page=6&p=qanda&l=last


Craig Kennison, Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division


And lastly on gross margin, John, it fell a little bit year-over-year. I'm guessing that's largely mix and a little 
bit of the scrap issue. But what do you think the sustainable margin rate would be at the gross level?
John S. Quinn
John Quinn, LKQ Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President


Craig, I think we've talked in the past that our view is excluding the seasonality that unless something 
changes, things tend to stay the way they are in the short term. And we probably did get a little bit negative 
impact in Q2 because of falling scrap prices. We did see a little bit of benefit coming through in the car 
costs on the domestic side. As I had mentioned, the demand obviously went down. Rob mentioned we're 
buying a little bit better year-over-year, so we are trying to see that theory, if you will, evidence of it coming 
through in the financials. Then we do have a downtick coming with Sator in the short run because they'll 
be fully consolidated next quarter, fourth quarter, and so on. And we only had them for 2 months. So I 
would expect it to see a little sequential decline as a result of having them onboard to the full quarter. (ECP) 
will, as I mentioned earlier, just anniversaried now, so I don't anticipate any impact from that. And you get 
a little bit sequential impact at having the absence of a decline in the scrap prices. It'll help us a little bit in 
the next quarter.


Q2 2013 Earnings Call, Aug 01, 2013


LKQ Does Not Guide on Gross Margins, But When Recently Asked About LKQ’s Sustainable Margin Rate, the CFO 


Seemed to Theorize Gross Margins to be Driven by 5 Different Factors and Evaded the Question Wholly!


1
2


3


4


5



http://seekingalpha.com/article/1595912-lkq-management-discusses-q2-2013-results-earnings-call-transcript?page=6&p=qanda&l=last
The Facts: Gross Margins in 


Persistent Decline


 LKQ’s margins have been in persistent decline since 2005, while consolidated inventory turns have been relatively stable


 We believe there is more deterioration in LKQ’s gross margin than observable on the Income Statement


Sources: LKQ financials; CapitalIQ 73


Gross Margins in Persistent Decline, Flat Inventory Turns


G
ro


ss
 M


a
rg


in In
ve


n
to


ry 
T


u
rn


o
ve


r
74


Three Accounting Levers Would Enable 


Gross Margin Inflation


 If LKQ’s consolidated gross margin is being inflated, how would it be able to maintain a stable consolidated inventory turnover?  
 For reference, from FY 2005 to the LTM period ended 9/30/2013, consolidated inventory turns have been relatively stable, 


measuring 2.8x. Over the same time period, consolidated gross margin contracted disproportionately from 47.1% to 41%


1. Aggressive Inventory Policy Enables Overstatement of Inventory – LKQ’s Salvage & Remanufactured products 
inventory accounting policy allows for complete discretion to leave costs on the balance sheet in the form of 
overstated inventory. The recent surge in salvage inventory coupled with gross margin deterioration is consistent with 
this trend. In isolation, this policy results in inflated gross margins and CFO, and exerts downward pressure on the rate 
of inventory turnover. The generally high level of Salvage & Remanufactured inventory – to which the aggressive policy 
applies – is a high level sign the company may be manipulating its margins


2. Acquisition Accounting Enables Understatement of Acquired Inventories – The acquisition fair market value process 
enables LKQ to understate the values of acquired company inventories, and to allocate the plug figure to goodwill. The 
result is that inventory costs, which should be future period expenses, are instead permanently deferred. In isolation, 
this would result in inflated gross margins and CFO, and exert upward pressure on the rate of inventory turnover, 
thereby counterbalancing the downward pressure caused by increases in Salvage and Remanufactured inventory and 
stabilizing consolidated inventory turnover. 


3. Mis-categorization of One-Time Gains to Directly Inflate Gross Margins – Management has shown the willingness to 
use its discretion to very blatantly inflate gross margins


 Furthermore, we observe that LKQ has never disclosed or broken out in its financials amounts for inventory writedowns. We 
find this odd for a company that holds inventory such as auto parts that have a finite useful life


 We believe LKQ’s gross margins will continue to decline through 2014 against the backdrop of intensifying competitive pricing 
pressures, and as past accounting overstatements have to be reversed; we believe LKQ is at elevated risk of a crippling goodwill 
write-down. 


LKQ Appears to be Pulling 3 Accounting Levers in Unison:
1) Inflated Profitability, Focus on Inventory 


– Interview w/ Recycled Parts Distributor


(1) “Recycled Parts Distributor” is an owner of large, independent auto parts recyclers
75


Prescience Point (“PP”):  LKQ reports a  10-11% profit margin. Is that the standard for a recycled parts 
distributor in general?


Recycled Parts Distributor (“RPD”) 1:  I can't hit those numbers; I'm not even sure they're making any money on 
the recycled business. I'm in the business, it's hard to make a profit… It is very competitive


Prescience Point (“PP”):  Do you have some skepticism as to whether LKQ is as profitable as it indicates?


RPD: Well, the first thing I would look at is their (recycled parts) inventories. Because they're easy to manipulate. 
There is no way to take an accurate inventory on recycled parts. There is no way to get the right value... You can 
do some estimating.  How they value their inventory is crucial; as inventory gets older its almost worthless
 LKQ uses an aggressive policy for accounting for its Salvage and Remanufactured Inventory (refer to next slide) that allows for a high level of 
discretion to leave costs on the balance sheet in the form of overstated inventory. LKQ is likely inflating its gross margin and earnings by failing 
to record a necessary expense for excess and obsolete inventory. Omissions of expensing obsolete inventories result in future margin 
compression, as past overstatements must be reversed; earnings will be pressured at the time when the inventory is sold (at a deep discount) or 
disposed of.  In isolation, a policy of overstating inventory exerts downward pressure on LKQ’s rate of inventory turnover


 LKQ calculates the carrying value of inventory through a formula that applies 1) the historical average of gross margin and 2) expected selling 
prices.1 Using historical margins and future pricing estimates as inputs may paint an unrealistic picture of inventory value.  As a result, the impact 
of any rapid margin change may be smoothed over time; we believe LKQ’s gross margin is deteriorating faster than presented in its Income 
Statement


 The recent surge in salvage inventory coupled with gross margin deterioration is consistent with this smoothing trend and the overall concern of 
costs being left on the balance sheet


76


1) Aggressive Inventory Accounting Policy –


Enables Overstatement of Inventory & GM


 **Prescience Point estimate: assumes aftermarket and recycled product categories have 
equivalent margins. Keystone and LKQ margins were ~inline prior to the Keystone acquisition. 
Excludes our estimate for ‘Other’ inventory turns, which was imputed assuming a 45 DSI. 


Salvage & Remanufactured Inventory Turns 
and Consolidated Gross Margin Are Declining


Salvage & Remanufactured Inventory Has Recently Surged, 
While Gross Margins are Declining


(1) Note for there are no standard prices for many of LKQs products, which would give management wide discretion for 
marking inventory values
Aftermarket and Refurbished Product Inventory. Our aftermarket inventory cost is established based on the average price we pay for parts, and 
includes expenses incurred for freight and overhead costs. For items purchased from foreign companies, import fees and duties and transportation 
insurance are also included. Refurbished inventory cost is based on the average price we pay for cores, and also includes expenses incurred for freight, 
labor and other overhead.


Salvage and Remanufactured Inventory. Our salvage inventory cost is established based upon the price we pay for a vehicle, including auction, storage 
and towing fees, as well as expenditures for buying and dismantling. Inventory carrying value is determined using the average cost to sales percentage 
at each of our facilities and applying that percentage to the facility's inventory at expected selling prices. The average cost to sales percentage is 
derived from each facility's historical vehicle profitability for salvage vehicles purchased at auction or from contracted rates for salvage vehicles 
acquired under certain direct procurement arrangements. Remanufactured inventory cost is based upon the price paid for cores, and also includes 
expenses incurred for freight, direct manufacturing costs and overhead.


 The company’s policy sounds like the Gross Margin, or Gross Profit (GP), method used by many retailers for estimating inventories 
for interim financial statements.  The GP method is not an acceptable method for determining the year-end inventory balance, since 
it only estimates what the ending inventory balance may be. GAAP requires companies that use the GM method to conduct an 
annual physical inventory count to determine the actual value of inventory at year end, as inventory values and physical quantities 
can decrease over time even if they are not sold. Failing to identify and reflect such shrinkage would undermine the reliability and 
accuracy of a company’s financial statements. 


 Although LKQ does not call its policy the GP method, its description indicates the two policies are close to, if not, identical.  LKQ may 
be violating GAAP at every year-end as GAAP mandates taking an annual physical inventory count. If we are correct, that LKQ could 
have gotten away with calculating inventory based on these estimates is surprising. Like any retailer, LKQ is not immune to shrinkage 
(refer to Thieves Steal Dozens of Car Parts from Local Shop), which undermines the credibility of financial statements in which 
inventory is based on estimates. 


Source: http://wnep.com/2013/06/04/thieves-steal-dozens-of-car-parts-from-local-shop/ 77


1) Aggressive Inventory Accounting Policy –


Enables Overstatement of Inventory Balance


LKQ’s Salvage and Remanufactured Inventory Accounting Policy



http://wnep.com/2013/06/04/thieves-steal-dozens-of-car-parts-from-local-shop/
78


2) Acquisition Accounting – Enables 


Understatement of Acquired Inventories 


 Because LKQ is a serial acquirer that does not disclose specifics of the vast majority of its acquisitions, such as deal terms or 
consistencies of target company balance sheets, analyzing its accounting irregularities with precision and across periods is 
difficult. But the surge in Salvage & Remanufactured inventory, the account subject to the aggressive inventory accounting 
policy, serves as a higher level sign that margins and CFO may be manipulated


 LKQ’s acquisition policy gives it a lot of discretion when it comes to accounting manipulations. We believe LKQ may be using 
acquisition accounting to understate values of acquired inventories, further inflating its gross margin. In isolation, this policy 
would exert upward pressure on LKQ’s rate of inventory turnover


 At the time of any acquisition, the acquirer is required by GAAP to present the fair value – or present a current value – of all 
the assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. When LKQ acquires a company, it is required to mark at fair value the inventory 
acquired; undervaluing the inventory would enable the company to counterbalance the rises in Salvage and Remanufactured 
inventory (previously discussed), keeping consolidated inventory turns flat, and inflate gross margins and CFO


 As Tyco demonstrated when its frauds were exposed there is plenty of room for manipulation in the fair value process. 
(Refer to paragraph 4 in the SEC settlement announcement). 


 The strategy would entail marking the value of tangible assets – that would otherwise result in future expenses down (e.g. 
inventory and PP&E) – as low as possible in the name of conservatism, and to allocate the balance to goodwill. In effect, the 
policy moves future period expenses to the balance sheet as goodwill, where they are permanently deferred


 To demonstrate, at the extreme, if the Company books the entire value of acquired inventory as goodwill (implying that it has 
marked acquired inventory down to a $0 value), then sells that inventory, the revenue will flow right down to its bottom line: 
Because there is no cost associated with that inventory, the Company’s gross margin on the sale is inflated, in this case 
equating to 100%


How would LKQ be able to keep consolidated inventory turns from declining in the face of GM manipulation?


Tyco!!!



http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2006/2006-58.htm
2) Acquisition Accounting –


Interview with Salvage Auto Consultant


 We believe it is exactly this ‘cookie jar accounting’ the consultant refers to that LKQ is using to inflate GM and CFO 
and to manage stability in its inventory turns, which inherently lends to the appearance of a high quality earnings 
stream


(1) Salvage Yard / Recycled Auto Consultant – consults for salvage yards; consults for some through the process of being acquired by LKQ
79


Prescience Point (“PP”):  When people sell to LKQ, what prices is LKQ paying? What metrics are they using and what are they 
buying a yard at?


Salvage Auto Consultant (“SAC”) 1: I do some consulting for people that are selling to LKQ…  If the business meets their (LKQ’s) 
criteria, it would be rare for them to pay more than 0.6x sales. These days that's the most I have seen them pay, 60% of annual sales, 
so they are probably paying less than that, and only that amount if profitability is above 10% net, capex has been maintained, and it 
fits their customer mix – they will not buy a yard unless it sells late model collision…


PP: So if a yard sells at 0.6x sales, what is the typical value of inventory being bought?


SAC: Lets back up and triangulate this. Lets take a yard that does $5m and that sells to LKQ for 60% of sales, or $3m… Understand that 
this revenue multiple does not include real estate; it applies only to the business... Let’s assume that 80% of the yard’s sales are used 
parts, which is typical for the industry; so it has $5m in annual sales, 80% from used parts, implying that $4m of their sales come from 
used part sales, which is $350k per month.  The inventory values that are sustainable on the balance sheet for an IRS audit are 
between 2-3 months sales… At 3 months sales, which I think is more sustainable (than 2 months’ sales), but probably more than that is 
needed actually… but I don’t think the IRS would give a yard trouble with 3 months’ sales in inventory – they’d kinda look at it and go 
on because it implies 4 turns to COGS.  So 3 x $350k = $1.0m of inventory. That would imply that of the $3m purchase price LKQ paid, 
the inventory purchase component of that is at least $1m


PP: OK, so they buy a yard for $3m, and that yard would typically have $1m in inventory?


SAC: I'd say $1m to $1.5m is what they're bringing it in at. I think they're being thoughtful about that number by the way. I don’t think 
they’re just applying some percentage method to it. I think they're looking at the reports, the turns, the gross margins, and making 
some assumptions on how valuable that inventory truly is, and how much obsolescence there truly is.  And they're bringing it in at a 
value to avoid taking writedowns later. And it may mean they may do some cookie jar accounting on the front end and amortize or 
replace some of it with goodwill because they’d bake off over a long time
2) Acquisition Accounting – Enables 


Understatement of Acquired Inventories 


 According to the  ‘Salvage Auto Consultant’ interview on the previous slide, LKQ buys recycled auto distributors at 
a maximum of 60% of annual sales, a valuation that applies solely to the operation and excludes the value of real 
estate. Based on his experience, LKQ targets companies generating 10% profit margins. If we assume the purchase 
price ranges from 40-60% of sales, this would imply: 


 LKQ is paying 4x–6x net earnings for recycled auto parts distributors


 Acquired inventory values make up 33% – 67% of the purchase price


 From 2003 to 2012 (excluding the impacts of the distressed purchase of Greenleaf), LKQ spent $2.3 billion on 
acquisitions. If we assume for conservatism that the purchase price allocations to PP&E were all related to real 
estate buys and back the cumulative PP&E allocation out from the cumulative purchase price, we are left with 
$2.1 billion spent to acquire the businesses. Over the same period $482m of the cumulative purchase price was 
allocated to inventory, or only 22.7% of the cumulative purchase price, ex PP&E. 


 We believe LKQ’s purchase price allocations are consistent with a policy of having used acquisition accounting to 
systematically understate acquisition inventory values, thereby, inflating its financials and successfully stabilizing 
its inventory turnover


80
2) Acquisition Accounting – LKQ at 


Elevated Risk of Goodwill Writedown


 We believe LKQ is at an elevated risk of a significant goodwill write down


 From 2003 to 2012 (excluding the impacts of the distressed purchase of Greenleaf), LKQ allocated ~70% of its aggregate acquisition costs to 
balance sheet goodwill. To date, it has amassed an $1.92 billion of goodwill (and a further $154m to intangibles) relative to a book equity 
totaling $2.25 billion; goodwill makes up 85% of LKQ’s book value. 


 By way of comparison, Keystone – prior to LKQ’s buyout of the company – from April 1 1998 to March 30, 2006 allocated only 
44.9% of its aggregate acquisition costs to goodwill; in FY 2007, Keystone’s goodwill amounted to 15.2% of book value


 A goodwill write down for LKQ is not without precedent. Jan 1, 2002, LKQ wrote off ~57% of its balance sheet goodwill. Prior to the write 
down, goodwill had amounted to 72% of book value


 That LKQ took a valuation impairment during the post-tech recession in 2002, citing contracting multiples, but did nothing of the such during 
or after the 2008-2009 financial crisis, which was the deepest recession the US has endured since the Great Depression, does not pass logic. 
In 2009, LKQ’s closest comparable Greenleaf, the 2nd largest wholesale auto parts recycling business in the US, was in distress and sold it 
itself to LKQ for ‘less than the fair market value of its assets’; enterprise valuations were down across the board as liquidity evaporated.


 Today, the stakes are much higher for LKQ than they were in 2002. The current size of its goodwill account is multiples of its 2002 enterprise 
value. Because we believe that LKQ may be using this account to manipulate margins and CFO, we also believe the account appears inflated 
and impaired as it stands 


Sources: 10-k’s for Keystone Automotive; Form S-1 for LKQ filed July 28, 2003
81


Previous LKQ Write-Off of ~57% of Goodwill Balance


Valuations for some of the Company's acquisitions have declined
significantly since the Company completed its acquisitions during 1998
and 1999 due to a number of factors, including lower earnings
multiples applied in the valuations of comparable companies. As a
result, the Company determined that the carrying value of certain
reporting units exceeded the fair value of those reporting units at
January 1, 2002, and recorded an impairment of goodwill in the
amount of $49,898,800, net of tax of $16,120,700.


LKQ Explanation: Lower Valuations of Comps
82


3) One-Time Gains to Inflate Gross Margins


 We believe LKQ was manipulative in how it booked gains in 2012 from legal settlements awarded in a class action 
suit against several aftermarket suppliers.  The awards were booked as two legal settlement gains of $8.3m and 
$8.4m in Q1'12 and Q2'12, respectively 


 The gain classification artificially inflated gross margins: The gains were booked as reductions of COGS, 
significantly propping up and blunting a multi-year decline in gross margins.  In 2012, these gains elevated gross 
margins from 40.95% to 41.38%, which helped to mask the significant drop from 42.57% in 2011


 The settlement gains had nothing to do with ongoing COGS. While the original source of the lawsuit may have 
originated from issues related to LKQ’s inventory account, receiving a one-time settlement gain is irrelevant to 
current period operations and should be treated as one-time, non-operating gains in nature.  In our judgment 
LKQ’s classification is exceedingly aggressive 


 In light of our belief that games are likely being played in LKQ’s accounting for inventories, the nature of 
management’s choice in this case underscores the potential severity of other manipulations, exposed or not   


 Management also inflated its earnings prospects by including the legal settlement gains in its EPS guidance.  The 
Company chose to factor these one-time legal settlement benefits into guidance, even while explicitly excluding 
other one-time gains/losses from guidance
 In Q1’12, management raised 2012 EPS guidance due to inclusion of the first legal settlement gain in its revision. The entire value of 
the positive differential over prior guidance was attributable to the one time legal gain.


 Based on its Q1 10-Q (excerpted below), management knew that an additional settlement gain of near-equivalent value would be 
recognized sometime in 2012.  Even though it also expected to recognize this second gain, management chose not to also include it 
in the 2012 guidance revision that included the first gain…


 Instead, in Q2'2012, management booked the remaining, previously expected settlement gain in the amount of $8.4m, equating to
+$.04 EPS. When they reported Q2’2012 results (issued 7/26/2012), management AGAIN raised its 2012 guidance to $265–$282m 
and $1.77 – $1.88. And again, the positive differential from the prior guidance resulted from including the 2nd, previously 
anticipated gain, offset by a fall in scrap prices, in the revised numbers. In other words, guidance would likely have been lowered had 
LKQ included the 2nd gain in the original guidance revision. This seems to indicate they kept it in their back pocket to ensure the next 
revision to guidance would be a raise 


83


Cont’d: 


3) One-Time Gains to Inflate Gross Margins 


“We are a plaintiff in a class action lawsuit against several aftermarket product suppliers. Our recovery is 
expected to be approximately $16 million in the aggregate. In January 2012, we reached a settlement 
agreement with certain of the defendants, under which we recognized a gain of $8.3 million, which was 
recorded in Cost of Goods Sold during the three month period ended March 31, 2012….


We expect to recognize an additional $8 million gain related to settlements with certain other defendants in 
this lawsuit in the last nine months of 2012.”


– LKQ Q1’2012 10-Q
84


 On the Q2’2012 earnings conference call, CFO John Quinn was asked by an alert analyst whether he’d expected 
the 2nd settlement gain when guidance had been issued in Q1; he completely dodged the question:


 But per the previous slide, it’s written in black and white in the Q1’2012 10-Q. Of course he expected it!


Craig R. Kennison (Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division):


“Just to finalize on the guidance. In the second quarter, you had a $0.04 legal benefit, which is being included 
in your guidance. Did you expect that when you initially gave guidance after last quarter?”


John S. Quinn: 


“It was not included in the guidance last quarter.” 


– LKQ Q2’2012 Earnings Conference call, Q&A, 7/28/2012


Cont’d: 


3) One-Time Gains to Inflate Gross Margins
85


Another Red Flag: Shipping/Handling 


Revenue is Diverging from Other Metrics


Source: Company filings


 LKQ collects revenues related to shipping and handling (S&H), and regularly reports these figures in its 10-K


 If LKQ were a healthy, growing firm, we would expect to see S&H revenue at least stay constant over time with reported 
revenues, COGS, and average inventory 


 However, we observe declining trends in LKQ’s S&H revenue among all relevant financial metrics. In particular, we observe 
that S&H revenue to average inventory has declined at the fastest rate in the past six years. We interpret this as strong 
indicator of potential inventory shenanigans


Shipping and Handling Revenue vs. Other Financial Metrics


0.00%


0.50%


1.00%


1.50%


2.00%


2.50%


0.00%


1.00%


2.00%


3.00%


4.00%


5.00%


6.00%


7.00%


8.00%


9.00%


2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012


% of Avg Inventory (LHS) % of COGS (RHS) % of Total Revenue (RHS)


S&H/Inventory 
Has Largest Drop
86


WM and DZ – Previous Employers of Many 


LKQ Execs & Accounting Personnel 


Flynn Enterprises Common Shareholder


John Quinn
Various Positions


John Quinn
SVP and CFO


Mark Spears
Controller, Head Acct


Mark Spears
Former SVP, CFO


Frank Erlain
Fmr. VP Finance 


Controller, Accountant


Victor Casini
Gen. Counsel & 


Secretary


Walter Hanley
Asso. Gen. Counsel


Walter Hanley
SVP, Development


Victor Casini/
Gen. Counsel & 


Secretary


Ken Frese
Acct’g Mgr


Ken Frese
Accountant


Ken Frese
Dir. Accounting & 


Inventory


Joe Holsten
COO, CEO WM Int’l


Joe Holsten
Fmr. CEO, Chairman


Frank Erlain
VP & 


Controller


Sinon Galvin
SVP, Revenue 
Optimization


Sinon Galvin
Various Positions


WM Int’l


Fraud Allegations, Improper 
Capitalization of Expense; Files 
for Bankruptcy, March 1996


Charged w/ $1.7 
billion Accounting 
Fraud, March 2002


Stephen Eckel
Dir Oracle Fin Apps. 


Fmr. Acct’g/Ass. Cont’ller


Stephen Eckel
Assistant Corporate 


Controller


Source: SEC filings; LinkedIn®


Kevin Flynn
Former Director


Kevin Flynn
VP, Midwest


Vaughn Hooks
Chief Tax Officer


Vaughn Hooks
VP Taxes


Dan Shoener
VP


Dan Shoener
VP of Finance


LKQ
87


LKQ’s Director of Inventory Accounting 


$1.7bn 
Accounting 


Fraud


Fraud 
Allegations, 


Filed for Ch. 11 
Bankruptcy


http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=30515327&locale=en_US&trk=tyah2&trkInfo=tas%3Aken%20freseSource


 In light of our belief that LKQ may be inflating its financials, and most likely via inventory accounting 
shenanigans, it is worth noting that LKQ’s Director of Accounting and Inventory is connected with two 
companies previously alleged to have engaged in accounting manipulations to inflate their stock prices



http://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=30515327&locale=en_US&trk=tyah2&trkInfo=tas:ken frese
The Waste Management 


Playbook for Paper ‘Profitability,’


Used Over and Over Again
89


Waste Management – Aggressive Roll-up 


Strategy Replicated by LKQ & Many Others


 In 1968, Dean Buntrock, Wayne Huizenga (both LKQ founding backers), and Lawrence Beck founded Waste Management (WM). In 
1972, Donald Flynn (LKQ’s founder) joined WM as CFO. WM set out to consolidate the highly fragmented garbage hauling industry via 
an aggressive roll-up strategy. Its growth would benefit from the tailwinds  of recently issued EPA regulations that posed challenges for 
mom and pop operators


 By the time WM went public in 1971, it had acquired 133 garbage haulers and was generating >$10m in revenue. In the first 9 months 
of 1972 it had acquired another 133 firms and by the end of the year had generated $72m in revenue. From 1971 to 1980, WM’s 
revenue grew at a rate of 48% per year, and in 1980 it generated $656m in revenue. By 1986, WM had become the largest waste 
disposal firm in the world. 


 Donald Flynn was given credit as the “financial genius” behind Waste Management’s extraordinary growth from the 1970s to 
the early 1990s in a 1993 corporate history commissioned by the company


 In 1976, the SEC alleged that WM founder Huizenga was involved in disguising unlawful political contributions, that Waste Management
was skimming dump fees and using the proceeds to create an illegal "slush fund" to be used for political contributions. Huizenga signed 
a consent decree barring him and WM from using corporate money for "unlawful political contributions" and from filing "materially 
false and misleading" financial statements. There was no admission of wrongdoing


 In 1984, WM co-founder Huizenga and John Melk, President of WM International, sold their stakes in the company and would go on to 
invest in Blockbuster Entertainment; Buntrock remained as CEO until 1996, and Flynn as CFO & director until 1989 & 1997, respectively


 By the late 1980’s and early 1990’s, WM had undertaken a botched international expansion in a push to become the world’s first global 
‘environmental services’ company.  “That ambition led Waste Management to acquire a range of profit-draining businesses.  The 
eventual result was angry shareholders, turmoil in the board room and a disruptive series of management purges and sudden 
resignations, followed by revelations (in late 1997) of accounting irregularities.”


 In 1998, the troubled company merged with USA Waste Services Inc.  


In 1997, a WM board-led probe turned up a massive financial fraud that went undetected from 1992–1997, involving the inflation of asset values 
and pre-tax earnings, resulting in a $3.5B charge in 1998 and the largest financial restatement in history at that time. The SEC charged WM with 
perpetrating a massive financial fraud



http://www.fundinguniverse.com/company-histories/wmx-technologies-inc-history/

http://articles.chicagotribune.com/1999-08-08/news/9908080386_1_gambling-boats-casino-waste-management/2

http://articles.latimes.com/1990-07-22/business/fi-980_1_southern-california-video/2

http://infohouse.p2ric.org/ref/26/25041.pdf

http://www.corporations.org/wmi/merger.html
90


SEC vs Waste Management


 In mid-July 1997, a new CEO ordered a review of WM’s accounting practices. That review ultimately led to the 
restatement of the Company's financial statements for 1992 through the third quarter of 1997. When the 
Company filed its restated financial statements in February 1998, it acknowledged that it had misstated its pre-tax 
earnings by approximately $1.7 billion and took a $3.5 billion charge. At the time, the restatement was the largest 
in corporate history. 


 From 1994 until 1997, a period at the heart of the perpetuation of the fraud, Donald Flynn (LKQ’s founder) 
was a Waste Management Audit Committee member and also served as Audit Committee Chairman during 
a period coinciding with the fraud.


 According to the SEC, former WM CEO Dean Buntrock, who would later be LKQ’s founding backer & 
director, was “the driving force behind the fraud,” and that, “He was the primary beneficiary of the fraud 
and reaped more than $16.9 million in ill-gotten gains from, among other things, performance-based bonuses, 
retirement benefits, charitable giving, and selling company stock while the fraud was ongoing”


http://www.sec.gov/news/headlines/wastemgmt6.htm
Waste Management Founder, Five Others Sued for Massive Fraud



http://www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/lr17435.htm

http://www.chicagobusiness.com/article/20001014/ISSUE01/100015186/old-dealings-dog-casinos-big-backer

http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2002-05-20/news/0205200203_1_illinois-gaming-board-audit-committee-chairman-emerald-casino

http://www.sec.gov/news/headlines/wastemgmt6.htm

http://www.sec.gov/news/headlines/wastemgmt6.htm
91


SEC vs Waste Management – RE: Multi-Year, 


“Massive Earnings Management Fraud”


Defendants Inflated Profits by $1.7 Billion To Meet Earnings Targets; 
Defendants Reap Millions in Ill-Gotten Gains While Defrauded Investors Lose More Than $6 Billion


“The Securities and Exchange Commission filed suit today against the founder and five other former top
officers of Waste Management Inc., charging them with perpetrating a massive financial fraud lasting more 
than five years.”
…
“The complaint alleges that defendants fraudulently manipulated the company's financial results to meet 
predetermined earnings targets. The company's revenues were not growing fast enough to meet these 
targets, so defendants instead resorted to improperly eliminating and deferring current period expenses 
to inflate earnings. They employed a multitude of improper accounting practices to achieve this objective.”


– SEC Press Release, 3/26/2002


• On August 29, 2005, the SEC announced its fraud action against the accused Waste Management officers 
would be settled for a total of $30.8m.  


• Buntrock and the others accused neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.



http://www.sec.gov/news/headlines/wastemgmt6.htm

http://www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/lr19351.htm
WM Alumni Borrowing from the Old WM 


Playbook Over and Over Again


 Waste Management’s aggressive rollup strategy gave its management a high level of flexibility to inflate revenue 
growth and margins, and to conceal doing so. 


 A closely-knit group of WM alumni and associates (including LKQ’s founders) have repeatedly co-invested in and built 
several companies, with each company replicating WM’s aggressive roll-up or an acquire-and-build strategy, in either 
case either consolidating or flooding an industry with store openings in an effort to claim the dominant position as 
fast as possible. Some of these companies include Blockbuster Video, Discovery Zone, Boston Chicken, AutoNation, 
Swisher Hygiene, and LKQ. Many of these companies have either failed to deliver on their sales pitches to investors, 
failed outright, or were tarred by allegations of fraud, manipulative accounting, and/or unjust management 
enrichment. 


 Based on our analysis, in the majority of cases these WM alums and associates build businesses with the intent to 
create the illusion of growth, as opposed to focusing on creating value through operational excellence. This has 
prompted some critics to claim that they build companies that have little lasting value. 


 Many involved seem to have learned to begin cashing out just before and soon after building a roll-up large enough 
to sell to the public at inflated valuations, and have gotten very rich in the process.    


 Billionaire Wayne Huizenga (LKQ founding backer and WM co-founder) has been involved in all of the above 
mentioned companies, either as a backer or as an executive, or both.  As he is quoted as saying (regarding some of 
the roll-ups that went on to fail after he cashed out), 


 "We left these companies in great shape, and to be blamed for their problems years after I left is ridiculous." 


92



http://www.usnews.com/usnews/biztech/articles/971020/archive_008067_print.htm
Same Players, Same Strategy, Results 


Marred by Accounting Irregularities & Failures


93


John Melk
Investor


Charged with 
accounting fraud, one 


of the largest in 
history;


Aggressive rollup 
strategy


Discovery ZoneBlockbuster Boston Chicken AutoNation Swisher Hygiene


Dean Buntrock
Co-founder, CEO


Dean Buntrock
Investor, Franchisee


Dean Buntrock 
Founding Backer, Director


Dean Buntrock
Investor, Director


Donald Flynn
CFO, Director -Audit Committee


Donald Flynn
Investor


Donald Flynn
Founding Backer, Director


Donald Flynn 
Founder


Donald Flynn
CEO/Chairman


John Melk
President WM International


John Melk
Founding Backer, Director


John Melk
Founding backer, Director


John Melk
Investor, Director


Lawrence Beck
Co-founder


Lawrence Beck
Investor, Franchisee


Lawrence Beck
Investor, Franchisee


Peer Pedersen
Director


Peer Pedersen
Investor, Franchisee


Peer Pedersen
Director


Peer Pedersen
Investor


Scott Beck
Investor, COO, 
Vice Chairman


Scott Beck
Investor


Scott Beck
CEO/Chair


Steven Berrard
CFO, then CEO


Steven Berrard
Co-founder, Co-CEO


Steven Berrard
CEO, Director


Victor Cassini
Gen Counsel,Secretary


Victor Cassini
Gen Counsel, Secretary


Wayne Huizenga
Co-founder


Wayne Huizenga
CEO/Chairman


Wayne Huizenga
Investor (via Blockbuster), 


Director


Wayne Huizenga
Investor


Wayne Huizenga
Founder, Co-CEO


Wayne Huizenga
Chairman


Wayne Huizenga
Founding backer (via 


AutoNation)


Bought out 
by Viacom for $8.4B;


Aggressive 
acquire-&-build 


strategy


Goes bankrupt;  
Allegations of fraud;


Aggressive 
acquire-&-build 


strategy


Goes bankrupt; 
Accounting gimmicks 
to obscure financials;


Aggressive 
acquire-&-build 


strategy


$$ Billions Lost; 
Pooling of Interests 


acquisition accounting;


Aggressive rollup & 
acquire-&-build strategy


Accounting 
irregularities;


Financials restatement,
Acquisition Accntng Issues


Ongoing SEC inquiry;


Aggressive rollup 
strategy


??
An array of accounting 


red flags & 
misrepresentations;


Aggressive rollup & 
acquire-&-build strategy


Dean Buntrock
Franchisee


Steven Berrard
CEO post-Viacom


LKQ
Blockbuster Entertainment


Blockbuster Entertainment proved to be Huizenga and his associates’ most lucrative endeavor; and its success would become a core 
aspect of their pitch to sell investors on subsequent endeavors employing the same strategy (with little success). We believe
Blockbuster worked primarily because it operated in a relatively nascent, quickly growing space – it had the wind at its back, allowing 
for a comfortable margin for error. Additionally by executing an extremely aggressive acquire-and-build strategy, the company’s key 
financial metrics were inherently blessed. Lastly, it was bought out by Viacom, prior to falling apart as the result of fundamental 
forces.  The associates’ subsequent endeavors, however, evidence that absent high luck, rapid expansion strategies that depend on 
external capital are customarily near-impossible to manage and that managers are seduced by flexibility in accounting policies


 In 1987, Donald Flynn, Wayne Huizenga, and John Melk (former President, WM International) bought a controlling interest in 
Blockbuster Entertainment Company. Blockbuster set out to consolidate the highly fragmented video rental field, which was 
already growing in the double-digit range when Blockbuster came into the picture – via the implementation of a rabid buy-and-
build strategy


 Huizenga, who assumed the role of CEO and Chairman, built the company in accordance with his modus operandi – at a furious 
pace and with a buy-and-build strategy, purchasing smaller chains and constructing new outlets. When Huizenga and his 
associates invested in 1987, Blockbuster owned 15 stores and franchised 20 others. From that point on, Huizenga opened a 
Blockbuster store every 17 hours on average for seven years; by the time of its 1994 takeout by Viacom, Blockbuster had 
expanded the store count to 3,700!


 Worries that the video rental industry was reaching a saturation point cast doubts on Blockbuster's ability to keep opening 
stores indefinitely. One response to this concern was to look to markets outside the United States for growth. 


 In April 1993, Blockbuster supported Donald Flynn by injecting equity capital into his new venture: Discovery Zone (DZ), buying 
a 20% stake (with the option to buy 49.9%). Huizenga and other Blockbuster executives joined the DZ board. 


 In September 1994, Viacom Inc. acquired Blockbuster for $8.4 billion


94



http://www.usnews.com/usnews/biztech/articles/971020/archive_008067_print.htm
Discovery Zone - Reckless Buy-and-Build, 


Fraud Allegations, Bankruptcy


 In July 1992, Donald Flynn (LKQ’s founder) bought a controlling interest in and assumed the role of CEO/Chairman of the Discovery 
Zone, an owner/franchiser of indoor kids’ playgrounds, using proceeds from his success with Blockbuster. DZ set out to build a 
leading market position in its space via a reckless acquire-&-build strategy. Unfortunately, in its rush to accelerate revenue growth, it 
incurred substantial debts and lost control of its costs, landing it in bankruptcy. Viacom later sued Flynn in 1997, claiming he was 
responsible for inflating DZ’s earnings and misrepresented its financials to secure the sale of his stock to Viacom in 1995, shortly 
before DZ declared bankruptcy. The suit was settled for an undisclosed cash sum


 In April 1993, Blockbuster Entertainment injected equity capital into DZ to finance Flynn’s expansion plans, buying a 20% stake (with 
the option to buy 49.9%). In June 1993, DZ IPOed 


 DZ used public capital to expand rapidly. Between 1991 and 1995, DZ expanded from 28 locations to 336 locations.  In September, 
1994, DZ bought 60 franchised DZ units operated by Blockbuster; Blockbuster simultaneously increased its equity ownership in DZ to 
49.9% by exercising its option to purchase additional equity directly from the Flynn family (through DKB Investments, L.P.); on 
September 29, 1994, Viacom acquired Blockbuster


 November 1994-March 1995 – 3 lawsuits, which were later consolidated, were filed against DZ as it reported substantial operating 
losses in Q3’04 and subsequent periods. The claims allege DZ and certain directors & officers, including Flynn, engaged in fraud 
intended to inflate DZ’s stock price, such as improperly capitalized preopening expenses, failing to timely make public the change in 
the method of accounting for preopening expenses, etc. The consolidated complaint was dismissed as a result of DZ’s Ch11 filing 


 On February 1, 1996, DZ warned shareholders that it may seek bankruptcy protection after January sales fell below expectations; the 
stock collapsed by >60%; on Feb 27, 1996, Flynn resigned as DZ’s Chairman.  On March 25, 1996, DZ filed for Ch11 protection


 In 1997, Viacom sued Donald Flynn and his sons, claiming they inflated earnings through improper accounting adjustments and 
misrepresented the company’s financial statements to secure a $25m sale of their personal stock to Viacom and to meet Wall Street 
Expectations for profitability. According to Kevin Forde, Donald Flynn's attorney, following settlement of the matter in 2004, "There 
was a payment of a certain sum for dismissal of all claims and our clients were very satisfied with the settlement"


95


"This is a question of a company that grew too quickly, without the infrastructure to do orderly and profitable growth" 


– Robert Mead, Discovery Zone spokesman commenting just after the company files for Ch 11 (March 26, 1996)



http://www.businessweek.com/stories/1994-02-27/heres-to-old-pals

ftp://ftp.sec.gov/pub/containers/fix039/1052814/0001047469-98-002570.txt

http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2004-10-06/business/0410060131_1_discovery-zone-blockbuster-entertainment-viacom

ftp://ftp.sec.gov/pub/containers/fix039/1052814/0001047469-98-002570.txt

ftp://ftp.sec.gov/pub/containers/fix039/1052814/0001047469-98-002570.txt

http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2004-10-06/business/0410060131_1_discovery-zone-blockbuster-entertainment-viacom

http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/1996-03-26/business/9603250563_1_discovery-zone-blockbuster-entertainment-bankruptcy-filing
Boston Chicken – Reckless Buy-and-Build, 


Accounting Gimmickry, Bankruptcy


 In 1992 Scott Beck and a partner bought a controlling interest in Boston Chicken (BC), a rotisserie-style chicken restaurant, with the 
$120m he made from selling his stake in Blockbuster Video franchise stores back to Blockbuster Entertainment. The foundation of BC’s 
business strategy was based on reckless acquire-&-build strategy. This reckless expansion program, however, would prove to be the 
root cause of BC’s financial demise, pushing the company into bankruptcy. BC would likely have ended up in bankruptcy much sooner 
given its cash-degenerative store unit economics had gimmicky accounting not concealed signs of its deteriorating business


 6 months after taking over Boston Chicken, Beck was overseeing a chain of 53 restaurants in ten states. By the end of 1992, Boston 
Chicken had 83 stores. In 1993, Boston Chicken went public, accumulating external capital for even more growth.  In 1993 BC went
public; the chain nearly tripled in size to 217 stores. By the end of 1994, it had 534 stores. Management announced its intent to grow 
the chain at a rate of more than 325 stores annually at least through the end of the decade;  


 Problems surfaced during the summer of 1997. Poor employee training, high operating expenses, and its lending policy to developer-
franchisees had started to take their toll on company finances.  In 1998, Beck resigned. Stores sales continued to falter, and by July 
losses had reached $437.1 million. 


 On October 5, 1998, BC filed for bankruptcy… A noted short-seller commented, “The Chicken has been plucked due to deteriorating 
store-level economics, management turmoil, and an outsized amount of debt due to an aggressive expansion plan that had once 
impressed Wall Street but perhaps never made financial sense."


(1) Howard Schilit, Financial Shenanigans: How to Detect Accounting Gimmicks & Frauds in Financial Reports (New York: Mcgraw-Hill,2010), 103-104
96


"They have the most aggressive expansion program ever undertaken in the restaurant industry“


– Restaurant Analyst Mike Mueller in Restaurant Business (4/10/1994)


Deceptive Accounting at Boston Chicken Discussed in Financial Shenanigans, By Howard Schilit (Excerpts Below)1



http://www.fool.com/EveningNews/foth/1998/foth981007.htm
Swisher Hygiene – Reckless Roll-Up, 


Financials Restatement, SEC Inquiry


 In 2004, Wayne Huizenga and Steven Berrard bought and took private public company Swisher International, an industrial cleaning 
business.  In August 2010, they took Swisher public through a reverse merger, renaming the successor entity Swisher Hygiene. Swisher 
was set on consolidating its industry via an aggressive and reckless roll-up strategy. Eventually the company announced that 
previously-issued financials could not be relied upon and that its profitability had been overstated. Swisher’s Audit Committee is 
currently probing the company’s acquisition accounting policies, as the company contends with ongoing SEC and US Attorney inquiries


 Based on an August 2010 Bloomberg News article, Huizenga planned “to build Swisher much the same way as he grew Waste 
Management, Blockbuster, and AutoNation;” and, according to Huizenga,


 Swisher began raising capital, and in approximately one year, had bought 55 companies, an average of more than one per week. The 
Wall Street Journal named Swisher the “most acquisitive” business in North America in 2011 after its buying spree. 


 By March 2012, Swisher's Audit Committee announced its 2011 interim financials could not be relied upon and that it would delay the 
filing of its annual report due to an ongoing internal investigation "primarily relating to possible adjustments to (1) the accounting for 
business acquisitions and (2) the calculation of the allowance of doubtful accounts receivable." It concluded that previously issued 
interim financial statements could not be relied upon and that earnings were inflated for the affected periods. According to its most 
recent 10-Q, the SEC and the US Attorney's Office have requested more information from the company, and the company faces federal 
shareholder lawsuits that allege the company artificially inflated its stock price (which collapsed as a result of the announcement).


 Further disclosure in a corresponding 8-k shows that Swisher is focusing on its accounting for acquisitions , which we believe LKQ may 
be using to manipulate its accounting, as a source of its accounting irregularities:


 Huizenga resigned from Swisher's board in May 2013. Berrard resigned as CEO in August, 2012. 


97


This is another opportunity to build a company that will grow…  Now we’ll have public capital to do acquisitions.      
…………….


You go to a guy and you say, ‘Do you want to sell?’ If they think they can be a part of something that’s going to grow -- you give them some 
cash and some stock -- they’ll say ’yes… They want the stock because they’ll think, ‘Oh boy, you guys are going to grow this business, and I’m 
going to watch my stock grow!’


During the course of its independent review, and due in part to the significant number of acquisitions made by the Company, the Audit 
Committee determined it would be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders to review the accounting entries relating to each of 
the 63 acquisitions made by the Company during the year ended December 31, 2011.



http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-20/huizenga-opens-act-four-of-buy-and-build-saga-with-coolbrands-acquisition.html

http://www.forbes.com/sites/clareoconnor/2011/10/05/blockbuster-billionaire-wayne-huizenga-swisher/

http://blogs.wsj.com/deals/2011/12/05/meet-the-most-acquisitive-company-in-america/

http://investor.swisherhygiene.com/common/mobile/iphone/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=659936&CompanyID=ABEA-5DGQK6&mobileid=

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1504747/000135448813006166/swsh_10q.htm#item1legalproc

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1504747/000119312512136037/d324007d8k.htm
AutoNation – Reckless Buy-and-Build, 


Billions Lost; Most Comparable to LKQ


 The case study of AutonNation Inc. and its predecessor entity Republic Industries (collectively, "AN"), we believe, bears many parallels to how 
LKQ's will develop. AN tried to consolidate a highly competitive, low margin, mature/low growth industry but lacked a fundamentally 
superior way of making money. Using public capital, it over- expanded and -extended itself, losing focus and eventually resulting in billions of 
dollars of shareholder losses. 


 AN was led by Wayne Huizenga and Steve Berrard as co-CEO’s from 1996 – 1999. Using an aggressive acquire-&-build strategy fueled by 
company shares, they set out to consolidate the automotive business by building a one-stop-shop involved in every stage of selling, renting 
and servicing new and used cars. They built an empire of new car dealerships, car rental agencies and used car megastores, selling investors 
the vision that each one would feed the other to enable the company to generate profits on a vehicle throughout its lifetime. 


 In 1996 & 1997, it acquired hundreds of businesses, mostly relying on the controversial pooling of interests acquisition accounting practice, 
with its earnings likely inflated as a result. In less than 2 years' time, AN was the largest auto retailer in the US with a market cap of >$12B. 


 They continuously reminded investors of the successes they achieved with Waste Management Inc. (Huizenga sold out of WM in 1984) and  
Blockbuster Inc. Per AN’s 1995 annual report, "We want to build a brand just like we did at Blockbuster." Wall Street bought into the vision 
that Huizenga could replicate those successes in consolidating the autos market. 


 The association would prove misleading; the growth of WM and Blockbuster were supported by strong secular tailwinds. WM's growth was 
supported by regulatory changes that made it almost impossible for mom and pops to compete. Blockbuster's growth benefited from a video-
rental industry that was growing in the double digit range. Like LKQ’s, AN’s end markets on the other hand were already mature, growing at 
a very low single digit growth rates – AN’s success was dependent on stealing market share from existing competitors.  Similar to LKQ, it also 
lacked the ability to drive down its most basic costs. 


 With high fixed costs and inventory values that depreciated with each passing moment, AN's used car business lost significant sums of money 
and led to investor disappointment; its share price fell by >80%  from peak to trough, representing a cumulative value of >$10B. 


 In 1999, Huizenga and Berrard stepped down. New CEO Michael Jackson would dismantle the empire via asset sales and spin-offs in an effort 
to focus the enterprise and improve margins. He spun off the rental car business and closed the money-losing used car business, resulting in a 
pre-tax charge of >$400m. He announced AN would suspend further purchases of new-car dealerships and concentrate instead on reducing 
costs at existing dealerships, and announced an increased its stock buyback program by $500m. 


(1)  Paul F Kocourek, Steven Y Chung, and Matthew G McKenna, “Strategic Rollups: Overhauling the Multi-Merger Machine,” Strategy & Business, second quarter 2000.
98


“…it found it had no way to drive down the basic cost of the business — buying cars. Unlike new-car dealers that accept many used vehicles as trade-ins, 
often on favorable terms, AutoNation had to compete at auctions with other dealers to build its inventory. With relatively high fixed costs, a huge inventory 


that depreciated in value with every passing week, and no sign of improvement, AutoNation bailed out and exited the used-car business in late 1999. “1



http://www.usnews.com/usnews/biztech/articles/971020/archive_008067_print.htm
AutoNation – Reckless Buy-and-Build; 


the Build-Out of an Empire Destined to Fail
 In May 1995, Huizenga and a relative invested $31m in Republic Industries, a public waste disposal company that would allow him to raise public 


capital for his next venture; Huizenga was appointed CEO and Chairman of the company


 The next year Steven Berrard joined him as co-CEO and director.  Under their leadership, the company announced plans to aggressively grow into a 
completely unrelated industry, setting out to build a one-stop-shop for consumers' automotive needs via consolidating the fragmented automotive 
retail and rental markets. According to a New York Times article, Huizenga said that Republic would cater to anybody who wants to rent, lease or buy 
a car that is brand new or used:


 Republic expanded aggressively, purchasing hundreds of franchised & used car dealerships and car rental companies, with the vision of assembling 
an empire that would reap economies of scale by involving itself in every stage of selling, renting and servicing new and used cars. It grew from only 
one franchised vehicle dealership at the end of 1996 to more than 270 franchised dealerships owned or under contract by the end of 1997, 
becoming America’s largest automotive retailer in 1 years time.


 Amongst Republic’s major acquisitions was AutoNation USA (“AN USA”), a developmental-stage private company owned by Huizenga and Berrard. 
The two co-founded the company in September 1995, intending to grow it into a nationwide chain of used car megastores, each of which would offer 
up to 1,000 reconditioned, late model, low mileage vehicles. When Republic's intent to acquire AN was announced, AN had not yet opened a single 
megastore; and, from inception to September 29, 1996, AN USA had lost $21.4m on revenues of $9.2m, with shareholder's equity of $30.7m. 
Republic paid 17.5m shares of stock for AN USA, equating to $250m at its intent to acquire was announced on March 29, 1996; but according to a 
class action complaint filed in January 1997, due to a rise in Republic's share price prior to its close, the deal was consummated for $643m 


 In 1996 and 1997 Republic also bought several vehicle rental companies, including Alamo Rent-A-Car and National Car Rental System, becoming one 
of the leading vehicle rental companies in the world.


 In 1998 , Republic generated revenue of $16bn, up from $5.6bn in 1996.  But when the dust began to settle from a slowdown in its acquisition 
binge, the economics of its business model did not pan out as promised. Republic struggled as a car dealership with high overhead, low profits and 
a strategy based on synergies that didn’t materialize. The AutoNation USA business was a money-losing business operation. 


 Furthermore, Republic may have been relying on the acquisition accounting practice known as pooling of interests to inflate its earnings. Republic 
applied this approach for more than half of its deals in 1996 & 1997; without having used it, its thin margins may have been in the red 


 Republic stock had risen from a split-adjusted $2 when Huizenga bought in to a peak of ~$44 in January 1997; by June 1997 shares had declined 
~50% and would continue their descent each year until hitting a low of $5 in December 2000. It's market cap fell from a peak exceeding $12bn by 
>80%, representing ~$10bn in lost shareholder value. 


(1) Machan, Dyan. "Crime, Garbage and Billboards." Forbes, November 20, 1995, vol. 156, issue
99


"We were looking for a shell [company], and this happened to come up," he says. "It could have been in anything…"1


'When they think of transportation,'' he said, ''we want them to think about us.'' 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/350698/0000950144-98-003334.txt

http://www.nytimes.com/1997/03/06/business/republic-s-huizenga-wants-to-dominate-the-market.html?n=Top/Reference/Times Topics/Subjects/A/Automobiles

http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/irol/85/85803/reports/Republic_AnnRpt.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/350698/0000950144-96-009099.txt

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/containers/fix012/350698/0000950144-96-001515.txt

http://securities.stanford.edu/1009/REPUBLICIND97/1997122_f01c_97CV6037.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/350698/0000950144-99-003789.txt

http://www.nytimes.com/1997/03/06/business/republic-s-huizenga-wants-to-dominate-the-market.html?n=Top/Reference/Times Topics/Subjects/A/Automobiles&pagewanted=2
AutoNation – Reckless Buy-and-Build, 


New Profit-Focused CEO Dismantles Empire
 At Republic's May 1998 shareholder meeting, Huizenga expressed his disappointment about the company's stagnant share price; according to an Sun 


Sentinel article describing the event, he told investors about "how the matrix of car dealerships and rental car agencies was going to simultaneously 
grow sales 'to perhaps as much as $60 billion in three to five years‘," and that costs would be cut to boost profits.


 Notwithstanding the mounting pressures to remain focused, in July 1998 AutoNation invested in Huizenga's close associate Donald Flynn's new 
endeavor, LKQ Corp. (It would cash out of this investment in 2003.)


 In 1999, under pressure from shareholders and a falling share price, Republic began to unwind what it had built over the preceding 4 years, 
streamlining its operations and undergoing management changes. 


 In April 1999, Republic spun off its waste disposal segment, and subsequently changed its name to Autonation Inc. (“AN”)


 On September 24, 1999, Huizenga and Berrard stepped down from their co-CEO positions; Michael Jackson, former CEO of Mercedes Benz USA, was 
named new CEO. 


 On September 30, 6 days after Jackson was hired, Autonation announced the spin-off of the car rental business to focus exclusively on the 
automotive retail business.  


 On December 13, 1999, 3 months after taking the helm, Jackson killed the concept of used-car megastores, announcing the immediate closure of 
the money-losing chain and the expectation of a pre-tax loss of between $430 – $490m. Of its 29 megastores, 23 would be closed and 6 integrated 
with new vehicle franchises. 


 According to a December 14, 1999 New York Times article, 


 AN also announced it would suspend further acquisitions of new car dealerships, instead concentrating on reducing costs at existing dealerships, 
and announced an increased its stock buyback program by $500m.  In the press release, Jackson emphasized his focus on improving profitability and 
the sustainability of the AN business model


 Jackson’s initiatives tremendously benefited the company's efficiency tremendously. A 2001 study for USA Today showed that AutoNation increased 
revenue per employee 82 percent from 1998 to 2002, a greater increase in efficiency than any other large public company in the country.


100


“Mr. Jackson… said that the used car superstores (i.e. AN USA) were high-cost operations with no chance of ever generating profits proportionate to their 
risk. Even if AutoNation had been willing to invest heavily, devote a lot of management time and wait for years, he said, ''the cost structure in those stores 


would still have been very high, leading to marginal operations.''


"Our focus now is on improving our operating margins and on creating a unique and branded customer experience in our new vehicle franchises, which 
are now AutoNation's sole business focus. By closing the megastores and implementing SG&A reductions, we have taken the necessary steps to ensure 


the long-term success of AutoNation."



http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/1998-05-21/business/9805200442_1_car-temps-usa-car-dealerships-huizenga

http://community.seattletimes.nwsource.com/archive/?date=19991219&slug=3002371

http://investors.autonation.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=85803&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=100071&highlight=

http://investors.autonation.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=85803&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=100038&highlight=

http://investors.autonation.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=85803&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=100038&highlight=

http://investors.autonation.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=85803&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=99996&highlight=

http://www.nytimes.com/1999/12/14/business/autonation-to-close-stores-and-cut-jobs.html?n=Top/Reference/Times Topics/Subjects/A/Automobiles

http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-112800245.html
LKQ Governance Concerns
102


Key Management Changes Start in 


2009-2010: Just As Business is Improving??


 We believe LKQ’s core business began slowing in the 2009-2010, which coincided with the APU rate stalling, 
and a stagnation in insurance paid collision repairs. Beginning in this period, we also observe various changes 
to key management positions


 LKQ’s CFO, Mark Spears, also the former Principal Accountant at Waste Management, mysteriously resigned in 
May 2009, despite a record year for the Company. Spears’ departure came ~1 year after the SEC issued a 
comment letter questioning numerous aspects of their business, and further comment letters would follow


 Subsequent changes have included a new CEO, and the departure of the Head of IR and Chief Acct’g Officer


Date Executive Role Note


5/21/09 Mark Spears CFO Resigns Press Release


12/6/10 Rob Wagman Promotion from SVP Ops, 
to Co-CEO


Press Release


12/6/10 Joe Holsten Resign CEO, joins the Board Press Release


Dec 2010 Sarah Lewensohn Director of 
Investor Relations


No longer listed as IR 
contact in PR


2/28/11 Frank Erlain Long time VP, Finance, 
Chief Acct’g Officer Retires


8K filing


3/5/12 Victor Casini SVP General Counsel 
resigns from the Board


8K filing


Comment Letters: 
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065696/000000000008014694/filename1.pdf
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065696/000000000010023419/filename1.pdf



http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=147311&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1290971&highlight=

http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=147311&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1505451&highlight=

http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=147311&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1505451&highlight=

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065696/000119312511049194/d8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065696/000119312512107161/d312128d8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065696/000000000008014694/filename1.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065696/000000000010023419/filename1.pdf
103


Delinkage of Incentives: Insiders Dumping, 


Rewarded to Acquire at Any Cost


 Insiders have been selling shares aggressively since the IPO when former owners of acquired companies, 
affiliates and management owned 22%. Since 2009, insider selling pressure has intensified and now insiders 
own less than 2%


 Management’s annual bonuses are tied to revenue growth, and long-term incentives are also tied to Revenue, 
EPS and ROE, with the following weightings revenue (47.5%), earnings ($47.5%) and ROE at just 5%. These 
metrics incentive management to recklessly acquire revenue, and boost EPS 


% Beneficial Ownership of Insiders vs. Revenue and Free Cash Flow Growth


$ in bn
104


And Sell Stock Shortly After Trumpeting the 


Merits and Growth Opportunities at Keystone


 SEC Form 4 filings show that key members of the management team made timely open market sales shortly after 
announcing the acquisition of Keystone Automotive Operations, Inc. on December 5, 2013


 These sales directly call into question why management would announce one of the largest deals in company history 
that “significantly expands its addressable market,” and then abruptly unload stock. Our take is that there’s an 
increasing disconnect between shareholders’ best interest and managerial incentives 


Executive Role Date Shares Wtd Avg Price Type


Wagman President/CEO 12/10/2013 25,000 $33.71 Open Market


Quinn CFO 12/9/2013 15,000 $33.62 Open Market


12/10/2013 5,000 $34.31 Open Market


Holsten Chairman 12/11/2013 6,025 $33.50 Open Market


of the Board 12/13/2013 25,975 $33.55 Open Market


Greenspan SVP, Operations 12/13/2013 20,000 $33.88 Open Market


Source:  SEC Form 4 filings
105


Board Lacking Relevant Experience and 


Necessary Focus for Adequate Oversight


 LKQ’s Board is comprised of accomplished business executives; but, only one non-executive member, Mr. 
Foster, appears to have relevant experience in the auto parts business.


 Furthermore, no other Board members appear to have experience in the scrap metal or related 
industrial sectors that would be of value to shareholders.


 Mr. Meister and Mr. O’Brien both serve on the compensation committee and serve on a combined 24 
other Boards, which makes us question there focus and commitment to LKQ.


Committee Service Current


Director Age Role Main Background Comp. Audit Govern Gov't Affairs Other Boards


A. Clinton Allen 69 Lead Independent Lab Testing x x 3


Kevin Flynn (1) 45 Seed Investor/Discovery Zone x Chair 1


Ronald Foster 71 Fmr Chairman of Keystone x x 1


Joe Holsten 60 Chairman Waste Management 1


Blyth McGarvie 56 Consumer Products Chair x 2


Paul Meister 60 Healthcare/Life Sciences Chair x 8


John O'Brien 69 Insurance x Chair 16


Guhan Subramanian 42 Academic/No Board Exp. x x 0


Robert Wagman 48 President and CEO Auto Products 0


William Webster 55 Payday Lending x x 2


(1) Recently deceased in August 2013, and yet to be replaced


Source: Company and public information; CapitalIQ
106


Governance Concerns: Executive Pay


 Also concerning is that the compensation committee constituents appear overcommitted. The Chairman, Mr. Meister 
serves on 8 other boards, while Mr. O’Brien is listed as serving on 16 other boards. We suspect shareholders interests may 
not be adequately supervised on the matter of compensation with the big time commitments of its committee members


 Management annual bonuses are tied to revenue growth, and long-term incentives are also tied to Revenue, EPS and ROE, 
with the following weightings revenue (47.5%), earnings ($47.5%) and ROE at just 5%. This mix of metrics incentivizes 
management to recklessly acquire revenue, and do whatever possible to boost EPS.


 The CEO’s total comp has increased 374% in the past 4 years, while free cash flow is up only 9%; over a multi-year horizon, 
cumulative free cash flow after acquisitions is nil. Approximately 50% of the comp increase has come in stock, but as a 
whole the management team has been net sellers. The 6 member management team reaped $12.9m in compensation for 
2012 (up 83% from 2009 comp of $7.1m)1


(1)  Includes consulting 
comp and incentive comp 
related to Mr. Holsten


9%


82%


92%


100%


101%


233%


374%


0% 50% 100% 150% 200% 250% 300% 350% 400%


Free Cash Flow


Total Exec. Comp


Adj EBITDA


EPS


Revenue


Share Price


CEO Comp


Where's the Beef?


Cumulative Growth 2009 - 2012
The Misguided Analyst Community
108


LKQ Enlists Firm Associated with Stock 


Pumps for Research Coverage Initiation 


“Occasionally, we find a critic of 
RedChip who in a fury of madness 
mistakenly throws us into the “pump 
and dump” category of investor 
relations firms” –Dave Gentry, 
Founder of Redchip1


(1)  http://www.redchip.com/blog/index.php/redchippresident/pump-and-dump-is-a-pejorative-term-and-rightly-so/#.UZ05RrW1E0w


http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=147311&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=933038&highlight=Photo Source:  http://www.redchip.com/about/aboutmain.asp?page=management


RedChip, a firm commonly associated with having promoted speculative and, in many previous instances, 
fraudulent companies, was among the first to provide research coverage on LKQ



http://www.redchip.com/blog/index.php/redchippresident/pump-and-dump-is-a-pejorative-term-and-rightly-so/.UZ05RrW1E0w

http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=147311&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=933038&highlight=

http://www.redchip.com/about/aboutmain.asp?page=management
109


RedChip Denounced by the Investing Public 


for Promotion of Frauds


CNBC Faceoff: Heat Over Chinese 
Reverse Mergers
Jan 11, 2011


Chinese reverse mergers are continuing to make headlines, 
causing investors to take notice and, as a result, these 
special types of mergers have come under increased 
scrutiny.


Tuesday on "The Strategy Session," David Gentry, president 
and CEO of RedChip Companies, a business that promotes 
small-cap companies, including Chinese reverse mergers, 
fired back.


CNBC's David Faber and partner continue their discussion 
about Chinese reverse mergers with Dave Gentry, president 
of RedChip, a company that promotes these products.


Source:   http://www.cnbc.com/id/41024808 Source: http://globenewswire.com/news-
release/2013/01/04/514584/10017068/en/RedChip-Announces-Exit-From-China-Small-
Cap-Sector.html


RedChip Announces Exit From China 
Small-Cap Sector
Jan 3, 2013


RedChip Companies, Inc. ("RedChip"), an international small-cap 
research, investor relations, and media company, today announced 
that it has exited the China small-cap sector and terminated its 
contracts with its three Chinese clients. "We made a decision to close 
our Beijing office months ago and wind down our China operations," 
stated Dave Gentry, President and CEO of RedChip. "Wall Street has, 
for the most part, lost confidence in the financial reporting of U.S.-
listed Chinese companies. We are concerned that Big Four accounting 
firms were unable to detect financial fraud in companies like Sino-
Forest and Longtop Financial.“ Mr. Gentry continued, "When multi-
billion dollar funds like Paulson & Co. and The Carlyle Group, with 
their unlimited resources, are unable to detect fraud in their Chinese-
based portfolio companies; when top-tier investment banks like 
Goldman Sachs are unable to detect fraud in their Chinese-client 
companies; then I think reasonable investors must take a step back 
and seriously consider whether the potential rewards outweigh the 
downside risks of investing in U.S.-listed Chinese companies. We 
simply are not willing to take the risk."


Prescience Point was on the forefront of identifying Chinese investment scams and has been wary of paid-
for research conducted by RedChip



http://www.cnbc.com/id/41024808

http://globenewswire.com/news-release/2013/01/04/514584/10017068/en/RedChip-Announces-Exit-From-China-Small-Cap-Sector.html
110


LKQ Has Worked Hard to Garner Broader


Analyst Support as a Wall St. Darling


Broker Rating Price Target


Barrington Market Perform $33.00


BB&T Outperform $35.00


Bofa/ML Neutral $32.00


CL King Buy $32.00


Deutsche Hold $27.00


Great Lakes Hold $33.00


Stifel Nicolaus Buy $33.00


Ray James Outperform $32.00


Baird Outperform $38.00


Sidoti Buy $39.00


Stephens Overweight $35.00


FBR Outperform $40.00


William Blair Outperform --


Average Price $34.20


Date Conferences Presented


5/22/13 BB&T, Stephens, William Blair


2/12/13 Raymond James, Sidoti, BofA/ML


8/1/12 BB&T


5/23/12 Stephens, William Blair, Deutsche Bank


4/17/12 Baird, Barrington


3/15/12 BofA Merrill Lynch


2/15/12 Raymond James, Sidoti


8/25/11 CL King, ThinkEquity,


7/12/11 Jefferies, Canaccord Genuity, BB&T


4/12/11 Baird, Barrington


3/7/11 Raymond James


2010 Raymond James, CLK King, BofA/ML, Morgan Keegan, 
Gabelli, Deutsche Bank


2009 BB&T, RBC, CL King, Morgan Keegan, Deutsche, JPM


The chorus of analysts are singing buy, buy, buy. The one independent analyst at Wellington/Great 
Lakes Research recently downgraded the stock to Hold.
111


While JP Morgan Recently Ditched its 


Credit Exposure to LKQ Earlier this Year


 J.P Morgan was Keystone Automotive’s long-time banker, M&A advisor, and lead admin agent for its credit 
facility. J.P Morgan continued to serve as LKQ’s lead banker  


 J.P. Morgan resigned from its lead banking position in 2013 and appears to have completely severed all ties 
to the company. The significance of this event must be considered; as a leading underwriter in high yield 
bonds, J.P. Morgan mysteriously did not participate in LKQ’s $600m bond offering, thereby sacrificing 
underwriting fees.  The bank also assigned key swap contracts to other parties as another credit risk reducing 
measure


New Counterparty Notional Amount Maturity Fixed Int. Rate


Wells Fargo US$250m 10/14/15 1.5638%


Wells Fargo US$60m 10/31/16 1.1950%


Bank of America C$25m 3/24/16 1.43%


Source: http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065696/000106569613000044/lkq8-k.htm


On April 30, 2013, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ("JP Morgan"), the counterparty on certain of the Company's 
floating to fixed interest rate swaps, assigned its obligations under its swap contracts to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
and Bank of America, N.A. JP Morgan is no longer a secured lender under the Second Amended and Restated 
Credit Agreement and therefore assigned its obligation to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. The 
Company believes Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. are creditworthy to perform their 
obligations as the counterparty to their respective swap contracts. The counterparty, notional amount, maturity 
date and fixed interest rate of each of the swaps assigned by JP Morgan are listed below.



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065696/000106569613000044/lkq8-k.htm
112


Analysts’ Views on the Growth Story 


are Completely Wrong!


Wall St. Analyst Views of LKQ


“Open Ended Growth Story with the Collision Strategy 
Just Beginning to Unfold. LKQ Can Grow Revenues 
Organically 5-7% and Earnings 15-20% in the Next 
Several Years”


“Secular growth drivers for LKQ include the annual 
shift to alternative parts versus OEM parts that 
continues at a rate of 50-100 basis points annually”


“LKQ brings professional processes and technology 
to an under-managed industry”


“LKQ's is a preferred partner for insurance companies, 
small auto recyclers seeking a partner/exit strategy, 
and repair shops


“LKQ is a Premium Mid-cap Growth Story”


Prescience Point View


Sustainable organic growth is likely overstated and closer to 
0 – 2% in North America. European expansion is fraught 
with problems and a mature and competitive marketplace. 
Earnings growth appears highly engineered with opaque 
acquisitions and levers for multiple accounting shenanigans 
being pulled. Adjusted free cash flow after acquisitions is 
the appropriate yardstick to evaluate LKQ.


Share shift has stalled and may reverse. OEMs with large 
balance sheets are subsidizing price matching programs and 
vehicle fleet age has likely peaked


Early mover advantages have eroded; auto recycling is now 
a global business. Rampant customer service/employee 
complaints suggest that LKQ is acquiring just to manage 
earnings and not build a world class operation 


Our research suggests not many want to do business with 
LKQ, but rather they have to. Insurance companies are 
introducing new programs such as PartsTrader that will 
force price compression 


LKQ is a poorly constructed roll-up and should not trade at a 
premium to leading after market auto, recycling or 
industrial distributors
113


Detailed Aftermarket Auto Part and 


Metal Recycling Comparables


($ in millions, except per share figures)


Stock '13E-'14E LTM Enterprise Value / Net Price /


Price Ent.  Revenue EPS EBITDA FCF P/E EBITDA Sales Debt/ Tangible


Name Ticker 1/10/2014 Value Growth Growth Margin Margin 2014E 2015E 2014E 2015E 2014E 2015E EBITDA Book 


Aftermarket Auto Parts 


AutoZone AZO $490.00 $21,241 2.3% 2.7% 21.8% 10.4% 16.5x 14.8x 10.3x 9.9x 2.2x 2.2x 2.0x NM


O'Reilly Automotive ORLY $132.99 $15,473 6.3% 13.1% 19.0% 10.5% 19.7x 17.3x 11.2x 10.4x 2.2x 2.1x 0.8x 2.3x


Genuine Parts GPC $83.45 $13,630 5.2% 5.5% 8.8% 6.4% 18.2x 16.7x 10.2x 9.5x 0.9x 0.9x 0.6x 7.1x


Advance Auto Parts AAP $115.64 $8,560 49.3% 27.8% 13.6% 5.5% 16.6x 14.3x 7.1x 6.4x 0.9x 0.9x 0.1x 7.6x


Monro Muffler MNRO $55.81 $1,917 9.9% 27.1% 13.7% 8.4% 27.9x 22.0x 13.5x 11.9x 2.1x 1.9x 1.6x 15.1x


Uni-Select UNS.to $30.00 $1,104 -0.2% 14.0% 4.2% 5.9% 11.9x 11.0x 9.7x 9.3x 0.6x 0.6x 6.1x 4.5x


Pep Boys PBY $11.80 $922 4.7% 145.8% 5.7% 0.2% 20.0x 14.8x 6.1x 5.6x 0.4x 0.4x 2.5x 1.3x


Boyd Group BYD.UN $33.41 $505 19.3% 67.0% 6.9% 3.8% 22.0x 21.3x 9.7x 9.5x 0.7x 0.7x -0.1x 1.1x


Max 49.3% 145.8% 21.8% 10.5% 27.9x 22.0x 13.5x 11.9x 2.2x 2.2x 6.1x 15.1x


Average 12.1% 37.9% 11.7% 6.4% 19.1x 16.5x 9.7x 9.1x 1.3x 1.2x 1.7x 5.6x


Min -0.2% 2.7% 4.2% 0.2% 11.9x 11.0x 6.1x 5.6x 0.4x 0.4x -0.1x 1.1x


Metal Recycling


Steel Dynamics STLD $19.10 $6,072 4.4% 69.9% 8.1% 2.4% 13.5x 11.2x 7.0x 6.2x 0.8x 0.8x 3.3x 3.1x


Comercial Metals CMC $20.56 $3,468 -0.3% 54.2% 4.7% -0.2% 19.9x 13.3x 8.8x 7.1x 0.5x 0.5x 3.1x 2.1x


Sims Metal SMSMY $9.24 $2,028 -10.7% 107.4% 2.7% 2.1% 15.9x 11.5x 9.7x 7.0x 0.3x 0.3x 0.7x 1.2x


Schnitzer Steel SCHN $28.94 $1,118 4.6% 125.2% 4.1% 0.7% 18.0x 13.7x 7.8x 6.6x 0.4x 0.4x 3.4x 1.8x


Metalico MEA $2.40 $233 4.7% -145.5% 3.4% 2.4% 48.0x 21.8x 7.6x 6.6x 0.4x 0.4x 6.6x 1.4x


Max 4.7% 125.2% 8.1% 2.4% 48.0x 21.8x 9.7x 7.1x 0.8x 0.8x 6.6x 3.1x


Average 0.5% 42.3% 4.6% 1.5% 23.1x 14.3x 8.2x 6.7x 0.5x 0.5x 3.4x 1.9x


Min -10.7% -145.5% 2.7% -0.2% 13.5x 11.2x 7.0x 6.2x 0.3x 0.3x 0.7x 1.2x


LKQ Corp LKQ $33.00 $11,846 18.8% 25.7% 13.5% 6.1% 24.3x 19.2x 15.0x 12.4x 2.0x 1.8x 2.7x 57.0x


Source: Company financials, CapitalIQ calendarized estimates.
114


Valuation Premium is Unwarranted Relative 


to Aftermarket Parts and Recyclers


Source: CapitalIQ; 
company filings. 
Averages exclude LKQ


Price / 2014E EPS Price to Tangible Book Value


Enterprise Value to 2014E EBITDA Enterprise Value to 2014E Revenues


0.0x


2.0x


4.0x


6.0x


8.0x


10.0x


12.0x


14.0x


16.0x


P
B


Y


A
A


P


B
Y


D
.U


N


U
N


S.
to


G
P


C


A
Z


O


O
R


LY


M
N


R
O


S
T


LD


M
E


A


S
C


H
N


C
M


C


S
M


S
M


Y


LK
Q


Auto Part Distributors Scrap Processors


Average


0.0x


0.5x


1.0x


1.5x


2.0x


2.5x


P
B


Y


U
N


S.
to


B
Y


D
.U


N


A
A


P


G
P


C


M
N


R
O


O
R


LY


A
Z


O


S
M


S
M


Y


S
C


H
N


M
E


A


C
M


C


S
T


LD


LK
Q


Auto Part Distributors Scrap Processors


Average


0.0x


5.0x


10.0x


15.0x


20.0x


25.0x


30.0x


U
N


S.
to


A
Z


O


A
A


P


G
P


C


O
R


LY


P
B


Y


B
Y


D
.U


N


M
N


R
O


S
T


LD


S
M


S
M


Y


S
C


H
N


C
M


C


LK
Q


Auto Part Distributors Scrap Processors


Average


0.0x


10.0x


20.0x


30.0x


40.0x


50.0x


60.0x


B
Y


D
.U


N


P
B


Y


O
R


LY


U
N


S.
to


G
P


C


A
A


P


M
N


R
O


S
M


S
M


Y


M
E


A


S
C


H
N


C
M


C


S
T


LD


LK
Q


Auto Part Distributors Scrap Processors


Average
115


Detailed Industrial Distribution Comparables


LKQ often refers to itself as a “distribution” company. From this perspective, LKQ’s stock is 
dramatically overvalued relative to some of the best industrial distribution companies in America.


($ in millions, except per share figures)


Stock  LTM Enterprise Value / Net Price


Price Ent. EBITDA FCF P/E EBITDA Sales Debt/ Book


Name Ticker 1/10/2014 Value Margin Margin 2014E 2015E 2014E 2015E 2014E 2015E EBITDA Value


WW Grainger GWW $263.71 $18,396 15.9% 7.9% 37.7x 18.2x 10.8x 9.9x 1.8x 1.7x 0.0x 3.5x


Home Depot Supply HDS $24.30 $10,218 8.8% -11.5% 18.0x 11.6x 11.7x 9.9x 1.1x 1.0x 7.3x NM


Wesco WCC $91.94 $5,545 6.0% 3.5% 15.1x 14.1x 9.7x 8.8x 0.7x 0.7x 3.4x 2.3x


MSC Industrial MSM $85.40 $5,214 18.3% 9.6% 20.3x 17.4x 10.4x 9.0x 1.8x 1.7x -0.4x 3.9x


Anixter AXE $93.22 $3,773 5.8% 2.5% 14.2x 13.1x 9.0x 8.4x 0.6x 0.6x 2.1x 2.8x


Applied Industrial Tech AIT $48.26 $1,955 8.0% 3.8% 16.5x 13.8x 9.1x 7.8x 0.8x 0.7x -0.4x 2.6x


Max 18.3% 9.6% 37.7x 18.2x 11.7x 9.9x 1.8x 1.7x 7.3x 3.9x


Average 10.5% 2.6% 20.3x 14.7x 10.1x 9.0x 1.1x 1.0x 2.0x 3.0x


Trim Avg* 9.7% 4.4% 17.5x 14.6x 10.0x 8.9x 1.1x 1.0x 1.3x 3.0x


Min 5.8% -11.5% 14.2x 11.6x 9.0x 7.8x 0.6x 0.6x -0.4x 2.3x


LKQ Corp LKQ $33.00 $11,846 13.5% 6.1% 24.3x 19.2x 15.0x 12.4x 2.0x 1.8x 2.7x 4.5x


Source: Company financials, CapitalIQ calendarized estimates.


* Trim average exludes maximum and minimum
116


LKQ’s Valuation Premium is Unwarranted 


Relative to Industrial Distributors


Source: CapitalIQ; 
company filings. 
Averages exclude LKQ


Enterprise Value to 2014E EBITDA Enterprise Value to 2014E Revenues


Price / 2014E EPS Price to Book Value


0.0x


2.0x


4.0x


6.0x


8.0x


10.0x


12.0x


14.0x


16.0x


AXE AIT WCC MSM GWW HDS LKQ


Average


0.0x


0.5x


1.0x


1.5x


2.0x


2.5x


AXE WCC AIT HDS GWW MSM LKQ


Average


0.0x


5.0x


10.0x


15.0x


20.0x


25.0x


30.0x


35.0x


40.0x


AXE WCC AIT HDS MSM LKQ GWW


Average


0.0x


0.5x


1.0x


1.5x


2.0x


2.5x


3.0x


3.5x


4.0x


4.5x


5.0x


WCC AIT AXE GWW MSM LKQ


Average
117


LKQ is an Ineffective Roll-up; Valuation 


Beyond the Sum of its Parts Isn’t Justifiable


$ in mm 1998-2013 Acq. 2011 Acq. May 2013 Acq. Dec 2013 Approx Total


Estimated Revenues
~% growth


~$3,700
0-2%


~$1,200
~20%


~$400.0
~4-6%


~$700.0
NA


$6,000
Low single digits 


Gross Margin
Contribution


Low 40%, 
if accurate


~43.0% ~33.0% Low 30% ?


Estimated EBITDA
% margin


$440.0
12.0%


$91.0
7.6%


$33.0
8.3%


$70.0
10.0%


$650
10.8%


Purchase Price ~$2,100 $347 (1) $272 $450 >$2,700 


EV/LTM EBITDA -- Acquired: 8.9x Acquired: 8.8x Acquired: 6.4x At best 7.0x – 10.0x


EV/LTM Revenues -- Acquired: 0.68x Acquired: 0.73x Acquired: 0.64x At best 0.60x – 1.0x


Comments (2) North American 
Salvage Assets of 


diminished value and 
potentially impaired


value in Heavy Duty. Core 
business value in serious 
question. LKQ has paid 
big premiums to book 


value for these industrial 
assets


Growth is artificially high in 
the near term due to rapid 
store expansion. Growth is 


expected to slow 
dramatically as it reaches its 
market saturating location 
limit. Also, LKQ has yet to 
demonstrate an ability to 


drive APU growth in Europe


(3) Acquired from H2 
Partners, which also 


owns the UK’s Unipart 
Auto (a competitor to 


ECP). H2 did not appear 
to extract synergies 


between the two, so we 
are skeptical of LKQ’s 
ability to drive value 
between ECP/Sator


(4) Keystone was 
previously bankrupt and 
up for sale for at least a 
year until LKQ bought it. 


LKQ has yet to 
demonstrate any ability 


to extract value here, 
and its key markets are 
fundamentally different 
from LKQ’s existing ones


At 7.0x – 10.0x EBITDA, and 
adjusting for $1.7bn of debt 


outstanding, $107m of cash and 
308.8m shares o/s, 
our price target is 


~$10.00 - $15.00/share
( 50% – 70% ) downside. LKQ’s 
current valuation at 15x is a 


substantial premium to the sum 
of its parts, at the upper end of 


its historical range, and a 
significant premium to all its 


stock trading peers


Source: Company financials, converted from local currencies
(1) ECP deal excludes $33.9m earnout payment made in March 2013.
(2) Note that in Q4’12 LKQ mysteriously realigned the reporting structure of its heavy-duty salvage yards and removed it as an operating segment to be included within Wholesale North America (p. 7 2012 10K)


(3) H2 Equity Acquires Unipart (UK):  http://www.unipart.co.uk/UserFiles/File/UnipartAutomotiveH2pressrelease[1].pdf
(4) Platinum Equity Seeks Buyer for Keystone Automotive: http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/01/29/keystone-platinum-idUSL1N0AXM6U20130129


Over 160 Acquisitions 
(Salvage, Aftermarket, 


Reman, Heavy Duty, Etc.)
Euro Car Parts Sator Holding


Keystone Auto 
Operations LKQ Corp



http://www.unipart.co.uk/UserFiles/File/UnipartAutomotiveH2pressrelease[1].pdf

http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/01/29/keystone-platinum-idUSL1N0AXM6U20130129
118


Cheap Money, Leverage and Bad Deals = 


Valuation Expansion? 


 LKQ’s long-term Enterprise Valuation to forward EBITDA multiple has trended in the 10x – 11x range.  The recent valuation 
expansion appears to be a function of expansionary monetary policies favoring stocks, the company’s use of more leverage to 
buy low quality businesses as it expand into Europe, and, we believe, a fundamental misevaluation by market participants of 
LKQ as an effective roll-up


 We believe investors’ are discounting perfect execution and unrealistic growth expectations for a company with significant 
fundamental challenges, and lacking operational excellence as indicated by:


 An “F” rating by the Better Business Bureau 


 2.8 our of 5 ranking on Employee Review site Glassdoor.com


 Our conversations with industry participants


5.00x


7.00x


9.00x


11.00x


13.00x


15.00x


17.00x


19.00x


Enterprise Value / NTM EBITDA Long-Term Average


QE Leverage Fueled 
Valuation Expansion 
on Bad Acquisitions


LKQ’s EV/ NTM EBITDA Historical Valuation
Appendix
120


Does LKQ Have Too Cozy a Relationship 


with its Auditors? 


 According to the SEC, at the onset of the WM fraud, the Company capped Arthur Andersen's audit fees. 
However, WM advised AA it could earn additional fees for "special work" — e.g., consulting services. Over 
the succeeding years, AA's corporate audit fees remained flat while the fees for special work multiplied


 Despite enormous revenue growth and international geographic expansion, LKQ’s audit and total fees 
paid to auditors have barely increased. Oddly enough, tax planning fees have fallen at the fastest pace 
despite LKQ having reported progressively growing international earnings and cash flow


$ in millions


2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 CAGR


Audit Fees $1.82 $1.60 $1.70 $1.97 $2.04 2.9%


Audit-Related $0.05 $0.09 $0.30 $0.28 $0.12 21.1%


Tax Fees $0.63 $0.75 $0.62 $0.32 $0.35 -14.0%


All Other Fees $0.12 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 -100.0%


Total Fees $2.63 $2.44 $2.61 $2.57 $2.51 -1.2%


Annual Growth


  % revenues 69.4% 7.3% 20.6% 32.4% 26.1% 21.2%


  % employees 5.5% 4.2% 20.0% 49.2% 13.4% 16.2%


Sales by Geography


  % US 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 83.1% 78% (1)


  % Europe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 16.9% 22%(1)


(1) as of LTM 9/31/13.  Source: Company filings
121


LKQ Received the Coveted “F” Grade 


by The Better Business Bureau


http://www.bbb.org/chicago/business-reviews/auto-parts-and-supplies-used-and-rebuilt/lkq-in-chicago-il-12010519



http://www.bbb.org/chicago/business-reviews/auto-parts-and-supplies-used-and-rebuilt/lkq-in-chicago-il-12010519
122


Insider Views from Glassdoor


Source: http://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/LKQ-Reviews-
E20395.htm?sort.sortType=RD&sort.ascending=false



http://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/LKQ-Reviews-E20395.htm?sort.sortType=RD&sort.ascending=false
