5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 1/6


China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy
Jun. 26, 2012 9:35 AM ET8 comments
by: Kerrisdale Capital Management


On June 15th, the bondholders finally pushed China Medical Technologies (CMEDY.OB)
into involuntary liquidation proceedings in the Cayman Islands. Below are links to the
Cayman Islands liquidation petition, as well as affidavits that were filed on June 15th.


Winding Up Petition - China Medical


Affidavit of Steve Cimalore


Affidavit of Cosimo Borelli


Affidavit of Kenneth Krys


The petitions and affidavits of the winding up process, which is the Cayman Islands
equivalent to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy liquidation process in the United States, make for an
interesting read. China Medical is a Cayman-based company, and therefore bondholders
are currently pursuing a liquidation in the Cayman Islands rather than in the United States.


The first relevant document is the Winding Up Petition. The petitioner is Wilmington Trust,
the indenture trustee for the bonds.


Throughout the petition, we can see that China Medical was not very responsive to the
bondholders. The petition has a section titled The Company's Failure to Respond, where it
writes:



http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131479

http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131499

http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131491

http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131483

http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131479
5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 2/6


The Company's Failure to Respond


33. The Company has failed and refused to communicate with the Petitioner with
respect to the events of default or the amounts now due and owing under the Notes.
As noted above, the Company failed to respond to the Petitioner's notices of defaults
and of acceleration. The Petitioner sent a copy of the 2 March Notice to the
Company's counsel as identified in the 6.25% Indenture, in response to which the
Petitioner received a letter advising that such counsel no longer represented the
Company in any matters. Additionally, the Company and its counsel did not respond
to email communications from counsel to the Petitioner.


34. Petitioner is advised that counsel to the 6.25% Noteholders and the 4%
Noteholders (together, the "Noteholders") has been unsuccessful in its efforts to
engage with the Company regarding the events of default.


35. The failure of the Company to engage in discussions with the Petitioner and the
Noteholders with respect to the events of default and the amounts due and owing is
consistent with a company that is substantially insolvent and unable to pay.


That doesn't seem like a very good sign. Some long equity holders of China Medical stock
had theorized that the company may restructure the debt with bondholders and therefore
continue existing as a public U.S. company. But if the company hasn't communicated with
bondholders thus far, is there really any indication it intends to restructure its debt?


As part of the petition, the bondholders have proposed the joint liquidators to be Kenneth
M. Krys of Krys & Associates and Cosimo Borrelli of Borrelli Walsh Limited. According to
the petition, the liquidators are authorized to take actions "necessary or desirable in
connection with the liquidation of the Company and the winding-up of its affairs and to
present the dissipation of the Company's assets". Mr. Krys and Mr. Borelli are qualified
insolvency practitioners in the Cayman Islands and have had prior joint liquidator
assignments where they liquidated Cayman Islands-based Chinese companies. Borelli, for
example, was the liquidator for Zhu Kuan Group, Akai Holdings, China Milk Products and
more than a dozen Cayman Islands-based Chinese companies that defaulted on bonds
owed to foreign creditors. Borelli has developed a reputation for aggressively pursuing
companies that have illicitly transferred assets to insiders, as recounted in a South China
Morning Post article here.


Value of Equity



http://www.borrelliwalsh.com/documents/News2009100601.pdf
5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 3/6


I'm not sure how equity holders of China Medical expect to generate any recovery now
that China Medical bondholders have filed an involuntary Winding-Up Petition. The
company has not been communicative with the bondholders, the trustee or counsel over
the past six months since the missed interest payment, according to the Winding-Up
Petition. Now, the question is whether liquidators can locate any sources of value for the
$430 million of bonds and accrued interest outstanding. It could very well take years of
litigation to find out.


To us, there certainly seems to be far more downside to the stock price at $8.50 than
upside, given that $8.50 equates to a market capitalization of $225 million. With a
management team that has not kept up-to-date with SEC filings and has been relatively
unresponsive to bondholders since December, we continue to believe this stock is
fundamentally worthless.


Buyout Rumors


As a final point, we will address the 13D filings of AER Advisors, Peter Deutsch and
William Deutsch. We don't have any special insights into why AER and the Deutsches
have been purchasing shares of CMEDY.


But we don't see any practical way in which anyone could conduct a supposed buyout
here. The company has defaulted on its bonds and has been pushed into involuntary
bankruptcy. If any party wanted to do a take-private of China Medical, they would have to
make whole over $430 million of principal plus accrued interest of bonds. They'd then
have to write a check accounting for another $230 million of market capitalization, not
including a requisite takeout premium.


We're not sure why anyone would want to pay $650 million for a Chinese medical devices
company where management has essentially gone dark. As we have discussed,
management has been relatively unresponsive to both shareholders and bondholders.
Since missing its coupon payment, management has not filed any 6-Ks to update the
markets on business developments. The company did not report the resignation of its
independent director. When its stock was de-listed on NASDAQ in February, the company
did not appeal the de-listing. It has not filed quarterly results since its September 30, 2011
earnings report.


Any company that chose not to make a $5 million coupon payment when it supposedly
had $200 million of cash on its balance sheet is, in our opinion, telling the market that
something is wrong with the underlying business or their previously filed financial
5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 4/6


Comments (8)


statements. Additionally, the company was the subject of numerous negative allegations
by Glaucus Research. Of all the companies available in the public markets, we can't
fathom why someone would choose China Medical to take private.


As for management taking the company private, it's unprecedented to see management
do a buyout of a U.S.-listed Chinese company that's stopped filing relevant financial
statements with the SEC and which is in insolvency proceedings. In the few cases where
U.S.-listed Chinese companies have been taken private, such as Harbin Electric or China
Security & Surveillance, management has hired reputable investment bankers and
counsel and has communicated with shareholders extensively during the process. We
have seen none of that with China Medical Technologies. On the other hand, there have
been numerous instances where management teams have stopped filing current financial
statements with the SEC and essentially disassociated themselves from the U.S. capital
markets. This has happened with China-Biotics (OTCQB:CHBT), Advanced Battery
Technologies (OTCPK:ABAT), A-Power Energy Generation Systems (OTC:APWR), etc.
Based on what we have seen with China Medical Technologies, we have no evidence to
believe that CMEDY is any different.


Disclosure: The author has no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate
any positions within the next 72 hours. The author wrote this article themselves, and it
expresses their own opinions. The author is not receiving compensation for it (other than
from Seeking Alpha). The author has no business relationship with any company whose
stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: Read our full disclaimer at kerrisdalecap.com/legal-disclaimer-3. I
am short CMEDY.PK and stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock
declines. To the best of my knowledge, all information in this article is accurate and
reliable, but I present the information "as is". I will not necessarily update or supplement
this article in the future. Following publication, I may transact in securities of the company
covered herein.


 Like this article


a1newman
I am not pushing a bullish case but wondering how long a bankrupt company's shares can be traded before the OTC
eliminates trading. My impression is that bankrupt companies do sometimes continue trading but am not certain that



https://seekingalpha.com/article/312070-chinese-filings-show-that-china-medical-technologies-acquired-a-business-from-parties-secretly-related-to-chairman

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CHBT

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ABAT

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/APWR

http://kerrisdalecap.com/legal-disclaimer-3

https://seekingalpha.com/user/375619
5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 5/6


is always true. Note that until the courts determine that the company is bankrupt, I am not stating that CMEDY is
bankrupt.


Can something with potentially zero equity value be traded to a ridiculous price particularly if there are willing buyers?
Clearly some would maintain that has already happened given it hit a 12 month high on Friday and increased that
high again on Monday June 25. If the short squeeze specialists continue their approach just like the shorts did in
driving the price to under $1, they could potentially increase the price further. As long as the shorts can find shares to
short and handle margin calls to whatever price, I would think that they will win eventually assuming the courts rule for
the bondholders and bankruptcy is the result and the OTC stops the trading. However until the courts rule, we don't
yet have a bankruptcy.


How quickly will the Cayman courts rule on the petition? Will it be 1 week, 1 month, 3 months or 6 months or longer
for that process to occur? Once that happens, when does the OTC do something? How long for the bondholders to
get some value back? It appears to be potentially years. These may be relevant for anyone thinking to buy the bond
and also relevant for anyone with options expiring in September.


Disclosure: I am short some puts at low strike prices and have no other position.


26 Jun 2012, 07:02 AM


Caller Out
The notion that the stock price will stay afloat for years is crazy. Management has gone dark, and will get a
default judgment against them when they fail to respond to the Cayman court. Alternatively, if they choose to
respond, they will be deposed and the fraud will be revealed for all to see. Regardless of what happens in
court, it's only a matter of time before the SEC steps in and halts the stock for failing to disclose that the
company was forced into bankruptcy by its creditors.


By the way newman, based on your posting history, no one actually believes that you understood the extent
of the problems at CMEDY but are simply betting that the stock price stays afloat till September expiry. The
exchange doesn't even allow opening transactions in those puts post-delisting, which means that you would
have had to make that bet prior to knowing how the halt/delisting would play out.


26 Jun 2012, 10:04 AM


verso2
A curious situation. In any case, why has no one conducted any on-the-ground investigation of China Medical? I
would have thought, with millions of dollars on the table, that various parties would hire investigators in China who
could probably get to the bottom of what CMEDY's management has been up to. Or put in a quiet word with the
authorities? After all, if allegations of massive financial misdealings/misporting are true, we're talking about serious
criminal charges--a Chinese corporate criminals have, quite literally, been shot for this.


26 Jun 2012, 10:25 AM


Caller Out
People have tried, but no one could actually locate any human being involved with the business -- because it
does not exist.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/2222181

https://seekingalpha.com/user/533971

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2222181
5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 6/6


26 Jun 2012, 07:09 PM


ChinaTrader
What? I'm not long CMED, and was short for a long while, but are you claiming that it was entirely a fraud?
I've been to their office and production locations, so I'm a bit confused by your claim.


27 Jun 2012, 01:54 AM


Caller Out
I have not verified, but have heard from reliable sources that the business itself has collapsed. In recent days,
investors (long and short) have attempted to reach any person that works for the company, and they have
failed. When did you speak to someone from the company?


29 Jun 2012, 10:03 AM


ChinaTrader
Ah, so you meant "because it no longer exists." Which is entirely possible. I have not visited since long before
they went dark.


30 Jun 2012, 04:29 AM


User 386985
Fundamentals matter nothing in a short squeeze, could this be the chinese volkswagen? Herr Merckel hunts again. 
I won't be surprised to see even $100 for a company that's worth absolutely zero in a short squeeze. It's very simple,
there are probably more short than available shares now, all AER and Deutsche needed to do is to have brokers
recall the short, which were probably lent out by them in the first place. Well done AER, evil but profitable.


26 Jun 2012, 11:30 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/260257

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2222181

https://seekingalpha.com/user/260257

https://seekingalpha.com/user/386985
