5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 1/13


China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd
Apr. 10, 2012 1:59 AM ET32 comments
by: Kerrisdale Capital Management


On Thursday, shares of China Medical Technologies (CMEDY.PK) were up nearly 15% on
the heels of two articles by Adam Gefvert, available here and here. Gefvert followed them
up with the two StockTalks "CMEDY.PK is taking itself private via a 3rd party. It could
reach $4.50 tomorrow now that the cat is out of the bag" and "Correction: it could reach
$5.00 a share."


In our opinion, Gevfert's posts were deeply flawed and nonsensical, and we think the rise
in CMED shares was completely unjustified.


First, let's review the publicly available facts on CMED. On December 15, 2011, CMED
skipped its coupon payment, did not disclose it via an SEC filing, and did not make the
payment by its January 15, 2012 grace period. In February, it skipped its next coupon
payment. Its director Lawrence Crum resigned in December 2011 and, again, CMED didn't
bother to disclose it. The company's stock was halted on February 7, and then de-listed a
mere three weeks later on February 28. The very short timeframe between halt and de-
listing implies that CMED never disputed the halting, nor cared. A bondholder committee
has tried to reach out to the company to negotiate, but there have been no updates since
CMED's original December 13, 2011 filing announcing its desire to restructure its debt
despite supposedly having more than $200 million of cash. Its bonds continue to trade
between 20 and 40, implying severe distress and a lack of progress in negotiations.


In short, we've seen no news whatsoever to make us think twice about our earlier
suggestion that China Medical has gotten tired of being a public U.S.-listed company and
is pursuing a management take-private at zero dollars per share.


Next, let's review Gefvert's absurd propositions.


Gefvert's article begins:


Although I had written a report today saying I wasn't sure what was going on, it
suddenly hit me. China Medical Technologies (CMEDY.PK) is taking itself private via
a 3rd party! They are using AER Advisors to do it.


What?!?



https://seekingalpha.com/article/481571-evidence-suggests-china-medical-is-taking-itself-private-via-a-3rd-party

https://seekingalpha.com/article/480891-clues-suggesting-china-medical-technologies-has-a-solid-balance-sheet

https://seekingalpha.com/article/334732-china-medical-technologies-does-missed-coupon-mean-company-will-go-dark

https://seekingalpha.com/article/480891-clues-suggesting-china-medical-technologies-has-a-solid-balance-sheet?source=yahoo
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 2/13


AER Advisors is a registered investment advisor whose website is available at
www.aeradvisors.com. Based on our viewing of the site, AER appears to be a small-town
financial advisor that manages a variety of ETFs, separately managed accounts and
custom portfolios. Here is an excerpt from their FAQ page in response to "Who is AER
Advisors?":


AER Advisors, U.S. registered investment advisor, is a private financial services firm
located in North Hampton, NH, co-founded by President, Carol O'Leary and Chief
Investment Officer David O'Leary. The firm was founded to utilize the unique stock
screening methodology developed by Mr. O'Leary in a variety of formats. This
research formula has been widely recognized and used by the institutional
investment community as a valuable research tool for nearly 15 years. The firm
manages two actively managed equity exchange-traded funds, (ETFs) in the U.S.,
traded on the NYSE. The ETFs are based on a flexible universe of over 3,000 U.S.
exchange listed stocks and attempt to outperform traditional index ETFs. AER
Advisors provides advisory services to Separately Managed Accounts (NYSE:SMA)
for banks, institutions, other RIA's and high net worth individuals, while continuing to
offer institutional research to mutual funds and hedge funds.


We're sure the professionals at AER are fine people, and have developed an excellent
stock selection methodology to generate attractive returns for their investors. We don't,
however, think that Carol O'Leary is the up-and-coming Carl Icahn of China, or is in
cahoots with CMED Chairman Wu Xiaodong to circumvent SEC insider holding disclosure
laws to buy shares on his behalf.


Frankly, we're not sure what Gefvert means when he says CMED is "taking itself private
via a 3rd party" and is "using AER Advisors to do it." We doubt he even knows what he
means. Is he saying that AER is planning to launch a takeover of the company and then
seize the assets in China? Is he saying that AER is planning to take the company private
and then flip ownership to CMED management for a profit or fee? Is he saying that CMED
management has raided the AER headquarters in North Hampton, New Hampshire and is
now using AER as a proxy to re-acquire full control of their own Chinese company?


Did Tianfu Yang take Harbin Electric private through a Fidelity mutual fund? Did Guoshen
Tu take China Security and Surveillance private through a T Rowe Price high yield bond
ETF? Is Gefvert's theory anything short of utter gibberish?



http://www.aeradvisors.com/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SMA
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 3/13


Comments (32)


We have no idea why AER Advisors has been increasing its stake in CMED, and don't
care. The likeliest answer to us is that they are converting convertible notes to shares so
that they can sell out of CMED, but that's mere conjecture. More importantly, we're not in
the business of tracking every buyer and seller of stocks that we have positions in, and if
we at Kerrisdale ever make investment decisions based on the 13G filings of a random
RIA ETF specialist, I ask that I be banned from the securities industry. We have our own
unique stock screening methodology, and it involves shorting stocks that default on their
coupon payments, don't disclose it in SEC filings, don't disclose director resignations, are
de-listed from major exchanges without appealing, and yet are trading at $100m market
capitalizations.


Ever since we began shorting Chinese reverse merger companies in early 2010, we've
seen lots of nonsense in this sector. Gefvert's articles on Thursday rank up there with
Sean Wright's "China-Biotics: Your Next 5x Investment" or Glen Bradford's "CCME: Cash
is Real, Company is Real". We believe that followers of Gefvert's advice on CMED will end
up much the same as investors of CHBT and CCME.


Disclosure: The author has no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate
any positions within the next 72 hours. The author wrote this article themselves, and it
expresses their own opinions. The author is not receiving compensation for it (other than
from Seeking Alpha). The author has no business relationship with any company whose
stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: Read our full disclaimer at kerrisdalecap.com/legal-disclaimer-3. I
am short and own options on CMED and stand to realize gains in the event that the price
of the stock declines. I am also short CHBT.PK. To the best of my knowledge, all
information in this article is accurate and reliable, but I present the information "as is". I will
not necessarily update or supplement this article in the future. Following publication, I may
transact in securities of the company covered herein.


 Like this article


Variant View Research, Contributor
I agree with Kerrisdale on this, and frankly I think he is being too kind to Gefvert. Gefvert's argument makes no sense,
and following the SEC's insider trading actions last week against the firm that bought 8% of HOGS, I am pretty



https://seekingalpha.com/article/227548-china-biotics-your-next-5x-investment

https://seekingalpha.com/article/253152-ccme-cash-is-real-company-is-real

http://kerrisdalecap.com/legal-disclaimer-3

https://seekingalpha.com/author/variant-view-research
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 4/13


confident that if AER were in any way involved in a management buyout of CMEDY then the SEC would soon act
against them and possibly halt the stock.


SEC press release: http://1.usa.gov/IflhhS


Also, since AER filed 13G (passive stake) instead of 13D (active stake), my non-expert opinion is that there would be
a very good case for securities fraud against them, if AER were buying shares on behalf of management.


10 Apr 2012, 08:27 AM


whitehead1
What else can we expect from short sellers besides negative articles?


10 Apr 2012, 10:25 AM


Caller Out
Cultural differences between New York and New Hampshire-based investment advisors?


10 Apr 2012, 10:39 AM


don2m
Here is a classic case of deciding who you want to believe. Both articles make total sense, however, Gefvert does at
least give his logic as to his thoughts on the movement of the stock. You are short and are expected to only make
your case and the timing of your article denotes a bit of a scare for a short to see the stock move so rapidly up. You
certainly are not going to publish anything positive . 
Your argument is sound but so is Gefvert's so again it comes down to the "gut" of which way you want to go. Either
way, capital is at risk and how is your stomach?


10 Apr 2012, 10:50 AM


Paul Nouri, CFP, Contributor
I don't have much experience with China reverse merger frauds, but you won't concede it is at least out of ordinary
that the market cap. is $100 million for a company with no communication whatsoever?


I tend to agree with you that it is difficult to imagine a situation where AER is accumulating shares for executives in
the advisers name. If you are correct that AER is simply converting their bonds to stock, who has been buying to get
the stock up from $0.60 to $3.80?


10 Apr 2012, 11:13 AM


Kerrisdale Capital Management, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Basing investment decisions on prior stock movements or who is buying and selling is
problematic. Many Chinese RTOs that have been de-listed to the pink sheets have seen sharp upward
movements at some point in time. CAGC rose from around 70 cents to $2.50 on record volume in December.
Today, it's back to 95 cents. CHBT, a company where the auditor resigned with a resignation letter that
detailed the fraud in very specific terms, nearly touched $2 in February.



http://1.usa.gov/IflhhS

https://seekingalpha.com/user/951548

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2222181

https://seekingalpha.com/user/222639

https://seekingalpha.com/author/paul-nouri-cfp

https://seekingalpha.com/author/kerrisdale-capital-management
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 5/13


I have no idea why AER's 13G filings show increased equity ownership, and my note about the bond
conversion is total conjecture. The more important point is that AER's buys and sells are just not a relevant
data point. In early 2011, we saw Richard Essa Azar build an 18% stake in CHBT. The auditor subsequently
resigned and the company hasn't filed financials since.


Perhaps, if KKR or Blackstone or a private equity fund with a long track record of doing in-depth due diligence
was purchasing shares of CMED, that could be relevant. Even then, we've seen Morgan Stanley invest in
YONG and SPU, and the evidence for shenanigans at SPU have been incredible if you've followed the SPU
class action suit. Right now, we're operating in an information vaccum with respect to the AER 13G filings, so
it's far better to look at what facts we do know. And those facts are that CMED had more than $413 million of
bonds outstanding as of September 30, 2011. Those bonds continue to trade at severely depressed levels. It
hasn't filed an 8K since December 13 to provide an update on restructuring negotiations, or to comment on its
director resignation. It has a PWC audit that's due in the next few months, and I'm skeptical that PWC is
willing to sign off on the audit of a company that decided to forego paying a $5 million interest payment
despite having $200 million of cash on the balance sheet.


10 Apr 2012, 11:52 AM


Paul Nouri, CFP, Contributor
I'm not going to disagree with you on the points that make you dislike the stock. I operate based on
fundamentals also. I was not trying to imply that just because the stock went up it is worth what its trading at. I
guess the difference in our thinking is that i think the price movement and a significant concentration in
position from AER means there could be more to the story than we are able to see, but you seem to be
discounting them completely. I agree that I wouldn't make a purchase or sale based on another institutions
trading activity, but in a story like this, where there has been no communication from management and the
stock price is where it was before the bond default, I think it is something to consider as part of the thesis.


CAGC had much lower absolute and dollar volume than CMEDY, but I see your point as a comparison. Do
you think an SEC investigation starts at some point or is it totally ignored by regulators?


10 Apr 2012, 12:00 PM


Kerrisdale Capital Management, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Hi Paul, I never responded to your last question. On regulatory action, I think the SEC
generally lets a lot of these situations play out before getting involved. I don't necessarily disagree - I think it's
better to have a cautious, deliberate regulator rather than an overeager one, and it's appropriate to let market
participants sort out the valuation levels of smallcap Chinese companies. There's an argument that the SEC
should find a way to penalize foreign management teams that are defrauding U.S. investors, but the market
has increasingly made it clear that it's not interested in investing with management teams running foreign
companies with poor corporate governance and beset by red flags in jurisdictions that are out of the reach of
the U.S. court system. The smallcap Chinese RTO sector is in the process of rapid reform, with the legitimate
companies being taken private or quickly improving disclosures and governance, and the remainder finding
their ways to zero.


17 Apr 2012, 12:39 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/paul-nouri-cfp

https://seekingalpha.com/author/kerrisdale-capital-management
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 6/13


guitune
You seem to forget ONE thing: none of the other delisted stocks traded higher except CMEDY.PK! There has to be a
reason for that and you don't seem to know it! Why bother listening to you anyway since you're short the stock!


10 Apr 2012, 11:40 AM


jonsjon1223
CEU $0,40 to $1,5, CHBT $0,60 to $2, CAGC <$1 to $3 come to mind that doubled. AUTC also went from $6
to $20.


17 Apr 2012, 10:59 AM


Paul Nouri, CFP, Contributor
Also, it will be interesting to see which institutions held on to the name in Q1. If most institutions have sold out, that
will be a big red flag. It would be one more point to show that the big move in the stock was on the back of
speculation.


10 Apr 2012, 12:14 PM


JB Murphy
I have read both articles. What I can't believe is the following from this article:


"On Thursday, shares of China Medical Technologies (CMEDY.PK) were up nearly 15% on the heels of two articles by
Adam Gefvert, available here and here."


I don't know Mr. Gefvert, but he'd probably be happy to know he drives the markets this much!


10 Apr 2012, 03:13 PM


Caller Out
Only the pink sheets, not the real markets.


10 Apr 2012, 04:11 PM


Expat_100
As I have already mentioned in the Gefvart article, the thing to focus on is the company's limited ability to raise cash if
it intended to go private.


As of the last reported balance sheet date, cash (US$171.6m = 23% of total assets) and "unpatented technology"
(US454.1m = 60% of total assets) make up the bulk of the assets. It is very unlikely that the company or an external
buyer can secure lending against unpatented technology intangibles in China (In fact, why is unpatented technology
worth anything at all in China and how did this get on to the balance sheet?), therefore this leaves the apparent
reported cash on the balance sheet as its main asset to secure or use as financing to go private. After that, the
company is left with much smaller amounts of account receivables, PPE, etc.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/844487

https://seekingalpha.com/user/821164

https://seekingalpha.com/author/paul-nouri-cfp

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1081098

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/cmedy.pk

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2222181

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1095110
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 7/13


However this cash is more than offset by a reported liability of US$398m for convertible bonds. If the value of these
convertible bonds has been trashed by defaulting on coupon payments then forcing a conversion in to ordinary shares
at a massive discount, this opposing liability is massively reduced. There is an offset by the number of ordinary shares
that have increased via a convertible bond conversion (assuming that this is what has happened), but this is likely to
be at a value significantly lower than the reported balance sheet value of the convertible bonds.


So by removing the convertible bond liability, the company theoretically is in a much stronger position to provide
financing to take itself private. In other words, if its strategy is to use cash raised from bond holders as the primary
source of financing to go private, then it has effectively negated the commensurate liability to bond holders by
defaulting on its coupon payments and forcing conversion in to ordinary shares at a much lower value.


If this is the strategy, then there will be huge questions about the regulatory aspects of how this method is achieved,
so I am assuming that the company does not follow this route on the basis that it has a full understanding of how such
an action will be perceived. This is the choice of the company. That leaves very limited other options to buy out the
company, hence to buy the shares in the hope of a buy out at a significant premium to the current share price would
be an exceptionally risky and speculative proposition.


Please contact me if you have a professional interest in the subject of US listed Chinese equities.


10 Apr 2012, 04:01 PM


Variant View Research, Contributor
John, this is a clever analysis and I always enjoy reading your work. But the market price of the bonds
suggests pretty strongly that this is not what is happening.


10 Apr 2012, 06:01 PM


vegscott
John, I have a brief response with 2 points. First, when you write, "...cash raised from bond holders as the
primary source of financing to go private...", I don't know what you mean. My understanding is that there is no
cash exchanged, merely a conversion from held bonds to newly acquired stock. So how is that a "source of
financing?" I understand that it decreases the company's debt, but that is not "cash raised," nor a "financing."


Second, why would anyone want to pay a lot of money for an unprofitable company? The evidence is that the
financial reports were bogus. If the company were profitable, it wouldn't have needed to continually seek new
financing. If the company were highly profitable, management wouldn't have needed to risk criminal and civil
charges by committing fraud. Management used the company to commit fraudulent exchanges to enrich
themselves; that seemed to be the main purpose of the company. They were finally exposed by Glaucus after
already having difficulty finding more financing, so their jig is up in CMED, and they apparently abandoned the
company. The stock rise is incongruous with the evidence, so we observers are considering any possible
explanation since none ostensibly make sense. For anyone, much less, management to be pouring money
into the stock to buyout the company seems among the most unlikely possibilities. Even if CMED
management wanted to do this, they'd choose a foreign fund to buy the stock, not an above-the-board US
fund, which diligently reports to the SEC. The most likely explanation to me is that some bondholders decided
that raising the stock price was worth the benefit of converting at the higher price, although we've not yet seen



https://seekingalpha.com/author/variant-view-research

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1193151
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 8/13


them dumping their shares. I believe that will happen eventually, especially if they find that their return via
Chinese courts is much less than conversion. I think that they have propped the stock without yet converting,
keeping the option open for later. Though the stock may drift down now, it will still be much higher over the
next few months than it would have been had they not intervened. Of course, there are other possibilities to
explain why AER has bought (since it is at the 20% limit, I assume that it is finished), but I believe that they all
have the common theme of artificially supporting the stock price, and not because of fundamental value of the
company or a buyout.


By the way, I discovered yesterday that the company that represents CMED for USA process service has no
record of any lawsuit filed against the company in the USA even though there were several lawsuit press
releases on Yahoo after the company defaulted. I am contacting one of those law firms.


11 Apr 2012, 12:58 PM


Expat_100
Hi Vegscott,


The cash raised from corporate bond holders refer to the cash raised when the convertible bonds were
actually issued. If the convertible bonds are then later converted to ordinary shares via a change in
conversion terms (which is an assumption given the company's announcement to restructure this debt), then
it is possible given the new terms and a collapse in the value of the ordinary shares, that there is a reduction
in the commensurate liability related to the cash raised from the original issue of the convertible shares. As
Variant View correctly points out, this also depends on the market value of the convertible bonds-which also
need to trade at a substantial discount to the book value for this reduction in liability to exist.


I agree with your second point about why anyone would pay a lot of money for an unprofitable company. In
fact we do not know if the company is profitable, by how much it is profitable, or unprofitable. This is one
reason why I mention that there may be few alternatives to the one that I mention for it to raise cash to
finance a buy out. The assumption that the company is profitable based on its SEC filings is weakened by its
non-payment of the bond coupons, its restructuring of convertible debt, and it going dark. If the company
really is profitable by the stated amounts in the SEC filings, but is creating an illusion of lower profitability
through this debacle with the convertible bonds such that it can go private at a low price, then there may be
regulatory issues. Either way, I would not feel comfortable to participate in such high risk speculation.


The history of successful shareholder action in the courts in China is mixed. A court ruling from a US court is
likely to have an even more limited enforceable impact in China-most US listed Chinese companies do not
have assets in the US that can be used for compensation, and the management are based in China. Where
there is court success for the shareholder, it is often through an out of court settlement, with the value of this
settlement being less than the overall losses incurred by shareholders. There is also the issue of inspection of
the company's internal finances to use as evidence, which is difficult to do, as proved with Longtop Financial.
Moreover, the CSRC's primary concern is for the protection of domestic investors for shares listed in Mainland
China, than for foreign investors in a foreign company. Although CMED has its operations and management
in China, it is incorporated in the Cayman Islands and its shares are listed in the US.


11 Apr 2012, 05:21 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1095110
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 9/13


Adam Gefvert, CFA, Contributor
My 2 cents:


First off, I really respect Kerrisdale and their expertise in China stocks. They have given their clients tremendous
annual returns, often three digits, mainly from exposing and shorting Chinese frauds. 9 out 10 times they are right.
However, I believe this is one of those 10 times.


I agree that you can't invest in a stock just because it's going up. But at some point, especially in a situation where
you really are blind to exactly what is going on, you might have to acknowledge that you are an outsider to the
situation and not quite understand everything. What we learn from the CFA exam is the Mosaic theory. That's when
an analyst doesn't have any insider information, but the piecing together of various public information that one gets
through research, you put things together and can end up with a very good investment thesis that the market might
not acknowledge yet. I'm not going to be redundant and repeat what's in my other articles. But if you read my article
about the auditor, and the two other ones about CMEDY, you can see how I put together the puzzle. From my
conversations with various parties, I think the company is going about things in a strange way, but still is solid.


A couple more things that I didn't include in the article, that also lead me to buy the stock are:


1. The situation isn't one in which a normal investor or dumb money can really go long. If you are an outsider, how
can you justify this to yourself, or anyone else, about this being a good investment when the management pretty
much abandoned its shareholders? Once the typical investor is eliminated, that leaves mostly insiders as the ones
picking up shares. Not insiders meaning they're doing anything illegal, but insiders that know more about the
company than we do. Maybe they work for the company or are a customer and know that the company sells a good
product. Neither me, nor Kerrisdale, has any idea of who CMED's customers are, or even how the business is doing
right now. Did they just close up shop or is it business as usual over there in China? I assume the people that know
the answers are the ones who are buying shares and boosting the price.


2. I've spoken with people who know about the immunodiagnostic business in China. They say that it's a booming
business. China Medical is in a good industry.


So that's all I have to say for now. And as always, JMHO. This is a long term hold for me of at least a few months, so I
don't mind the volatility that might come with that.


10 Apr 2012, 04:07 PM


Variant View Research, Contributor
9 out of 10 is a massive understatement. Kerrisdale has NEVER been wrong about a Chinese fraud on
Seeking Alpha or on any public forum that I could find. You've already been wrong about CMED in the last
two months.


You posted a "short" article on 2/28 when the stock opened at $0.60 and closed at $1.70. You posted a "long"
article on 4/5 when the stock was trading at around $3.85. The only thing that changed between those two
dates is that the stock price went up, and AER went from 15% to 20% ownership. Really? That 5% difference
made you change your mind from AER being irrelevant to AER orchestrating an illegal MBO?


Sell low and buy high isn't a winning strategy.


10 Apr 2012, 05:46 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/adam-gefvert-cfa

https://seekingalpha.com/author/variant-view-research
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 10/13


Caller Out
"The situation isn't one in which a normal investor or dumb money can really go long."


I can think of at least one counter-example.


11 Apr 2012, 03:42 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Adam:


You say, "I assum the people that know the answers are the ones who are buying shares and boosting the
price." Very bad assumption. 
you say "the immunodisagnositc business in China is booming". historically, many booming industries have
been very unprofitable for investors and very bad for the businesses in those industries, so very poor to invest
any investment thesis on this concept. 
With the mosaic approach, it is incredibly easy to piece together the picture on this company, they are a clear
and obvious fraud, perpetrated as a pump and dump scam to rip off people who puchase the stock.


18 Apr 2012, 04:25 AM


CFOnogood
Regardless of whether you consider the Kerrisdale or the Gefvert angle, there is a more relevant (rudimentary)
consideration called share supply vs. share demand. Let me recap what I think I understand from the 13G filings 1)
supply of the shares held by the Chairman/investment company (40%+) and supply of shares accumulated now by
AER Advisors (19%), Zazove (8%), Whitebox (approx 6%) all recently filed with 13G. That represents close to 73% or
19M of the 26M shares outstanding. There are perhaps several other holders that are long term unwilling to sell and
recall that over 4M are short which translate into a very tight supply to cover. I would suggest that we may actually see
the short interest at higher levels after tomorrow's dissemination by OTCBB because the share prices have been
drifting much higher. This could be the deciding factor in my opinion.


10 Apr 2012, 04:39 PM


Variant View Research, Contributor
This post is full of factual errors. The Chairman owns only 23% of shares as of the 20-F filing and I saw no
filing disclosing an increase in ownership. I'm not sure where you got 40%+ from, but feel free to correct me if
I'm wrong. Zazove and Whitebox "beneficially own" shares through their holdings of convertible bonds -- read
those 13Gs a little more carefully. So those shares don't count toward the last disclosed shares outstanding,
and it doesn't appear that they've "accumulated" anything. The actual ADS count may be 32M but the filings
say 32M and 27M in different places.


10 Apr 2012, 05:15 PM


CFOnogood



https://seekingalpha.com/user/2222181

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1144762

https://seekingalpha.com/author/variant-view-research

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1144762
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 11/13


Yahoo reports 26M and, by the way, the float was recorded as much less. Chairman's investment company owns 23%
and in addition the chairman has restricted shares from what I observed in the filings. I purposely used percentages
as opposed to the number of shares of ownership in case there was going to be a rebuttal or based on expectations
that the ADS shares outstanding is expected to be inconsistent.


10 Apr 2012, 05:23 PM


Variant View Research, Contributor
The 20-F says


Xiaodong Wu(2)(4)


74,470,001 23.1%


Includes 71,420,001 ordinary shares and 200,000 ADSs (equivalent to underlying 2,000,000 ordinary shares)
owned by Chengxuan International Ltd., which is beneficially owned by Mr. Xiaodong Wu, and 1,050,000
restricted shares granted to Mr. Xiaodong Wu which already vested.


You'll notice that when you divide 74M by 23.1% you get 322M (or 32M ADS at a 10:1 ratio).


I notice you had no answer about the convertible note holders declaring beneficial ownership only.


Why don't you just admit that you have got this wrong?


10 Apr 2012, 05:31 PM


CFOnogood
You excluded shares purchased by Chengxuan in June 2011 that are not included on the 20-F.


http://bit.ly/Ik86MJ;highlight=


I don't think anyone has a clear picture of what is owned at this point so the numbers should be used as a general
guideline. The point is that it will be difficult to cover with holders not intending to sell.


11 Apr 2012, 08:18 AM


Variant View Research, Contributor
The 20-F was filed in July, and therefore includes those shares. Even if that were not true, those additional
shares would take his ownership up from 23.1% all the way to .... 23.4%! I assume you can do basic
arithmetic so the only conclusion can be that you are intentionally spreading misinformation. Why don't you
admit to your mistakes, and leave the investment analysis to people who know what they are talking about.


11 Apr 2012, 08:33 AM


CFOnogood
20-F while filed in July is as of March 31, 2011 (annual filing). Based on your comments above one can only view that
you are intentionally trying to sink the shares. I am trying to express an opinion and using available data to do so. If
you are so confident then go short more shares.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/variant-view-research

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1144762

http://bit.ly/Ik86MJ

https://seekingalpha.com/author/variant-view-research

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1144762
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 12/13


11 Apr 2012, 08:50 AM


Variant View Research, Contributor
OK, let's stipulate that's true. Then the CEO's ownership is 23.4% instead of 23.1%. Now how did you get
40%+? Since when is arithmetic a matter of opinion?


11 Apr 2012, 08:53 AM


Cristi C
I would like to add an element to the CMED enigma. I have been investigating this for a while but without some local
Chinese counterpart, I cannot progress any further.


A fact is this SFDA announcement from 2nd Mar 2012:


Title: SFDA issues National Standard for Basic Instruments and Equipments of Medical Device Testing Institutions
(2011-2015)


Content: To enhance the testing capacity building of medical device testing institutions, standardize the instruments
and equipments of medical device testing institutions and improve the supervision of medial devices, the State Food
and Drug Administration (SFDA) formulated and recently issued the National Standard for Basic Instruments and
Equipments of Medical Device Testing Institutions (2011-2015).


Link: http://bit.ly/IToMpt


I wasn't able to get a copy of the standard and even if I did, most likely I would not be able to tell if the two types of
machines that CMED produced, one for ECLIA and one for FISH, would match the standard, given their brief
commercial description by CMED.


Fact is that this standard did not come out of the blue. In fact there were technical committees that went through a
process of organizing the medical testing world of China where hundreds if not thousands of small and big caps
deliver medical testing equipments to those more than 30000 hospitals of all sizes, not counting diagnostic labs.


Remember one Glaucus claim about HIFU. They said that CMED knew in advance (like half a year or more,
considering the publishing date of the new rule on SFDA site) that the SFDA license for cancer therapy will become
stricter with more clinical trials for each type of cancer treated. And that their broader license for HIFU will no longer
allow them to use the machine for a large variety of medical conditions. And for each disease, CMED needed to do a
lengthy process of clinical trials which rendered HIFU business not completely useless, but not with as larger
addressable market as before. That, in a way, explaining why CEO bought the business at fire sale price for its
Chengxuan company: to continue some operations but with limited revenues.


That being said, could not this happened again? CMED found itself with an not-compliant set of products? 
Several facts might be related. Some distributors started to understand that their CMED devices will no longer be
compliant and stopped paying bills. We know that from the doubtful account reserves which grew and admitted by
CMED in earnings conference. It is only an hypothesis.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/variant-view-research

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2198491

http://bit.ly/IToMpt
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 13/13


Secondly, the attempt to sign with Leica Microsystems is in line with the idea of a new standard for medical testing
equipments. CMED said at the time that medical labs complained about the low processing volume of CMED devices
and they wanted something of a larger capacity. Kind of similar to the summary of the new standard, don't you think?
Nothing was heard from that collaboration but I would rather think that the entire portfolio of reagents (about 30 or
more) would need to be retested with the new device and resubmitted to SFDA for approval. That will take a year or
two.


So, I admit my limitation in continuing this research, lacking any local contacts. Any help or clarifications would be
welcome.


11 Apr 2012, 09:35 PM


whitehead1
Can some insider from CMED please come to SA and post something informative so we all can go to sleep. 
We wont tell anyone.


I wonder CMED insiders probably reading all this articles and laughing their a** off.


11 Apr 2012, 09:45 PM


Ian Bezek, Marketplace Contributor
Considering they seemingly have gone dark, as Kerrisdale astutely predicted, I doubt CMED management
are particularly interested in commenting publicly.


If they cared about shareholders, they might bother to file an 8K occasionally. ;)


13 Apr 2012, 07:50 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/951548

https://seekingalpha.com/author/ian-bezek

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=ian-bezek&source=comment_author_tag
