|COMPANY:


RESEARCH GROUP
GLAUCUS 
格 勞 克 斯 研 究


CHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED 
INDUSTRY:  Agriculture


SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ


"Things Gained Through Unjust Fraud Are Never Secure”               -   Sophocles


|


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at 
your own risk. This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such.  You should do your own research and due diligence 
before making any investment decisions with respect to the securities covered herein. We are short Minzhong and therefore stand to 
realize significant gains in the event that the price of Minzhong’s stock declines.  Please refer to our full disclaimer on the final page
of this report.  


On August 26, 2013, we published our investment thesis on CHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED (“Minzhong” 
or the “Company”) opining that Minzhong has so significantly deceived regulators and investors about the scale of its business and its 
financial performance that we expected trading in its shares to be halted and its shares to be worthless.  On September 1, 
Minzhong responded.  


Although the Company tacitly acknowledged that the source materials upon which we based our opinions were true and accurate,
Minzhong complained that the interpretations we made and the conclusions we drew from such evidence were not correct.  


Our opinions were based on publicly available documents from independent third parties such as government registries and 
SAIC filing offices.  To rebut our opinions, Minzhong has offered investors non-public records (such as tax filings), which Minzhong 
knows that neither we nor any other investor can verify or obtain because of their non-public nature. In our view, this is not a 
coincidence.  


The balance of Minzhong’s supporting documents were either generated by the Company, thus, in our view, undermining their 
credibility and importance, or were affidavits from suppliers and customers, who by the Company’s own admission operated 
businesses without licenses or without being properly incorporated.


For investors, auditors and regulators, the most critical aspect of the response is with regards to the 2010 SAIC filings, which show
that two key operating subsidiaries had tiny revenues, few assets and operated at either a net loss or at break even.  In both cases, we 
presented SAIC filings from 2011, in each case audited by a different local accountant from the previous year, which mysteriously 
showed completely different historical financials for 2010!  In our opinion, the Company simply doctored its historical filings to 
make them appear more consistent with the Singapore-filed financials.  


The Company’s response is that it used an “agent” to file their SAIC files before 2011, and as a result, those pre-2011 SAIC filings, 
which show a small and unprofitable business, were the false and inaccurate documents. Instead, Minzhong asks the market to believe 
that the 2011 SAIC files are the ones to be believed. 


The problem with this argument is that Minzhong’s Chairman signed both the 2010 and 2011 SAIC filings. One of the filings is 
inaccurate. You, the reader, must decide which set of documents, submitted with the signature of the Chairman to the Chinese 
government in order to comply with PRC law, are false.  We have our view.


We did not and cannot cause any investor to buy or sell shares of Minzhong.  We can only discuss our investment thesis and discuss 
the evidence upon which we base our conclusion.  Investors must decide for themselves what they believe to be the true value of 
Minzhong’s shares – but in reviewing our original report, the Company’s response, and our rebuttal, market participants would be well 
served to remember that while we rely on publicly available documents which are verifiable and are generated by or submitted to 
independent third parties such as government offices, Minzhong is simply relying either on non-public records or documents 
generated by the Company – none of which can be independently verified by any investor. 


Ultimately, based on the preponderance of the available information, we continue to believe that the most plausible interpretation of 
the evidence available in the public domain is that the Company is a fraction of its reported size and profitability and that it 
has made materially false and misleading statements to the public in connection with its IPO and subsequent public market 
activities.
2





www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


FABRICATED SALES TO TOP CUSTOMERS


1) The Customer That Did Not Exist? 


According to publicly available records from Hong Kong’s Companies Registry, Hong Kong Yifenli (香港一分利) 
(“Hong Kong Yifenli”), which was supposedly Minzhong’s largest customer during the track record period, was
only incorporated on November 6, 2009.  This begs the obvious question of how Hong Kong Yifenli could be 
Minzhong’s biggest customer from June 2006 to September 2009 when it apparently did not exist prior to November 
2009!


The Company never denies that its largest pre-IPO customer was incorporated after the track record period.  
Rather, Minzhong states that from 2006-2009, it was selling vegetables to a Taiwanese businessman named Mr. 
Zhao Li, “who operated a trading business under the name Hong Kong Yifenli.” In other words, the Company is 
telling investors that it was doing business with an individual who was operating an unincorporated entity.  


It is illegal to operate a business in Hong Kong (or anywhere in the world, to our knowledge) without a business 
registration.  But the legal ramifications pale in comparison to the practical considerations. We are not aware of any 
jurisdiction in which a business can open a bank account without formation documents, so was the Company simply 
receiving RMB 188 million from a personal account?1  


Minzhong then provides Export VAT Invoices, Customs Declarations, Bills of Lading and other ancillary 
documents which, the Company argues, show that Minzhong was selling vegetables to Hong Kong Yifenli during 
the track record period. But investors would be wise to be suspicious of these documents for a number of reasons.  


First, a few paltry invoices should not convince investors that an unincorporated entity was as large a customer as 
the Company claims.  Minzhong provided three sales invoices for Hong Kong Yifenli with an average invoice 
amount of RMB 70,000.  The invoices provided only substantiate a small fraction of 1% of the reported sales to its 
supposed best customer.  


Further, with the order sizes provided in these invoices, Hong Kong Yifenli would have to be averaging nearly 9 
orders per day, every day of the week, including weekends and holidays, in order to meet the reported sales figures 
in Minzhong’s IPO prospectus.


The invoices to Hong Kong Yifenli were so small, as we show in the chart above, that the customer would have 
needed to place an average of almost 9 such orders per day in 2009 for its reported purchases from Minzhong to 
be true. 


Hong Kong Yifenli - Invoices Provided (RMB in mms)


Invoiced Reported % of Sales Required Required
Invoice Sales Sales for Substantiated Orders Orders per


Date Amount the Year by Invoices of this Size Day
3/8/2007 0.06 144 0.04% 2,281 6.3
7/9/2008 0.10 38 0.25% 400 1.1


4/28/2009 0.06 188 0.03% 3,254 8.9
www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ


3


|


Second, the documents provided in Annex A (shipping orders and invoices) and Annex B (sales contracts) do not
appear to contain an address for Hong Kong Yifenli. 


We also note that in its certificate of incorporation (excerpted below), Hong Kong Yifenli continues to use their HK 
accountants as their registered address:2


                                                  
2 Hong Kong Company Registry
4 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


Minzhong produced documents to convince investors, auditors and regulators that it was selling vegetables to Hong 
Kong Yifenli within the track record period despite the fact that the business was not incorporated at the time.  Yet, 
not one document appears to provide an address for the customer or an address for where Hong Kong Yifenli 
would receive such vegetables.  Why not? 


Third, it appears there are no government stamps on ANY document bearing the name Hong Kong Yifenli.  The 
only documents that contain the name ‘Hong Kong Yifenli’ were generated by Minzhong (namely the invoices and 
the sales contract).  On the few documents provided which bear government stamps, the consignee (i.e., the person 
to whom the shipment is to be delivered) is not Hong Kong Yifenli but Pancom Produce Pte Tld or Volume Buyers 
Ltd., which both appear to be fruit and vegetable brokers.  


Without documents produced by an independent third party (such as a government office), investors are simply left 
to rely on Minzhong’s word for the veracity of its claims.  The Company is essentially saying “just trust us” even 
though it cannot dispute that publicly available government records show that Hong Kong Yifenli was incorporated 
long after Minzhong claimed to be doing business with it.  We believe that the simplest explanation is usually the 
right one.  


2) SAIC Filings Suggest Fake Sales to Second Largest Customer


SAIC filings (excerpted in our original report) show that the Company’s second largest customer (reportedly 
accounting for over RMB 172 million in CY 2009), Putian Daziran Vegetables Produce Co., Ltd. (“Putian 
Vegetables”), had zero revenues, zero COGS and a net profit of RMB 6,083 in calendar year 2009. We believe 
that the absence of any COGS indicates that Minzhong’s supposed customer did not purchase any goods from 
Minzhong (or anyone else) in 2009.  


In response, Minzhong has produced a tax filing that purportedly shows that Putian Vegetables had over RMB 227 
million in COGS for CY 2009.  


This rebuttal is troubling.  This tax filing was not included in the Annex, so a full and complete copy has not been 
provided to investors.  Further, the excerpt does not contain any stated revenue, net income or other financial line 
items to suggest it is authentic.  Nor does the tax record reconcile with SAIC filings.  


We produced publicly available documents showing that Minzhong’s reported customer had zero COGS and no 
change in inventory in 2009.  The Company came back with an incomplete tax record; a document which, 
Minzhong presumably knows, cannot be obtained or verified by any investor, including us, because of its non-
public nature.
5 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


3) Undisclosed Related Party


We noted that the Company failed to disclose to investors that its Chairman appears to have been a co-founder of 
Putian Vegetables or that the legal representative of its Sichuan Subsidiary (Lin Guo Ping) simultaneously served as 
the supervisor (the jīanshì -监事) of its second largest customer during the track record period.  


Minzhong responded that its Chairman had sold his equity interest prior to the track record period and as Mr. Lin 
Guo Ping did “not have control over influence over … Putian Vegetables, and Mr. Lin Guo Ping is not a key 
member of management, transactions by the Group with Putian Vegetables do not meet the definition of related 
party transactions under FRS.”  In essence, the Company says it had no duty to disclose Mr. Lin Guo Ping’s role 
because he had no power or influence over the customer. 


We disagree. The role of a supervisor at a Chinese company is to oversee the accounting and financial activity of 
the business.3  This is a powerful role, so we doubt how he could have such little influence.  


Ultimately, the Company misses the point. The entire purpose of disclosing connections between the Company and 
its customers or suppliers is to enable auditors and bankers to apply a higher level of scrutiny to such transactions.  
A public company also has a duty to disclose such connections to investors, who have the option of reviewing such 
transactions with a more skeptical eye in order to determine whether the Company is benefiting from a special 
relationship.  


It is our good-faith belief that Lin Guo Ping’s simultaneous service as the legal representative of the Company’s 
Sichuan subsidiary and as supervisor of its second largest customer was a material relationship which, in our 
opinion, calls into question the veracity of the reported transactions between the Company its second largest 
customer.
  
TOP SUPPLIER’S BUSINESS LICENSE REVOKED BEFORE THE IPO


SAIC filings show that Chengdu Shufeng Nong Ye (成都蜀丰农业开发有限公司) (“Chengdu Shufeng”), 
Minzhong’s largest supplier during the pre-IPO track record period, was deregistered and stripped of its business 
license for violating PRC law in February 2010, a mere two months before Minzhong’s April 2010 IPO.  In our 
opinion, the implication of this deregistration is that the supplier was not a major operating business and that 
Minzhong fabricated payments to its largest supplier.


Minzhong response is threefold: Chengdu Shufeng’s non-compliance with PRC law is not the Company’s problem, 
the Company switched mushroom spore suppliers in October 2010 and discontinued purchases from Chengdu 
Shufeng shortly thereafter, and its mushroom spore business is “immaterial.”


It is an obfuscation to suggest that the Company’s largest pre-IPO supplier was an immaterial aspect of its business.
The Company clearly believed that its largest supplier was sufficiently material to merit disclosure in the IPO
Prospectus under Singapore listing rules.  


Note as well that it is illegal to operate in China without a business license.  Yet the Company admits that its top 
supplier and its top customer both operated a business without a license in violation of law.  These are the same 
people upon whom investors are expected to rely upon for the veracity of the reported sales and purchases.  


Again, the supporting evidence is of dubious reliability.  The contract in Annex F that Minzhong signed with 
Chengdu Shufeng is dated April 11, 2010, two months after the supplier’s business license was revoked and two 
months after it was instructed to hand over its corporate seal to the local SAIC office:


                                                  
3http://baike.baidu.com/view/279059.htm



http://baike.baidu.com/view/279059.htm
6 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|
7 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


The additional documents supposedly showing purchases from the supplier are warehouse receipts generated by the 
Company, undermining their credibility and importance.  


We believe that the Company’s response misses the point.  We did not presume to imply that the Company was 
responsible for its supplier’s government filings.  But we find it highly unlikely that a supplier receiving RMB 161 
million in just over two years would allow its business license to be revoked for failure to submit routine filings and 
financial statements to its local SAIC office.  Chengdu Shufeng was supposedly the largest supplier of mushroom 
spores to a soon-to-be public company.  Its sales to Minzhong were supposedly increasing at the time of the IPO.  
Chengdu Shufeng had every incentive to maintain an operating business, yet it allowed its status to be revoked a 
mere two months before Minzhong’s IPO. 


We believe that all of this evidence supports the opinion that the supplier was incorporated solely for the purpose 
of Minzhong’s track record period (June 2006 – September 2009).  Supposedly a thriving supplier, Chengdu 
Shufeng was incorporated two months before the beginning of Minzhong’s track record period and had its business 
license revoked two months before the Company’s IPO.  


Investors can decide for themselves.  But there are two possible explanations: either Chengdu Shufeng was a 
thriving business that was born just before the track record period and collapsed shortly thereafter because of its 
failure to file routine paperwork or it was established to create a paper trail for Minzhong’s IPO and allow the 
Company to fabricate purchases from its largest supplier to artificially inflate the scale and profitability of its 
business.


ATTEMPTED COVER UP?


For investors, auditors and regulators, the most critical aspect of the response is with regards to the 2010 SAIC 
filings, which show that two key operating subsidiaries had tiny revenues, few assets and operated at either a net loss 
or at break even.  In both cases, we presented SAIC filings from 2011, in each case audited by a different local 
accountant from the previous year, which mysteriously showed completely different historical financials for 
2010!  In our opinion, the Company simply doctored its historical filings to make them appear more consistent with 
its Singapore-filed financials.  


The Company’s response is that it used an “agent” to file their SAIC files before 2011, and as a result, those pre-
2011 SAIC files, which show a small and unprofitable business, were the false and inaccurate documents. Instead, 
Minzhong asks the market to believe that the 2011 SAIC files are the ones to be believed. 


The problem with that argument is that Minzhong’s Chairman signed both the 2010 and 2011 SAIC filings and each 
case represented that the documents were true and accurate.
8 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


2010 SAIC Filings
9 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


2011 SAIC Filings
10 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


One of the filings, submitted with the signature of the Chairman to the Chinese government in order to comply with 
PRC law, is false.  


Minzhong also attempts to distract investors by discrediting SAIC filings, saying that financial reports are filed with 
SAIC offices only for the purpose of showing “that the company is still operating and maintains good corporate 
standing.  On the other hand, the State Administration of Taxation (国家税务总局) (“Tax Authority”) is the PRC 
government agency that is the legal authority to receive the annual financial reports of a PRC business and collect 
taxes based on such reports.”  Minzhong then concludes that although its SAIC filings in 2010 are inaccurate, its 
2010 filings to the Tax Authority are not. 


This is a classic distraction. Minzhong demands to be trusted based on the accuracy of its filings to the Tax 
Authority knowing full well that neither we, nor any other investor, can access such tax records because of 
their non-public nature.  But this still does not change the fact that the Chairman signed off on SAIC 
financials that were materially inaccurate.  


Hopefully, investors will not ignore the absurdity of the implication that an arm of the PRC government (SAIC 
offices) demands that a company file financials every year but does not care whether such financials are accurate or 
that a company does not have a legal obligation to file accurate financial statements.    


Put simply, SAIC filings matter.  Sinopipe Holdings Ltd., another troubled S-Chip whose shares have been halted 
since March 2012, first came under scrutiny when its auditors discovered “significant discrepancies between the 
audited PRC GAAP financial statements of certain PRC subsidiaries for previous financial years filed with the local 
PRC authorities and audited PRC GAAP financial statements provided by management…”   We believe that similar 
discrepancies appear in Minzhong’s records.  For the Company to blame such discrepancies on an “agent” is simply 
not credible.  


SUSPICIOUS CAPITAL EXPENDITURES


In fiscal years 2011 and 2012, Minzhong claims to have spent RMB 1.2 billion on the construction of the Putian 
New Industrial Park (“Putian Industrial Park”).  Yet SAIC filings show an increase of only RMB 203 million in 
PP&E during the same period.  Suspiciously, the industrial park was not pledged as collateral for Minzhong’s bank 


loans, and instead the Company’s creditors sought personal, unsecured guarantees from the Company’s Chairman 


and its suppliers, which, in our view, is further evidence that Minzhong inflated the value of its capital expenditure.     


Laughably, the Company claims we were ‘mischievous’ because we only included part of the balance sheet in the 


body of the report, ignoring that we included the full balance sheet in the supplementary evidence file on our 


website in order to allow investors to make an informed decision.  


1) Reinventing the "Current Asset"


Minzhong claims that under PRC GAAP, the vast majority of its capital expenditures on the Putian Industrial Park 


were classified on the balance sheet of its subsidiary Fujian Minzhong Organic Food Co., Ltd. (“Fujian Minzhong”)
as prepayments and deferred expenses, which according to the Company, would be classified as PP&E “only 
upon receipt of the relevant tax invoices.”  


Minzhong's categorization of RMB 1 billion in missing capital expenditures as ‘prepayments’ and ‘deferred 


expenses’ in the SAIC filings of Fujian Minzhong defies, in our view, the most basic accounting logic, within or 


outside of the PRC.


First, the PRC balance sheet contains a line item for ‘construction in progress,’ which happens to be a fraction of 


the reported capital expenditures for the Putian Industrial Park.  What is the point of a ‘construction in progress’ line 


item if the asset is categorized as either a ‘prepayment’ or PP&E? 



http://infopub.sgx.com/FileOpen/Sinopipe-AuditIssuesRelatingToPRCSubsidiaries.ashx?App=Announcement&FileID=36216
11 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


Second, the ‘prepayments’ to which Minzhong refers to are categorized as a ‘current asset.’  Current assets are a 


revolving door, defined as assets that can be turned into cash or will be used to pay current liabilities within 1 year.  


As the account summary below demonstrates, the "prepayments" balance for Fujian Minzhong appears to be a 


parking lot for assets of questionable authenticity – after all, if the prepayments become PP&E when the Company 


receives a tax invoice, then such prepayments should disappear from the balance sheet as the project progresses.  


Suspiciously the prepayment balance did not change at all from 2009 to 2010, after which it increased RMB 1.3 


billion in a span of 2 years.  Minzhong has told investors that its Putian Industrial Park finished Phase II of 


construction in December 2012 (SAIC filings are based on a calendar year).  Yet the prepayments appear to enter as 


a current asset and never come out.


Third, included in our report the following press release
4


from an important government website (the NRDC) stating 


that the expected investment in the Putian Industrial Park was RMB 450 million in aggregate in 2010 and 2011 and 


a total of USD $120 million all phases.  More importantly, the two projected phases (RMB 100MM in 2010 and 


RMB 350MM in 2011 corroborate the increase in PP&E in the SAIC filings that we presented in our initial report. 


The May 2011 press release indicates a total project value, which encompasses all phases of the project from 2010 


through 2012, of $US 120 million, or around RMB 730 million.  While this amount is higher than the RMB 200 


million shown in the SAIC filings, it is still significantly less than the RMB 1.2 billion that management claimed 


was spent in on the Putian Industrial Park, and at the time of the press release, the project was still 19 months from 


completion.  That leaves hundreds of millions missing or unexplained.  Again, this situation is eerily similar to 


Chaoda, which prior to its trading halt, was under fire for suspicious levels of capital expenditures.


                                                  
4 http://www.putian.gov.cn/a/20110503/00065.shtml


Fujian Minzhong - Prepayments (per SAIC filings) RMB


December


2009 176,396,890.52
2010 176,396,890.52
2011 920,903,555.53
2012 1,496,068,103.67



http://www.scmp.com/article/739640/chaoda-tumbles-analysts-question-spending-policies
12 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


Source: http://www.putian.gov.cn/a/20110503/00065.shtml
13 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


2) Unsecured Borrowings


In what is nothing short of Orwellian double-speak, Minzhong then argues its “unsecured borrowings underlie the 
confidence shown in the Company” by its lenders.  Minzhong then labors through a labyrinth of excuses about why 
its lenders supposedly preferred the unsecured guarantees of the Company’s Chairman and the Company’s supplier 
rather than require the Company to pledge hard assets such as the New Industrial Park to backstop its loans. We 
disagree.


If the Company’s credit profile were truly as robust as the Company claims, it would not need personal guarantees 
of its Chairman or the guarantee of a random supplier to backstop a loan. But in addition to unsecured 
guarantees, the banks also have required certain collateral (RMB 50 million of PP&E5 and RMB 3 million6 of land 
use rights) to be pledged: 


No matter the business, banks are generally not in the habit of requiring personal guarantees or unsecured corporate 
guarantees when hard assets are available to backstop a loan.  We continue to believe it is suspicious that Minzhong 
gleaming new PP&E is not pledged as collateral.  


REINVENTING THE WHEEL


1) EBITDA Margins


We noted that the Company’s business model is as old as agriculture itself, yet it so vastly outperforms other fresh 
produce growers that its reported financial performance defies credibility. Minzhong’s reported EBITDA margins 
on fresh produce, its most profitable segment, averaged an absurd 66% during the past five years.  


Minzhong cries foul, saying that we inappropriately calculated EBITDA by including gains on the fair value from 
biological assets.  Even if we exclude such gains, EBITDA margins on fresh produce for FY 2007 to FY 2013 are 
71.4%, 64.1%, 54.9%, 62.2%, 66.3%, 62.9% and 58.8% respectively.


Such margins are still extraordinarily high, and in our view, a significant red flag.  The Company claims its margins 
are high because of its high yield, but farming is not software development, so it begs the question of why Minzhong 
is outperforming its peers (Chaoda, Le Gaga, China Green Holdings)? 


It also bears repeating that Minzhong's pretax margins on fresh vegetables should be inherently low because: a) 
unprocessed vegetables are the ultimate commodity; b) according to the Prospectus, Minzhong's fresh vegetables are 
sold exclusively within the PRC, where vegetables are generally cheap and plentiful, and c) Minzhong appears to 
have several middlemen between their fresh vegetables and the end consumer. 


                                                  
5 Company AR FY2012, p.66
6 Company AR FY2012, p.67
14 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


2) Receivables


The Company’s receivables have skyrocketed of late, despite the fact that its credit terms have not changed.  We 
believe that the persistent and unexplained growth in receivables is caused by the need to account for fake income 
on the balance sheet.     


In perhaps the most light-hearted paragraph of its response, Minzhong stated that its ballooning receivables can be 
explained by credit tightening in the PRC (which somehow did not seem to affect its ability to turn a profit) and the 
weather.  


No matter how the Company spins it, Minzhong’s receivables are getting worse and worse.  In the following charts, 
we have updated our calculation of the Company’s ‘Past Due But Not Impaired’ receivables and its Day Sales 
Outstanding in light of the recently released FY 2013 unaudited earnings. 


It is undisputable that the Company’s receivables situation is getting worse every year.  In our opinion, receivables 
are growing because Minzhong needs a place to park fake sales on its balance sheet. 


0 


50 


100 


150 


200 


250 


300 


350 


2011 2012 2013


Past Due But "Not Impaired" (RMB in mms)


0 


20 


40 


60 


80 


100 


120 


2011 2012 2013


Days Sales 
Outstanding


Avg Days 
Credit 
(Policy)
15 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


CONCLUSION


After needing a full week to prepare answers to the most basic questions about its business, we believe that 
Minzhong’s response is not only inadequate, but that it also raises a host of additional red flags which further 
corroborate our underlying thesis.  


In an effort to distract the market, the Company has falsely accused us of acting mischievously and recklessly 
without due regard for the accuracy of our statements.  The Company has also falsely accused us of seeking to cause 
panic and impose maximum damage on the price of the Company’s stock.  We reject all of these libelous 
accusations. 


As the Company acknowledges, we are entitled to voice our opinions regarding the published results and 
performance of the Company.  Our opinions of what we believe to be the true value of the Company’s shares are
based upon our analysis and due diligence.  Our opinions regarding the Company are a matter of public interest, and 
publication of our opinions is justified due to the fact that investors and the capital markets are connected in a 
common interest in determining the true value of the Company and its stock price.   The Company disagrees with 
our interpretation of the publicly available information, and has its own views, which are based upon its own 
information, none of which was available to us (or to anyone in the investing public).      


We have disclosed the fact that we have a short interest in the securities of the Company and stand to realize gain in 
the event that the price of the securities falls – however, that does not in any way undermine the good faith belief in 
our opinions, nor does it support the Company’s accusation that we are trying to harm the Company or its 
shareholders. 


We did not and cannot cause investors to buy or sell shares of Minzhong. We can only express our investment 
thesis and discuss the evidence upon which we base our opinions and conclusions.  We have not used any false or 
misleading language, or wrongful characterization of information that was available to us, and we believe our 
comments were entirely fair.  Investors must decide for themselves if what they believe to be the true value of 
Minzhong’s shares.  


However, it bears repeating that in reviewing the Company’s response, this rebuttal and our original report, market 
participants would be well served to remember that while we rely on publicly available documents which are 
verifiable and are generated by or submitted to independent third parties such as government offices, Minzhong is 
simply relying either on non-public records or documents generated by the Company – none of which can be 
independently verified by any investor. 


Ultimately, based on the preponderance of the available evidence, we continue to believe that the most plausible 
interpretation of the facts and documentation available in the public domain is that the Company is a fraction 


of its reported size and profitability and that it has made materially false and misleading statements to the 


public in connection with its IPO and subsequent public market activities.
16 
 












































www.glaucusresearch.comCHINA MINZHONG FOOD CORPORATION LIMITED | SGX: K2N    BB: MINZ|


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is Minzhong. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If you are invested 
(either long or short) in Minzhong, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like everyone else, are entitled to our 
opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum.  We believe that the publication of our opinions and the underlying facts about the 
public companies we research is in the public interest.


You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Minzhong stock declines. This report and all statements 
contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of fact.  Our opinions are held in good faith, and 
we have based them upon publicly available facts and evidence collected and analyzed, all of which we set out in our research report to support our 
opinions.  We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in 
doing so.  You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report 
and do your own homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law.


As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or indirect short position 
in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of Minzhong’s 
stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before 
making any investment decision with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor 
should they be construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any 
time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be 
offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our 
ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and 
reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of 
confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure 
that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate.  We strive for accuracy and completeness to support our opinions, and we 
have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind– whether express or 
implied. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, LLC research and 
materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value trust) falling within Article 49 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial 
institution, government or local authority, or international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change witho ut notice, and Glaucus 
Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By 
downloading and opening this report you knowingly and independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the 
material herein shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal 
and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, 
given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in California; and (iii) that regardless of 
any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within 
one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or 
enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a 
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as 


reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and
jurisdiction provision.


Disclaimer
