5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 1/14


Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface?
Part 2
Nov. 15, 2013 12:38 PM ET27 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Executive Summary for OMEX Investigative Report  


Target Price: $0.00 Thesis: Strong Sell


Market Cap: $180mm (84mm x $2.15/sh) Shareholder's Equity: ($4.5mm)


Total Cash: $11mm* Total Debt: $23mm


Net Loss 2013 - 2009, respectively: ($21.5mm) (9mos); ($18.2mm); ($16.2mm); ($23.3mm);


($18.6mm)


*We believe that $6mm of this may be offshore based on $2.9mm "non-controlling interest" in 10-Q.


This report is a follow up to our first 66-page report published October 31, 2013 which can
be found at www.omextruth.com.


"Odyssey's cynically deploying a few random nodes of truth to the end of evading
the acknowledgement of an over-arching and regnant truth." -Judge Steven D.
Merryday in the Sept 25, 2013 'Black Swan' ruling against Odyssey


In response to our initial report, OMEX held a conference call November 5th, not
open to general Q&A, where they refuted exactly ZERO of our factual statements


Here, we will expose the public relations techniques used by Greg Stemm to try to
discredit our research by taking our factual statements out of context.


OMEX failed to address our serious questions and management explanations do not hold
up. For example, we include 3 sources indicating that Panamanian locals are not required
to "satisfy regulatory framework" as OMEX has claimed.


OMEX's most recent 10-Q filed November 12th has numerous revisions that we
highlight including that Neptune Minerals, Inc. -- claimed as a source of $108mm of
"off balance sheet value" -- now appears to be insolvent.


1



http://www.omextruth.com/
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 2/14


Neptune appears to have lost $25mm over the last fiscal year ended June 30, far
greater than "a few million" that OMEX anticipated in their August 10-Q.
As of June 30, 2013, Neptune's total accumulated deficit appears to be $49mm. This
exceeds Neptune's total equity raises, indicating insolvency: we believe NMI is worth
zero.
Despite Neptune still being unable to pay its bills to OMEX, OMEX lent an additional
$500,000 to Neptune during the 3 month period ending Sept 30, 2013.
Further research into the Oceanica mining project also indicates to us this project is
worthless: other claimed "world class" assets have a high failure rate, do not be
deceived by this empty term.


OMEX has delayed its Commodity Shipwreck business to 2H 2014 and we believe
this business is extremely risky


A new 5 word disclosure was added to this 10-Q related to the Mantola recovery effort:
"but no silver was found"


Despite OMEX's record find it the Gairsoppa, even if OMEX books a $20mm profit in Q4
2013, the average net loss per year for 2012-2013 will still exceed $10mm per year.


We believe the "four separate 20th-century shipwrecks" that OMEX touts are likely Nazi
cargo ships and if so, we question how they could possibly have a valid cargo "rights
secured under contract."


We believe these four ships were found in 1997 by a British Company and are in
extremely deep waters that present new technical hurdles.


If you own the stock, you deserve answers more than anyone, so demand them from your
company. As shareholders, management reports to YOU.


Key Questions for OMEX that Shareholders Deserve Answers to:


1. Please explain why one of OMEX's Bahamian subsidiaries appears to have been
created in 1983 with Greg Stemm's name listed? Why are any Bahamian subsidiaries
necessary for OMEX?


2. If the directors listed on DNA are not involved in that entities daily operations, why are
Panamanian directors listed on DNA paperwork and not the true directors?
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 3/14


Comments (27)


3. Is it true that Carlos Arida Miguel, apparent cofounder of Oceanica, is an 89 year old
Mexican with no mining background? When you took over Oceanica what did you pay this
man?


4. Why did you disclose on the previous 10-Q filed August 8, 2013 that you believed
Neptune would have a loss of a "few million dollars" for the fiscal year ended June 30,
2013. It appears from your recent 10-Q that you lent them $500k around this date and we
believe you would have known they had losses of $25 million.


5. Does Neptune have any ongoing operations? Based on your recent 10-Q, it appears to
have an accumulated deficit of $49mm while we believe it has raised less equity than this.
How is Neptune funding any operations if they are ongoing?


6. Are the "four commodity shipwrecks" you refer to in your pipeline the so-called "German
blockade runners"? Namely: Rio Grande, Burgenland, Karin, and Rhakotis.


7. If so, how did you acquire their positional information? We believe these were
discovered in 1997 by Bluewater Recoveries Ltd. at great expense .


8. If so, how do you have a salvage contract for the cargo? The cargo of these 4 ships
belonged to the Nazi German government which no longer exists.


[1] CASE NO. 8:07-cv-614-T-23MAP - Docket 364, p12, sentence starts with "Odyssey's
characterizing her as a "vessel . . . assigned to transport mail, private passengers, and
consignments of merchant goods and other cargoes" is a splendid and representative
example of...Odyssey's…"


[2] http://www.bluewater.uk.com/gallery.htm


Disclosure: I am short OMEX. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


2


ftfan35
I have never seen an investigative report using the words, "if, why, and believe" quite so much. A report is supposed
to PROVIDE answers, while most of what you are putting forth is speculative musings to make you profit based on



https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/omexblackswan364.pdf

http://www.bluewater.uk.com/gallery.htm

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1058215
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 4/14


your positions.


15 Nov 2013, 01:01 PM


MintyFresh32
I am pretty shocked that SA would run this piece. While it is true that Meson has disclosed its short position, they are
far from merely an author with some skin in the game. They have actively engaged OMEX in a serious fight and their
report almost single-handedly drove OMEX's share price down by almost a third. SA should not allow its platform to
be used in this manner. And to be clear, you do not need to have an opinion about the accuracy of Meson's
allegations to be upset by this piece running on SA.


15 Nov 2013, 01:26 PM


sweeps63
Here we go again! More of the same GARBAGE from so called Meson Capital Partners!


First off let's start with the title where they imply there was a part 1 to "Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies
Beneath the Surface?" That actual first part was a sensationalized title "Investigative Report Questions Odyssey
Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining", which did not show any signs of being much better than a
grade schooler's "Investigative Report!" As ftfan indicates "... A report is supposed to PROVIDE answers, ..." Seems
Meson is only interested in stirring up speculation and forcing price drop.


Next let's move on to where Meson tries to sound sympathetic to fellow shareholders


"... What do we want? What is our motivation?


We fundamentally want the same thing that anyone long OMEX stock wants: Answers to our questions and more
specific information about the company's operations, not vague platitudes or promises ... "


Why then will you not provide information to shareholders seeking more specific information? I specifically asked you


" In a typical investigative report when someone has asked the other party questions, then that type of discourse is
put forth in the report; however, your report (at least the part most people are seeing) makes it appear that OMEX
Never responded to any questions. Which is it? Did OMEX respond and you aren't listing those responses? Or did
OMEX sit through 90 minutes with an Unnamed "experienced investigative reporter" and not say a word? not even No
Comment?


If this investigative reporter is so experienced why don't you list his/her name?"


to which I have received NO Reply!


I later again tried to receive information from Meson (directly on the so-called Investigative Report) and posted a
comment to another's comment (scarletibis1) (I'll list both)


--- from scarletibis1 
"Just to be clear who did this investigative reporter speak with at Omex?


Sweeps63 states:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1667491

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 5/14


"Actually OMEX has responded that Mr. Ryan Morris, aka Meson Capital Partners, has Never contacted them directly
with any questions whatsoever".


Someone seems to be lying here. Or is Omex being cute that no one contacted them "directly" whatever that means.
Pls clarify. Thanks "


--- my post 
"scarletibis, that is what I'm trying to figure out.


OMEX says that Mr. Norris, aka Meson Capital Partners never contacted them directly, to which "Meson Capital
Partners" later wrote that their investigative reporter spent 90 minutes on the phone with OMEX. So what's this
reporter's name so that we might see if OMEX has OR has not actually spoken on the issues in your report? By
Meson Capital Partners own admission he has not spoken with OMEX directly, so OMEX is being truthful that they
were not contacted by him, hence why we need to know the reporter's name and see reference to what that reporter
actually asked and was or was not answered by OMEX. "


I'm trying to do a little Investigation myself to dig into matters, but I'm not getting ANY assistance from Meson even
though they specifically allude to that they want information!


If you dig into Meson's so-called report they say


"... over 6 months doing an in-depth investigative report on OMEX ..."


but during this "in-depth investigative report" you have not contacted OMEX directly? How is that "in-depth"? (Yes I
asked that of Meson as well, but you guessed it NO REPLY!!!)


To be fair Meson did respond to some of the comment stream one time when he/they try to make it appear that there
is a criminal investigation being done in the UK on OMEX (which there is NOT).


Later Meson lists a link to an article that states that Marine Management Organisation is probing activities around the
HMS Victory because of complaints from archaeologists and descendants. First, MMO is not a branch of the police so
that is not a criminal investigation as Meson tried to imply. Second, just because MMO is investigating something no
more means that OME did something wrong than the police showing up at a house because someone called them on
the phone and said it sounded like something bad was happening!


Meson again tried to imply that OMEX has done wrong by supplying another link to a different article, but in that very
article it shows that OMEX was working within the guidelines and MHF (Maritime Heritage Foundation) was trying to
get the proper permission from UK MoD.


Later when Steven Reiman posted


"To expand upon my question, the below statement implies that you have gone to management with your litany of
questions.


"If you own the stock, you deserve answers more than anyone, so demand them from YOUR company. As
shareholders, management reports to YOU."


Would this be an incorrect interpretation? Have you gone to management with your concerns before paying for a
press release, releasing a 66 page report and posting an article on seekingalpha denouncing the stock? "
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 6/14


Meson supplied a tiny tidbit that again we Shareholders could not verify or ask OMEX about (to determine to believe
Meson or OMEX or neither)


"We were working with an experienced investigative reporter who spent about 90 minutes asking the company
questions. We incorporated their (in my view, highly unsatisfactory) answers into our report and modified our
questions in the report accordingly. "


In Meson's final post (translated to not Replying though having pressed the Reply button hence the post was
indented)


"Cliff - thank you for reading the report, I appreciate the feedback though I do only see 2 articles you have posted,
both with optimistic headlines towards OMEX.


Your ability to change your mind as the facts change or become more apparent is admirable and certainly puts you in
the upper echelons of Seekingalpha commenters "


Oh yes that's very helpful to those of us seeking answers!


So once again Meson posts something trying to drop the price of OMEX since it worked fantastically for them before!


If anyone out there has some actual useful information and wouldn't mind supplying some details, so those SA
readers that would like to verify and dig more into that information, I and I'm sure many others here would appreciate
it.


15 Nov 2013, 03:16 PM


Strada
Regarding the Commodity Shipwrecks: 
They weren’t gov’t owned ships, and they weren’t transporting gov’t owned cargo. The ship owner and cargo owner
are still around and are under contract.


Most of the time and dollars spent on the Gairsoppa (and Mantola) was to locate the silver on wrecks. The wrecks
were large and the silver a small portion of the total cargo on the vessels. The tin and nickel on the four commodity
wrecks is nearly all or a majority of the cargo on the vessels so little time will be needed to find the target. The pieces
of tin individually weigh less than the pieces of silver retreived from the Gairsoppa. These projects, other than location
and depth should be easier than the Gairsoppa, exactly opposite to what you suggest.


Regarding the Additional Sharecount: 
The additional shares are dilution expected and disclosed from amortizations of the convertible debt with stock which
waqs the practice until recently and exericise of warrants, primarily the Series G preferred warrants which were
expiring. Also management bought 100,000 shares directly from the company in a private placement. The shares
were purchased in a private placement because management feels they know much more about Oceanica than is
public.


Regarding Oceanica: 
Offshore phosphate actually has significantly less contaminates and higher phosphate levels than on-shore deposits.
So it should be significantly cheaper to beneficiate. PhosMex's report on the offshore opportunity (which they
eventually sold to Innophos) discusses this issue.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3715271
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 7/14


Innophos's concession which they purchased from Phosmex was nearer the shore and so likely had lower phosphate
levels. Also, Oceanica appears (from tracking the Dorado Discovery) to be far enough from shore that the
environmental issues are not comparable to Chatham Rock Phosphate's effort in New Zealand which is planned for a
Benthic Protection Area and near fishing interests or the Sandpiper project in Namibia which is smack dab in the
middle of one of the best fishing areas.


Neptune Minerals 
Its not uncommon for pre-revenue companies to have a stockholders deficit, it does not make them insolvent. Also it
is not uncommon for existing shareholders to fund pre-revenue companies in-between financing rounds with
convertible debt that converts at the next round price.


Everything else is just meaningless noise and not worth discussing, unless someone has a specific question.


15 Nov 2013, 04:13 PM


Papaoomowmow
"(which they eventually sold to Innophos) "


That's an excellent piece of information! Thanks Pimmoban!


15 Nov 2013, 06:09 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
They actually sold an option to the claim to Innophos, Papa. The chief money-raiser for Phosomex died of cancer and
they gave up on the go-it-alone route, selling the option to Innophos instead. Innophos ran three studies on the
property and decided not to pursue it. I was told that this was due to the fact that they ran into considerable resistance
onshore in setting up processing infrastructure to handle the volume. But I would also guess that the economics of
this license were not especially compelling.


The Oceanica asset appears to be much more interesting than licenses Phosmex/Innophos/others have held.
Scientific data confirms the existence of very large, very concentrated deposits in this area. Of course, we'll know
more when the ni 43-101/technical data is published.


15 Nov 2013, 08:03 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  What is the scientific data that confirms the existence of very large very concentrated
deposits? 
Thanks


15 Nov 2013, 09:07 PM


Papaoomowmow
Thanks Green River. Recently skimmed Treasure Too Far and read the epilogue, so have been very curious
about the fate of Phosmex and their license.


16 Nov 2013, 12:26 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 8/14


scarletibis1
This just gets more comical every day. Now, we have a new player unheard of until today who knows more than the
suits running the company, Mr Pimmoban to be precise.


I hope your information, most of which was not public knowledge is accurate but the problem is you have not sourced
any of it. So why should we believe any of it?


Where did you obtain your inside info? If it is from anyone inside Omex it just yet again explains how inept these
people are. They should have come out with the info on the commodity ships long ago. But it is all shrouded in
mystery.


On the other hand, I personally tried to get Meson to answer my specific question about who they spoke with and got
no reply whatsover. So, they lose a lot of credibility as well.


If they intenionally did not contact anyone at O with their allegations or questions before they made the piece public
then their motivation is quite obvious. And, in fact, their moivation IS quite obvious to short the stock; however, that in
itself does not negate the serious accusations and questions left unaswered by the suits at O.


The stock has not rebounded, so obviously the tepid response from the suits at O have not succeeded in successfully
answering the accusations because either they are accurate and they have no answer or ......


So right now, it seems to me that since Mr P knows a whole lot more about the operations at Omex than those
running the show there that he has my vote to replace Mr Gordon immediately. Even if what he says is not true the
new spin he has put on the issues is refreshing. Just my view.


Monday could be an interesting day.


15 Nov 2013, 08:33 PM


Chancer
I owned OMEX for several years until I sold for a small loss because I concluded that long term investors would likely
never get much value from OMEX for the following reasons:


1- Greg Stemm has a record of securities violations prior to OMEX.


2- My personal view is that the main purpose of OMEX is to support Stemm's rich lifestyle. They set goals for Stemm
to achieve and then make bogus conclusions that he easily achieved those goals to reward Stemm with bonuses,
stock options, and higher compensation that he never earned by any objective standard.


3- I decided to get out when Stemm began operational partnerships to fund exploration. Investors who provide upfront
capital are guaranteed a share of any recovery off the top. That significantly limits the potential return for
shareholders. OMEX began this when their stock dilution reached its limitations.


I know this will upset the OMEX faithful who get really outraged at any criticism of OMEX, but my personal opinion
(that I am entitled to) is that OMEX is operated like a scam. Long term investors should beware. Short term traders
can make money off of anything- even penny stock scams.


16 Nov 2013, 11:39 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/57655
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 9/14


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  For some reason, I just noticed the following: 
1) Neptune Inc. lost $25mm last year (ended june 30, 2013). 
2) Mako Resources LLC was the entity that invested $25mm into Oceanica in March-June 2013). It is controlled (at
least 75% according to SEC filings) by Josh Adam. He appears to live in NYC and Mako Resources lists its address
as 300 Mercer st #34M which appears to be a one-bedroom apartment in a residential building, there is no other
contact info or info I can find on Mako - the SEC filings confirm this is a residential address. 
3) Josh Adam is the VP of Finance of Neptune Minerals Inc.


I don't know if there is something there or not but very interesting that exactly the same amount of money Neptune
loses is how much Mako invests, which is run by a full time senior employee of Neptune...? 
Also note that Mako Resources does NOT appear to be audited based on their IARD: 
http://1.usa.gov/1aKxhkj


16 Nov 2013, 08:27 PM


shipbuilder1
All,


As this slow, intriguing french connection-like plot between Meson and OMEX plays itself out, we are beginning to see
bits of information (albiet speculation) from Meson capital that we would not ordinarily have heard about from OMEX
executives. I find the speculation on the four commodity wrecks to be of great interest being four of the german
Blockade runners (there were many more than 4). It is perfectly plausible that these are the ships that OMEX has in
the pipeline, but by no means verifiable unless OMEX comes out and verifies the speculation. For example, the Rio
Grande was carrying Tin, Copper and Cobalt in various quantities that would bring about $35-$40 Million dollars at
todays prices.


Of course, Meson is throwing that out there as a negative since they don't believe OMEX could possess a salvage
contract from the long defeated Nazi german government. Unfortunately, it will take an expert on international law, as
well as an in depth understanding of the structure of the german Governments potential ownership of this cargo,
versus what war reparations councils mandated that the new german governemt was responsible for at the
conclusion of WWII. War reparations and post war negotitions between winning countries and losing countries is
complex to say the least.


Personally, to cut through all the red tape, I think in the end that the German government retains ownership rights to
the sunken commodity cargoes that Meson is speculating about, and if these are in fact the commodity wrecks in
OMEX's pipeline, that OMEX has salvage contract agreements with the German government, which probably are
valid, but, when the commodity materials are recovered could come under question by organizations and groups
associated with Nazi property distribution such as the current international debate concerning the recently discovered
Nazi-looted art works.


The Omex saga continues.........


18 Nov 2013, 09:38 AM


sweeps63



https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

http://1.usa.gov/1aKxhkj

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1705001

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 10/14


I'd put a lot more belief behind Meson if they/he would answer some of the questions from those of us wanting to
verify information for ourselves! Why won't they/he provide us with the name of their experienced investigative
reporter so that we find out from OMEX if this person did in fact contact them and if so why OMEX didn't address that
person's questions/concerns, and at the same time let us see what this person's qualifications are, since Meson is
stating that they are an experienced investigative reporter!


Hey I'm Long OMEX, but as I've said in several posts I truly would like to find out unbiased information!


18 Nov 2013, 12:11 PM


Bill Houseman, Contributor
Rather than being caught up in minor report details, look at the big picture. Yahoo Key Statistics for OMEX shows
short interest on Oct 31 of 16.68 million shares, up from the prior month of 15.03 mil shares, recently a normal level.
Someone sold short 1.65 million shares right before this critical report was published, probably at around $3 per
share, and they are probably covering now around $2, an easy $1 million profit as weak holders sold to them.  
You don't really thnk someone wrote a 60 page report without a personal profit motive?  
The short sellers of 15 million shares are trapped for another two or three years, and panic is setting in, hence this
report. Another successful salvage season for OMEX and the short sellers are going to have to cover into rising share
prices. I plan to be here when that happens. 
BH


18 Nov 2013, 03:52 PM


scarletibis1
Here is a thought. Can directors or voting stockholders of a company short their own stock? If the answer is
yes somebody should ask the boys at O if any of them have done so.


They have done a whole lot more in my view to deflate the stock than Meson.


Look at what the high was right after the first G recovery and then look at what the stock was at right before
the Meson report.


Another sucessful salvage season? Last I looked O has gone from over 4 bucks to 1.95. Not my definition of
sucess.


I agree Meson may be scum but they spent a lot of hours making up a report that so far has not been refuted
by the suits at O.


Clearly their report drove the price down, but O's vague at best replies have not brought the stock back up.
Meson created a lot of smoke but I see a fire getting out of control. I've been banging on these guys since the
G debacle. Nothing I have said has driven the stock down a penny.


It doesn't really matter if Meson lied and never spoke to anyone at all at O. It just makes them liars, nothing
unusual in the real world. What does matter are the allegations and so far in my view Meson is winning that
battle.


At a minimum, O should provide copies of the salvage contracts and provide exact starting dates for
recoveries.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 11/14


Mr Stemm needs to be investigated thoroughly and clearly the dubious inter relationships with Neptune and
the rest need to be more transparent.


Omex doesn't have to go to 0 to be losers. The stockholders are losers already.


19 Nov 2013, 05:46 AM


Bill Houseman, Contributor
To scarletibis1 
Just curious, why do you think Meson wrote and published their report? 
Bill


19 Nov 2013, 01:05 PM


scarletibis1
I think it is quite obvious why they wrote the report-to make money shorting the stock. Or, if they were really smart
guys, they knew the report would spook the stock, that it would drop substantially, and then they would buy back in at
a steep discount and when the highly professional talking heads at O skillfully refuted EACH negative point, the stock
would rocket back up. Nah, they aren't that smart.


I'm probably the dumbest investor on this site excluding my buying BAC at 7 and Sbux at 38 but owning an
advertising company for 30 years I pretty much know when someone is blowing smoke up the chimney. These guys
are losers. The stock is a loser.


There is no law against shorting a stock although I have never done it. The guys at Meson figured out what I did
except they put it on paper. Some, or most of is probably true. And O refuses or can't rebut the claims. When you take
the 5th you are probably guilty.


The talking heads at O have huffed and puffed about the company's positioning and the he future is now exploits and
come up with spit really. When a director starts lying about operations and then some like Meson comes out with a
very extensive and detailed report and commands answers to specific questions which they refuse to answer, in my
view it is time to pull the plug.


I've been in and out of O so many times that sometimes I think I'm visiting a Thai massage parlour. I pulled the plug at
2.25 on the run up went back in a little at 2.o5 and sold out yesterday at 2.16.


I also pulled the plug yesterday on BAC at 15.25 and Sbux when it was 81.50. I'm gonna go buy a cigar and celebrate
and try and forget all about Omex. It really isn't worth the time, unless I decide to short it. Hey, there's a thought!


19 Nov 2013, 07:25 PM


Bill Houseman, Contributor
I agree with almost all you write. I never gave the OMEX undersea mineral exploration / developments any
value, so the paper's criticism had no effect.  
OMEX has sufficient resources now to last a few years, and if these new target shipwrecks produce, a few
more years. There are treasures out there, they know where many of them are, and are proven capable of
salvaging them. 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 12/14


The HMS Victory is the bright light beckoning. Contemporary newspaper accounts show up to four tons of
gold coins aboard being transported from Portugal to England. How much is a one-quarter ounce gold coin
which has been on the ocean floor for 280 years worth, $1000? More? Multiply times 4 tons and you have
$500 million. Socialist archaeololgists will gag at seeing an American company take home $400 mil, so you
can expect them to drag their feet approving the deal, even though their employer gets $100 mil off the top
without effort.  
There are other comparable treasures out there. 
I see no downside from here, and with the huge short position, big potential upside. I'm sticking. 
BH


20 Nov 2013, 11:29 AM


Papaoomowmow
OT


"I'm probably the dumbest investor on this site excluding my buying BAC at 7 and Sbux at 38 "


Well that's a BIG aside, Scarlet. Glad you made a bundle. Well Done!


20 Nov 2013, 09:22 AM


shipbuilder1
Guys,


I think Scarlet is right......there are other stocks where money can be made. I've done it too, this year, and at this point
I'm content to watch how things play out at OMEX, without investment participation. I still enjoy the stories they
dredge up (no pun intended)........I feel like I know you guys since we've talked so often. Take care!


20 Nov 2013, 11:13 AM


Papaoomowmow
All but important note. I still own a little OMEX.


May add as soon as December. Still working on risk - reward profile. ---and I always look at other stocks- just
ordered Value Line's large cap and mid and small cap reports and in the process of skimming through every
one. Highly recommended for a quick overview- me I prefer the print edition (though you get a ton of ink on
your fingers).


I expect the technical data on Oceanica to be very strong. The best evidence of that is Justh's open market
purchase of 75 thousand shares at over 3.50, Mako's investment, and JP Morgan's involvement. That will be
a trading event at the least..


Monetizing their stake to a larger degree is far tougher to predict in terms of any time frame. And monetizing
time frame could prove important if they run into delays in the first commodity recovery .


I think the biggest risk remains some degree of float bloat, which of course would play directly into the short
thesis. And the successful (for now) siege on the stock can to some degree be a self fulfilling prophecy now



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1705001

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 13/14


and then by raising the cost of capital and weakening their negotiating position with Oceanica.


If a few things, and we all know what they may be, go well for OMEX the large short position remains a very
distinct plus for both longs and traders.


Good Luck Guys


22 Nov 2013, 08:33 AM


ftfan35
I just thought it would be good to mention a little bit of recent history...Ryan Morris just got kicked out as chairman of
the board last week at Lucas Energy after the stock has done 1 thing since his joining...decline.


His other ventures are a stint with HearUSA which went chapter 11 and liquidated everything...and an LLC called
Videonote, which all we know is it is "small and profitable."


Sounds to me like Meson is just riding on the back of a giant string of failures.


21 Nov 2013, 04:15 PM


Bill Houseman, Contributor
Shortsqueeze.com shows another 1 million shares of OMEX have been sold short in the past few weeks. The total
now is at 17.5 mil, or 22% of all shares, and up 2 million from just before publication of the Meson Report. Good news
could see gaps up in the price as these shorts try to cover. Really good news and we could have a five-bagger here.


30 Nov 2013, 02:19 PM


Papaoomowmow
Yep, they just have to light the spark, Bill. Substantially higher risk than most stocks here (if they get a war
chest going from Oceanica most of those risks will evaporate). Potentially very rapid returns too. 
True believers on both sides of the wager.


01 Dec 2013, 12:33 PM


sweeps63
Evidently Meson is feeling the pressure as they have Cooked up another article and have yet to answer virtually any
of the questions people Asked Them from their previous articles!


02 Dec 2013, 07:29 AM


Jack Holland, Contributor
The following is from Odyssey Marine's latest filing with the SEC on 11/12/2013:


8-K Filing


Let’s get right to the issue at hand and the main reason that you’re probably taking time out of your busy schedule to
be on this call today. The catalyst for today’s call was a short and distort so-called investigative report put out last
week. I’m going to assume that you’ve seen that exact piece that was published by Meson Capital Partners, a small



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1058215

https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jack-holland
5/21/2018 Odyssey Marine: Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface? Part 2 - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2 14/14


San Francisco investment firm. It’s really important to note that this piece, which contains significant false and
misleading allegations, was put out by a young man with a small fund who’s apparently not had a very good track
record during the bull market of the last several years. 
Unfortunately, he’s apparently decided to try to redeem his poor performance this past year by trying to short Odyssey
stock and publishing a report to scare investors with misleading information. His attempt to use the report to
manipulate the market is so transparent that he even chose to make the attack in the middle of the trading day of the
last day of the fiscal year with many funds. Not only creating havoc for many of our investors but if it was at the end of
the fiscal year for his own fund would have enabled him to mark to market at the end of the day to attempt to paint a
rosier picture of his fund’s performance for the year. 
The intent of this guy is clear. He wants to drive the price of Odyssey’s stock down, profit at the expense of Odyssey
shareholders and he put out false and misleading information to do it. This is called a “short and distort” tactic and if
you haven’t encountered this type of market mugging and I really hope you haven’t, I’d recommend that you go online
and look up “short and distort.” You’ll find plenty of information about this unsavory tactic and the people that use it.
We believe that in this case, Meson has crossed the ethical, not to mention, legal line and we’ve already notified
proper authorities. We’ve also been informed that a group of Odyssey investors are considering a class action suit
against Meson. If you’d like us to put you in touch with this group of investors, please contact us through our website . 
On a side note on Meson, a lawyer who in my opinion is probably one of the best securities litigation lawyers in the
country, thoroughly read and reviewed the 60-page short and distort piece as well as the most recent Meson Capital
investor newsletter. He told me that after his decade of securities law work, one thing really struck him about
everything he read. Meson says the report was “fully sourced and vetted by our experienced lawyers.” The securities
lawyer said that he couldn’t imagine any lawyer, much less an experienced securities lawyer, ever allowing this
document to go out. He challenged Meson to disclose the identity of their lawyers.


01 Jan 2014, 05:37 PM


scarletibis1
How about disclosing the name of your lawyer?


02 Jan 2014, 09:10 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881
