5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 1/18


Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous
Undisclosed Risks
Dec. 30, 2013 9:20 AM ET37 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Due Diligence on Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed
Risks


This report is a follow up to our first 66-page report published on Odyssey Marine
Exploration (NASDAQ:OMEX) October 31, 2013 and an introduction to our findings on
Oceanica, the full reports can be found at www.omextruth.com.


In a new 22 page report dedicated to OMEX's Oceanica project we highlight numerous
risk factors that OMEX has not disclosed to the public.


1) Phosphate commodity prices have declined 44% in the last year and 35% since June
2013 when Mako last invested by exercising its options (then at a 50% discount rate).


2) This mining concession is not new, the area has been tested before numerous times
(including fairly recently) and has never proven viable. OMEX itself makes no claims of
new proprietary technology that would change the cost structure significantly.


3) The environmental permitting process is extraordinarily difficult to pass through in
general and there are a number of specific hurdles for the region where Oceanica is
located, including a direct conflict of interest with the large local fishing industry, that we
believe will make it impossible.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

http://www.omextruth.com/

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/omexreport5.pdf
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 2/18


We predict that Mako will not exercise its options at $2.50 (per Oceanica share). Instead
of being forthright with investors, OMEX might be thinking about extending the life of the
options and increasing the price to spin it as a positive. OMEX can unilaterally grant new
options after these expire Dec 31st with any arbitrary length or price they want just as
investors can demand an arbitrary discount (50% in June before phosphate prices
declined 35%...). We would note that granting options is a value transfer and needs to be
booked as a liability (calculated by Black-Sholes value) and OMEX would need to receive
commensurate value in return for new options if it were a truly arms-length economic
transaction.


Since our initial report on Odyssey Marine Oct 31st, we have continued to dig deeper and
posted three reports without response from the company:


1) We uncovered and confirmed via FOI that the UK Government is investigating OMEX
re: HMS Victory related to violations of the MMO from multiple potentially unauthorized
activities over the last several years including last summer (not from 2008 as some
message board posters such as "Green River" have attempted to misconstrue).[1]


2) We obtained evidence that the "commodity shipwrecks" are likely to be the "Blackade
Runners" containing Nazi German war cargo where we believe there are likely to be a
significant legal challenges in asserting a claim to the cargo[2].


3) Among other things, in OMEX's most recent 10-Q filed Nov 12th, it appears that
Neptune Minerals Inc. lost $25mm in its most recent fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 -
bringing cumulative losses of that enterprise to $49mm, FAR more than OMEX's previous
disclosure just 3 months prior that "we believe their cumulative loss for their fiscal year
end June 30, 2013 will be several million dollars." OMEX further lent $500,000 to Neptune
in Q3 but it appears to now be insolvent[3].


As we have exposed each hollow "opportunity", investors who desperately want to believe
have dug their heels in to the idea that Oceanica is the great opportunity that it is worth
multiples of the current market cap, still at nearly $200mm. While at some level, we are
impressed at OMEX's ability to assemble a shareholder base with the loyalty of Heaven's
Gate, we believe this is loyalty in the absence of merit and shareholders deserve the truth
and responses to this and previous questions.


Oceanica Summary



https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1843422-odyssey-marine-do-investors-know-what-lies-beneath-the-surface-part-2
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 3/18


We have conducted substantial due diligence on OMEX's Oceanica phosphate mining
project with available public information as well as information we received from a team of
environmentalists in Mexico who have been following the project. This report is a
compilation of questions that we believe that any investor in either OMEX stock or
Oceanica directly as well as some of our findings. Acting as a fiduciary, we would hope
that Mako Resources LLC, would have performed similar diligence. It could be argued that
OMEX is not legally required to disclose the numerous risk factors with this project (as it
has not) as it carries the project at $0 on its SEC filed financial statements.


We hope Mako Resources LLC, which is listed in its SEC filings as being run by Neptune
Minerals Inc.'s VP of Finance out of a one bedroom Manhattan residential apartment, has
complied with its legal obligation to its investors to disclose the pertinent risk factors
associated with this project. Regardless, we believe this is the first time that OMEX
shareholders have been given detailed insight into this project and we are disappointed
that it did not come first from OMEX management. As we noted in a study referenced in
our second report, when management makes claims of a "world class" mineral asset, the
statistics are not favorable. 53 of 54 examples of stocks we found that made this claim
declined in value and 47 of 54 declined by more than 50%; and 30 of 54 declined over
90% (!) following this "world class" asset claim. It is an empty term that statistically
foreshadows dilution and significant stock declines.


After an in depth investigation of "Oceanica", we have uncovered numerous risks and do
not believe this project is viable and is likely worthless. As always, we have included our
references and encourage investors to do their own independent research. We present
the following facts and question OMEX management for spending shareholder capital on
a project while not disclosing the numerous risk factors associated with it.


1. The "Oceanica" area has been a failure for many "world class" companies for decades
going back to the 1960s with multiple other investors before OMEX and Innophos.


a. Well-funded partnerships including the Mexican government (without permitting issues
or strong environmental opposition Odyssey faces) all looked at phosphate mining in the
area and all of them failed. Rofomex explored the entire area and chose to attempt a
project south of Oceanica at Magdalena Bay, presumably in the area richest in phosphate,
which included shallow water dredging but encountered an unexpected subsurface layer
of calcium carbonate repeatedly breaking expensive diamond drill bits and ultimately
abandoning the project entirely.



https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/omexreport2.pdf
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 4/18


Q: Have Mako investors contacted the Mexican geologists involved in these old
projects to verify Odyssey's promotional claims?


Q: Do public OMEX shareholders understand the long history of failure in this area?


Q:Why do investors believe the Mexican government gave these concessions away
so cheaply in the concession auction to begin with?


2. We believe Innophos, a nearly $1bb annual revenue, experienced global phosphate
leader, is a partner in this or an adjacent concession area and appears to have
abandoned the project. Innophos publicly stated they had an exploration option on an
offshore concession in Baja Mexico and the only offshore concessions in Baja are
Oceanica, and the smaller questionably overlapping, concessions.


a. Innophos has been involved in the Oceanica area for years before Odyssey and has
close ties to the Mexican government.


Q: If the offshore area was truly superior to the beach concession why did Innophos
ignore the offshore concession when it became available?


Q: If "Oceanica" offshore concession was viable, why has Innophos (with far more
phosphate knowledge than OMEX) shown zero interest in it since their very short
disclosure made in 2009.


3. Surprisingly, using Mexican Government mining documents we discovered "Oceanica"
overlaps other company owned mineral concessions and potentially that of local seafloor
fisherman as well. The legal ownership questions created by these overlapping rights
would indicate that, if it passes the environmental permitting stage, ownership will be
disputed in Mexican court. We believe any legal disputes in Mexican court will not go well
for a foreign firm like Odyssey seeking to extract their local resources while providing few
jobs and potentially permanently destroying their ecosystem. Pictures and documentation
of these concessions as well as Mexican government websites you can use for verification
are in the full report.


Q: Why hasn't Odyssey management disclosed and discussed these overlaps and
how do they plan to deal with the legal questions this creates? Is Odyssey even
aware of these overlaps that we easily uncovered with public information?


Q: What other investors are involved in these other company concessions and are
there conflicts of interest involved?
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 5/18


Q: Have these other companies evaluated this concession area and already chosen
the highest quality areas leaving Odyssey shareholders with inferior concessions?


Q: After the "Black Swan" debacle didn't Odyssey management assure
shareholders they would not pursue projects where legal ownership was in
question?


4. Even using optimistic production cost estimates from the management of past proposed
offshore phosphate projects in the Oceanica area, the project appears non-economic.


a. GreenRiver Asset Management's $17-18 per ton cost estimates seem to be taken from
a Phosmex presentation where he cherry picks cost estimates from 30 years ago!
Curiously, that same page of the same presentation goes on to list 2011 production cost
estimates of $90/ton. This $90/ton estimate is 5x higher than the $18/ton estimate
proposed publicly by GreenRiver. This Phosmex presentation is included in the full report.


b. This $90/ton estimate was also made years ago and the cost of mining globally has
increased since then. Even more surprising, this $90/ton estimate was made for an area
10 miles offshore and in 125 feet of water. Greenriver assumes Oceanica will be 20-30
miles offshore and in much deeper water, increasing costs as a result. This $90/ton
estimate also ignores the recent dramatic increase in mining taxes in Mexico proposed.
With these issues and phosphate prices at ~$100/ton it seems obvious the Oceanica
project is not economic.


c. This $90/ton estimate is also taken directly from a management team promoting
offshore mining in this area. Many mining cost estimates for projects that have never been
attempted end up being far too low as the history of mining is littered with the carcasses of
investors who blindly trusted management estimates in speculative mining ventures. We
encourage investors to do their own work and not listen to management.


Q; Has Odyssey contracted any independent third party mining experts to analyze
the theoretical production cost of this area?


Q: Have Mako investors independently verified their own estimates of production
costs through discussion with any of the Mexican geologists involved in any past
phosphate mining projects in this area?


5. Every major environmental group, the head of the commercial fishing organizations, the
land developers, tour operators and the local community are all well aware of the details of
the "Oceanica" project, are upset and all plan to fight this Oceanica project as long as
necessary. The odds of "Oceanica" quietly receiving permits in Mexico City without fierce
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 6/18


opposition is zero. Nobody in the Commondu area of Mexico, including heads of local
government permitting offices, indicated they had ever been contacted by Odyssey or
anyone from Oceanica.


a. We have been contacted by people involved including environmentalists who have
personally discussed this project at great length with every stakeholder possible and we
are confident that the best case scenario involves years of expensive legal battles, public
humiliation and permitting issues.


Q: Has Odyssey honestly discussed this project with any of the local stakeholders
and community?


Q: Why is the Mexican business structure of Oceanica apparently domiciled in
Mexico City instead of anywhere in the Commondu municipality that the Oceanica
project actually is proposed in? Was Odyssey hoping to get their environmental
permit in a distant region to avoid a fair public hearing of local environmental
interests?


Q: Why did Odyssey keep all details including the location of this project hidden,
not even disclosing Oceanica's location or information in their SEC filings? We
were easily able to obtain this public information with the Mexican mining
authorities.


6. The Environmental permitting stage stops nearly all mining projects in Mexico and for
"Oceanica" there is formidable opposition waiting by many organizations who have, for
decades, been successfully stopping projects less destructive than "Oceanica" proposed
by companies far stronger than Odyssey.


a. The list of projects stopped by locals in the immediate area after years of failed permit
applications and public humiliation include such global powerhouses as Mitsubishi, as well
as pure mining companies Vista Gold and the Cabo Pulma project, which received so
much public humiliation the president of Mexico himself announced denial of the permit on
national TV.


b. Oceanica is just south of a UNESCO world heritage site and overlaps multiple
environmental concerns that some environmentalists have been fighting all their life to
protect.


c. Stating "our consultant partner has 100% success rate in permitting" are classic last
words in Mexican mining as most permits are never formally denied, instead they linger in
legal limbo until investors run out of money. This claim is analogous to a hospital claiming
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 7/18


"100% patient cure rate" because they deny all difficult cases entry.


Q: Has Odyssey had an honest discussion with shareholders or Mako investors
about what percent of environmental impact reports submitted in Baja Sur ever
result in actual mineral production?


Q: Has Odyssey disclosed and discussed true permitting risks and expected
project opposition with shareholders or Mako investors?


7. We have been told there are local groups who are very concerned about the questions
proposed about who invested in the Oceanica project, why "DNA ltd inc" is an opaque
structure that may be using proxy directors to hide identities as well as exactly how and
where the $10m+ Odyssey claims to have "invested" in Oceanica was spent. We have
been told locals who are experts on how mining projects get done in Mexico will be closely
examining all financial aspects of this project. If anything serious is uncovered the
consequences could be severe for all involved as well as likely stopping the Oceanic
project dead in its tracks.


Q: Given the serious questions raised in our initial report why has Odyssey Still not
released any information outlining where and how this money was spent?


Q: What exactly is Fauzi Hamdan Amad and DNA's involvement in Oceanica?


8. Lastly, the political climate for Mexico mining is deteriorating as taxes for Oceanica
appear set to increase dramatically and the global phosphate market is rapidly
deteriorating.


a. Phosphate prices are now down 44% from this time last year when Odyssey likely
began analyzing this project. Costs in mining are typically fixed, so small changes in
commodity prices have enormous impacts on project viability.


b. At the same time the environment for mining in Mexico has taken a decided turn for the
worse with a dramatic increase in taxation on all mines in Mexico proposed.


Q: Why has Odyssey never discussed with investors that, even ignoring all these
other serious problems, just the simultaneous decline in phosphate prices and
increase in mining taxes has very likely rendered Oceanica unviable?


We Believe Oceanica is Not Viable and is Worthless
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 8/18


Comments (37)


After performing detailed investigative research into Oceanica, including talking to many
people very close to the situation in Mexico, it is clear to us any chance of success for this
project is beyond unlikely.


Concession ownership itself is very unclear and concerning, likely to result in expensive
and drawn out court battles in Mexico. The local Baja environmental community will fight
this tooth and nail. The local Mexican fishing industry is upset and will never allow this risk
to be taken with their livelihood without a fight while we believe that land developers will
sue Odyssey to defend their interests. Even using optimistic management guidance on
this exact area, "Oceanica" appears uneconomic based on cost estimates from previous
projects by more experienced operators. All of this occurring while Mexico mining taxes
are increasing and the global phosphate market is collapsing.


Perhaps most alarmingly, the Oceanica asset has been vetted many times and passed on
by multiple "world class" phosphate companies with more knowledgeable than Odyssey.


We believe these issues are why Odyssey has been so sparse about the details of
Oceanica, instead falling back into their routine of making grandiose and vague promises,
only to once again disappoint investors while personally profiting to the tune of millions of
dollars per year.


[1] HMS Victory Article


[2] p28 OMEX Truth Report 2 Nov 15 2013


[3] p22 OMEX Truth Report 2 Nov 15 2013


Disclosure: I am short OMEX. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Papaoomowmow
Your investments are of course none of my business, but if Mako (or another buyer rounded up by JPMorgan)
exercises Oceanica options at 2.5 in the next few days, I would suggest you decisively cover your short position
completely.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/omexreport2.pdf

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/omexreport2.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 9/18


30 Dec 2013, 10:45 AM


sweeps63
Price needs to hold steady for me for another 20 days before I can buy back in, of course if it takes off before then the
shares I still have will be happy :)


30 Dec 2013, 11:28 AM


shipbuilder1
Sweeps,


It's your call, but I think that year end sellers are booking losses until tomorrow. Shortly after new year starts, your
going to see a daily consistent build up in the share price in anticipation of OMEX's release of Q4 numbers in early
Feb. Omex will also announce this years schedule project planning in Feb and I'm thinking maybe some extra good
news too. Meson's reports are becoming hum-drum and repetitive to old diatribe points they already made, and those
reports are no longer going to drive the share price down unless Morris attempts to short a huge number of
shares.........Much more than he did in November. Right now, he's targeting other shorts to make them do the shorting
for him, because he doesn't want to be on the short end of any good news that might (and will in my opinion) come
out in early Feb. That said, I'm not waiting 20 days. I already have some stock too, and in process of buying more
today and tomorrow. Good luck!


30 Dec 2013, 12:59 PM


sweeps63
thx SB.


I had some (10%) from last July at 3.88 that I thought I'd use the loss to offset a stock being bought out at a
gain and since even though price will probably come up some I still hope to be able to add some in the low 2
range.


30 Dec 2013, 02:26 PM


ALASKYDFY
Based on this article, I was about to sell all my OMEX. Then I looked at the top where it said the author is shorting
OMEX. So I realized there were two possibilities.  
1) The author did all this research, and spent all this time because he is altruistically trying to help his fellow man or 
2) He is trying to drive down the price so he can make a profit. 
Which do you think? 
Here's a hint, it is not number 1.


30 Dec 2013, 02:24 PM


kellyhartman77
I (like others - I am certain) would be interested in the articles regarding other stocks besides OMEX you have done
your "due diligence" on. Please post links ;)



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1705001

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/user/10895951

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3607171
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 10/18


30 Dec 2013, 03:36 PM


Lindis65
I'm a strong buy on this one. Accumulating while it's cheap.


30 Dec 2013, 05:47 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Morris still doesn’t know a lot about Oceanica. He makes erroneous assumptions about where the company will mine
within its claim. He makes erroneous assumptions about work done by Rofomex and Innophos. He makes erroneous
assumptions about costs, the environmental permitting prospects, the political climate, concession status, and more.


His cost assumptions are clearly well off-mark. The cost chart that Morris displays is based on the “best guess” of an
accountant who was part of the Phosmex organization. What Morris doesn’t realize is that there’s a massive pipeline
built into the later cost numbers he shows in the chart. That means those costs include all the pipeline and pumping
costs and slurry preparation costs. Even that estimate is questionable as it was based on a personal conversation
rather than hard data. Oceanica has no need for pipelines if they operate like Chatham (which I guess that they will).
Like Chatham, Oceanica is likely to take rock phosphate delivered at port at a cost of somewhere near $50/ton
(Chatham will pay $80/ton).


The costs will be well below Chatham’s quoted price of $80/ton (which Chatham believes they can reduce). Chatham
will operate in 1,200 feet of rough seas. I believe Oceanica will operate in 300 ft of relatively calm water. Based on my
discussions with Chatham and dredgers, a $50/ton number is a good estimate. Some feel costs may come in below
that number, but I’d rather be conservative. Most important, those familiar with the cost economics of subsea
phosphate mining have the hard data to show these operations can be cost competitive with some of the largest and
lowest cost phosphate mines in the world. What data does Ryan Morris supply?


Morris claims that the environmental permitting process stops nearly all mining projects in Mexico. Yet Mexico is the
world’s number one producer of silver, and mining is the country’s third largest source of foreign income following oil
and auto. According to a study done in 2013 by Behre Dolbear, Mexico ranked #5 in the world for business
environment from mining. Further, Morris doesn’t mention that Phosomex successfully obtained a full mining permit
for its phosphate dredging operation in Baja years ago. The fact is that Mexico depends on the mining sector for 5%
of its GDP and it’s obvious that many mining applications are successful and permits are granted. This doesn’t sound
like the unfriendly mining environment that Morris attempts to portray.


Morris cites the salt mine expansion that Mitsubishi attempted in the ‘80s as proof that mining is difficult to get
approved in Mexico, even with a large budget. Yet he fails to note that Mitsubishi was attempting to expand into an
established nature reserve, a protected whale breeding ground, and a known bird sanctuary directly inside the
environmentally sensitive San Ignacio Lagoon. Oceanica has none of these issues. Rather than operate next to
shore, I believe Oceanica will operate 20-30 miles offshore where the phosphate concentrations are highest.


The claim regarding overlapping concessions is absurd. The Ministry of Mining is the single authority in Mexico
empowered to grant concessions, and Mexican statutes only allow for concessions to be granted on “free” lands –
lands which have not already been granted a concession. http://bit.ly/1d65FYG 
I spoke with the company about this idea, and they said that there are zero overlapping mineral concessions for



https://seekingalpha.com/user/17955142

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

http://bit.ly/1d65FYG
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 11/18


Oceanica. The maps that are used on the Ministry’s website can be confusing and are not rendered in fine enough
detail to establish true boundaries. For that purpose, the lawyers, geologists, and Ministry officials would have relied
on a “meets and bounds” survey to establish the borders of the concession and determine that all land within those
borders was not already claimed.


Morris states that underwater phosphate mining has, “never been completed in history.” What’s one more lie?
Underwater phosphate mining goes back to the 1800’s in the US, when phosphate was dredged from rivers at depths
of up to 50 feet. See http://bit.ly/1d65FrN . What Oceanica is going to do is not technically difficult. Every single part of
the operation is done at commercial scale, for one purpose or another, at present.


The political climate for mining in Mexico isn’t deteriorating as Morris claims. It’s improving. Mexico has shown
massive success attracting foreign investment since liberalizing the mining sector in the early 80’s and now it wants to
take a bigger cut from the miners. Despite the increased tax, the relatively low general tax rate means that the overall
tax burden is still highly competitive, that’s why most miners are continuing to invest in Mexico despite the increase.
http://bit.ly/1d65FYN Notably, the Mexican government will be anxious to prove it can still be successful at attracting
new investment post the implementation of this tax structure. They are especially anxious to increase fertilizer
feedstock production. http://bit.ly/1d65FYO


Innophos chose not to pursue its claim because it was not economic. Oceanica will not be mining where Innophos
was testing. For Morris to assume that Oceanica is non-economic because Innophos had no luck in a different spot is
just foolish.


Every new mine is opposed by environmental groups. The difference for Oceanica is that their form of mining is
relatively environmentally friendly, and they are not displacing anyone with their activities. Morris doesn’t appreciate
the fact that mining 20 miles out in the open ocean is vastly different from mining in Magdalena Bay. Oceanica won’t
disrupt whales, turtles, surfers, land developers, tour operators, or fishermen. The operations will be dramatically less
invasive than presently approved commercial activities in the region such as land development, bottom trawling
fishing, and land-based phosphate mining.


There’s little doubt in my mind that the project will be approved. If a couple environmentalists are truly “furious” about
Oceanica as Morris claims, it’s only because they are being used by Ryan Morris’s in his war against OMEX. Once
they are supplied with actual facts rather than Morris’s mischaracterized version of facts, they will appreciate the
limited impact of the project as well as its massive economic and humanitarian benefits for the Mexican population.
Regardless, a few narrow interest groups won’t determine the outcome of a project which I believe will have
meaningful national importance to the Mexican people.


Morris obviously thinks he knows a lot about Oceanica. He thinks that pulling some concession info. and talking to a
couple environmentalist gives him an edge. I’m going to go out on a limb and make the assumption that JP Morgan
bankers and Mako investors have a lot more information about Oceanica than Ryan Morris. They not only have
access to the same public information upon which Morris relies, but they have access to incredibly valuable private
information that Morris doesn’t. They think that the asset is worth quite a bit of money. So, who has the informational
and analytic advantage, Ryan Morris or Mako and JP Morgan?


01 Jan 2014, 09:38 AM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor



http://bit.ly/1d65FrN

http://bit.ly/1d65FYN

http://bit.ly/1d65FYO

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 12/18


Author’s reply »  Well there we go - an announcement from the company: Mako exercises only $2.5mm of the
$17.5mm claimed by mgmt in November. Who has an information advantage? Mako. Agreed. What did Mako
do? Invest 14% of what the company claimed 2 months ago.


We believe they will run out of cash by the end of the summer without an equity raise as we have since our
initial report. This announcement is what we predicted in the article above.


06 Jan 2014, 12:10 PM


scarletibis1
"I believe Oceanica will operate in 300 ft of relatively calm water."


"Morris doesn’t appreciate the fact that mining 20 miles out in the open ocean is vastly different from mining in
Magdalena Bay."


Really, 300 ft of water 20 miles out?


07 Jan 2014, 07:48 PM


Roland Rick Perry, Contributor
How or where do you gather info like this "...What Morris doesn’t realize is that there’s a massive pipeline built
into the later cost numbers he shows."


and


"...he fails to note that Mitsubishi was attempting to expand into an established nature reserve."


A nature preserve ? Just curious.


14 Mar 2014, 12:45 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
From interviewing someone with Phosmex on the first point, and from news stories on the second.


14 Mar 2014, 07:07 AM


Papaoomowmow
Welcome back GR (your post and another mysteriously vanished last evening...at least on my computer)


Gotta admit I stepped aside from OMEX a couple days ago. If Mako exercises (and/ or other offsetting good news) I
consider it a screaming buy at anything below 3 (with PLENTY of possible upside above 3)....but I slowly persuaded
myself to abandon a very low cost basis for a greater sense of certainty about what's going on with them these days.
They are, in my opinion, honest in their expectations but as any long knows, their expectations do not always come to
pass.


I probably will ...and hope I will...severely regret that move.


In any case, as per usual a good and thorough post!


01 Jan 2014, 11:03 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/author/roland-rick-perry

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 13/18


Donindm
Investors really need to do due diligence on any report on Odyssey Marine issued by Meson.


Meson once again spouts the nonsense that, "We obtained evidence that the "commodity shipwrecks" are likely to be
the "Blackade Runners" containing Nazi German war cargo where we believe there are likely to be a significant legal
challenges in asserting a claim to the cargo." Meson suggested, in that previous report, that the assets were Nazi
assets which, given that the Nazi government no longer exists, belonged to no entity that OMEX could negotiate with
to obtain salvage rights. This conclusion ignores the Federal Republic of Germany's Basic Law, which is, in effect, its
constitution, enacted in 1949. The Basic Law states: " Article 134 [Succession to Reich assets] (1) Reich assets shall
basically become federal assets." Basic Law Article 134(1) (1949). There is no reason why the German government
would not claim title to any Nazi assets on these ships. Why would they forego the revenue from a salvage?


I seriously doubt any legal conclusions or suggested conclusions offered by Meson in light of its deception in (a)
highlighting litigation between the SEC and Stemm and Morris while failing to mention that they were acquitted at trial
and (b) highlighting an alleged UK investigation into the HMS Victory while failing to mention that Odyssey would be
presumed innocent of all allegations, until proven otherwise, throughout the course of that investigation.


Investors should read the conference call transcript and document entitled Frequently Asked Questions at the OMEX
website. http://bit.ly/IC1s70


They should also read the prior responses from Green River Asset: "Odyssey Marine: Watching the Detective"
http://seekingalpha.co...


and "Odyssey Marine: An Open Letter to Ryan Morris of Meson Capital" http://seekingalpha.co...


01 Jan 2014, 10:56 PM


shipbuilder1
Papa,


One of my posts was deleted by SA too......they said I was "Dismissive" of other commentors opinions when referring
to the author of the Meson Reports. I'll try not be dismissive anymore, I just don';t agree with them. I'm very interested
to hear what OMEX management says in the Feb discussion on Q4 results and this years plan for recovery work.
Ship.


07 Jan 2014, 10:45 AM


Papaoomowmow
At least they didn't keep us after class, Ship ; - )


I'm back in so I will be very interested too. I liked the cash position and 8k quite a bit.


BTW if anyone wants to see a typical ( I think anyway) sample of a  
41-101 third party resource report , here is one example in PDF form


http://bit.ly/1gC4FzL


07 Jan 2014, 12:57 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1073851

http://bit.ly/IC1s70

https://seekingalpha.com/a/14mnv

https://seekingalpha.com/a/12lxu

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1705001

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

http://bit.ly/1gC4FzL
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 14/18


sweeps63
My post was deleted by SA as well since I asked why they still allow this author (Meson) to post. My comment
was brief, but it flowed with other comments I and others posted asking for clarification, more information, ...
from Meson to which few replies came from Meson.


I was told that " It was deleted because it contains a blanket dismissal of someone else’s ideas. Fruitful
exchange of ideas in the Seeking Alpha discussion community is based upon treating other community
members with respect, especially when you disagree with their arguments or believe they have omitted or
misinterpreted data. We welcome (or even encourage!) disagreement with the perspectives offered by others
on the site, but please focus your response on detailing why and how you disagree with the substance of the
content that you are addressing."


I've said in numerous posts that I am Long OMEX and would appreciate additional information from Meson,
like others would to be able to do our own due diligence. I have not received any response to my questions
nor have others that have asked and provided very detailed information with sources for substantiation.


There is a difference between someone offering Comments on why they feel a stock, ... isn't right for them, or
it might be in trouble, ... and a Articles supposed derived from extensive "so-called" investigative reporting
(though no investigator is noted nor any sources, ...).


I welcome ideas on different approaches and ideas as they do help us all learn, but how is posting articles
without at least some follow up to the comments it generates helpful to the SA community?


SA I am a newbie, so rather than deleting my comment why not answer some of the Very many questions
from more seasoned individuals here than me.


07 Jan 2014, 03:25 PM


scarletibis1
You guys are still way behind me in my deletions. SA sent me a plaque for most 2013 deletions. It's right next to my
autographed picture of the Discoverer with Mr G. LOL.


Still hoping to get in at 1.75. What do you guys think? Any chance?


07 Jan 2014, 07:54 PM


sweeps63
As long as it doesn't go up much before the 18th (30day wait for Wash &amp; Repeat)


08 Jan 2014, 08:07 AM


Papaoomowmow
<<Still hoping to get in at 1.75. What do you guys think? Any chance? >>


I doubt it, Scarlet, but who knows for sure.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 15/18


I AM fairly sure we can all look forward to still another scintillating Meson OMEX "expose". Maybe that will do the trick
for you.


If all broke extremely well, and OMEX proved without any doubt they could walk on water, Meson would retort " See, I
told you they couldn't swim!!!"


Hearty Congratulations on the Plaque...which reminds me I need to make an appointment with the dental
hygienist...later


08 Jan 2014, 02:32 PM


shipbuilder1
Papa, Scarlet,


No matter what our investment feelings are about OMEX, you guys are better than dean martin and jerry
lewis........are you sure you guys don't have a comedy act down on the Vegas strip somewhere??


Anyway.......I said before that Scarlet has a very different way of looking at things and OMEx usually does go into the
dulldrums around this time of year. It might go down to 1.75. If it does, I'm doubling my stake, because looking at the
OMEX stock charts over the last 5 years, the stock always runs up between 20%-50% between April and September.
I can live with that ROI.


Papa, say hi to the dental hygienist for me! Ship.


08 Jan 2014, 10:01 PM


Papaoomowmow
LOL Thanks Ship.


There's more to the company of course, but to me right now it is all about monetizing Oceanica. If they can do that to
the degree I think they may, this stock is absurdly underpriced. We'll see. No question that we do not know everything
yet.


Like you, I would expect more specific details about summer commodity plans next conference call. They may, to
some degree, be waiting on Oceanica developments too because it would have bearing on their intentions to grab a
long term HEAVY duty boat lease for their commodity work. Amazing what ample nondilutive cash can do to speed up
molasses.


I like that they showed a willingness to monetize their Oceanica stake in the press release, and spoke of what may be
near term opportunities to do so.


If it dips way down, I will buy some more too. In the meantime trying to relax...lame humor helps


09 Jan 2014, 11:27 AM


shipbuilder1
Papa......agree. I'm heading south for vacation shortly. I'll check back in at the end of the month. I'm ready to relax too.
Talk to you again late January.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1705001

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1705001
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 16/18


09 Jan 2014, 03:56 PM


Papaoomowmow
Enjoy, Ship!


09 Jan 2014, 08:07 PM


Papaoomowmow
nice quiet peaceful gentle rise in price lately....I like it


: - )


28 Feb 2014, 11:30 AM


sweeps63
Yeah, but I got busy trying to figure out what to put into Roth and missed out on the price drop, nice that's its
going back up though -- I'll take slow and steady no prob.


28 Feb 2014, 02:15 PM


Papaoomowmow
Any comments from shipwreck history savvy folks on this particular news? (I'll google but I know nothing
about it yet)


http://yhoo.it/1hBIYBi





03 Mar 2014, 11:15 AM


Papaoomowmow
At least from my callow knowledge of the subject, this article seemed interesting


http://bit.ly/1g4IZcM


FWIW, I am still holding 30 thousand shares of OMEX...and to my view substantial further Oceanica
monetization would be the one item most likely to effectively unravel the short thesis in the "short run"


03 Mar 2014, 11:39 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
I've posted some information about the SS Central America excavation on my blog. Follow this link for more
information: http://seekingalpha.co...


04 Mar 2014, 09:49 AM


sweeps63



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

http://yhoo.it/1hBIYBi

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

http://bit.ly/1g4IZcM

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/p/1mend

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 17/18


Hey Tiger how about putting some more into your comment and do it up as an article (not sure what you'd need to do
to get the other sites to run it, but I know a lot would read it). It's time Meson gets held up to the light and with facts
not all the mis-truths they keep spouting -- Meson if you had a seasoned investigative reporter that did you report why
do you still not list his name? or any other pertinent details?


If you do publish please let us know the link.


18 Jan 2014, 03:27 PM


sweeps63
Don't hold your breath for a response I put several comments toward Mr. Morris and received answers to none. At the
beginning I wanted the answers so I could further my DD more my risk tolerance, later I just wanted to see if you
actually bothered doing more than a cursory follow-up to comments.


19 Jan 2014, 03:02 PM


scarletibis1
Has anyone considered that Green River is a subsidiary of Omex? Things are looking real good as they keep telling
us. Closed at $1.77 today. Of course it is all Meson's fault the stock is down. Omex fairy tales are just about done I
think. I went back in at $1.85 because I listen to the guru's on SA.


I think from now on SA should not pay any of you experts a penny for a post until Omex gets to at least $2.50
because so far your fairy tales are just that.


And I'm still waiting for the experts to explain to me why the management at O made such a good move buying stock
for $3.00 when they could have bought it on the open market for under $2 at the time. LOL


08 Feb 2014, 05:53 AM


MissV
The date shows up as December, 2014?


12 Feb 2014, 03:44 PM


Papaoomowmow
"The date shows up as December, 2014? "


MissV? What date is that?


12 Feb 2014, 05:42 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
An interesting news story from Namibia. The government there has done a U Turn on phosphate mining. See this link
for details: http://bit.ly/1kuTGJw


It sounds like the ministry in Namibia has had a change of heart, "The environmental assessment will enable the
ministry to develop an environmental management plan for sustainable co-existence of marine phosphate mining and



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/21166901

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

http://bit.ly/1kuTGJw
5/21/2018 Due Diligence On Odyssey's "Oceanica" Project Uncovers Numerous Undisclosed Risks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:O…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1920761-due-diligence-on-odysseys-oceanica-project-uncovers-numerous-undisclosed-risks 18/18


fisheries, which is a first of its kind and will have global implications."


The first environmental application to mine phosphates off the coast of Namibia had no scientific field-work behind it
and this is cited as the chief reason for the initial failure. This is quite different from Oceanica and Chatham Rock who
have each spent millions of dollars to support their environmental position. Also, the Namibian venture would infringe
on some fish hatcheries - neither Oceanica nor Chatham face that battle.


03 Apr 2014, 09:21 AM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  How did Oceanica "spend millions of dollars" to support their environmental position when it
never directly raised capital?


The $27.5mm raised by Mako went directly to OMEX for their Oceanica shares and was not put into
Oceanica like a normal VC deal. On the most recent CC, Gordon said that Oceanica's balance sheet is just
$400k of cash in the bank and $10mm of payables to OMEX (parent company).


03 Apr 2014, 12:40 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
I think you answered your own question.


03 Apr 2014, 12:42 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset
