5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 1/24


Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample
Drilling?
Jul. 30, 2014 7:35 AM ET34 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Summary


New investigative report by local reporter in Mexico exposes Oceanica as not having
environmental permits from SEMARNAT for the core sample drilling announced by
OMEX.


According to a source on the ground, Daniel de Narváez, Oceanica Director, has
repeatedly been cancelling meetings over the last month with local fishing coops and
politicians.


Daniel de Narváez owns Oceanica stock via DNA Ltd Inc, a Panamanian corp using
unnecessary proxy directors with alleged criminal connections we documented
October 2013.


Marcos Covarrubias, Governor of Baja state pledges to protect the fishing industry
from Oceanica.


July 29 OMEX PR hyping EIA does not even have a timetable for submission: We
believe OMEX will file bankruptcy before EIA is filed - only weeks of cash remaining.


Odyssey Marine Exploration (NASDAQ:OMEX)'s Oceanica underwater phosphate project
is hitting even more trouble as exposed by a local reporter in Baja, Mexico.


Notably around the middle of the report (emphasis ours):



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 2/24


However, the SEMARNAT delegation in Baja California Sur rejected the existence of
any paperwork. José Carlos Cota Osuna, the agency representative, said it had not
currently started work on any permits held by Exploraciones Oceánicas, S. de R.L.
de C.V. "It was months ago that the Puerto Chale Cooperative questioned if there
was an ongoing project evaluation; there is no record", he explained.


Therefore, Oceánica Exploraciones is violating the provisions laid down in
Section III of Article 28 of the General Law of Ecological Equilibrium and
Environmental Protection (LEGEEPA)


This states that prior authorization for environmental impact is required from of the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT), the "exploration,
exploitation and processing of Federally restricted minerals and substances under
the terms of the Mining Law and the regulation contained in Constitutional Article 27
on Nuclear matter".


This rule can also be found and confirmed on page 18 in the Mexican Mining Guide
(translated to English)


July 28, 2014 Local Mexican Article (Translated to English):


Oceanic Exploration drilling conducted without permission of SEMARNAT



https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/Gui_a+de+Procedimientos+Mineros.pdf

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/Gui_a+de+Procedimientos+Mineros1.pdf

http://www.bcsnoticias.mx/oceanica-realizo-360-perforaciones-en-comondu-sin-permiso-de-semarnat/

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/7/28/499650-1406589801098902-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.jpg
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 3/24


Exploraciones Oceánicas make 360 drills in Comondu without permission
from SEMARNAT


La Paz, Baja California Sur (BCS). The gigantic bow of the boat cut through the
small waves of the Gulf of Ulloa, and sped through the water like a hot knife slicing
butter; the fishermen of Las Barrancas and San Juanico had never seen anything
like it. It was not even close to resembling one of the flotilla ships that arrive each
year to the Comundeña coast from Sinaloa and Sonora to trawl for shrimp, sardine
or any other species that get stuck in the trawler nets. No, this ship was
unquestionably looking for something else on the seabed: phosphate.


Sightings of this vessel have been coming in since January 2013. Thomas
Camacho, a technical adviser wih the Puerto Chale Fishing Cooperative, leans back
in his chair while he remembers the time when he saw the colossal floating metal
beast for himself. He looked on in awe one day that month as he was busy preparing
for the coming lobster season. It made him remember the huge transatlantic cargo
ships that carry containers from one continent to another. It looked almost static. A
few months later, people calming to be members of Oceanica Exploraciones, S. de.
R.L., contacted the fishing group.


Before the interview with the fisheries engineer began, he was taking his time putting
a pile of yellow folders on the left hand side of his desk. He apologized and warmly
greeted me. Five minutes later, he clasped his hands together on his sky blue
Hawaiian shirt, and explained the concerns that had surfaced in the presence of a
Colombian representative of Oceánica Exploraciones, S. de. R.L, Daniel de
Narvaez, and the whole idea of offshore mining. They want to exploit the marine
areas of Don Diego, Don Diego Norte and Don Diego Sur. We know for sure that the
company bought the rights for 740 thousand pesos from the Ministry of Economy,
which gave them mining concessions covering more than 34,993 Hectares.


With the monitor turned to face me, he showed me charts representing lobster
movements near the Gulf of Olloa, north of Bahia Magdalena, in an effort to illustrate
the dearth of information that exists on the behavior of the Spiny Lobster. He was
afraid that the movement of the larvae in the currents, and fishing activity in the area,
would be affected by the dredging activity that sucks up the seabed in order to
extract the phosphorous. But when he spoke of the behavior of the spiny lobster, the
situation was different. He recalled the research carried out by Rogelio Gonzalez, an
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 4/24


expert at the Northwest Center for Biological Research ((CIBNOR)) that the species
is located north of the area given to the subsidiary of Odyssey Marine Exploration, of
Tampa, Florida.


The Illegality of Odyssey Marine Exploration´s activities


On the second floor of the Puerto Chale Fishing Cooperative building in La Paz,
leaning against a black railing, is Arturo Gonzalez Ramirez, an external business
advisor for the fishing and mining sectors. He repeated his accusation for me:
Odyssey Marine Exploration, through Oceánica Exploraciones, S. de. R.L, who
registered the name on March 13, 2012 in the Public Registry of Property and
Commerce of the Federal District, and which is held in Electronic Commerce File
No. 469886-1, began exploration without prior authorization from the General
Directorate of Ecological Balance (DGIRA), part of SEMARNAT.


Thanks to an article in the Wall Street Journal that reprinted the official page of
NASDAQ (acronym of National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations), Arturo learned that the company had submitted a preliminary technical
report at the site of the phosphorus deposits belonging to Ocean Exploration. Up to
the 7th of July this year, they calculated the possibility of extracting 327.2 million
tonnes of ore, with 18.5 percent phosphorus pentoxide (P2O5): "an increase of 20%
on the previous total of 273.5 million tons of ore from the preliminary assessment".


The president of the fishing group, Amado Navarro Higuera, hired Gonzalez
Ramirez for his experience on the subject upon hearing of the rumoured offshore
mining activity, and the Gulf of Ulloa Manifesto was born. After its publication, said
Arturo, the investors organized a number of meetings through the Ministry of
Economy delegation at the end of 2013 and during March 2014. In these meetings,
representatives from the company denied having initiated operations along the
coastal areas.


Straight away, Gonzalez Ramirez - who at the time was contracted by Oceánica
Exploraciones to begin a dialog with the cooperative and fishermen of San Juanico
and Las Barrancas - communicated with Daniel de Narvaez. The reason behind this
was a publication about a "qualified person" producing a report containing
information from samples taken from 199 drill holes in the offshore deposits, which in
turn had been compared to others obtained in 161 pre-drilling holes. In the end,
more than 760 samples have been tested in the Industrial Phosphate Research
Institute in Florida.
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 5/24


To confirm that Exploraciones Oceánicas were lying, a couple of emails were
delivered to BCS News. The first is the rebuke made by González Ramírez to the
study showing that the seabed had been drilled.


"during multiple conversations with fishermen, it has been reported that the EXO
(Exploraciones Oceánicas) project has drilled to obtain the cores. They have only
said that they took temperature and current measurements using surface equipment.
Although the memo is very clear in stating that this has not been carried out in areas
under concession, it makes no difference to the mining project detractors. And I
mean that in the future they would have to make matches between revealing" wrote
at 19:58, on 07 July 2014, González Ramírez freelancebaja@yahoo.es in your
account. And I allude to the fact that they will have to ensure that the future agrees
with what is revealed today." Sent on 19:58, 07 July 2014 from the account of
Gonzalez Ramirez, freelancebaja@yahoo.es.


Minutes later, he received a reply in his inbox from danieldenarvaez@yahoo.com,
who was clearly angered by the consultant.


"They have never refuted the fact that drilling has been carried out, at least not in
front of me. The research on organisms, the phosphate chemistry, and the contours
and definition of the deposit can only be made with samples taken from the seabed.
How else would you do it? By taking photos? No one with even the slightest
knowledge of how to conduct underwater explorations could ever think you can do
an EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) without taking samples and coring. The
perforations were done with the permissions from the Arturo case".


However, the SEMARNAT delegation in Baja California Sur rejected the existence of
any paperwork. José Carlos Cota Osuna, the agency representative, said it had not
currently started work on any permits held by Exploraciones Oceánicas, S. de R.L.
de C.V. "It was months ago that the Puerto Chale Cooperative questioned if there
was an ongoing project evaluation; there is no record", he explained.


Therefore, Oceánica Exploraciones is violating the provisions laid down in Section III
of Article 28 of the General Law of Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental
Protection (LEGEEPA)


This states that prior authorization for environmental impact is required from of the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT), the "exploration,
exploitation and processing of Federally restricted minerals and substances under
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 6/24


the terms of the Mining Law and the regulation contained in Constitutional Article 27
on Nuclear matter".


Article 30 of the LEGEEPA also states that "in order to be granted the authorization
referred to in Article 28 of this Law, the interested parties must provide the Ministry
with an environmental impact statement, which must contain, as a minimum, a
description of the possible effects on the ecosystem(s) that could be affected by the
work or activity in question".


"In my opinion, they speculate in fictitious situations, it will be a huge bit of business,
but it is all on paper, they cannot afford to actually mine it. They are searching for
partners", stated Arturo González Ramírez.


Offshore phosphate mining: a geopolitical issue


The dredging of phosphatic particles in the Pacific Ocean along the coast of
Comondú, would be equivalent to the amount of work done in England to extract
stone materials, i.e. sand, from the seabed, which is used in construction; said
Daniel Narvaez, director of Exploraciones Oceánicas, in an exclusive interview with
BCS News. The barge sucks up the sea bed through a long hose. 55 percent of
which is linked to phosphate. The surplus passes through a vibrating sieve
connected to a hydrocyclone system. The unwanted remains are deposited back to
the ocean floor without applying any chemicals, he added.


In the interview, Daniel Narvaez was accompanied by his environmental consultant,
Richard Newell, co-author of the research paper "The direct and indirect impacts of
aggregate dredging", and by the underwater anthropology expert, Claudio Lozano
de Librero. "Phosphate is essential for life; nothing can replace it", argued the
Oceánica Exploraciones representative, as if trying to convince those present. The
planet earth depends on Morocco, which produces 85 percent in world's largest non-
renewable natural resource reserve. It is in the Western Sahara where the Spanish
colonialists and Moroccan groups contest these monumental reserves.


It is used in agriculture and food production, he went on, and Mexico could become
fully self-sufficient by exploiting the seam. "In 2002, Mexico imported about 20
percent of its food. In 2018 it will be importing 70 to 80% because it has no way to
produce what is needed to create fertilizers", he revealed as the silence of the two
researchers went unnoticed due to the background noise of clattering dishes,
conversations and music in the restaurant.
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 7/24


"This deposit has great geopolitical repercussions, because independent of the
impact of dumping the surplus, it would involve treaties with neighbours, and could
reduce the need for the 93 percent of phosphate that is currently imported from
Morocco; the reserves in the United States are dwindling. The global view of
phosphate - continued the businessman - specifically for marine phosphate, is based
on flawed concepts and speculation, such as the death or the end the environment.
This is simply not true".


Given the importance of the deposits, Odyssey Marine Exploration, co-founded in
1994 by Greg Stemm, diverted their efforts from salvaging ancient shipwrecks
carrying shipments of precious metals in different parts of the ocean. They forgot
about marketing or selling their treasures or television reports about the recovery
process, in order to join with DragaMex, who since 1994, has carried out   220   
dredging projects in Mexican ports and rivers, Narváes said. DragaMex owns the
immense boat that houses the equipment needed to extract the seabed, and which
was used to carry out the unauthorized analysis.


"We made a collection of data including seabed samples and current temperature
measurements. We have taken various samples in the field, with permission from
SEMARNAT, in order to do an Environmental Impact Assesment (NYSEMKT:EIA),
and to identify the zone. We could not make predictions on the project without first
visiting the site (…). So we are carrying out a campaign to collect biological and
chemical data. That we have done." The Colombian businessman confessed.


He even recalled that an expedition set sail in July 2013 with scientists from the
National Autonomous University of Mexico (NASDAQ:UNAM) to conduct
investigations. They have not drilled, he said, in the whole of the natural reservoir of
phosphates. The results are used to motivate potential Mexican partners from the
agribusiness sector, and above all, seek the participation of Mexican agencies to
"take care of Mexico; the rest would be for export".


Job creation in the local community is non-existent. Close to 160 people are needed
to operate the boat, a large percentage of that are to be skilled jobs in hydraulics,
computer or electromechanical systems. The Dutch dominate the dredging industry,
but through the link with DragaMex, they have all their staff needs taken care of, "I
cannot speak for DragaMex as to who we will subcontracted out" he explained.


This is not the first seabed mining concession



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EIA

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UNAM
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 8/24


On January 24, 2007, the PhosMex Corporation announced that the Mexican
government had granted them the first mining concession in the Pacific Ocean for 50
years. The concession contains 250 million tonnes of phosphate rock (P2O5), which,
a few years ago had a market value of more than 12 billion dollars.


"The deposit of phosphate rock is found in a large area of water about 120 feet deep
on the continental shelf off the coastal areas of the Mexican state of Baja California
Sur. The phosphate-bearing formations crop out both on land and at sea on the east
and west coasts and also in the interior of the peninsula", the company said in a
press release.


Furthermore, Exploraciones Oceánica stated that the extraction zone is limited to an
area 4 km wide and 60 km long, with a depth of between 50 and 80 meters. It is
divided into five rectangular areas, which can be worked for 50 years. "Each has
surface phosphate. It is similar to tar: sticky, nasty, and black; where there is little life,
and next to no wildlife", said Daniel de Narvaez.


In an article published on the financial website Seekingalpha.com, the viability of
Odessey Marine Exploration rolling out the project through its subsidiary Oceánica
Exploraciones was questioned. The reasoning behind this was its lack of experience
in the sector, the excessive costs of the mining and its sustainability, with the only
objective of Greg Stemm, the director general, to capture more capital from investors
in order to finance his continual losses. In 2013, he received 1.311 billion dollars in
tax rebates relating to loses.


Environmental agencies are unaware of the matter


On July 9, 2014, The Federal Attorney for Environmental Protection (PROFEPA)
said that it had found no trace of any evidence that Exploraciones Oceánicas, S. de
R.L. de C.V. had carried out offshore mining activities on the coast opposite the town
of Comondú.


Indeed, the Baja California Sur Core Advisory Council of the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) filed a complaint with PROFEPA about the
fishermen from the port of Chale, who claimed they had been approached by the
company in question.


Valerio Castro Santana, representing Profepa, said that inspectors had begun their
investigations "and we have not been made aware of those facts in the department".
They later confirmed that there were no permissions for exploration or exploitation in
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 9/24


SEMARNAT.


Meanwhile, Castro Santana said, "Everybody talks, but nobody is specific or concise
about where they are carrying out these operations. Where is the mining
concession?"


The National Commission of Natural Protected Areas (CONANP) admitted that the
study of mortality rates in the Olive Ridley Turtles in the Gulf of Ulloa, and although
no conclusions were announced, offshore mining formed no part of the conclusions
relating to the causes listed by researchers.


In the meantime, the environmental authorities pledged to continue their expeditions
around the coast to ensure the ecological balance of Baja California Sur is not
affected.


Puerto Chale Cooperative opposes the project


Amado Navarro Higuera, president of the Puerto Chale cooperative, rejected the
activities proposed by Exploraciones Oceánicas, S. de R.L. de C.V. "They
approached us for meetings with members of the cooperative, never with us alone.
We had one in a Constitution and another approach here in La Paz", he said while
holding a wad of newspaper clippings from state publications on the issue.


"No one from the authorities knew about this. Maybe at the federal level, but in the
state or the municipality of Comondú, no. He demanded that research bodies such
as the Autonomous University of Baja California Sur (UABCS), the Northwest Center
for Biological Research (CIBNOR) and the Interdisciplinary Center of Marine
Sciences (CICIMAR), come to show them whether or not any harm will be caused"
stressed the cooperative.


On November 11, 2013, the federal government by way of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs (NYSE:SRE) held a workshop on opportunities for Mexico in mining the
international seabed and deep sea exploration.


It was attended by Foreign Minister, Jose Antonio Meade Kuribreña; Secretary
General of the Seabed Odunton Nii A.; Secretary of Economy, Ildefonso Guajardo
Villarreal; the rector of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, Jose Narro
Robles; the CEO of the National Council of Science and Technology, Enrique
Cabrero; and the Vice President of International Affairs at Grupo Mexico, Juan
Rebolledo Gout.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SRE
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 10/24


In the Gulf of Ulloa Manifesto, the Puerto Chale fishing collective stated its position
before the arrival of offshore mining in the fishing corridor San Carlos-Las
Barrancas-San Juanico, where coincidentally, a high mortality rate was recorded in
yellow tortoise and other species. The environmental authority as well as
Exploraciones Oceánicas, S. de R.L. de C.V. deny the accusation.


"To rationally exploit the mineral resources of the seabed, an appropriate legal
framework, sustainable technology, participation from the private sector, correct
leadership from the authorities, and research institutes to develop skills and new
legal frameworks are all needed; along with the Social license from the Fishing
Communities" reads the text signed by Amado Navarro, leader of the fishing group.


The civil society organization (CSO), Environment and Society (NYSE:MAS), has
reiterated that "marine phosphate mining has never been done before anywhere in
the world. There were similar projects in New Zealand and Namibia, but both were
stopped because of the adverse effects they would cause to fisheries and the
environment".


July 30:


Seek to strengthen fisheries sector in BCS



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MAS

http://www.bcsnoticias.mx/buscan-fortalecer-sector-pesquero-en-bcs/

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/7/30/499650-14066992284615326-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.jpg
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 11/24


(article translated:)
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 12/24


La Paz, Baja California Sur (BCS). Governor Marcos Covarrubias said the
government is willing to support the fishing industry of the state, so the schemes
seek to detonate the sector.


In the context of a meeting with members of the FEDECOOP of La Paz, and the
Minister of Fisheries and Aquaculture, José Fernando García Romero, the state
governor said the momentum of the three levels of government have achieved a
modern fishing fleet and ongoing training.


Covarrubias Villaseñor said that on the issue of monitoring and surveillance have
made great strides in working where the producers caring marine resources, the
government through FONMAR, and with the support of the Navy.


Meanwhile, the President of the FEDECOOP, Alejandro Martínez Tirado, thanked
the governor always available to meet the demands of fishermen and fish farmers.
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 13/24



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/7/28/499650-14065890380262742-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.jpg
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 14/24


Comments (34)


Upon detailed inspection, Oceanica does not appear to be as attractive as OMEX
has represented to investors


As detailed in our cash flow model previously, OMEX only appears to have perhaps
2 weeks of cash remaining. Given the PR hyping the EIA delay yesterday morning
was so vague it did not even include a timeline for submission, we think it is highly
likely that OMEX will file for chapter 7 bankruptcy prior to any submission of an EIA
in Mexico.


Disclosure: The author is short OMEX. The author wrote this article themselves, and it
expresses their own opinions. The author is not receiving compensation for it. The author
has no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: Ryan Morris, President, Meson Capital, has pledged to donate his
personal profits from OMEX short sales to charity. Full disclaimer at omextruth.com


 Like this article


Rugby1992
Sixteen articles and counting, Mr Morris. Your first article on OMEX last October blathered about the people that
authored SA articles on OMEX only did so for OMEX (there may have been 2 or 3 articles perhaps over the course of
several years by a single author bullish on OMEX's prospects.) This is your SIXTEENTH piece on SA in 9 months! By
the way, you never came back to us regarding Veris Gold (or was it VONAGE gold..or Vonage: VG).


30 Jul 2014, 09:32 AM


Long_OMEX
Perhaps an arrow in their quiver.


30 Jul 2014, 09:54 AM


Long_OMEX
Strange how the word "nuclear" keeps popping up, related to "Article 27"



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2333645-oceanica-looks-dead-in-the-water-environmental-opposition

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/7/28/499650-14065890380262742-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.jpg

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3792521

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18015942

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18015942
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 15/24


"Article 27 of the Political Constitution of the United States of Mexico (hereinafter Constitution) grants exclusive
ownership to the Nation of all combustible solids; petroleum; and solid, liquid, and gaseous hydrocarbons. Moreover,
the Constitution grants to the Nation the exclusive right to exploit and regulate the use of nuclear fuels for the
generation of nuclear energy."


Perhaps a permit may be needed prior to drilling for NUCLEAR material??


30 Jul 2014, 10:01 AM


tincupinhand
Long: you are pretty much right about the drilling permit requirement only relating to those materials reserved
for the Nation. There is no pre-approval from SEMARNAT required for other prospecting functions on a
mining claim during exploration phase. This should be known to any professional who has due diligenced his
sources properly, there are many competent attorneys who know Mexican mining and environmental law and
one told me that the issue is far-fetched and clearly politically inspired. Why doesn't our author pay more
attention to his self-professed guru Warren Buffet who once stated: "...intelligence, energy and integrity are all
requirements, but the first two don't matter if you don't have the latter". Those who have now been exposed to
six months of these OMEX updates seem to opine that the author has hit a new low in not having the facts
supported but rather relying on repetition from biased sources to provide himself plausible legal deniability.
Has there been a miscalculation? Is this where he has been given enough rope to hang himself?


30 Jul 2014, 11:31 AM


Long_OMEX
From Article 18: 
"Sanctions


Violations under the Mining Law or the Mining Regulation may trigger sanctions, ... may be imposed in connection
with the following violations, among others:  
1.... 
2.Preventing the undertaking of works by a person having authorization to do so; "


I hope Odyssey's lawyers pursue this option.


30 Jul 2014, 10:08 AM


Long_OMEX
The image of the ship appears to be the Crestway from Boskalis website, media library. Was this ship in Mexico?
Wasn't the Dorado Discovery doing the drilling? Was the Crestway there as well? Someone with an account on
Marine Traffic can check itineraries for the last year or so. It is in the North Sea right now.


Perhaps someone thought the Crestway made a more provocative mental image...


30 Jul 2014, 01:45 PM


tincupinhand



https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18015942

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18015942

https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 16/24


Long: The Crestway isn't appropriate for coring operations. It also would not be appropriate for the mining
activity since its dredge is rated for 33 meter max and its hopper belly (6,000 m3) is way to small for this job.
With many dredgers being capable of dealing with up to 100 meter depth dredging, the hopper belly capacity
may in the end be more of the defining measure. The big girls bellies are in the 35,000 cubic meters category. 
But your instincts on the picture are dead on...the image of surface discharges are a favorite of naysayers.
We heard yesterday that the Boskailis plan is to do discharges via a pipe that is very close to the bottom so
as to significantly reduce the plume dispersal zone.


30 Jul 2014, 05:33 PM


Long_OMEX
I neither though she was there, nor assumed she was appropriate for the future tasks. But you-know-who
decided to use the article without checking...


30 Jul 2014, 07:20 PM


mykie
Meson,


A few questions: 
1. What's the purpose of the ugly photo? 
Per the company, " The barge sucks up the sea bed through a long hose. 55 percent of which is linked to phosphate.
The surplus passes through a vibrating sieve connected to a hydrocyclone system. The unwanted remains are
deposited back to the ocean floor without applying any chemicals, he added."


In my mind, depositing unwanted remains back to the ocean floor is not creating a fountain 20' in the air for later
splash down. In fact what was the purpose of ANY of the photos?


2. Please explain what this paragraph means: (I'm trying to figure out if they know about the spiny lobster's behavior
and if said lobster is in the same area as the Oceanica's intended work zone.)


"With the monitor turned to face me, he showed me charts representing lobster movements near the Gulf of Olloa,
north of Bahia Magdalena, in an effort to illustrate the dearth of information that exists on the behavior of the Spiny
Lobster. He was afraid that the movement of the larvae in the currents, and fishing activity in the area, would be
affected by the dredging activity that sucks up the seabed in order to extract the phosphorous. But when he spoke of
the behavior of the spiny lobster, the situation was different. He recalled the research carried out by Rogelio
Gonzalez, an expert at the Northwest Center for Biological Research ((CIBNOR)) that the species is located north of
the area given to the subsidiary of Odyssey Marine Exploration, of Tampa, Florida."


So not the area that OMEX might be in and no one knows anything about the spiny lobster's larvae. Glad you
included this info.


3. And finally, what has the nuclear mining laws have to do with any of this?


This states that prior authorization for environmental impact is required from of the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (SEMARNAT), the "exploration, exploitation and processing of Federally restricted minerals and



https://seekingalpha.com/user/18015942

https://seekingalpha.com/user/286889
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 17/24


substances under the terms of the Mining Law and the regulation contained in Constitutional Article 27 on Nuclear
matter".


30 Jul 2014, 01:48 PM


Long_OMEX
You forgot to mention the cat photo. The only "real" content not copied. 
(of course, I haven't checked...)


30 Jul 2014, 02:17 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  The article is exactly quoted in its entirety and translated from Spanish into English


30 Jul 2014, 05:40 PM


teklord
So the " colossal floating metal beast " was half way around the world at the time?? 
Nice rainbow anyway.


30 Jul 2014, 01:59 PM


RbobSA
NYSE ticker MAS belongs to Masco Corp., a building materials firm in Michigan. I do not grasp it's relevance to
lobsters in Mexico.


30 Jul 2014, 02:24 PM


User 14172792
Let me get this right ------ You can buy a mining claim "Legitimately" from Mexico (which Oceanica did) --- BUT you
can't sample the wares (exploration) to determine what you bought, unless you have a special permit to go look at
what you bought?


Hey! --- does anyone want to buy some mining claims from me BUT you can't inspect them, unless I sell you (and
approve) a special permit to do so?


Something doesn't sound right to me.


30 Jul 2014, 02:30 PM


Blue Ridge Buffettologist, Contributor
Mexican bureaucracy is an absolute nightmare - endless permits and red tape are required to do anything
there. I dealt with it in a prior profession.


02 Aug 2014, 10:55 PM


PESCADOR GOLFO DE ULLOA



https://seekingalpha.com/user/18015942

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3090931

https://seekingalpha.com/user/26971193

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14172792

https://seekingalpha.com/author/blue-ridge-buffettologist

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23931453
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 18/24


o illustrate that Mexican law on


Guide to the presentation of the manifestation of mining environmental impact  
http://bit.ly/1n4BsxN  
environmental impact  
http://bit.ly/1n4Bq9n


Value and Volume Production of Phosphate in mexico  
http://bit.ly/1n4BsxR


Market Profile phosphorite mexico  
http://bit.ly/1n4BsxV


FEDERAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY


http://bit.ly/1n4BqpF


GENERAL LAW OF ECOLOGICAL BALANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION


http://bit.ly/1n4BqpH


I insist the project is not bad, managers oceanica are the project results are not going to fall for their lack of ability.


I hope EXO send simple people smarter than foreign


30 Jul 2014, 08:48 PM


Long_OMEX
It came to your system - uploaded from Meson:


http://bit.ly/1qNhfVu


Meson-Capital-Partners


origin


!!


31 Jul 2014, 10:28 AM


Rory Duncan
Green River posted a new article on OMEX and Oceanica at hvst.com


31 Jul 2014, 10:28 AM


Long_OMEX
Good one too!


31 Jul 2014, 10:29 AM


RbobSA



http://bit.ly/1n4BsxN

http://bit.ly/1n4Bq9n

http://bit.ly/1n4BsxR

http://bit.ly/1n4BsxV

http://bit.ly/1n4BqpF

http://bit.ly/1n4BqpH

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18015942

http://bit.ly/1qNhfVu

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29380135

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18015942

https://seekingalpha.com/user/26971193
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 19/24


That article can be found at: http://bit.ly/1qO8RF6


31 Jul 2014, 05:50 PM


Bill Houseman, Contributor
If you have not yet read the book "Ship of Gold" by Kinder, I highly recommend it. It is the story of the wreck of the
Central America and the initial salvage operation, and can be bought from abebooks.com for $3, including shipping.
Published in 1998, it covers the passengers/cargo from San Fran to the hurricane and partial rescue of passengers,
and the salvage efforts to 1989. Heavy on detail and personalities, the prime focus is Tommy Thompson, who
apparently was the mastermind, and Columbus America Discovery Group, which always shows up in current court
filings..


The author makes reference to Army gold, and to the array of artifacts found in still intact passenger suitcases and
trunks just sitting on the ocean floor, as well as all the gold. OMEX was not in the picture then, but some of the men
who were there earlier are with the current salvage effort.


It is an indispensable aid to understanding how we got to where we are now.


I noticed their salvage operations ended in late September, so we now probably have only another 50 days on site,
less what is lost to the occasional hurricane.


10 Aug 2014, 09:26 AM


Rory Duncan
Ryan,


In your 10/31/13 piece you said that OMEX would run out of cash "2-3 quarters."


On July 8th you wrote, "What possibility does OMEX have to survive Q3 without filing for bankruptcy (We initially
predicted an equity filing or bankruptcy raise Oct 31, 2013 within 12 months and continue to believe this is on track)?"
So, you misrepresented your earlier call, which had one year as the maximum length of life for OMEX, and you
estimated BK during Q3.


On July 10th, you predicted bankruptcy on July 16th.


On July 17th, you said that cash balances should "hit zero" during the first week of August.


On July 23rd you said, "OMEX Cash Perilously Low: Likely Bankruptcy punted to August 16th."


On July 30th you wrote, "We believe OMEX will file bankruptcy before EIA is filed - only weeks of cash remaining."


So, Ryan, that's at least six predictions of bankruptcy. All appear to be utterly false. Is that embarrassing to you? Or is
the sting of that embarrassment eased by the fact that you were exiting your short as you dissolved your fund and you
were able to talk the stock lower with false promises of bankruptcy? I'm sure all the shorts that helped you out of your
position (at a personal gain to you) are going to be very happy with your oh-so-ethical behavior as the stock rallies
tomorrow.


11 Aug 2014, 08:32 PM



http://bit.ly/1qO8RF6

https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29380135

https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 20/24


Bill Houseman, Contributor
Another comment on Army Gold. I was concerned about the spectacle of 100 mules carrying 300 pounds of gold each
across Panama.


The Panama Railroad was completed in 1855, ocean to ocean. Only 47 miles long, with 170 bridges, it was extremely
profitable, paying 15% dividend for 20 years. With only a 250 foot rise, 15 tons of gold would have been an easy haul.
They say you can still see some of the tracks at the bottom of the Panama Canal.


12 Aug 2014, 08:53 AM


mykie
Hi Bill et al,


I hope everyone read the below release. It should make you feel much more secure than, say, reading Meson's
fiction.


http://bit.ly/1sOz96X


12 Aug 2014, 03:22 PM


teklord
From the 2nd QTR Q&A:


"There is another question from [Artrich] and that question is with Royal Boskalis as a dredging partner, will you have
them review the Oceanica EIA? I’m happy to report that our partner Royal Boskalis has been intimately involved in
every step of the way and everything we’ve done with this project including the EIA what’s really important actually is
they have a wholly-owned subsidiary in country so it’s actually their Mexican subsidiary that’s working directly with us.


Another thing I’d point to out, one of the real attractions to why we went with the fact that they are one of the best in
the world with this. It is that Mexican subsidiary who has done over 200 dredging projects in Mexican waters using
substantially or exactly the same equipment over the past 20 years and all of those 200 projects required
environmental approval and all of them have received direct environment approvals."


One would think that dredging project 201 would be as successful as the previous 200 approved projects Royal
Boskalis has completed. This is not just about Odyssey. You are dealing with a multinational Multi-billion Dollar
Company who is the premier in the world at this.


12 Aug 2014, 04:43 PM


teklord
This from a CRP update today:


The relationship with our technical partner Boskalis continues to be a fantastic asset for CRP. Its 100-plus
years of experience in the marine dredging industry and its wealth of expertise in a wide range of areas
including engineering and hydronamics are invaluable. Boskalis works in 75 countries around the world and
environmental and existing user concerns are always the primary focus. The company has countless
examples of how it has designed a way of doing something to anticipate a potential concern – it is simply the
way it does business.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman

https://seekingalpha.com/user/286889

http://bit.ly/1sOz96X

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3090931

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3090931
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 21/24


 
Boskalis is the company working with Odyssey in Mexico. Odyssey is an owner of stock in CRP. They could
not have a better partner in these ventures.


14 Aug 2014, 02:42 PM


warwickbye
Seeking Alpha says "We encourage companies and readers to dispute articles which contain material factual errors;
when we find one, we pull the article.".


This article, in its title, claims "Oceanica Did Not Have Permission Of SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling".


The President and COO of OMEX has refuted this on the company's quarterly conference call (a transcript is on your
site) held August 11, 2014, saying "The mouthpiece for the shorts once again proved his ignorance by claiming that
Oceanica didn’t have permission for core sample drilling. Once again, just plain wrong. We did have all necessary
permissions in hand.".


Will you now pull this article, or at least contact Odyssey Marine Exploration for any further documentation you require
to determine for yourselves whether this article does indeed contain material factual errors, and then make that
decision?


12 Aug 2014, 09:46 PM


tincupinhand
Meson Capital has made an emphatic, straight forward statement in the title of this SA article: “Oceanica Did Not
Have Permission of SEMARNAT for Core Sample Drilling”  
Note: SEMARNAT is the environmental protection ministry of the Mexican government. 
This line has been widely circulated across the Internet and many financial news web sites, doing untold damage to
OMEX in the process. The statement stands alone when seen in these other venues. Clearly Meson Capital chose to
not use the words “we believe” or to end the statement with a “?” , which has been their practice in prior articles. So it
appears that Meson Capital decided to change their equivocation, as compared to what we have seen in prior articles
on SA, which attempt to hedge their certainty when making statements which are detrimental to the company they are
writing about. So with the author from Meson Capital, this time being so certain of his facts, chose to not hedge this
statement… well I had to take notice and ask, what is the source they are relying on? 
To my surprise, it seems rather curious that the author from Meson Capital goes on to publish on SA material that is
liberally quoted, but did not provide reference for the material’s source other than to say the source was a “new
investigative report by local reporter in Mexico…”. Now does that disclosure satisfy a reader (or SA editorial staff) ?
Do we have sufficient insight into the factual content of the article from which Meson Capital quotes quite liberally?
Does the author of the article, or as Meson Capital calls it a “Report”, have a name and an organization behind them
publishing the material? 
By way of example, if we are told that the article appeared in the Wall Street Journal, we better understand the
editorial slant and reporting cross-checking of “factual statements”. The same material sourced from, say the Drudge
Report, might cause the reader a completely different reaction as to the author’s biases or believability of their “facts”. 
So I bothered to dig a little deeper to see if I could find the source material of this article that Meson Capital has
essentially re-published on SA. What I found is that, based on the relatively identical content in Spanish, the blog



https://seekingalpha.com/user/28111983

https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 22/24


(report?) was contained in a “blogsphere” site from the Mexican State of Baja California Sur entitled “BCS Noticias”
posted on the Internet on July 28, 2104 by a person named Carlos Ibarra. 
The next question that comes to mind is who is this "news" organization? Their web site has a tab of “Quienes
Somos” or “Who Are We”? I paraphrase ( see the web site for full content) which says: “BCS Noticias somos un grupo
de jovenes entusiastas, comprometidos con Baja California Sur. … una noticia de Blogspot si puede cambiar el
mundo que habitamos.” 
English translation: “BCS Noticias, we are a group of young enthusiasts, engaged with Baja California Sur. … a news
item on Blogspot can change the world in which we live.” 
This background insight is not what I had expected. It appears that BCS Noticias has a very social agenda and which
in Mexico is viewed as a radical, even leftist in its orientation. Their “reporters” appear to have a self-described activist
orientation to their work. While I believe that such people have every right to have a social or political agenda, I also
believe that, as a reader of SA, it is highly cynical to have an SA author quote anyone’s work liberally without sharing
knowledge of their source, as only then we can decide for ourselves how credible the quoted material is. From what I
can see so far, Meson Capital chose to use content created by BCS Noticias with a social agenda, and worse,
choosing to not provide any source references or cautionary statements about the biases of the editorial policies of
their source. 
There would be a lot less reason for me to raise concerns about this failure of Meson Capital to reveal its source,
which after was not a highly regarded source in Mexican news, but rather is another blogsphere available over the
Internet. However, what caught my attention this last Monday August 11th, is that during the quarterly earnings
conference call the President of Odyssey Marine categorically denied the factual content of the headline statement
made above by Meson Capital. So I then needed to ask myself, who is telling the truth? The matter is fairly simple, is
the statement true or false? 
Again doing some research, I was able to find a statement by another analyst who has published in SA previously,
which stated that they went directly to the Company to question this headline statement, and in return received a copy
of a SEMARNAT letter addressed to Oceanica indicating that their core drilling program would be in compliance with
Mexican environmental law. Green River Capital, which many readers of SA will recognize as a author of well
researched analysis, made disclosure of this fact on the Harvest financial web site. This fully supports the Company’s
President conference call statement challenging the SEMARNAT statement made by Meson Capital as a falsehood…
it appears that the Company has told the truth. Did Meson Capital also do their fact-checking by asking the Company
for a clarification prior to publishing an inflammatory statement as fact…”Oceanica did not have approval from
SEMARNAT…”? 
So where does that leave us to decide the truthfulness of, not only the headline statement from Meson Capital, but
how the statement has deceived readers of the headline across the Internet. Bottom line is that the material that has
been published on these pages of SA appears to have been lifted and translated directly from a source with a stated
social motive and dubious facts (and at least one major fallacy) to support their work. 
On days like this, it is hard to be cynical enough!


14 Aug 2014, 09:53 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Feel free to publish this letter from SEMARNAT you refer to, I have not seen this. I included
my source very clearly for this article with the supporting evidence. I have seen no supporting evidence from



https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 23/24


the company with firmly contradicting evidence and I will gladly update this article if the source is in fact
unreliable. I independently searched the SEMARNAT approvals and could find nothing for Oceanica.


15 Aug 2014, 05:47 AM


RbobSA
Bravo tincup. This article has been disproved 2x at least, 1) by The July 30 Green River article and 2)
comments in the CC the other day. If indeed some law or reg were violated there should be consequences.
None are forthcoming. 
SA is violating their own guidelines by leaving it up.


15 Aug 2014, 10:53 AM


tincupinhand
Gonzalez tengo copia de una correspondencia que puede aclarar la evidencia que existe. Yo personalmente
puede que no entienda el contenido en espanol, pero si puedes comunicarte conmigo en privado por medio
de este sitio, tal vez podamos arreglar que usted comparta la evidencia con RM y establecer si es lo que la
compania indica que es o no. Gracias


20 Aug 2014, 01:45 PM


HarrietBall
Why did Ryan Morris make SA delete Tincupinhand's comment re Morris's claims that Article 28 prohibited Oceanica
from engaging in core sample drilling without authorization? Tincupinhand has posted more good, factual information
regarding Oceanica and Mexican laws/regulations than anyone around and SA is censoring him? How does that fit
with SA's stated objective of encouraging constructive discussion that helps to educate? Tincupinhand's comment
was very thoughtful and didn't directly accuse the author of wrong doing, it just asked some questions of the author
about his motivation.


SA is going to lose a lot of members, and lose the respect of a lot more, if it keeps up this behavior.


20 Aug 2014, 11:20 AM


tincupinhand
Harriet: I appreciate your concern and I also believe that sharing facts which may be lacking or miscommunicated is
part of what SA wishes to happen in these comments. I have contacted the SA in response to another previous
deletion so they can educate me on what is considered a comment insinuating "bad faith motivation" of an author. I
hope that my agreement with Ryan Morris as to his being motivated by his fund's short position somehow is just a
factual statement of motivation. I wouldn't describe my comment as bad faith unless SA believes the short thesis
motivation is somehow not to be mentioned by a commentator? Hopefully my request to SA to clarify their policy will
allow me to "clean up" any offending comments since your sentiments nor mine matter in this regard. SA can police
their site as they wish and so I will be doing my best to comply once SA responds to my request for more insight into
the offending verbiage I will repost a compliant version.


20 Aug 2014, 12:10 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/26971193

https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978

https://seekingalpha.com/user/30649955

https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978
5/21/2018 Did Oceanica Have Permission From SEMARNAT For Core Sample Drilling? - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | See…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2357095-did-oceanica-have-permission-from-semarnat-for-core-sample-drilling 24/24


Bill Houseman, Contributor
SA probably favors Morris because he is the one sending it articles. We had one from an attendee at the
annual meeting, but all the rest have been from Meson. Are there any writers in this group?


21 Aug 2014, 10:33 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman
