5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 1/23


Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins
Sep. 8, 2014 7:15 AM ET44 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Summary


According to local Mexican media, Oceanica's Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) that has been repeatedly delayed by OMEX, leaked out on social media
yesterday.


Detail highlighted: only 80 people required (2x shifts of 40) operating the ship to
operate 24x7 for 50 years to dredge the phosphate - are any local jobs created?


Paradoxically, the marine field is given the name "Don Diego" which alludes to the
conquest and subjugation of the New World by foreign powers, "Don Diego" cousin
of Hernán Cortés.


Formal opposition document from the Advisory Council for Sustainable Development
of the Northwest Region condemns the project citing numerous risks including "mass
mortality" of marine life due to anoxic conditions.


Given that "dredging offshore phosphate has never been done anywhere in the
world" according to this opposition communication, a rapid approval seems unlikely
to us without extensive study.


It has now been 3 1/2 weeks since the last Odyssey Marine Exploration Co
(NASDAQ:OMEX) conference call where the incoming CEO claimed, "We are awaiting
final feedback from one more stakeholder before filing. They have promised their
response by next week."


As shareholders have patiently waited for the filing, it appears that the EIA is leaking out in
Mexico as of yesterday while OMEX's CFO presented at an investor conference.


Oceanic Explorations presented to SEMARNAT mining project for the Gulf of Ulloa
(English Translation via Google Translate)


Oceanica Operating Plan: 4X more revenue per employee than other mining
companies?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/OMEX/3446693014x0x776680/c7601976-facc-4d1f-9ac9-67840cff0e2e/OMEX%20Transcript%20Q2%202014%20Conf%20Call-FINAL.pdf

http://www.bcsnoticias.mx/exploraciones-oceanicas-presenta-ante-la-semarnat-proyecto-minero-para-el-golfo-de-ulloa/

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/bcssep4.pdf
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 2/23


The article linked above and translated in English here highlights that the designated
project name for the mining field is "Don Diego" which alludes to the conquest and
subjugation of the New World by foreign powers, "Don Diego" was the cousin of Hernán
Cortés who made the first explorations of the Pacific coast of Mexico, one notable item
apparently leaked from the EIA claims that the ship will run 24x7 dredging with a crew of
40 people x 2 shifts (80 people full time or 200 people if we assume 50% over head and 2
crew rotations on/off shore) and dredge up 7 million tonnes of phosphate ore per year for
50 years. Assuming 50% phosphate content in the ore, at $110/tonne, this is $385mm/yr
of revenue. This claim about the leaked EIA is consistent with prior OMEX statements
relating to the size of the resource in their press releases.


How does this operation stack up to other mining operations - as a gut check? 200 people
vs $385+ Million of revenues?



https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/bcssep4.pdf

https://finance.yahoo.com/news/odyssey-marine-provides-oceanica-resources-130000082.html
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 3/23


You decide: does this make sense? Can Oceanica overnight leap to become the 22nd
largest public mining company in the US (by revenue) with a revenue rate per employee
~4X higher than average? Or does this whole plan seem more than a little half-baked?


Official Opposition Documents Highlight Significant Risks that Need to be
Evaluated: This Takes Time


The first official opposition from the SEMARNAT website we have found calling for
detailed further study appears below. Permitting is not, to our knowledge, a rapid process
for anything that impacts the public. For example - down the street from our offices in
California is a building that has been abandoned for over 3 years - it is an eyesore and an
unmaintained hazard. One year ago it was acquired by a developer for about $1mm with
the intention to convert it to a block of 6 apartments. After a YEAR of full time effort and
$100k spent on studies demanded by the local government on how his redevelopment
would impact the surrounding area: sidewalks, lighting, etc. the permit still is not approved
even though he's given numerous concessions to the city!


For mining projects that have far broader impact than a small apartment building, the
amount of study required is far broader - for a new process of undersea mining that has
never been done anywhere in the world, risks multiply. Further, there is no urgency that
Mexico is going to run out of phosphate, as some have indicated, given there is already
large onshore production and inexpensive foreign import availability.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2345235-oceanica-dying-fast-mexico-senate-attacks
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 4/23


Along with this local EIA leak linked here in Mexican media, we have uncovered a more
official document to SEMARNAT from the Consejo Consultivo para el Desarrollo
Sustentable de la Región Noroeste (Advisory Council for Sustainable Development of the
Northwest Region) which we have presented below translated via Google Translate
without commentary. This is report delivered to SEMARNAT and can be found on the
official SEMARNAT website link.


We have also uploaded the documents and converted to PDF form for easier viewing:


SEMARNAT Report by Advisory Council for Sustainable Development of the Northwest
Region (original Spanish)


(English Translation)


English Translation (via Google Translate) below presented without commentary:


Key recommendation: CCRDS-NO / V / 14/36


MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES


THIS



http://www.bcsnoticias.mx/exploraciones-oceanicas-presenta-ante-la-semarnat-proyecto-minero-para-el-golfo-de-ulloa/

http://www.semarnat.gob.mx/sites/default/files/documentos/transparencia/participacionciudadana/rnoroeste/ccrds-no-v-14-36.docx

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/ccrds-no-v-14-36.pdf

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/northwest-semarnat-english-sep4.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/9/4/499650-14098810605757475-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.jpg
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 5/23


The undersigned members of the Advisory Council for Sustainable Development of the
Northwest Region, based on Articles 157 and 159 of the General Law of Ecological
Equilibrium and Environmental Protection and the agreement by which the National
Advisory Council was created, 6 32 Regional Advisory Boards and Advisory Councils for
Sustainable Development Core(published in the Official Journal of the Federation on
September 29, 2011), issued in our capacity as advisors SEMARNAT, the following
recommendation in accordance with the following:


Background


(Brief description of the problem, situation, history or aspects of the environment within which the


recommendation is generated)


A group of investors have been associated in phosphate mining program called "Ocean


Explorations, S. de RL de CV" that is operating in the Bay of San Juanico, Comundú Township, BCS


The development of this project involves the use dredging ship that will remove up to 3 meters of the


seabed in an area of 268,328 hectares, process phosphate and pour the rest back into the ocean.


P


i


c


t


u


r


e


1


Figure 1 Map showing where the Company operates in Comundú, BCS


The environmental and economic consequences are catastrophic and dredging offshore phosphate


has never been done anywhere in the world. If this is allowed, this would be a very lucrative


experiment to many foreign companies. If the experiment fails, it can become an environmental


disaster, completely destroying the ecosystem and in turn affect tourism, the fishing industry and the


community.
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 6/23


The risk of becoming an environmental atrocity. The phosphate is associated with heavy metals


including cadmium, lead, chromium, nickel, manganese; equally with radioactive material such as


uranium which can cause cancer. The dredging is very dangerous metals may leak into the


water.Heavy metals, nitrates, bacteria, and toxins sulfides could not just fish, also whales, turtles,


birds, shellfish and humans. 2 It is estimated that greenhouse gases can reach over 50m in height


and spread in a radius of over 80 km. This could destroy the reefs, corals and other marine species


that feed by filtration and seafood.


Worse, there is evidence that these contaminants could create anoxic conditions, removing oxygen


from the water. A project in Namibia evidenced "mass mortality" of fish and marine life as a result of


these conditions. Heavy metals, overproduction of phytoplankton, the spread of contaminated


sediments, anoxic conditions, sulfur eruptions, altered benthic (macro to micro) could be


catastrophic for the local ecosystem conditions and negatively impact migration patterns and


reproduction of marine life, devastating the local fishing and tourism.


Dredging phosphate has only been tried in two other places: New Zealand and Namibia. In both


countries the strong opposition from the fishing industry and environmental groups, among others,


managed to stop the projects. However, for some inexplicable reason this project San Juanico


"Oceanic" has taken place without the local or environmental participation. Was this project kept


secret from the local community and the Mexicans?


Any chemical process creates the risk of spills of industrial waste which would bring irreversible


consequences for sensitive ecosystems. In similar projects have raised processing phosphate in


marine installations. This would entail no jobs for the local community.


Typical work also involves mining exploration underground seismic test explosives that can severely


disrupt marine life destroying organic tissue, damaging reproductive organs, and potentially altering


the distribution patterns of fish. Mining is not a renewable industry, while tourism, whale watching,


diving and fishing are sustainable forms of employment for present and future generations.


The resulting noise constant dredging, testing and drilling in the area have never been evaluated


and real consequences for marine mammals remembering that this region of the Pacific is a


biological corridor and migration of different species of cetaceans such as the gray whale are


unknown, humpback, blue and different from other species of dolphins, species sensitive to noise


and all under some protected species status in NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2013, so the impact of this


undersea mining is cause untold damage to the biodiversity in a country that has always


distinguished the protection and conservation of marine mammals worldwide.
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 7/23


Besides the damage to tourism and fisheries sector has not been evaluated, the lagoons of San


Ignacio, Magdalena Bay, get a lot of tourists from December to April when the season watching the


gray whale. Fishermen in the area exporting different mollusks same as stored in different organs


heavy metals are suspended in the marine ecosystem and that this type of marine pollution activities


both medium and agencies and therefore humans would incalculable damage.


P


i


c


t


u


r


e


5


Figure 2 Map of the places where "Ocean Explorations, S. de RL de CV" operates to carry out


mining activities, which is drawn to Baja California Sur.


Many countries have recognized the serious risks of deep sea mining banning it entirely. Be careful


when foreign companies are allowed to make huge profits in the short term in exchange for the


permanent destruction of the ecosystem and our community. Not found no independent basis to


prove that this project or the current exploration program is safe to "Oceanica" it never should have


been allowed to get here online or scientific evidence. Moreover, any proposal for mineral


exploration in the sea must undergo evaluation by independent organizations to find clear evidence


that the proposal is environmentally safe. Australia, Namibia and other regions have stopped all


mining project offshore Mexico must stop "Ocean Explorations, S. de RL de CV" before it is too late.
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 8/23


It should also be noted that the terrestrial part in the states of Sonora and Sinaloa has reported the


presence of prospectors, which are known as potential miners, prospectors or small-scale mining,


which extract minerals in a way illegal without an environmental impact, causing unimaginable


impacts on the environment.


Recitals


(Description of reasoning, aspects of regulatory policy, strategies and actions of the three levels of


government that support the issuance of the recommendation)


In 1972, Mexico was the first country to create a sanctuary for whales to declare Hare Eye Lagoon in


Baja California Sur, sanctuary for gray whales. Thirty years later he was again placed at the forefront


of whale conservation to declare a national shrine to the world's largest whales.


With this decree, Mexico is committed to safeguarding the refuge area, in order to maintain the


environmental conditions necessary to ensure the biological functions of whales, such as


reproduction, birth, breeding, growing, learning, migration and feeding. Now is the responsibility of all


Mexicans monitor and enforce such conditions are met


Fishermen harbor craft Chale observed the "Ocean Explorations, S. de RL de CV" 80 miles from the


coast, as mentioned that was operating from December 2012 to March 2013 People of the company


contacted them in a meeting in the city of Constitution to tell them that they would be operating.


In Magdalena Bay, between February and March 2013, some fishermen found dead marine


mammals (seals and dolphins), and reported to PROFEPA, but no studies of the death of these


organisms in cetaceans themselves consist of analyzes were the inner ear to see if they die by


seismic surveys.


Underwater mining should be a passive monitoring to identify marine mammals in the area and also


make sure its not impact any agency seismic surveys.


Oceanic Exploration Company, S. de RL de CV, is registered in the Public Registry of Property and


Commerce of the Federal District in Mexico, where requested mining concessions for exploration


and exploitation of all kinds of minerals and substances regulated by Law Minera.


The data in the record to permit commercial folio enrolled in the Public Registry of Property and


Commerce of the Federal District in Mexico, are:


Registration Date: 13/03/2012


Ssue control: 96807
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 9/23


An environmental impact for the project, which is operating is not carried out.


All cetacean species living in Mexico are under some risk in NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010. Also, you


are protected by CITES, and the blue whale has a program of action for the conservation of the


species.


The emerging threat of underwater mining is a warning about the need to protect the oceans alert


Richard Page, Greenpeace oceans specialist.


The objectives, strategies and lines of action PROMATNAT 2013-2018, in which the


recommendation is based, are:


GOAL 4: Retrieve functionality watersheds and landscapes through conservation, restoration and


use sustainably the natural heritage.


Strategy 4.4: To protect the biodiversity of the pa s t, with emphasis on the conservation é


ion species at risk.


L i n line of action or 4.48: Strengthening conservation program ion species at risk within and


outside ANP.


Strategy 4.7: Address and leverage the International Agenda aimed at protecting,


conserving and sustainably exploit ecosystems, their biodiversity and ecosystem services.


Line of action L i o n:


Promote the protection of marine and coastal ecosystems for the use of natural resources in


international forums.


GOAL 5: Stop and reverse the loss of natural capital and pollution of water, air and soil.


Strategy 5.5: To help improve the ion protection of the environment and natural resources in


mining and the oil industry.


L i n line of action or 5.53: Develop and update policy instruments and building to prevent


and manage waste integrally miner t ae oil industry.


L i n line of action or 5.54: Develop and update policy and development tools to strengthen


the sustainability of the mining and oil industry.


The objectives, strategies and lines of action PROMARNAT 2013-2018, in which the


recommendation is based, are as follows: GOAL 4: Recover the functionality of watersheds and


landscapes through conservation, restoration and use sustainably the natural heritage. Strategy 4.4:
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 10/23


To protect the biodiversity of the country, with emphasis on the conservation of endangered species.


Action Line 4.48: Strengthen the conservation program of endangered species in and out of ANP.


Strategy 4.7: Address and leverage the International Agenda aimed at protecting, conserving and


sustainably exploit ecosystems, their biodiversity and ecosystem services. Line of Action: Promote


the protection of marine and coastal ecosystems for the use of natural resources in international


forums.


Therefore, (as) members Advisory Council for Sustainable Development of the Northwest
Region, issued the following:


Recommendation


(Write in, clear, understandable and practical text of recommendation).


SEMARNAT is recommended to revise, implement and regulate all onshore and offshore North West


mining, demanding that the environmental impact statement is requested from the stage of


exploration to exploitation. This is based on the fact that the scans are unavoidable environmental


impacts in the system, as previously discussed in the preamble and background to this


recommendation, and now to be able to carry out scans only has to meet the preventive report, so


that legal channels are insufficient.


This recommendation was written by:


Technical Committee or Working Group: Technical Committee of the Green Agenda Region


Northwest.


Coordinator of the Technical Committee


or Working Group:


Dr. Rafael Rodriguez Riosmena.


Directors members: Dr. Rafael Rodriguez Riosmena, Dra. Marcín Rocio


Medina, Ing. Bertha Lucía Gómez González, TLC. Carlos


Eliseo Ornelas Roan.


Done in the City of Mexico, home of the V Ordinary Session of the Consultative Council
for Sustainable Development of the Northwest Region, July 11, 2014
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 11/23


Website: http://consejos.semarnat.gob.mx/ E-mail:
consejos.consultivos@semarnat.gob.mx


IS OMEX Dumping their Chatham Rock Phosphate Stock?


Last October, OMEX highlighted their 3 ventures in undersea mining and the value for
shareholders:


OMEX Investor Presentation October 2013


In the last 10 months since this investor presentation, Neptune has been written down
-94% in value and appears to be insolvent and has ceased operations. Chatham Rock is
the NZ operation that is publicly traded. Is OMEX dumping their stock in the last two
weeks in a desperate grab for cash?



http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&prev=_t&sl=es&tl=en&u=http://consejos.semarnat.gob.mx/

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2422845-odysseys-sec-10q-out-of-cash-in-weeks-neptune-minerals-declines-minus-94-percent

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/9/5/499650-1409956677488578-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.png
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 12/23


Comments (44)


Disclosure: The author is short OMEX.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: Ryan Morris, President, Meson Capital, has pledged to donate his
personal profits from OMEX short sales to charity. Full disclaimer at omextruth.com


Editor's Note: This article covers one or more stocks trading at less than $1 per share
and/or with less than a $100 million market cap. Please be aware of the risks associated
with these stocks.


 Like this article


ALASKYDFY
Meson, I am a bit confused according to the predicted time table of your previous well informed articles OMEX is
already bankrupt. If this is the case what's the point of 'beating a dead horse'. If OMEX is not bankrupt, does that



https://seekingalpha.com/user/10895951
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 13/23


mean all of your previous articles have been wrong? What does that imply about your current article?


08 Sep 2014, 09:46 AM


HarrietBall
Just a few weeks ago you said, "Appears doubtful that EIA will ever be filed now, OMEX trying desperately to
raise money based on false hope with just a few weeks of cash in the bank." This was obviously false.


Then you told us multiple times that the company was going bankrupt and was officially insolvent. This was
obviously false.


A couple weeks ago you declared, "Oceanica Does Not Have Permission from SEMARNAT for Core Sample
Drilling." Yet the articles you cited definitively say that permission wasn't required, and now the company has
filed an EIA with all of the sampling data with SEMARNAT, so your claims, and those of your "sources" appear
to be false yet again.


You have been wrong at every turn with respect to Oceanica and OMEX, why is it that we would believe
anything that you or your sources say at this point?


Now you point to a document filed with SEMARNAT in July by a radical group called the Green Agenda as a
reason to be concerned? SEMARNAT doesn't seem concerned at all. They massively increased the size of
Oceanica just three weeks later, granting two new concessions. I


If you read the Green Agenda report you'll see why there's no reason for concern. These "environmentalists"
make so many ill-informed and audacious claims as to be seen as highly irresponsible. Why wouldn't this
Green Agenda wait to see the facts in the filing about the project before filing an opposing point of view? The
fact that they haven't speaks volumes to the quality of their work.


Meson Capital is not to be believed with respect to OMEX because of its published material misstatements of
fact, and its predictions which have proven false. We can say the same for Meson's sources such as the
felon, Arturo Ramirez Gonzalez, BCS Noticias, and now, the Green Agenda.


08 Sep 2014, 11:52 AM


RbobSA
Where did Green River's comment go?


08 Sep 2014, 04:45 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
You write: “You decide: does this make sense? Can Oceanica overnight leap to become the 22nd largest
public mining company in the US (by revenue) with a revenue rate per employee ~4X higher than average?
Or does this whole plan seem more than a little half-baked?”


Yet, the only thing “half-baked” was the analysis provided in your article. The proof for Oceanica’s numbers is
so simple that I found it in 3 minutes searching on the web. The UK marine aggregate industry (which uses a
dredging technology) employs 500 people in operations and produces 16mn tons of aggregate in a year (see
http://bit.ly/1wf2CsJ). This equates to 32k tons/employee/year. If we assume Oceanica uses 160 of its 200



https://seekingalpha.com/user/30649955

https://seekingalpha.com/user/26971193

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

http://bit.ly/1wf2CsJ
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 14/23


employees for operations, as you have shown above, then these employees should be able to produce a little
over 5 million tpy rather than the 3.5mn that they’ve stated in the MIA filing. It looks like they are trying to be
conservative, and build in some cushion, rather than be aggressive as you imply.


Looking at revenue per employee doesn’t make a lot of sense. You’re comparing much different businesses –
some are precious minerals miners and base minerals miners. None of them use the same extraction
technique as Oceanica. Also, many of them have downstream operations which are labor-intensive. Oceanica
is purely an extraction business, which isn’t as labor-intensive.


Oceanica’s figures are notable for being consistent with other, proven marine dredging businesses. Amazing
what a researcher can find when his eyes aren’t closed to reality.


09 Sep 2014, 11:09 AM


Papaoomowmow
Mighty good to see you in the discussion, GR


09 Sep 2014, 02:56 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Thx Papa. Good to be back.


Nice to see some facts out of Oceanica to counter the junk put out by certain "sources."


09 Sep 2014, 03:48 PM


Rory Duncan
Is the SEC investigating Ryan Morris? Shareholders deserve answers.


Ryan Morris admitted that the SEC has contacted him regarding his research on OMEX in an article on
thedeal.com. The article states that there have been a number of complaints against Morris filed with the SEC
alleging that Morris has published illegal research re OMEX. The deal.com article requires a subscription.


14 Oct 2014, 04:32 PM


Rhinestone
"Paradoxically, the marine field is given the name "Don Diego" which alludes to the conquest and subjugation of the
New World by foreign powers, "Don Diego" cousin of Hernán Cortés."


Good. Frankly, the Western world could do with a lot more of this. The heroics of our ancestors should be proclaimed
and treasured, not slunk away from in some impish PC nonsense. As Western influence grows cowardly, lazy, and
impotent, the animals are reverting back to a state of nature. Press on, I say.


08 Sep 2014, 10:05 AM


ALASKYDFY
Don Diego was also Zorro's alter-ego.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29380135

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5750761

https://seekingalpha.com/user/10895951
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 15/23


08 Sep 2014, 10:44 AM


Cliff-Fiscal, Contributor
" . . . only 80 people required (2x shifts of 40) operating the ship to operate 24x7 for 50 years to dredge the phosphate
- are any local jobs created?"


Does this include onshore support, infrastructure build-out, increased money in the area, downstream integration, etc.
?


08 Sep 2014, 10:38 AM


Papaoomowmow
Nice points, Cliff. Not to mention the tax base and establishment of a MUCH needed nearby source of
phosphates.


08 Sep 2014, 12:19 PM


Papaoomowmow
Odyssey's informal Oceanica partner, the Mexican subsidiary of Royal Boskalis , has worked on over 200 dredging
operations in Mexican waters over the last 20 years. Each project required and received environmental approval.


08 Sep 2014, 12:17 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Questions: 
1) Where is the data to support this? 
2) Yes the 200 they DID do received environmental approval but that doesn't tell you how likely it is to get
environmental approval. Maybe they tried to do 20,000 projects and 1% got approval?


08 Sep 2014, 12:48 PM


drvax
impish at best. Your the one with all the "data" so are you saying R Boskalis is only effective enough to get
1% of its approvals through. Pretty presumptuous & poorly thought through response.


08 Sep 2014, 01:47 PM


Papaoomowmow
Though as an OMEX long - and a buyer at these levels- I do not like the success of short sellers...nor do I
have a high opinion of their smear techniques.


BUT I must tip my hat to their excellent success so far.


Though I admit I am puzzled at their pressing of the bet.....


08 Sep 2014, 02:59 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/cliff-fiscal

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1346741

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 16/23


Rory Duncan
1) where is the data to support your contention on 8/17 that "OMEX is now insolvent"? 
2) where is the data to support your contention on 8/14 the OMEX will be, "out of cash in weeks"? 
3) where is the data to support your statement on 3/12 that "SS Central America is not viable"?  
4) where is the data to support your statement on 3/12 re the SS CA that "The only possible conclusion is that
there isn't much gold left and everyone knows it except OMEX shareholders"? 
5) where is the data to support your statement that Odyssey's auditor had been investigated?


So, it seems to be okay if you make baseless claims without adequate supporting evidence....Papa's info
came right from the investor call.....this is obviously an infinitely better source than whatever sources you are
using.


08 Sep 2014, 03:17 PM


murphy8275
Did Papaoomowmow. State they worked on over 200 dredging operations. will look into Royal this week.
Meson you are attempting to stretch his statement with 20000 request to approve 200. without any knowledge
of their operations. By your statement, (MAYBE THEY TRIED TO DO 20,000). 
thanks for your statement Pap. I'll do some more work into Royal and any relation to Ocean and the prior
relations


08 Sep 2014, 05:11 PM


murphy8275
I kind of find your point. As at this price I'm a buyer too. the mass of data I look at and request shows that
Meson has lost his EARS. when he first pounded the table on OMEX, he had the Ears, sadly people listened.
Hence the decline to these levels. Institutions have cut their holdings and got out of the way, day traders are
playing on the back of Meson but most have been push out because of the hard to borrow status. and the
amount of shares needed to short. At this price the risk reward tends to be for the longs. If you monitor L2
trading, stops are generally at .80 and pressure at 1.42 Meson is only able to find Maybe 300,000 shares to
borrow each day, thus the low volume.


08 Sep 2014, 05:25 PM


Papaoomowmow
"Where is the data to support this?"


If you actually want to know, give them a call.


09 Sep 2014, 09:54 AM


Romatel
Time for capitulation to the forces of the shorts, with the announcement the MIA being "leaked' not "filed" as required
by Mexican law, OMEX continues to decline. Why didn't we see this coming? Did Oceanica become OMEX's next



https://seekingalpha.com/user/29380135

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29079545

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29079545

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/31035465
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 17/23


Black Swan?


Given MC's penchant for voluminous, well crafted, and thesis consistent material, it was quite frankly too difficult to
sort through what was substantive and what was possibly erroneous blustering, as we often see from many self-
declared short. But now the Oceanica articles, including today's, appear to have stuck, what was promised to
eventually lead to the predicted bankruptcy (BK) may now be secured, it looks like the final Black Swan has landed on
OMEX. Maybe there is even still time to meet our author's exact timing for a BK "happening before the EIA is filed"
since a leaked document isn't a "filed" EIA, so we can still cut our author some slack on timing. Remember our author
only needs to help delay progress on Oceanica for a few weeks to see the remaining cash balances dry up, and these
articles have been able to help scare away investors in Oceanica, Neptune, and Catham Rock Phosphates. Thus
delaying the next funding works wonders, as our author has told us, it is likely the only source of cash that could avoid
a BK.


The environmental opposition our author is working with, amongst others, the Puerto Cale Cooperative, whose
"Manifesto" was showcased by our author in an earlier SA article, called for the Oceanica project to be killed, the
same goal of many of the environmental forces being enticed to action by our author and his local sources. Hey Baja
is a world unto itself, the local press is willing to take support from any and all if they meet the criteria "your enemy is
my enemy". And to have a perceived co-belligerence alliance with a credible Wall Street player such as Meson
Capital, with Business Week interviews and all, well that is big-time support in Puerto Chale and seeds investor
doubts on Wall Street as well. So I have to reluctantly agree with our author, his efforts to assist in the environmental
campaign being waged by his local sources only required slowing the Oceanica project down sufficiently to scare
investors off and thus make the BK prophecy come true. All very consistent with the up front short position declaration
of Meson Capital. Personally I should have shorted upon the first article last October, now I am left with tax losses to
harvest. Such is how the game is played on Wall Street. 
Shorts winning this one.


08 Sep 2014, 03:41 PM


RbobSA
I don't see any evidence in this article that the actual Oceanica EIA was leaked. We're certainly not told where to find
it, or what social media it was leaked on. Instead we're offered a counterfeit EIA written by an environmental group
that consists of 4 pages. The actual document in question we were told in the conference call is in excess of 4000
pages. If it were truly leaked yesterday, I don't believe anyone could have even read it by this morning.


08 Sep 2014, 05:16 PM


RbobSA
I wish the author would clarify if indeed it was leaked where is it? Which social media? If you can't provide
answers to those simple questions, then it appears that the articles title, first bullet point and premise are
disingenuous to say the least.


08 Sep 2014, 05:28 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  http://bit.ly/1wenccz



https://seekingalpha.com/user/26971193

https://seekingalpha.com/user/26971193

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

http://bit.ly/1wenccz
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 18/23


08 Sep 2014, 05:33 PM


RbobSA
Thank you for the link, however this is a news article about the filing, from yesterday. This can hardly be
characterized as a "leak" to social media from Sunday. It's a moot point now that the document has been
filed, but the "leak" is what I was wanting a link to.


09 Sep 2014, 11:48 AM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Leak info in the original article at the top


09 Sep 2014, 12:22 PM


tincupinhand
At the top of the article you used as your source it reads: 
"Exploraciones Oceánicas presenta ante la Semarnat proyecto minero para el Golfo de Ulloa" 
You state that it was a "leak", but the same BCS Noticias has it as the company "presenting" the EIA to
SEMARNAT?


The original article is dated Sept 4th, thus it predates your article above by four days. This fiction of a "leak" is
part of a corrupt pattern evidenced in your relationship with BCS Noticias, a group which seemed to be the
only news source in BCS publishing stories about SEMARNAT violations. Where did they possibly get them
from? Can you imagine how this will look in 20 - 20 hindsight once the full extent of your fabrication of stories
is revealed? What would Warren Buffet say?


17 Sep 2014, 04:25 PM


Pequod
This type of mining is not comparable to companies that are mining in shafts, it is more like open pit mining in a way
that is very profitable. Your numbers bear that out, this is probably the best news for OMEX shareholders.


Also the company has enough cash to last well into next year, they got the new $10 million loan. By then coins will be
for sale and they will be paid for their services plus the returns on the gold recovered.


And word is this Oceanica project may be OK'd before the end of the year, this is a national priority for Mexico.


08 Sep 2014, 10:24 PM


Rory Duncan
Odyssey's non-technical summary on Oceanica is now available at the company's website. A good read for anyone
interested in the real FACTS behind the project as opposed to Meson's embarrassing, half-baked, "analysis"....


09 Sep 2014, 08:45 AM


Rory Duncan



https://seekingalpha.com/user/26971193

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978

https://seekingalpha.com/user/477

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29380135

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29380135
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 19/23


Odyssey's non-technical report on Oceanica was published on the company's website. It's a must read for anyone
interested in the FACTS behind Oceanica versus the conjecture published by Meson and its highly qualified
"sources."


09 Sep 2014, 09:26 AM


tastebroker
Dear tastebroker, 
We wanted to let you know that we’ve deleted the post copied at the end of this email and explain why. It was deleted
because it contains an allegation of bad faith against an author or another user. We welcome (or even encourage!)
disagreement with the perspectives offered by others on the site. We ask, however, that you provide evidence to
support your arguments for how and why you disagree, rather than impugning the author’s motivation.


09 Sep 2014, 10:51 AM


tincupinhand
We now know that another lack of transparency has infected the Oceanica project. The EIA being "leaked out on
social media yesterday" (Sept 7th) as reported above, is astonishing behavior from a company already charged with
being in violation of SEMARNAT required permission for core drilling activities. After reading the documented proof
provided by our author, I was shocked by the revelation and so attempted to look into the activities of local media
groups, other than the one being quoted for the second time by our author, namely BCS Noticias. Yet I could not find
any other local media sources making the same claims our author’s source has. However, thankfully our author has
since posted a comment link to another local media source (see the link above in author's response comment of Sept
8th). The press article is written in Spanish, so translation may make the literal meaning confusing, because it
appears that this new source has published a "folio" number under which the EIA was filed last week with
SEMARNAT sometime before the close of business on Friday Sept 5th, (as confirmed in the article being dated
Saturday Sept 6th in its byline). This new source doesn’t, however, refer to a leak of the EIA prior to its filing with
SEMARNAT. 
Very confusing, but this type of rapid fire reporting will likely be better coordinated going forward by the many
environmentally motivated citizens of Baja along with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), press, etc who
collectively appear to have begun to coordinate their activities in what has, in other similar projects, been known as a
Social Environmental Committee (SEC). This SEC assists in obtaining what is known in mining circles as the Social
License (SL), which groups such as the Puerto Chale Cooperative (PCC) (whom our author has quoted from in his SA
article(s)), has already begun demanding a SL, and thus whose claims are likely being presented to the SEC for
further investigation. Part of the SL process includes individuals who feel they are damaged by the fallout from
Oceanica and have also petitioned the SEC to investigate. This activity is all part of the attainment the SL which is
found openly discussed by various media sources in Baja California Sur (BCS) Note: often confused with
(NYSE:BCS).


Now, add to this list another major player...can you imagine how SEMARNAT must feel following a reported violation
of their drilling regulations; to now have a leaked EIA that they must deal with? The SEC will certainly also take note
of this behavior, but they will need more time than SEMARNAT does to investigate a project of this magnitude which,
after all, deals with a multi-billion dollar Sovereign fertilizer resource critical to feeding the Mexican population for
decades to come. Our author has rightfully chastised the company for the delaying tactics involved in the leaking of



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3160511

https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 20/23


the EIA, which as reported by the new press source, only weighs in at over 4,000 pages. I ask myself, how the SEC
will view having such an important project be delayed by tactics such as the poorly transparent leaking of the EIA? I
imagine that SEMARNAT itself may add its investigatory powers to this effort? The SEC might also wish for other
federal investigatory bodies to take notice of what damage is being done beyond BCS, since the project involves a
Sovereign resource critical to feeding the Mexican population for decades to come? Delays in obtaining the EIA and
SL approvals will also serve to further fulfill our author's forecast of impending bankruptcy. Remember, the latest
forecast update of the bankruptcy date is the end of October, which is fast approaching and is looking more certain
now with the confusion created surrounding compliance with SEMARNAT procedures. Certainly the company's
reported discussion with strategic partners have not been helped by the SEMARNAT allegations.


All this and we still have not had an 8-K filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (Note: not to be
confused with the Social Environmental Committee in Baja) by the company, as would be expected for a major EIA
filing of material information (similar to the lack of filing of the NI 43-101 as was called out by our author under Rule
7). How will the US Securities regulators view this lack of transparency now that we have now learned of the EIA
being leaked in Baja California? Wouldn’t selective disclosure of this type be frowned upon under Reg FD? Hopefully
the work of the SEC in Baja will help all regulatory parties to take notice of the confusing pattern of questionable
transparency on all sides of this Oceanica situation. 
I suspect we are far from hearing the end of this from the SEC in Baja and look forward to the next clarification of the
confusion from Meson Capital.


09 Sep 2014, 01:33 PM


Papaoomowmow
Not sure I can fully ferret out your possible use of consistent irony in your comments, Tin.


For one example


"similar to the lack of filing of the NI 43-101 as was called out by our author under Rule 7)"


As I understand it, that's a Canadian regulation and such a filing is actually not even allowed under SEC regs.
Am I incorrect on that point?


09 Sep 2014, 04:07 PM


tincupinhand
Pappa: You are correct, I believe the SEC Rule 7 strongly "discourages" US listed companies to file the
reports except if part of being an acquisition candidate. That our author discredited OMEX for not releasing
the document NI 43-101 against SEC regs is no different that demanding a drilling permit for NUCLEAR
materials or suggesting that the EIA, having been filed between Sept 4 - 5th, and which our author
acknowledges was reported in a story dated Sept 6th in the "other local media" source (link provided by our
author) along with the SEMARNAT folio number included...thus all comers had access via formal channels to
the EIA filing (I had a enviro buddy send me the link on Sat). How does that make it a "leak"? Our author will
have a lot of explaining to do one day, beyond the pages of SA, regarding his sourced material from Baja
where I find no other mining detesting media sources having picked up on these accusations of BCS Noticias.
In Spanish there is a not so old saying... naranja es el nuevo negro.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 21/23


10 Sep 2014, 11:41 AM


Papaoomowmow
Many thanks for the clarification of tone and detail, Tin!


10 Sep 2014, 02:07 PM


rsabet
Here is the EIA: http://cnnmon.ie/1lQBhMt


09 Sep 2014, 02:37 PM


tiburon
Good, clear reading. Thanks. I'm a stockholder and buyer


09 Sep 2014, 04:14 PM


tiburon
Meson Capital is shorting OMEX in a large scale based on wholesale slander and libel and should be getting ready
for a MAJOR surprise. This deposit is essential for Mexico´s War on Hunger as well as for the reversal of the fertilizer
and food imports trend which has reached crisis proportions. It will be, no doubt, a project of national importance. The
reports of the deposit so far indicates it is a world-class resource. So close to US and Canada, with a free-trade
agreement, with Mosaic Florida supply drying out in 7 years. Do the numbers. Those shorting OMEX have to realize
that the decision on environmental impact has a december deadline. That's the way Mexico's Semarnat works. So,
hold on to what may be a rocketing trend for this stock.


09 Sep 2014, 03:59 PM


tincupinhand
YESTERDAY: news from BCS Noticias Posted on septiembre 9, 2014 by Carlos Ibarra in BCS, Comondú, La Paz,
Medio Ambiente,  
http://bit.ly/1um659i


"La Sagarpa contradice a Profepa y Semarnat: minera marina exploró con permiso en Comondú"


My translator must be out of wack...do we now have a senior person from SAGARPA (the ministry of agriculture and
fishing) saying something about the exploration done by Oceanica had permission? Maybe that explains why no news
source other than BCS Noticias made the original claim which our author has stood firm on since July 30th? Would a
person with experience, intelligence and integrity, unless they already knew their source well, not check their "facts"
before re-publishing quotes, if only just to be fair to a company that would be damaged by an accusation? Obviously
they are not very concerned with prior fact-checking in Baja, though I bet Warren Buffett would have done his fact
checking. 
Oh the web we weave....


10 Sep 2014, 02:59 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1096180

https://seekingalpha.com/user/853455

http://cnnmon.ie/1lQBhMt

https://seekingalpha.com/user/993590

https://seekingalpha.com/user/993590

https://seekingalpha.com/user/952978

http://bit.ly/1um659i
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 22/23


tiburon
The ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries confirms that the exploration by Oceanica was done with due
permits, says the article


12 Sep 2014, 12:18 PM


Romatel
There is apparently a breakdown between Meson Capital and their media source BCS Noticias. It appears
they have missed the headline quoting the head of the SAGARPA delegation as Tiburón suggests.


He also missed their Sept 4th article with a headline saying that the EIA was officially filed at SEMARNAT.
Certainly our author would not have published an article on Sept 8th regarding the EIA being "leaked" unless
he was not aware of the EIA filing, why I bet he didn't even have the link to SEMARNAT himself until after he
published this "leaked EIA" article September 8th. We know that he would have never written his headline
with a blatant error in it.


At least the news of the filing of the EIA is, for the first time, covered by other local media, not the exclusive
stories we've had released by BCS Noticias accusing Oceanica of whatever laws they invented, then
translated and analyzed for us by Meson Capital. BCS Noticias must have excellent reporters on staff digging
up the dirt on phosphates!


12 Sep 2014, 01:32 PM


murphy8275


Omex/ short term 
.


The long and shorts are fighting it out! look at the short view. They say that OMEX is BK or going to be the last 3
years, and they claim that they will run out of cash in days. They say, Baja is never going to be approved, and state
that the EIA would never be submitted. 
They say that OMEX would never be allowed to recover SSCA, and then they complain its not theirs. Stating that the
courts would rule in favor TT and the contract company's. 
Then they complain, That what they recovered is in a couple of crates, and it is not enough. but never mentioned the
quality. 
Bull side. look! If you are looking for a short term pop and you are putting short term Capital to work. I think your
wrong, My opinion the stock may test 60 cents in the next 3 to 6 months base on the chart. But if you are looking out
for a long position 2 to 3 or 5 years out you could see a 300% profit.... down side is about 100% with a realistic figure
of about 20% because that should be your stop loss mark, short term. 
Long side Shorts are already stretched, as to time to cover dates start coming into play 
The ability to monetize capital without diluting share holder value. Though the shorts will say share is at $1.00, how is
that showing longs Value? Well, that's is because they are being attacked in a short seller campaign. allot different
than a corporate raid. NEWL That was a RAID. 
If you go long, buy the stock and hold it there for a couple of years, you'll do good. The company has survived almost
20 years and will be here 20 more. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/993590

https://seekingalpha.com/user/31035465

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29079545
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 23/23


If you just bought this stock and do not plane on holding it more than 1 year just sell it and let real investors manage
this. but think long... Note: Most day traders lose there capital in the first 2 years of trading. 
Victory is approved Visit Odyssey's web site and do your homework Heritage foundation Less


10 Sep 2014, 05:30 PM


Bill Houseman, Contributor


14 Sep, 1835 EDT 
Odyssey Explorer is inbound to Charleston, 8 knots. Should arrive Monday.


14 Sep 2014, 06:34 PM


Illuminati Investments, Contributor
I thought OMEX was already bankrupt? I guess that was just wishful thinking on the part of Meson.


I'm just curious why he would bother continuing to bash this company, as he's already presumably made a nice
return, whether through prescience or just persistence in perpetuating this innuendo.


Not sure why he would continue to expend so much time and energy on his jeremiad against this relatively unknown
company. Maybe his short position is just too large to unwind, as I always see OMEX high up on the days to cover list.


15 Sep 2014, 08:24 PM


Rory Duncan
What prescience is that Illuminati? The prescience of making eight incorrect bankruptcy predictions? Or the
prescience of telling everyone that the Central America had nothing left on it? Maybe it was the call that Oceanica
was controlled by drug running, money laundering warlords? That the company's auditor was under investigation?
Perhaps it was the prescience of informing investors that the company had no government approval to drill core
samples?


Where I come from, making money while getting your entire investment thesis wrong is not called prescience, it's
called luck. That luck has just about run out.


15 Sep 2014, 09:18 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/bill-houseman

https://seekingalpha.com/author/illuminati-investments

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29380135
