5/21/2018 UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2768815-uk-foia-shows-odyssey-committed-4-violations-at-hms-victory 1/8


UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory
Dec. 19, 2014 10:48 AM ET1 comment
by: Meson Capital Partners


Summary


FOIA (Freedom of Information Act) just returned shows that UK Marine Management
Organization (MMO) found OMEX committed 4 violations, concluding its
investigation we reported earlier, issued official warning.


OMEX (nor MHF) appears to have still not submitted an application for a license at
the MMO for HMS Victory project announced 2 mos ago according to MMO website.


SEMARNAT Advisory Council rejects underwater mine: Major Mexican newspaper
this week. Oceanica still "SUSPENDIO" on SEMARNAT website.


Claims of Mexican Government Endorsement by Inapesca is misleading: not an
official statement and not based on any files or official technical opinion according to
updated Mexico FOIA-equivalent.


Cash balance approaching $0 with nearly $30mm debt + payables - will OMEX be
able to make Jan 1 scheduled debt repayment?


Shareholders have heard very little from Odyssey Marine Exploration (NASDAQ:OMEX)
lately as the news releases seem to have dried up since the HMS Victory project was
announced nearly 2 months ago with few details. The two biggest current projects for
OMEX are the HMS Victory and the undersea phosphate mine in Mexico, Oceanica. The
SS Central America is still tied up in appeals court after its salvage this past summer. Here
is a brief update on Victory and Oceanica.


One highly interesting new detail just uncovered via the UK Freedom of Information Act
(FOIA) is a conclusion to the Marine Management Organization (MMO)'s official
investigation into OMEX which we reported on earlier this year. It was concluded with an
official warning letter to OMEX Dated November 7th, two weeks after the Oct 24
announcement that the HMS Victory was moving ahead by the MOD (Ministry of
Defense).



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

http://ir.odysseymarine.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=878034
5/21/2018 UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2768815-uk-foia-shows-odyssey-committed-4-violations-at-hms-victory 2/8


The full Nov 7, 2014 MMO Warning Letter can be found here


Most interesting is that OMEX was found to have violated the MMO's rules on 4 separate
items. As this was a first offense in the UK and the UK is unable (for jurisdictional reasons)
to use the non-UK evidence such as the Mercedes/Black Swan judgment against OMEX,
the sanction was to issue an official warning letter rather than to prosecute. In addition
according to the UK compliance and enforcement strategy this light sanction was used to
save the government costs of dealing with a further court case.


Importantly - this is now officially in OMEX's record and will make any future violations
MUCH riskier. Given the bull case for the HMS Victory is from selling artifacts that
belonged to passengers or other "trade goods" (a term not officially legally defined) which
appears to be in violation of the UNESCO Annex, this new official warning letter puts a
much higher level of scrutiny on OMEX if they tread around the edges of the rules. In fact,
a second FOIA indicates that OMEX will likely require an independent government
archeologist to monitor their conduct at the site.


According to searches on the MMO website, we still cannot find a license application
submitted yet by OMEX or the MHF for the HMS Victory work. We understand there is a 3
month public comment period once a license is applied for so the clock is still ticking on
that.



https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/ATI836_Annex_A.pdf

https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/compliance-and-enforcement-strategy

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/ATI836_Annex_B.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/12/19/499650-14189687672160335-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.png
5/21/2018 UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2768815-uk-foia-shows-odyssey-committed-4-violations-at-hms-victory 3/8


Oceanica Update


source: La Jornada, prominent Mexico City newspaper


NEWS from a prominent Mexico city newspaper Dec 15, 2014: SEMARNAT Advisory
Council rejects underwater mine in BCS


Quotes from article (translated into English):



http://www.jornada.unam.mx/2014/12/15/estados/036n1est
5/21/2018 UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2768815-uk-foia-shows-odyssey-committed-4-violations-at-hms-victory 4/8


-The environmental impact statement contains misinformation and omissions
notes
-In no country has authorized a similar project
-Would jeopardize fishing in exchange for just 80 jobs
-Removal of the seabed cause heavy metal pollution


The state consultative body of SEMARNAT analyzed the environmental impact
statement Don Diego project, involving the removal of phosphate from the seafloor
of the Gulf, noting that principle 15 of theRio Declaration, adopted by the Conference
of United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, consecrated in
June 1992 the precautionary principle, which states that due to the magnitude of the
environmental damage that can cause this type of mining, has not been approved
anywhere in the world .


He warned that the exploitation of the seabed release mercury, cadmium, lead,
arsenic, nickel and zinc, which remain at sea for long periods and whose most toxic
forms are not metabolized.


...


He added that the MIA does not recognize the existence of endangered species and
contains misinformation and omissions, of which gets wrong conclusions, especially
with regard to the effects of noise from dredging and marine traffic in mammals.


According to the council, fishing is very important for local communities and
undermines seriously affect; also not promote sustainable development, as only
create 80 jobs and not just for locals.


(end quote)


Oceanica Government Support?


A recent article suggested that there was a key Mexican government support. This
referred to a Dec 1 article on a Mexican news site government fishing organization
Conapesca supposedly supporting the project. However, a subsequent Dec 3 article
below (the same that highlighted this 'support') provides more detailed information:


Despite the fear of fishermen, Conapesca has no information on marine mining in
Comondú


(English Translation)



http://www.bcsnoticias.mx/analista-de-semarnat-elaboro-dictamen-de-inapesca-sobre-viabilidad-de-mineria-marina/

http://www.bcsnoticias.mx/pese-al-temor-de-pescadores-conapesca-sin-informacion-de-mineria-marina-en-comondu/

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/dec3article.pdf
5/21/2018 UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2768815-uk-foia-shows-odyssey-committed-4-violations-at-hms-victory 5/8


This initial "support" was challenged by an unhappy Mexican citizen who filed the
equivalent of a FOIA request (The System of Transparency Number 081970023414, the
liaison unit of CONAPESCA)


"To this date there are no files, computers or registries from DGOPA of official
letters, documents, emails, attachment or any kind, as well as general information,
through which SEMARNAT requested CONAPESCA its technical opinion, comments
or observations regarding the Don Diego project, and its environmental impact
(including its technical opinion), comments or observations on the Attachments of
such environmental impact. Derived from the aforementioned, I request it to be sent
to the Information Committee a response for a resolution on the lack of information
in this Office in item 1".


The article also notes that CEMDA has not yet sued the project (as would be its typical
tactic) as the laws currently do not even contemplate marine mining so would be
premature to do so. (CEMDA) urged the Mexican government to reform or adapt in order
to allow the appropriate authority to evaluate or punish effectively this extractive activity.


Bankruptcy or Equity Raise Coming in January for OMEX?
5/21/2018 UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2768815-uk-foia-shows-odyssey-committed-4-violations-at-hms-victory 6/8


The low cash balance begs the question how OMEX could possibly have posted a cash
bond to complete the HMS Victory work that according to the UNESCO Annex is required
up front before work can begin?



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/12/19/499650-14189660658736072-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.png
5/21/2018 UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2768815-uk-foia-shows-odyssey-committed-4-violations-at-hms-victory 7/8


Comments (1)


Disclosure: The author is short OMEX.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: Ryan Morris, President, Meson Capital, has pledged to donate his
personal profits from OMEX short sales to charity. Full disclaimer at omextruth.com


Editor's Note: This article covers one or more stocks trading at less than $1 per share
and/or with less than a $100 million market cap. Please be aware of the risks associated
with these stocks.


 Like this article


26922203
I have several comments on items in the article:


The Warning for Offenses from the UK MMO appears to show that the statements made by Odyssey in the 3rd
Quarter 10Q, ie "Between February and August 2012, Odyssey conducted, on behalf of the MHF, a comprehensive
non-disturbance survey that completed the non-disturbance sections (phases 1-2) of the project design." to be
incorrect. Repeating the term 'non-disturbance', in light of the findings, appears to be very suspect.


From the same 3Q filing, Odyssey states the following on the Central America: 
"Recovery Limited Partnership’s motion to award title is pending before the court." 
Simply, as of Sept 30, the title of the recovery had not been determined. Given that there has been no press relating
to this significant issue, one would assume title of the recovery has not yet been determined. It is unclear which
portions or provisions of the Admiralty Arrest are currently under appeal.


For Oceanica, the latest 'marketing loan' is still an illusive issue. The latest information, the 3Q, did not clear up the
issue, just provided overarching and redacted relevant information. What is the 'numismatic' entity marketing? It would
appear that artifacts from the HMS Victory, or perhaps some other wrecks (given the lifespan of the agreement).
Odyssey gets paid from proceeds of the Central America, so it cannot be from this recovery. 
I would think that investors would be troubled by what was provided in the 3Q reagrding this 'loan': 
"Agreements relating to this August 14, 2014 note are attached to this filing but have been redacted per a confidential
treatment request with the Securities and Exchange Commission for certain information that is proprietary and
confidential in nature. We believe the disclosure of share quantities of Oceanica stock included in this note coupled
with any exercise or conversion prices would put us at competitive disadvantage..."  
Details of quantities and exercise price cause a competitive disadvantage? One would be surprised that the SEC
would agree with this reasoning for redaction. The only disadvantage appears to be to the OMEX or Oceanica



https://seekingalpha.com/user/26922203
5/21/2018 UK FOIA Shows Odyssey Committed 4 Violations At HMS Victory - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2768815-uk-foia-shows-odyssey-committed-4-violations-at-hms-victory 8/8


shareholder, to see where Odyssey considers to be the current market valuation for the shares. The loan
holder/option holder is aware of the valuation, why not the OMEX shareholders. The option price for the MAKO
exercise was well known, and well touted as some sort of valuation of Oceanica, but how can this option price be held
as proprietary? 
One would note that with the Oceanica redaction request, there is an SEC document granting the request. To date,
there appears to be no SEC correspondence granting the redaction request, only a request by Odyssey.


For the balance sheet, there are a few significant cash outlays per month that should be shown as well.  
First, the interest on the loans. The 'Marketing Loan' requires monthly interest payments, as does the Fifth Third loan
on the Central America proceeds. Given the substantial amounts of these loans, the interest due on loans must be
close to $100K per month. 
Next, the monthly expenditures on Oceanica. Again, the expeditures for Oceanica remain illusive. Since the
expenditures appear to be 'carried' against future investment or sale, there is little to determine what Odysseys
monthly expenditures are for Oceanica. It has been around that Odyssey has spent a little over $20M on the project to
date. I am not sure of the validity of that number. The only hint is the non-controlling interest (loss) shown in the
quarterly statements. With the current % that Odyssey owns in Oceanica, if that number is just for Oceanica, then that
puts expenditures by Odyssey at about $2.25M per month. With the submission of the EIS, that may have tapered off,
or become more active with the recent request for information by SEMARNAT. 
I am almost certain it is not free, so given that this is a significant project and ongoing expense, this should be
estimated in the balance sheet as well.


23 Dec 2014, 05:27 PM
