5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 1/17


Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore
Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining
Nov. 3, 2013 3:38 PM ET35 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Odyssey Marine Exploration Co (NASDAQ:OMEX):


Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface?


Executive Summary for OMEX Investigative Report - we have spent over 6 months doing
an in-depth investigative report on OMEX, our full report can be found at:
www.omextruth.com


As of October 31, 2013:


Target Price: $0.00 Thesis: Strong Sell


Market Cap: $230mm (80mm x $2.84/sh) Shareholder's Equity: ($5.6mm)


Total Cash: $10mm Total Debt: $20mm


Net Loss 2012 - 2008, respectively: ($18.2mm); ($16.2mm); ($23.3mm); ($18.6mm);
($24.8mm)


1)Unclear how much of this cash resides in the US, OMEX formed offshore subsidiaries in
2013


2)As of June 30, 2013, over $5.3mm of this debt is convertible with a "death spiral"
conversion feature that allows for the payments to be converted to stock at a 15%
discount to market


"Our talented people, global presence, financial strength and massive market knowledge
have created our sustainable and unique businesses. [Our new business models] will
accelerate their growth. We plan to leverage all of these competitive advantages to create
significant value for our shareholders."


-Enron's 2000 (Final) Letter to shareholders, published 7 months before bankruptcy


OMEX was founded by and is currently run by expert stock promoters who have
been sued by the SEC.


1 2



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

http://www.omextruth.com/
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 2/17


Greg Stemm and John Morris's previous shipwreck hunting company Seahawk
(SHWK: $0.0012) was sued by the SEC. They refused to cooperate with government
subpoenas and had a stop order placed on their stock .
Since 2000, OMEX executives and directors have received cash compensation over
$20mm and have net sold $5mm of stock, shareholders have been diluted 7-X and
accumulated losses of $180mm .
We believe the purpose of OMEX is to serve as a vehicle for OMEX insiders to live a
life of glamor hunting the ocean while disappointed investors foot the bill.


We believe OMEX stock is worth $0.00 and if OMEX is unable to raise equity they
will be forced to file bankruptcy within the next 6-12 months.


In spite of the recent Gairsoppa success, OMEX's business lines of historical
shipwrecks and commodity shipwrecks have averaged $20mm of annual losses over
the past 5 years and we believe are unlikely to repay OMEX's growing debt burden.
The CEO has publicly stated they do not have enough cash to operate through the end
of 2014  and carries their debt at a discount to face value on their SEC financials .
As highlighted by the "Black Swan" debacle, we believe UNESCO's new regulations to
protect national gravesites and heritage make for-profit historic shipwreck hunting
unviable.


We believe OMEX's new business of undersea mineral exploration is a pipedream
and worth zero.


We believe that management representations of "$179mm of Off Balance Sheet Value"
in equity stakes are inflated by at least a factor of 10 and we question whether they are
based on non-arm's length transactions.
In early 2013, OMEX created a new business "Oceanica" that utilizes opaque offshore
subsidiaries in Panama and Bahamas that we question how there could be any valid
business purpose and are reminiscent of Enron's use of off balance sheet entities to
obfuscate the true nature of cash transfers and inflate valuations.
We believe that Neptune Minerals, Inc. - founded by John Morris, co-founder and
former CEO of OMEX - is also worthless and is simply a reincarnation of Neptune
Minerals, Plc, a failed public company in the UK which John Morris acquired for
$140,000 in 2011.
According to an attachment to OMEX's recent 10Q, via Oceanica, OMEX is partners
with a Panamanian company, DNA Ltd Inc. Our investigation finds substantial
evidence that DNA's principal members are connected to at least 3 alleged pump and


1


2


3 4
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 3/17


dump frauds and admitted involvement in the alleged $400mm money laundering
scandal, "Teegan Inc."


What do we want? What is our motivation?


We fundamentally want the same thing that anyone long OMEX stock wants: Answers to
our questions and more specific information about the company's operations, not vague
platitudes or promises.


Our actions are all consistent with our words. We are short the stock because we believe if
the Company provides true and clear answers to the serious questions we have raised
then it will be readily apparent to ALL investors that the company, as it is currently
performing, has approximately zero economic value to shareholders. We may be wrong in
that belief and the stock may be worth some higher number, in which case, great, that's
how markets are supposed to work! Our policy is to admit when we have been proven
wrong very quickly and learn from it, there are lots of other stocks to spend time on.


If you own the stock, you deserve answers more than anyone, so demand them from
YOUR company. As shareholders, management reports to YOU.


Our Key Questions for OMEX that Shareholders Deserve Answers to:


1)Please explain OMEX co-founder John Morris's involvement in Chatham Rock
Phosphate, Neptune Minerals, and Oceanica?


2)How much cash have John Morris and affiliated entities received from OMEX since
2008?


3)How much cash has OMEX received from John Morris and affiliated entities since 2008?


4)Why did OMEX improve the terms on the Galt Resources deal for ex-CEO and current
consultant John Morris after the original contract had been signed? Why is this fair to
shareholders?


5)Has Josh Adam, SVP of Neptune and Manager of Mako, ever received compensation
directly or indirectly from OMEX?


6)Is the "Brad Baker" who appears to have signed documents on behalf of Dorado (later,
renamed Neptune), an ostensibly arms-length entity, the same Brad Baker that is on
OMEX's board?
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 4/17


Comments (35)


7)Please explain precisely why your offshore subsidiaries are necessary now
(commencing in 2013) when in your previous 16 years of operations, OMEX never
required these?


8)In what banks and countries is OMEX holding shareholder cash?


9)Why did you chose to partner with DNA, Ltd. Inc.? Were you aware of the principal
members' connections to multiple alleged investment scams?


10)Is OMEX using its offshore subsidiaries, formed in 2013, to make unlawful payments to
government officials?


The full report is long, detailed and contains complex content. We address undersea
mining and offshore subsidiaries in Chapter 3 and recommended investors very
familiar with OMEX begin there, specifically in sections 3 and 4, where we show that we
believe the value of Neptune and Oceanica are likely zero. We explore in depth what we
believe to be Oceanica's cofounding shareholder, DNA Ltd, Inc, a Panamanian entity
whose principal members are connected to a number of alleged financial crimes.


[1] http://www.sec.gov/litigation/aljdec/1993/id19930526ejk.pdf


[2] See appendix for cash compensation and insider transaction table in full report. Data
taken from OMEX SEC filings


[3] http://ir.odysseymarine.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=785335


[4] See OMEX 2013 10-K filing with the SEC


Disclosure: I am short OMEX. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: Meson Capital Partners, LLC, based in San Francisco, is a
research-driven activist fund manager founded in 2009.


 Like this article


LightseedVC, Contributor



http://www.sec.gov/litigation/aljdec/1993/id19930526ejk.pdf

http://ir.odysseymarine.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=785335

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

https://seekingalpha.com/author/lightseedvc
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 5/17


1) Using a phrase like "Investigative report" incorrectly gives people the sense that there is an "investigation". This is
not the case. The truth is you are a hedge fund that is short a lot of stock and has an agenda to drive the price down


2) The company's cash position has never been greater, and I believe they will end the year with min 20mm of cash,
and given all the future cash generating catalysts on the horizon, its my belief they will never have to raise money
again


3) OMEX has a backlog of 800mm in commodity wrecks, following their success (not failure) with monetizing over
75mm of silver bullion, with government cooperation. This business is now replicable for years to come and the
backlog gives them a huge runway of cash generating opportunites


4) The Unesco argument holds no water. A) less than 10% of the world's coastlines are even covered by Unesco are
B) Large countries such as the US, UK, Columbia haven't even signed Unesco C) Even if in effect, Unecso doesn't
prohibit the sale of artifacts and cargo D) There are hundreds of valuable wrecks in international waters (non-Unesco)
that won't have black swan like controvery E) There are many countries that are increasingly looking to monetize their
wrecks, for example, Columbia recently passed legislation to this effect and is home to some of the most valuable
wrecks out there


5) Odyssey's investments in Neptune, Oceanica, Chattem are all carried on their balance sheet at zero, despite
private market values significantly higher. A lot of money has been raised within those company's at significant
valuations, by sophisticated investors. Odyssey, in its sec filings, correctly notified investors where the latest
transactions for those company's has taken place. That equates to value close to 175mm or over $2.00 per share.
However, again Odyssey conservatively carries them at zero on its balance sheet


6) The SEC issue is not an issue (and an old non-issue at that). When the SEC case was presented before a judge in
1997, the judge dismissed the case in one day and ruled that it was so egregious that the SEC reimburse the
defendants legal costs


03 Nov 2013, 07:13 PM


LightseedVC, Contributor
7) Odyssey's public comments that Oceanica has had positive assay results, is commerciably viable, and looks to be
a "world class deposit" is extremely noteworthy. To say that is a "zero" is based on nothing and just a scare tactic.
There is no way Odyssey management would make these comments if such werent likely (ironically, their SEC scare
from years ago has made them way too conservative and anti-promotional so their public comments should not be
taken lightly)


8) The fraud allegations at Oceanica you allude to are not correct. 
DNA is a minority shareholder of Oceanica. Odyssey is not partnered nor a shareholder of DNA. My research on this
indicates that the law firm that set up the DNA entitiy provides some of its staff to act as directors of the various
entities established. These directors have no oversight or any involvement whatsoever of any of the companies and if
any company should run into ethical behavior, the directors would be removed from the law firm. Again absolutely
nothing to do with Oceanica or Odyssey


9) Your allegations about John Morris are not correct. Mr Morris's three year consulting agreement terminated by the
end of 2010 and has not received any compensation since. Neptune was formed in Jan 2011.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/lightseedvc
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 6/17


10) In terms of Oddsey's relationship to Neptune, Odyssey is a passive shareholder of Neptune's non-voting shares (it
became a stockholder as a result of the sale to Neptune of Dorado Ocean Resources, in which Odyssey was a
stockholder). Odyssey has provided Neptune with exploration services and as a result, has been a key strategic
partner for Neptune. The terms of payment of such services has been disclosed in Odyssey's filings. Odyssey has not
paid any fees to companies managed by John Morris and the relationship between Neptune and Odyssey has been
made completely transparent by both companies and such included in Odysey's audits


11) Your article mistakenly contrasts Neptune Minerals Inc with one of its predecessors, Neptune Minerals PLC.
Neptune Minerals Inc is a transformed company that has a diversified model with tenement prospecting licenses and
applications in seven jurisdictions. They currently hold licenses covering thousands of square kilometers of seafloor
and applications for thousands more. Their tenement positions are unique, scare and non-reproducible. Odyssey has
publically stated that Neptune is in talks with major strategic partners


03 Nov 2013, 07:15 PM


LightseedVC, Contributor
12) Neptune raised over $19mm at $17.50 a share late last year. Odyssey own over 6mm shares of Neptune putting
its stake valued at over $100mm based on this last round (again Oddsey has this valued at ZERO on its balance
sheet). Noteworthy that 19 million dollars was raised, this is a major amount of money and certainly is a good
indication of a true "mark" on Neptune's value. To say that it is a "zero" without any basis of knowledge is
irresponsible and not right


13)Insider buying has been significant while selling has been small


14) Dorado was a subsidiary of Odyssey and its very normal for management of parent companies (Brad Baker) to be
on the board of subsidiary companies


15) NOL valuation: Valuing NOL's at zero is common accounting practice. Asserting that this is indicative of anything
else is just fear mongering the uninformed


16) Carrying value of Converts: It is GAAP accounting that part of the value of a convertible secruity be allocated to
part equity and rest to debt. The result seen all the time is convertible bonds on the balance sheet for less than par.
Standard accounting


17) Your clain that Odyssey will go bankrupt in less than 12 months again is irresponsible and flies in the face of facts.
They had 10mm of cash on b/s as of Jun 2013. They just recovered 39mm of silver from Gairsoppa. Net out 9mm in
salvage costs, 1mm in smelting costs, and 6mm payment to the UK govt, such should add over 20mm in cash to their
bank accounts over the next 6 months


18) On the cash front, there is a good chance they get paid another 17.5mm from Mako shareholders if they exercise
their warrants by the end of 2013


03 Nov 2013, 07:16 PM


LightseedVC, Contributor
19) Establishing offshore entities is common business practice for corporations that generate revenues outside of the
US to manage taxes



https://seekingalpha.com/author/lightseedvc

https://seekingalpha.com/author/lightseedvc
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 7/17


20) The comps you use to comp Odyssey are meaningless and not comparable. Odyssey has a proven business that
is now generating meaningful cash combined with meaningful value created off balance sheet. The commodity wreck
business alone is worth $3-$5 based on my estimates. They are targetting 1-2 of these wrecks a year at a potential of
50mm recovery each, generating 25-50mm in ebitda annually starting next year! The cargos are known, easier to find,
and much less legal risk than tradional shipwrecks


My last point: In all seriousness, I wish you no ill-will. However, in the future you should be careful about comments
you make and how you make them. You used very inflammatory and slanderous language combined with major scare
tactics in your report that you caused people to just freak out and sell the stock at the market causing a cascade
down. I am very certain that once people truly dissect your report they will quickly buy back what they sold. All the
best


03 Nov 2013, 07:16 PM


BJLMD
Thank you. Well said. These guys are ass-clowns! I will not part with my shares of OMEX


03 Nov 2013, 07:51 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Lightseed, thank you for your detailed responses. 
What do you think about the (I believe in the criminal category) investigation of OMEX in the UK related to the hms
victory? Do you think that willl decrease their chances of being awarded the victory?


03 Nov 2013, 08:10 PM


LightseedVC, Contributor
Hi there. In regards to the Victory project in the UK, there is no criminal investigation whatsoever. Few points.
1) Odyssey and the UK govt have an incredible, long-standing relationship 2) You are probably alluding to
frequent chatter from the archeological community that doesnt want to see this historical wreck pulled up and
as a result they are constantly falsely accusing Odyssey of a whole bunch of nonsense. The truth is Odyssey
is following exact protocol and has not proceeded on any further excavation until they get clear approval from
the UK govt. Nevertheless, current market expectations for a Victory recovery have been completely taken
out of the stock anyway so there now is binary upside should a deal actually get worked out. There are
actually many reasons to think a deal will happen however I'm not modelling anything until I actually do see a
deal. I have written in previous posts about how big the Victory could actually be should it manifest however
again I'm discounting it until I see a go-ahead. Should they actually get a go-ahead I would expect the stock
to $4 bid immediately and if the cargo is confirmed the stock could be $10-$20. 
I'm glad to answer any other questions you have


03 Nov 2013, 08:46 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/8374091

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

https://seekingalpha.com/author/lightseedvc

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 8/17


Author’s reply »  Published October 29, 2013: 
http://bit.ly/1cyEviX


"A marine salvage company part-owned by former Premier David Saul is being investigated by UK authorities
for allegedly exploring an 18th century wreck without permission."


03 Nov 2013, 09:01 PM


scarletibis1
Lightseed,


I'm just curious by what you mean when you say O has an "incredible .... relationship". Is someone at O
dating a government worker in GB? What exactly does that mean and how does it apply to the Victory
situation?


Second, What reasons, specifically do you have to assume that a deal will happen?


Third, speculating on what the stock will do or not do based on conclusions as yet uncertain jacking the value
of the stock up by 100% if the cargo is confirmed is pure hype.


Don't you think it is time to stop with the hype and deal with the facts? You are doing the opposite of what you
accuse Meson of doing.


How long has it been since O started with the V fantasy? And right now it appears to be just that-a fantasy,
unless you are privy to something we aren't in which case give us a date. LOL


03 Nov 2013, 09:14 PM


LightseedVC, Contributor
Hi, Im not implying a deal will happen, nor am I factoring it into my analysis of the stock. As of now, based
upon the language in Odyssey's public filings, it is not a dead deal yet. The actual title of the wreck has been
transferred to the Heritage Foundation who technically has control over the wreck and can theoretically give
Odyssey the go-ahead. However, it wont happen until all parties agree. I agree its not worth getting excited
about or giving it much energy. However, its all upside optionality at this point b/c market consensus is that it
wont happen. Should it happen it is noteworthy that historical records indicate there are potentially 100,000
oz. of gold on the Victory. If, in fact, there proves to be 100,000 oz. of gold coins, given Odyssey's 80% share,
the potential value of this find is staggering. Odyssey's potential income depends on the quality of the coins
etc., however keep in mind that the melt value of 100,000 oz. of gold alone is approximately $2.00 per share
net to Odyssey. Odyssey's past recovery of the SS Republic yielded NET realized income to Odyssey of
premiums to melt of approx 20x, and the gold coins sold out rapidly (and that was with much lower overall
gold prices and a softer coin market). Similar multiples would yield pre-tax $40 per share for OMEX
shareholders. Even at 10x melt, that would net Odyssey shareholders pre-tax $20 per share. Hence my
comment that if a deal does in fact get the green light, then the stock would then have to factor in the
probability of the potential of the cargo which I have outlined.


03 Nov 2013, 09:47 PM



http://bit.ly/1cyEviX

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/author/lightseedvc

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 9/17


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  "The actual title of the wreck has been transferred to the Heritage Foundation who
technically has control over the wreck and can theoretically give Odyssey the go-ahead."


Fact: the UK MOD must give the go ahead, NOT the Heritage Foundation, which is entirely at the whim of the
MOD.


"In regards to the Victory project in the UK, there is no criminal investigation whatsoever."


Fact: there is an investigation ongoing and has recently come into the public spotlight:


http://ind.pn/1bQVKXK


03 Nov 2013, 10:04 PM


Steven Reiman, Contributor
Mr Morris,


Is OMEX correct in stating the below?


"The author never contacted the company for clarifications or answers to his questions."


Steve


*No position long or short.


03 Nov 2013, 08:56 PM


Steven Reiman, Contributor
To expand upon my question, the below statement implies that you have gone to management with your
litany of questions.


"If you own the stock, you deserve answers more than anyone, so demand them from YOUR company. As
shareholders, management reports to YOU."


Would this be an incorrect interpretation? Have you gone to management with your concerns before paying
for a press release, releasing a 66 page report and posting an article on seekingalpha denouncing the stock?


03 Nov 2013, 09:58 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  We were working with an experienced investigative reporter who spent about 90 minutes
asking the company questions. We incorporated their (in my view, highly unsatisfactory) answers into our
report and modified our questions in the report accordingly.


04 Nov 2013, 11:10 AM


Steven Reiman, Contributor
I see. Thanks for the response and good luck with your position.


Steve



https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

http://ind.pn/1bQVKXK

https://seekingalpha.com/author/steven-reiman

https://seekingalpha.com/author/steven-reiman

https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

https://seekingalpha.com/author/steven-reiman
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 10/17


04 Nov 2013, 03:26 PM


BJLMD
wow, a whole 90 minutes. Glad you took control of my investment. Thank you so much for caring only about
yourself.


04 Nov 2013, 07:55 PM


sweeps63
In a typical investigative report when someone has asked the other party questions, then that type of
discourse is put forth in the report; however, your report (at least the part most people are seeing) makes it
appear that OMEX Never responded to any questions. Which is it? Did OMEX respond and you aren't listing
those reponses? Or did OMEX sit through 90 minutes with an Unnamed "experienced investigative reporter"
and not say a word? not even No Comment?


If this investigative reporter is so experienced why don't you list his/her name?


05 Nov 2013, 06:02 AM


scarletibis1
Just to be clear who did this investigative reporter speak with at Omex?


Sweeps63 states:


"Actually OMEX has responded that Mr. Ryan Morris, aka Meson Capital Partners, has Never contacted them
directly with any questions whatsoever".


Someone seems to be lying here. Or is Omex being cute that no one contacted them "directly" whatever that
means. Pls clarify. Thanks


05 Nov 2013, 08:24 AM


sweeps63
scarletibis, that is what I'm trying to figure out.


OMEX says that Mr. Norris, aka Meson Capital Partners never contacted them directly, to which "Meson
Capital Partners" later wrote that their investigative reporter spent 90 minutes on the phone with OMEX. So
what's this reporter's name so that we might see if OMEX has OR has not actually spoken on the issues in
your report? By Meson Capital Partners own admission he has not spoken with OMEX directly, so OMEX is
being truthful that they were not contacted by him, hence why we need to know the reporter's name and see
reference to what that reporter actually asked and was or was not answered by OMEX.


05 Nov 2013, 01:31 PM


scarletibis1



https://seekingalpha.com/user/8374091

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 11/17


Well, this is certainly an interesting tug of war. Kudos to Lightseed for his indepth response. Apparently he knows
more about how Omex operates than the clowns at Omex since they haven't bothered to respond in like fashion,
unless Lightseed is doing it for them.


It is really interesting to me that one report can do so much damage to the stock while all the huffing and puffing and
bs Mr Gordon has spewn about the stock has done absolutely nothing to raise the price of the stock.


Could it be that people are tired of hearing about all the potential with no results? This guy's agenda may be to short
the stock but he wouldn't be doing it unless he had a reason(s) which he delineates in detail.


When you repeatedly boast about what you intend to do and little or next to none of it comes to fruition, and then
someone comes along with what appears to be a very indepth investigation (and what he did was his investigation) I
can see how the misled investors buy in to it.


If Omex is such a great investment now why would anyone short it? You'd have to be an idiot.


At the end of the day Mr Lightseed may be 100% correct in his assessment (I doubt it) but he never addresses the
compensation these guys gave themselves which is outrageous in light of the poor performance to date.


And it is easy to say there is a gazillion dollars of treasure down there and hype the potential. That is also
irresponsible. Does Mr L know about the "Swan"?


No one seems to address why the recoveries that are under contract have not been attempted to date. Mr L says
starting next year. Where did that come from?


BTW, just because Neptune raised 19 million in a stock offer last year, it does not mean it is indicative of anything. FB
did a whole lot better and floundered for a while. All it means is someone bought the hype. And it might be interesting
to know who bought the stock.


My mom taught me a long time ago it ain't what you say it is what you do. Or, watch the feet not the mouth. Time for
Mr G to start walking the walk. Talk is cheap.


But perhaps others more astute than little old me will reply. I guess it is time to buy another 100K shares tonight. LOL


03 Nov 2013, 08:58 PM


LightseedVC, Contributor
Odyssey has actually produced some solid results over the past few years. 1) Monitized over 75mm of silver
bullion 2) Proved out an entirely new business line with commodity wrecks and in so doing has amassed an
800mm backlog. 3) Invested in seabed mining and in the process has valuable stakes in 3 companies
(marked at zero on balance sheet but on paper is worth potentially over 150mm dollars). 
Yes Neptune raising 19mm might not be indicative but my point was that the author flat out calls it a zero
without any basis. How could it def be a zero if the company raised 19mm at $17.5 a share just last year?
The raises have been at rising levels and now they are in discussions with a strategic partner. So there is no
basis to just flat out call it a zero


03 Nov 2013, 10:00 PM


Cliff-Fiscal, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/lightseedvc

https://seekingalpha.com/author/cliff-fiscal
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 12/17


Meson CP. You have unfairly characterized me in the OMEX author table in your 60 page report. First, you make no
distinction between those who are "mildly optimistic or wildly optimistic," but painted all with the same brush.


Did you even read my 2nd article with the comments? Did you read the line, "Having an ambitious schedule invites
overreaching?" This appears to be what OMEX may have done in August when they spent time, money and
momentum on the Mantola instead of pursuing a commodity wreck. Did you not read my cautions in early August that
"I don't like the risk/reward  
profile there compared to the G?" Did you not read my comment after the Craig-Hallum conference that it was "time to
re-think" the investment?


You are correct that I have authored only two articles thus far, both on OMEX, but you are incorrect that my
"comments [are ones] posted by authors whose only commentary on SeekingAlpha are concerning OMEX." You are
also wrong on your statement that "We determined that many such posters signed up on SeekingAlpha the same day
and never posted again." I signed up on SA in October, 2012 so that I could follow and post on Vringo and my other
stocks and you could have easily found that out if you had done your due diligence. Again, painting all with the same
brush?


03 Nov 2013, 10:49 PM


Meson Capital Partners, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Cliff - thank you for reading the report, I appreciate the feedback though I do only see 2
articles you have posted, both with optimistic headlines towards OMEX.


Your ability to change your mind as the facts change or become more apparent is admirable and certainly
puts you in the upper echelons of Seekingalpha commenters


03 Nov 2013, 11:19 PM


Cliff-Fiscal, Contributor
So I understand then that you judged my OMEX articles as well as the others from their headlines only?


I think most SA authors would agree that their articles are only based on a particular point in time and that
their true value is a vehicle for discussion as market conditions change.


04 Nov 2013, 10:55 AM


scarletibis1
I would ask Mr Lightseed what he means by Omex having an, "incredible, long-standing relationship" with the UK
government. Is someone in O dating someone in the UK government? What specifically does that phrase mean? And
so what? How long has it been since they starting working on the fantasy ship, V? What's the problem then? The
reports are all in to the government.


Second, just because Neptune raised 19 million last year in a stock offering means nothing. FB raised a whole bunch
more and floundered for a year. It just means they were able to peddle it to either astute buyers or foolish buyers.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/meson-capital-partners

https://seekingalpha.com/author/cliff-fiscal

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 13/17


Time will tell perhaps.


Lastly, you are doing the same thing you accuse Meson of doing only in reverse. Hyping the stock value of Omex
based on the unknown possibility of recovering an unknown amount of recovery for the V and then jacking up the
potential value by 100% (10-20)is pure hogwash. It's just more hype. And that is why the suckers buy stock.


It is time for O to deal with facts, not hype. The G recovery was great. But it was handled all wrong and cost the
stockholders a ton of money. The second part of the recovery did nothing for the stock.


The fact that there may be a gazillion dollars of gold in the ocean means diddly. It is all talk and only talk. Do they
have a specific target in mind?


And what happened to the recovery work they boasted about starting work on last year? You say they are starting
next year? Based on what?


You know, Obama is getting hammered because he said we could all keep our insurance plans if we wanted to. The
Republicans are calling him a liar and even the Dems are giving him some stuff.


Why does Mr Gordon get to make statements that (and I'm being generous here) ring untrue?


You also conveniently fail to address the obscene amounts of money these insiders are getting for results that would
get any normal businessman fired.


You say there is a lot of insider buying. Really? Getting discounted shares is not what I call real buying. I've already
expressed my amazement in the purchase of the director who bought at 2.63 I think. What did he know we didn't? In
my view it was a very dubious purchase.


I can see why people dumped the stock. What the report said seems a whole lot more valid than the garbage (hype)
we have been fed for over two years now.


Omex needs to spell out a specific plan for the future that is concise. The smoke and mirrors and non-transparency
supports a report like Messon's ringing true.


Otherwise, why would the investors buy any of it??


03 Nov 2013, 11:12 PM


effeff63
It wouldn't be the first time parasites tried to blacklist a stock they were short, would it ? The recent pop in the shares
may have made the boys nervous...I used the occasion to write the $5 calls for fun and profit. Long OMEX for several
years.


03 Nov 2013, 11:29 PM


sweeps63
This is the same stuff that was released last week on a different venue and caused OMEX prices to drop drastically. I
notice that you did not address another's comment / question about why you have not contacted OMEX directly about
your questions



https://seekingalpha.com/user/267977

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 14/17


"...We fundamentally want the same thing that anyone long OMEX stock wants: Answers to our questions and more
specific information about the company's operations, not vague platitudes or promises..."


So basically you've spent


"... over 6 months doing an in-depth investigative report on OMEX ..."


but during this "in-depth investigative report" you have not contacted OMEX directly? How is that "in-depth"?


Seems more to me and numerous others that your disclosure, which is not spelled out in this write up, Disclosure: I
am short OMEX. (More...) says it all. Saying


"... We fundamentally want the same thing that anyone long OMEX stock wants ..."


is misleading -- anyone Long OMEX wants the price to go up, those Short OMEX, as your disclosure states and not
your article, want the price of OMEX to go Down! Why is it that you don't more openly express that you are SHORT
OMEX?


04 Nov 2013, 04:14 AM


scarletibis1
Lighthouse says, "Using a phrase like "Investigative report" incorrectly gives people the sense that there is an
"investigation", which he says there is not. At the same time he says sophisticated buyers bought 19 million worth of
Neptune stock.


Should be interesting to see what happens today.


Messon says he wants fundamentally what long buyers want yet Sweep63 says that is misleading.


What we all fundamentally want is to make money. I have never sold short and never will. It is fundamentally rooting
against the American way in my view but I can easily see why Messon did what he did. I cannot see why anyone is
pissed at him.


If he is wrong he will lose his shirt. On the other hand most if not all of us have ALREADY lost our shirts betting on
Omex. Why get pissed off at him? We should all be pissed off at the inept individuals running Omex. If they had been
doing their jobs correctly guys like Messon would not even exist much less be able to short the stock.


So, apparently we are not all so sophisticated that we saw thru the smoke and haze of Meson's investigative report;
otherwise no one would have sold their stock.


And as of yet Omex has not responded to any of his allegations. Lot's of apologists for O but where is the beef, as
someone said?


If wishes were horses beggars would ride. And regarding that 800 million in backlog. Really? That suggests that there
are 800 million in signed contracts just ready to be retrieved.


And just what is a "stratigic partner", Lightseed? I mean really your retort was great but that is another crock of bs. It is
a totally meaningless, worthless rabble of rot. Back it up. That is totally irresponsible hype yet again. That is what has
gotten O in so much trouble to date in my view. Most stockholders are sick of it. At least I am.


04 Nov 2013, 04:53 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 15/17


sweeps63
Actually OMEX has responded that Mr. Ryan Morris, aka Meson Capital Partners, has Never contacted them directly
with any questions whatsoever!


http://bit.ly/1hH7vVt


An excerpt from the above is:


November 1, 2013


Odyssey Marine Responds to Meson Capital "Short & Distort" Piece


TAMPA, Fla., Nov. 1, 2013 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Yesterday afternoon, a commentary about Odyssey Marine
Exploration, Inc. (Nasdaq:OMEX) was distributed by Ryan Morris of Meson Capital Partners LLC. The author never
contacted the company for clarifications or answers to his questions. Had he done so, Odyssey would have pointed
out factual errors, incomplete information and erroneous conclusions which are rebutted by Odyssey's public filings
and other publicly available information. Odyssey is confident its existing public disclosures are accurate in all
material respects, and that the company has provided a clear and concise explanation of all material information
about the company and its relationships with associated companies and individuals.


Odyssey's management believes that it is in the best interest of our shareholders to remain focused on business
rather than debating or responding to rumor and innuendo. However, due to the number of inquiries to the company,
management felt it important to reaffirm and stand by the accuracy of all information which has been released by the
company. It is also important for interested parties to carefully consider the statement the author made on the first
page of his editorial attacking the company (emphasis added):


"You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Meson Capital Partners, LLC
(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our
clients and/or investors has a short positionin all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the
stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either
declines."


The company believes this statement by the author, and the likelihood that this is part of an attempt to profit from a
"short and distort" strategy, calls into question the motivation and intent behind the allegations as well as the timing of
its release. Accordingly market authorities have been notified.


Next week Odyssey management plans to host a conference call to discuss corporate developments and to address
the false and misleading statements and innuendo in the Meson Capital piece. The call date and dial-in instructions
will be issued in a press release early next week.


04 Nov 2013, 07:51 AM


scarletibis1



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4547401

http://bit.ly/1hH7vVt

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/omex

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 16/17


All I can say if the "corporate developments" are positive items then again the timing is suspect and the PR company
they are using should be fired. If it took this guy's bogus report to make the suits at O finally start to discuss corporate
developments then good for him.


Now, if the corporate developments are just more hype God only knows what the stock will do.


Ship, what should we do this morning? Buy in big or wait for the press conference from O? RSVP, please.


04 Nov 2013, 09:28 AM


shipbuilder1
Scarlet,


I'm honored that you value my opinion so highly, but if I was that good, I would be in a different line of work, not
building ships. You all know I'm very cautious on this stock. That's because I lost a bit of money, until I was lucky
enough to recover when they brought up the black swan. Since then, I never stay in this stock for very long. I get in
and get out with a small profit. And I love the stories and history that they sometimes connect with their recoveries
and their work. That is my current philosophy on this stock. That may change if I begin to see more booty coming up,
but for now, I'm like a dutch uncle........I like them, but only trust them so far. I'm thinking about taking a position soon,
before the CC, but if I do, it will be no more than 5000 shares and I will get out in a heartbeat if I see trouble. You
need to watch this stock like a hawk. Good luck!


04 Nov 2013, 03:40 PM


scarletibis1
It is quite surprising to me that this guy is getting hammered. In my view if O was doing their job and doing what they
have hyped doing for the past two years and gotten some results with a plan for the future this report would be worth
diddly.


Instead of getting pissed off at the this guy why isn't anyone upset with the repeated blunders and misinformation that
O has spewed to its stockholders for the past two years.


All I hear about is how much booty is in the ocean; how they plan to make a billion on the V; how they have 800k in
contracts etc etc etc but at the end of the day the major f..p with the G cost them (us) millions and they have yet again
floundered PR wise by not addressing the accusations on day on except to say none of it is true-kinda like A-Rod.


Yesterday did nothing to suggest that people are dismissing the report in my view-up 8 cents. I have no idea what the
suits are gonna say in their press report but based on their past performances if I was going to be there I would bring
my smoke detector and gas mask.


05 Nov 2013, 08:39 AM


shipbuilder1
Scarlet........your thinking is valid. I'm leaning toward staying on the sidelines and watching the show play out.


05 Nov 2013, 09:31 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1705001

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1705001

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 17/17


scarletibis1
Very disappointing that Meson has not responded with who they spoke with at O; nevertheless the, "short and distort"
cc by the suits at O has obviously proven the report completely false. Closed today at $2.17. Confidence abounds.


Maybe the SEC should investigate that report.


06 Nov 2013, 06:34 PM


Jack Holland, Contributor
The following is from Odyssey Marine's latest 8-K filing with the SEC on 11/12/2013:


Let’s get right to the issue at hand and the main reason that you’re probably taking time out of your busy schedule to
be on this call today. The catalyst for today’s call was a short and distort so-called investigative report put out last
week. I’m going to assume that you’ve seen that exact piece that was published by Meson Capital Partners, a small
San Francisco investment firm. It’s really important to note that this piece, which contains significant false and
misleading allegations, was put out by a young man with a small fund who’s apparently not had a very good track
record during the bull market of the last several years. 
Unfortunately, he’s apparently decided to try to redeem his poor performance this past year by trying to short Odyssey
stock and publishing a report to scare investors with misleading information. His attempt to use the report to
manipulate the market is so transparent that he even chose to make the attack in the middle of the trading day of the
last day of the fiscal year with many funds. Not only creating havoc for many of our investors but if it was at the end of
the fiscal year for his own fund would have enabled him to mark to market at the end of the day to attempt to paint a
rosier picture of his fund’s performance for the year. 
The intent of this guy is clear. He wants to drive the price of Odyssey’s stock down, profit at the expense of Odyssey
shareholders and he put out false and misleading information to do it. This is called a “short and distort” tactic and if
you haven’t encountered this type of market mugging and I really hope you haven’t, I’d recommend that you go online
and look up “short and distort.” You’ll find plenty of information about this unsavory tactic and the people that use it.
We believe that in this case, Meson has crossed the ethical, not to mention, legal line and we’ve already notified
proper authorities. We’ve also been informed that a group of Odyssey investors are considering a class action suit
against Meson. If you’d like us to put you in touch with this group of investors, please contact us through our website . 
On a side note on Meson, a lawyer who in my opinion is probably one of the best securities litigation lawyers in the
country, thoroughly read and reviewed the 60-page short and distort piece as well as the most recent Meson Capital
investor newsletter. He told me that after his decade of securities law work, one thing really struck him about
everything he read. Meson says the report was “fully sourced and vetted by our experienced lawyers.” The securities
lawyer said that he couldn’t imagine any lawyer, much less an experienced securities lawyer, ever allowing this
document to go out. He challenged Meson to disclose the identity of their lawyers.


01 Jan 2014, 05:36 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3093881

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jack-holland
