© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


Amedisys – The Most Vulnerable Name in Healthcare.
What Gets Them First Medicare Advantage or the 
Department of Justice?
Price	Target	$50


1
In	2008,	Citron	Research	was	the	first	to	expose	fraud	at	Amedisys,	one	of	the	leaders	in	home	healthcare.		The	stock	declined	over	80%	to	
$10	as	the	reports	from	Citron	Research	became	the	cornerstone	of	a	Department	of	Justice	lawsuit	and	a	Senate	Finance	Committee
investigation.		


After	settling	lawsuits,	paying	enormous	fines,	and	replacing	management,	Amedisys	has	been	able	to	regain	momentum	in	its	stock by	
growing	the	loosely	regulated	hospice	division	to	generate	outsized	margins	and	profits	to	compensate	for	the	declining	profitability	of	its	
legacy	home	health	division.	 	


ALL	OF	THAT	IS	ABOUT	TO	END	AS	THE	COMPANY	IS	BACK	TO	ITS	OLD	TRICKS


In	the	past	it	took	years	for	the	Department	of	Justice	to	close	loopholes	and	pull	in	the	reigns	on	Amedisys.	This	time	is	different	as	the	
hurricane	of	Medicare	Advantage	is	so	strong	that	it	will	erode	Amedisys	margins	and	profitability	faster	than	the	DOJ	can	look	 into	the	
business	practices	of	their	acquisitions.


When	the	government	starts	changing	reimbursements	in	home	healthcare	and	hospice	and	you	are	the	leader	in	each	industry,	 it is
impossible	to	maintain	that	your	business	will	not	be	affected.		While	the	media	has	been	overloaded	with	discussions	of	Medicare	for	All,	
the	real	story	about	Medicare	that	Amedisys	shareholders	should	be	most	concerned	about	 is	the	hurricane	known	 as	Medicare	Advantage.		


We	believe	recently	enacted	radical	changes	to	reimbursement	across	all	Amedisys	divisions	combined	with	a	culture	of	fraudulent activities	
will	send	Amedisys	shares	down	over	50%	in	the	next	18	months.	 2


Introduction
In	this	report,	Citron	will	discuss:


• Hospice	fraud	in	Amedisys’	most	recent	acquisition


• Whistleblower	risks	that	surround	Amedisys


• Last	week’s	proposal	by	CMS	to	reduce	hospice	reimbursement	for	Routine	Home	Care	which	accounts	for	97%	of	Amedisys	
hospice	revenue


• The	smartest	guys	in	the	room


• PDGM


To	limit	our	first	report	at	20	pages,	our	follow	up	Part	2	report	will	focus	on	the	non-compliant	business	practices	of	Amedisys	and	
its	acquisitions,	which	are	already	under	multiple	inquiries	by	the	DOJ.		


3


Introduction
A	common	mistake	in	investing	and	short	selling	is	not	recognizing	when	an	industry	 is	undergoing	structural	
change.	


In	our	first	report	on	Amedisys,	we	waited	two	years	before	the	DOJ	acted	on	our	information.		This	time,	the	
negative	impact	to	Amedisys	from	Medicare	Advantage,	hospice	reimbursement	cuts,	and	PDGM	will	be	immediate	
as	the	home	healthcare	reimbursement	model	is	being	radically	changed	for	the	first	time	in	20	years.


When	reading	the	Amedisys	filings,	the	#1	risk	factor	is:	


“Federal	and	state	changes	to	reimbursement	and	other	aspects	of	Medicare	and	Medicaid	could	have	a	material	
adverse	effect	on	our	business	 and	consolidated	financial	condition,	results	of	operations	and	cash	flows.”


Similarly,	sell-side	analysts	share	this	view:


“Downside	risks	to	our	PO:		1)	Medicare	reimbursement	is	worse	than	expected.”		(Source:	 	BAML	Research	
4/22/19)


That	Risk	is	Now	and	the	Catalyst	has	Happened.	


*Though	the	fear	of	Medicare	for	All	has	put	UNH	down	 2%	over	the	past	52	weeks,	Amedisys	is	up	over	80%	during	
that	time	despite	disruptive	structural	change	actually	occurring.	 4


Structural Change
While	the	term	Medicare	for	All	can’t	stay	out	of	the	news,	the	real	story	about	Medicare	that	Amedisys	shareholders	should	be	most	
concerned	about	 is	the	hurricane	known	as	Medicare	Advantage	(MA).		Just	yesterday,	Humana	reported	surprisingly	strong	MA	
enrollment	as	CEO	Bruce	Broussard	noted:


“Each	day,	more	and	more	seniors	are	choosing Medicare	Advantage,	a	program	that	today	has	over	22	million	members,	
demonstrating	the	compelling	value	of	a	program	that	delivers	affordable,	quality	care	for	seniors	and	improved	clinical	outcomes	as	
payers	and	providers	work	together	to	understand	each	member’s	whole	health	and	help	them	navigate	the	complex	healthcare	
system.”	– HUM	Q1’19	earnings	 release


Amedisys	has	built	its	hospice	and	home	health	franchise	on	finding	payment	outliers	within	the	reimbursement	system.		Unfortunately	
for	Amedisys,	MA	is	based	on	value-based	insurance	design	(VBID),	which	aims	to	provide	care	at	the	 lowest	cost	possible	at	the	expense	
of	Amedisys	profits.	


Despite	the	many	abuses	of	the	Medicare	system,	the	irrefutable	reason	you	can’t	buy	Amedisys	stock	 is	the	structural	change	of	MA.		
This	directly	affects	all	areas	of	Amedisys	business.	 	This	is	not	a	headwind…	this	 is	a	hurricane.


Even	the	most	promotional	management	team	can’t	deny	the	phenomenon	 of	MA	as	they	said	yesterday:


“This	industry	needs	to	change	the	game	with	Medicare	Advantage	because	their	payments	are	so	far	below	fee	for	service.”	– AMED
Q1’19	earnings	call 5


Medicare Advantage – The Real Disruptor
Sorry	Amedisys	– these	changes	are	being	enacted	based	on	20	years	of	data	and	analysis	by	CMS.		No	amount	of	pleading	will	convince	
the	government	otherwise.	


Almost	40%	of	all	Medicare	beneficiaries—over	22	million	people	— are	enrolled	in	a	MA	plan.		By	looking	at	Amedisys’	home	health	
division,	it’s	clear	that	rising	penetration	of	MA	is	a	death	sentence	for	margins.		We	expect	the	same	trajectory	in	profitability	for	
Amedisys	hospice	division.	


6


10%
12%
14%
16%
18%
20%
22%
24%
26%
28%
30%


30%
32%
34%
36%
38%
40%
42%
44%
46%
48%
50%


2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018


Amedisys


Home	Health	Gross	Margin


Non-Medicare	as	a	%	of	Total	Home	Health	Revenue
Despite	the	efforts	of	Kusserow	to	grow	Fee	for	Service	(FFS),	FFS	volumes	are	growing	at	a	much	slower	rate	than	MA	(~1.5%	CAGR versus	
~6.5%	CAGR).		Without	 using	illegal	doctor	kickbacks,	growing	FFS	patients	at	the	same	rate	of	MA	is	impossible.		


The	MA	reimbursement	issue	has	become	so	severe	Home	Health	Care	News	put	out	the	following	headline:


https://homehealthcarenews.com/2019/04/cms-80-of-home-health-agencies-may-have-negative-margins-by-2040/


And	It	Gets	Worse


In	January	2019,	a	MA	carve	in	for	hospice	was	announced.	 	As	if	the	headwinds	were	not	strong	enough	on	MA,	CMS	announced	 in January	
2019	a	hospice	carve	in	for	MA	that	many	industry	insiders	pegged	as	inevitable.
https://homehealthcarenews.com/2019/01/cms-to-test-hospice-carve-in-under-medicare-advantage/


7
While	Amedisys	presents	a	“rosy”	picture	to	Wall	St	around	its	acquisition	strategy,	this	could	not	be	further	from	the	truth.	 	While	Part	
2	of	the	Citron	investigation	will	go	more	into	detail	about	their	noncompliant	business	practices,	let’s	just	look	at	their	most	recent	
acquisition.


As	reported	by	Bloomberg,	RoseRock’s	predecessor	company	was	run	by	Lois	Armstrong.		Sojourn	Care	owed	the	federal	healthcare
system	$27	million	for	overbilling	CMS	for	having	patients	stay	longer	by	“resisting	discharging	patients	whose	health	improved	and	
who	weren’t	facing	imminent	death”.		From	2005	to	2010,	Sojourn	had	more	than	$26	million	in	losses	on	about	$100	million	in	
revenue	while	it	reported	$18	million	in	salaries	and	benefits	for	its	owners.			


By	exploiting	a	loophole,	Sojourn	closed	its	doors	and	changed	its	name	to	RoseRock,	wiping	out	the	debt	while	patients	were	
“dumped	out	 in	the	cold”	without	 care	and	necessary	medical	equipment	when	the	hospice	shut	down.	 	


https://passportmedia.wordpress.com/2012/02/03/hospices-owe-millions-to-medicare/


The	daughter	of	a	Sojourn	patient	noted	that	when	Sojourn	closed,	her	92	year	old	father’s	ventilator	and	
wheelchair	were	taken	away,	along	with	a	bed	specially	designed	to	prevent	bed	sores. 8


Amedisys Dirty Secret
Dr.	Sandra	Dimmitt,	who	had	several	patients	with	Sojourn	and	who	was	their	former	medical	director,	said	some	of	the	patients	had	
their	equipment	taken	away	before	they	were	established	with	another	hospice.


Dimmitt	also	revealed	that	Sojourn	would	often	admit	ineligible	patients	for	hospice	benefits	with	the	justification	that	“other hospices	
do	the	same	thing”.		


https://www.tulsaworld.com/news/local/medicare-rule-could-endanger-hospices/article_6755093c-d93d-554b-b6b6-
595ec8c5f801.html


Lois	Armstrong	is	still	in	charge	of	RoseRock Healthcare	today	as	can	be	seen	on	the	company’s	website.	


http://www.roserockhealthcare.com/why-choose-us/our-hospice-team/


Are	we	to	expect	that	RoseRock will	change	its	ways	while	still	maintaining	the	level	of	profitability	
expected	by	Amedisys? 9
The	phenomenon	 of	the	whistleblower	has	become	the	nightmare	of	bad	actors	in	the	healthcare	industry.		After	years	of	abuse, long-time	
Citron	target,	Mallinckrodt,	became	the	latest	victim	of	the	whistleblower.	


https://www.cnn.com/2019/04/30/health/mallinckrodt-whistleblower-lawsuit-acthar


A	year	after	Citron	discussed	the	vulnerability	of	Amedisys’	home	health	business,	a	nurse	in	Alabama	named	April	Brown	filed a	federal	
lawsuit	against	Amedisys	claiming	the	company	violated	the	False	Claims	Act	by	submitting	false	home	healthcare	billings	to	Medicare.


As	a	result,	Brown	was	awarded	over	$15	million.	


http://www.prweb.com/releases/2014/04/prweb11786156.htm


Citron	wants	to	make	it	clear	that	we	hold	nurse	practitioners	and	hospice	workers	 in	the	highest	regard.		Our	respect	for	their care	and	
integrity	should	never	be	questioned.	 	The	opposite	can	be	said	for	the	executives	at	the	top	whose	job	is	to	focus	on	profitability.		


10


Amedisys – Beware The Whistleblower
11


While	we	are	not	saying	this	a	representation	of	the	21,000	employees	at	Amedisys.		Here	is	a	sample	of	an	employee	review	from	
just	last	week.		


As	Amedisys	continues	to	roll	up	hospices,	the	only	question	Citron	asks	is	who	is	the	next	April	Brown?		Part	2	of	the	Citron	
investigation	will	have	some	candidates.


It	only	takes	a	few	whistleblowers	to	abruptly	end	corrupt	practices.
Since	the	initial	Citron	investigation,	over	the	past	10	years	scrutiny	and	regulation	of	the	home	health	industry	has	driven Amedisys	to	
build	its	hospice	business	 through	acquisitions	of	smaller	operators	as	we	saw	with	RoseRock.		As	a	result,	hospice	has	grown	from	5%	
of	profits	10	years	ago	to	40%	of	profits	today.	


Among	the	four	levels	of	hospice	care,	the	one	with	the	highest	margins	is	Routine	Home	Care	(RHC),	which	accounts	for	97%	of
Amedisys	hospice	revenue.		Unlike	treating	terminal	cancer	patients,	RHC	is	more	common	for	treating	patients	with	neurological	
disorders,	such	as	dementia	or	Parkinson’s,	who	live	longer	with	less	required	care	and	thereby	enhance	profitability.		Amedisys has	
been	exploiting	an	outdated	reimbursement	schedule	originally	set	in	1983.		In	properly	aligning	payments	with	the	cost	of	care, the	
new	schedule	takes	$540	million	away	from	RHC.		Management	claims	they	will	only	see	a	“1%	give	or	take”	impact	from	this	change,	
however,	investors	should	remember	that	every	dollar	of	lost	revenue	is	100%	margin.


In	comparison	to	Amedisys’	97%	of	revenue	from	RHC,	we	look	at	industry	leader	VITAS	which	only	
generates	83%	of	revenue	from	RHC.		Yet,	while	only	a	14%	difference	in	total	revenue,	the	profitability	of	
RHC	is	so	great	that	Amedisys	hospice	margins	are	DOUBLE	that	of	VITAS. Amedisys	trades	at	a	50%	premium	
valuation	to	VITAS	because	of	the	exploitation	of	this	legacy	oversight	by	the	government.


Until	Last	Week


12


Amedisys Hospice – The New Reality
This	20	year	regulatory	blind	spot	that	has	disproportionately	benefited	Amedisys	was	finally	rectified	last	week	by	CMS	when,	 in	a	
surprise	move,	it	proposed	 a	rule	(CMS-1714-P)	where	increases	in	reimbursements	for	RHC	are	not	only	just	going	to	stop,	but	
reimbursements	are	actually	going	to	DECREASE	as $540	million	of	reimbursements	shift	away	from	RHC.


https://www.natlawreview.com/article/cms-proposes-to-force-hospices-to-specify-unrelated-treatments


CMS-1714-P	is	directly	targeted	at	Amedisys’	most	profitable	business	division	as	published	in	the	Federal	Register	on	April	25,	2019.	 	
As	CMS	comments:


“There	has	been	little	change	in	the	hospice	payment	structure	since	the	benefit’s	 inception.	The	per	diem	rate	based	 on	level	of	
care	was	established	in	1983,	and	 this	payment	structure	remains	today.”


“For	over	a	decade,	MedPAC	and	other	organizations	 reported	findings	that	suggested	that	the	hospice	benefit’s	fixed	per-diem	
payment	system	was	inconsistent	with	the	true	variance	of	service	costs	over	the	course	of	an	episode.”	


https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2019/04/25/2019-08143/medicare-program-fy-2020-hospice-wage-index-and-payment-
rate-update-and-hospice-quality-reporting


13
The	change	is	so	drastic	that	last	week	Hospice	News	put	out	this	headline:	


https://hospicenews.com/2019/04/23/hospices-lose-money-under-2020-proposed-rule/


There	is	no	positive	spin.		This	modification	is	directly	targeted	at	Amedisys’	core	profit	generator	and	was	made	to	prevent future	
abuses	 like	this.		An	Amedisys	patient	was	kept	in	hospice	for	five	years	from	2011	to	2016	while	being	intimidated	and	fed	opiates.				


https://www.boston25news.com/news/five-years-in-hospice-fox25-investigates-uncovers-fed-complaint/461326323


While	Amedisys	will	still	find	ways	to	maintain	some	level	of	profitability,	CMS	has	made	sure	the	reimbursement	rates	will	decrease	
appropriately.


14
After	Amedisys	retreated	80%	from	its	highs	after	the	 initial	Citron	investigation,	KKR	initiated	a	position	 in	August	2013	and	acquired	
almost	5	million	shares	at	$15	and	a	board	seat	– kudos.	


With	a	look	under	the	hood,	this	renowned	private	equity	firm	sold	half	of	their	position	a	year	ago	at	$74	and	by	the	end	of 2018	only	
had	about	100k	shares	remaining.		The	question	here	is	why.


Citron	believes	Amedisys’	rising	mix	of	lower	margin	Medicare	Advantage	reimbursement	within	home	health,	PDGM,	increasing	
dependence	on	hospice,	inevitable	carve	in	of	hospice	into	Medicare	Advantage,	hospice	reimbursement	cuts,	and	new	DOJ	inquiries
into	hospice	fraud	presented	enough	red	flags	for	KKR	to	exit	the	position.	


15


The Smartest Guys in the Room
You	cannot	discuss	home	health	reimbursements	without	discussing	patient-driven	groupings	model	(PDGM),	which	is	set	to	go	into	
effect	on	January	1,	2020.		PDGM	will	be	the	biggest	payment	overhaul	in	two	decades	to	home	health	that	removes	incentives	to	
over-provide	therapy	services	as	PDGM	focuses	on	patient	needs	and	not	on	the	volume	of	care.


If	you’re	the	 largest	home	health	provider	in	the	US	and	the	government	makes	draconian	changes	to	your	reimbursement,	this	was	
made	for	you.		


Despite	that,	CEO	Paul	Kusserow	earlier	this	year	noted	that	PDGM	will	affect	everyone	in	the	industry	but	Amedisys.


https://homehealthcarenews.com/2019/01/kusserow-current-version-of-pdgm-would-hurt-industry-not-amedisys/


A	month	later,	Kusserow	expressed	concern	around	PDGM	on	the	Q4’18	earnings	call:	


“Turning	to	CMS,	we	are	actively	continuing	our	dialog	with	them	on	our	concerns	regarding	PDGM	and	always	to	address	the	
challenges	in	this	new	payment	system.”


We	find	it	difficult	to	give	credibility	to	management	that	refuses	to	acknowledge	structural	change.


16


PDGM – As if Medicare Advantage Wasn’t Bad Enough
Despite	all	of	the	headwinds	 in	home	healthcare,	hospice,	
the	numerous	regulatory	changes	addressed	in	this	report,	
and	the	resurgence	of	three	ongoing	DOJ	inquiries,	
Amedisys	is	trading	at	an	all	time	high	multiple	
of	19x	EBITDA.	


Without	 any	new	enforcement	actions	(which	we	believe	
are	inevitable),	Amedisys	is	worth	no	more	than	$50.		A	10x	
EBITDA	multiple	is	more	than	generous	for	a	healthcare	
company	that	is	facing	massive	disruption,	structural	
change,	and	multiple	inquiries	from	the	DOJ	that	Citron	
believes	are	justified	as	we	will	go	into	more	detail	in	Part	2.


Consider	this	– A	week	after	KKR	divested	half	its	stake	 in	
Amedisys,	KKR	acquired	Envision	Healthcare,	another	
healthcare	services	company,	for	10x	EBITDA	while	Envision	
is	operating	in	a	subsector	that	 is	not	facing	massive	
disruption.	 	Until	recently,	there	has	been	a	high	correlation	
between	the	multiples	of	Amedisys	and	Envision.		Now,	
Amedisys	is	trading	at	overextended	valuations	disregarding	
any	recent	structural	change.	 17


Why Amedisys Trades to $50
18


Without	 enforcement	from	the	DOJ,	on	the	pure	momentum	of	Medicare	Advantage	hospice	margins	will	go	in-line	with	home	health	
margins.		As	a	result,	we	expect	consensus	estimates	to	be	lowered	by	over	30%	as	the	stock	trades	to	$50.


Medicare Advantage Math
Analysts – Read Before you Refute


19


In	2008,	Citron	first	published	its	work	on	Amedisys	and	sell-
side	was	quick	to	defend	the	stock,	raised	estimates,	and	had	
the	audacity	to	call	our	report	“irresponsible”.	


Ironically,	Michael	Wiederhorn	kept	a	buy	rating	on	the	stock	all	
the	way	down	to	$15	when	he	switched	to	a	hold	rating.


Before	Michael	Wiederhorn	comments,	Citron	would	 like	an	
apology.		


Most	importantly,	if	the	analysts	involved	cannot	acknowledge	
the	structural	change	that	is	occurring	in	both	the	home	health	
and	hospice	 industry,	they	are	being	“irresponsible”.
While	being	enamored	with	management	and	myopically	focusing	on	the	tailwinds	from	an	aging	demographic,	Wall	Street	has	
ignored	the	structural	change	that	is	occurring	in	the	Amedisys	business	model.


Between	PDGM,	Medicare	Advantage,	and	lower	hospice	reimbursements	– EVERYTHING	has	changed.		


When	the	government	starts	changing	reimbursements	in	home	healthcare	and	hospice	and	you	are	the	leader	in	each	industry,	 it is
impossible	to	maintain	that	your	business	will	not	be	affected.			


Hospice	fraud	has	been	widespread	for	years	and	now	Amedisys	will	soon	be	faced	with	a	choice	– break	the	rules	or	become	less	
profitable.		


Will	Amedisys’	management	follow	the	path	of	previous	management	and	commit	Medicare	fraud	or	will	they	cleanup	the	shady	
hospices	and	accept	the	change	in	their	industry	and	present	lowered	expectations	to	Wall	Street?		


If	history	repeats	itself,	Citron’s	inbox	will	be	flooded	with	comments	from	nurse	practitioners…	who	is	going	to	be	the	next April	
Brown?		


Through	numerous	interviews,	Citron	has	discovered	that	many	of	the	subsidiaries	of	Amedisys	are	not	immune	to	the	systemic	
problem	of	hospice	fraud.		Stay	tuned	for	part	2	of	the	Citron	investigation. 20


Conclusion
These reports have been prepared by either Citron Research (“Citron Research”) or 
Citron Capital, LLC (“Citron Capital”). Citron Research and Citron Capital are 
referred to collectively as “Citron” and each individually as a “Citron Entity.” Each 
report specifies the publisher and owner of that report. All reports are for 
informational purposes only. Under no circumstances should any of these reports or 
any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments.


Citron Research produces research reports on publicly traded securities, and Citron 
Capital is an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of 
Business Oversight. The reports are the property of the applicable Citron Entity that 
published that report. The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are 
solely attributable to the applicable Citron Entity and are not attributable to any 
Citron Related Person (defined below) (other than the Citron Entity that published 
the report).


By downloading, accessing, or viewing any research report, you agree to the 
following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research presented in any report is 
at your own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold 
harmless Citron Research, Citron Capital and each of their affiliates and related 
parties, including, but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, 
members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Citron Related 
Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) attributable to 
any information in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and 
due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities of the 
issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments 
that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You 
represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the 
information, analysis and opinion presented in any Citron report. You further agree 
that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials made 
available by Citron to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by 
these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports 
or other materials on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these 
Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports or 
other materials as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to 
these same Terms of Use.


You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Citron report, Citron Related 


Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, 
and/or consultants), Citron Related Persons clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors have a position (long or short) in one or more of the 
securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to 
one or more of these securities), and therefore may realize significant gains in the 
event that the prices of a Covered Issuer’s securities decline or appreciate. Citron 
Research, Citron Capital and/or the Citron Related Persons may continue to transact 
in Covered Issuers’ securities for an indefinite period after an initial report on a 
Covered Issuer, and such position(s) may be long, short, or neutral at any time 
hereafter regardless of their initial position(s) and views as stated in the Citron 
research. Neither Citron Research nor Citron Capital will update any report or 
information to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Citron Related 
Person.


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither 
Citron Research nor any Citron Related Person (including Citron Capital) are 
offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through any Citron 
research reports. Citron Research is affiliated with Citron Capital. Citron Capital is 
an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of Business 
Oversight and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Citron 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment 
adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and 
agree that Citron Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with 
you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires 
knowledge of your financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and 
Citron Capital has no such knowledge about you.


The research and reports made available by Citron reflect express the opinion of the 
applicable Citron Entity as of the time of the report only. Reports are based on 
generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through 
the applicable Citron Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the 
applicable Citron Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, is not material non-public information, and has been obtained 
from public sources that the applicable Citron Entity believe to be accurate and 
reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or 
who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to 
the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). However, such information is presented 
“as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. With respect to 


their respective research reports, Citron Research and Citron Capital makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 
any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 
Further, any research report contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. 
All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Citron does not 
undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis 
and opinion contained in them.


In no event shall Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons be 
liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or 
in any way connected with any information presented in any Citron report. This 
limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of 
Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons. You accept all risks 
in relying on the information presented in any report.


You agree that the information in any Citron research report is copyrighted, and you 
therefore agree not to distribute this information in any manner without the express 
prior written consent of the applicable Citron Entity. If you have obtained Citron 
research reports in any manner other than as provided by Citron, you may not read 
such research without agreeing to these Terms of Use. You further agree that any 
dispute between you and Citron and their affiliates arising from or related to this 
report or viewing the material presented herein shall be governed by the laws of the 
State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. The failure of 
Citron Research or Citron Capital to exercise or enforce any right or provision of 
these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree 
that each Citron Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these Terms of Use. If 
any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to 
be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect 
to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other 
provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any 
statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 
Citron report or related material must be filed within one (1) year after the 
occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or 
such claim or cause of action be forever barred.


Cautious Investing to All


21
