© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


Not All IPOs are Created Equal.  Jumia is a Fraud
Citron Exposes the Smoking Gun


Equity is Worthless
Introduction


In 18 years of publishing, Citron has never seen such an obvious fraud as Jumia.  As the media in the US is naively 
anointing Jumia the “Amazon of Africa”, the media in its home country of Nigeria has a plethora of articles discussing the 
widespread fraud in this Nigerian company.  Not even that elusive Nigerian prince can cover this one up. 


Jumia is the worst abuse of the IPO system since the Chinese RTO fraud boom almost a decade ago.  Worse than being 
“the most expensive” US listed ecommerce company, Jumia reported financials show us a stagnant business that has 
burned through $1 billion and has moved the suckers game to the US Markets.


In this report, Citron will expose the SMOKING GUN and show why the equity is WORTHLESS.  We believe investors 
cannot rely on reported numbers and a restatement of financials is on the horizon.  The SEC must protect US Investors.


2
Securities Fraud


What do you do when you’re on the verge of bankruptcy, your largest shareholders won’t fund you anymore, and your closest competitor 
just got sold at a fire sale valuation?  You fudge the numbers and hope that you can dump stock onto US investors.


At the end of 2018, Jumia had a year’s worth of cash left and its two largest shareholders, MTN and Rocket Internet, wanted an exit.  
Therefore, Jumia filed for an IPO in March 2019, fudged its numbers, and began trading last month.  This is where the fraud begins…


https://uk.reuters.com/article/us-rocket-internet-jumia-ipo/rocket-internet-prepares-ipo-for-african-platform-jumia-sources-idUKKCN1M01PG


https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-04-30/mtn-is-said-to-plan-sale-of-jumia-stake-after-agreed-lock-in


From 2015 to 2018, Jumia made little progress in its core business.  While mobile penetration has soared in the core markets, the 
Company’s revenue declined from $145 million to $131 million while adjusted EBITDA loss went from $161 million to $150 million. Jumia
learned the hard way that Nigeria, Jumia’s largest and most important market, is not an easy place to do ecommerce for plenty of reasons 
including logistics, poverty, and a culture of corruption.


Naspers, the smartest and largest tech investor in Africa, invested in a Nigerian ecommerce company called Konga but sold the business to 
Zinox Technologies in 2018 for a >90% loss on its investment.  This was not due to a lack of funds or a short-term investment horizon.  
Naspers has $12 billion of cash on the balance sheet and its original investment in Tencent (still owns >30%) dates back to 2001.  Rather, this 
decision was a reflection of Naspers’ bearish view on the Nigerian ecommerce market vs. a bullish view on South African ecommerce.  Since 
its Konga exit, Naspers announced plans to invest over $300 million in South African tech businesses.  


https://www.naspers.com/news/naspers-commits-r4-6bn-of-funding-to-back-south-af 3
The Smoking Gun 


Before coming to the US Markets, Jumia made one last effort to raise 
money in 2018 and they presented this: Confidential Investor Presentation


Citron has obtained a copy of Jumia’s confidential investor presentation 
from October 2018 that was being used to market to investors late last 
year and is is NOT what they told the SEC


We will present some of many MATERIAL DISCREPANCIES in reported key 
financial metrics when comparing this confidential document with Jumia’s
F-1 filing from last month. 


When a company markets to investors ahead of its IPO and then a few 
months later omits material facts and makes material changes to its key 
financial metrics to make the business seem viable, this is SECURITIES 
FRAUD.


*To protect the identity of our source, we have removed all watermarks.  However, we will 
send a full copy of the presentation to the SEC.


4
Material Discrepancy in Reported Key Financials Metrics


We are sure that when the SEC investigates Jumia we will get endless details on fraud, but here’s a sample of the significant discrepancies 
we found: 


In order to raise more money from investors, Jumia inflated its active consumers and active merchants figures by 20-30% (FRAUD).  


The most disturbing disclosure that Jumia removed from its F-1 filing was that 41% of orders were returned, not delivered, or cancelled.  
This was previously disclosed in the Company’s October 2018 confidential investor presentation.   This number is so alarming that is 
screams fraudulent activities. 


Instead, Jumia disclosed that “orders accounting for 14.4% of our GMV were either failed deliveries or returned by our consumers” in 2018.  
Assuming 41% of orders were returned, not delivered, or cancelled in 2018, this implies that almost 30% of orders were cancelled in 2018.  
Since Jumia primarily sells consumer electronics, which should not have this high of a cancellation rate, it wreaks of fraud.


5


Jumia Confidential 
Presentation 


(October 2018)
Jumia F-1 (April 2019)


2017 Active Consumers (in millions) 2.1 2.7


2017 Active Merchants (in thousands) 43 53
October 2018 Confidential Presentation vs. April 2019 F-1


6
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1756708/000119312519101286/d650749df1a.htm
History of Corporate Fraud at Jumia Well Documented in Africa!


The systemic fraud at Jumia had not been overlooked by local Nigerian 
newspapers as they articulate the issue clearer than Citron can.


An investigation by Nigerian news reporters described Jumia as follows:


• “Cuts a picture of a fast-growing e-commerce 
company” but “beneath what is painted is a 
company struggling to survive over internal 
fraudulent activities”


• Jumia is “sitting on gun powder which might 
explode any moment as the retail outfit is filled 
with many shady deals”


https://www.societyreelnews.com/multiple-frauds-rocks-jumia-nigeria-details-of-how-
top-directors-uses-personal-coy-to-defraud-the-online-retail-outfit/


7
Recent Fraud Shows Jumia is a Ticking Time Bomb


Jumia pays commissions to a sales force of Nigerians that place orders  for other people using their ID 
numbers, Jforce Consultants. Sales through Jforce Consultants account for 30-40% of net merchandise 
value for Jumia. 


Last month, Jumia amended its F-1 and added language that Jumia “recently received information 
alleging that some of our independent sales consultants, members of our JForce program in Nigeria, may 
have engaged in fraudulent activities.”  This language was missing from the original F-1 from just a month 
earlier.  


This means that either 1) Jumia just found out about this historical fraud, 2) this is a new fraud that will 
affect future financials, or 3) Jumia has been hiding the fraud for quite some time but going public forced 
their lawyers to add this language.


Management must reconcile this widespread fraud issue.


Should it be of any surprise that if you paid independent agents in Nigeria as an online sales force there is 
going to be fraud???  That could be the 40% returns.  


The tendency for fraud is so high even HLF doesn’t operate in Nigeria.


https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1756708/000119312519101286/d650749df1a.htm
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1756708/000119312519071692/d650749df1.htm


8


(EUR in millions) 2017 2018 


JForce Commissions Paid 3.1 5.5


% Commission Rate 3% 3%


JForce Net Merchandise Value 102 184 


Total Net Merchandise Value 298 543* 


JForce Share of Total NMV 34%  34%  


*Jumia forecast from October 2018 Investor Presentation
Systemic Fraud Starts from the Top – Let’s Look at Management


Jumia Co-CEO, Jeremy Hodara, has engaged in extremely questionable related party transactions that the SEC should immediately question.


In February 2016, Jumia sold four of its subsidiaries to Hodara for 1 euro each.  Jumia claims that the “transaction was motivated by 
[Jumia’s] intention to cease operations in Tanzania, and Jeremy Hodara’s intention to run operations in Tanzania under his sole ownership 
but to continue operating the Tanzanian Entities under the Jumia brand.”  


Despite only generating revenue of 238 thousand euro and net losses of over 3 million euro in 2017, Jumia reacquired these businesses in 
2018 from Hodara for an undisclosed price.  During the same year, Jumia acquired Jumia Facilities, a payroll and support services 
operation based in Dubai, from Hodara for an undisclosed price.


Just before IPO, a Jumia MD was questioned by Nigerian police over allegations of fraudulent diversion of funds.  Obviously, Jumia said he 
did nothing wrong.  Why ruin a good IPO?  
https://www.vanguardngr.com/2019/02/police-arrest-jumias-md-over-fraud-petition/


Local media commented that their investigation revealed that many top directors of Jumia were engaging in serious acts of fraud including 
diverting money that was supposed to be used for projects into their own bank accounts and using director owned private companies to 
accept Jumia orders while receiving advance payments but never fulfilling the orders.  


In some cases, these fraudsters were relatives of senior management and “the directors would sweep the case under the carpet in order to 
avoid public scrutiny”. 
https://www.societyreelnews.com/multiple-frauds-rocks-jumia-nigeria-details-of-how-top-directors-uses-personal-coy-to-defraud-the-online-retail-outfit/


9
What Does Ernst and Young Think?  No Opinion


Not surprisingly, Jumia self-admittedly states that they “lack a dedicated centralized compliance function” in their F-1.


To put things in perspective, Jumia’s F-1 mentions the word “fraud” 59 times!  Let’s compare this to Citron exposed Longtop Financial, 
which only used the F word 10 times.  


For those who remember, Ernst & Young was the auditor at Sino Forest and a lot of the same controls are present.  According to SEC filings, 
Ernst & Young did not perform an audit of financial controls and provided no opinion on the financial controls of Jumia.


As we read “E&Y:  The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial 
reporting. As part of our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express 
no such opinion. (p. F-2)”


Ernst & Young uses foreign affiliates to do significant work for audits. The issue is that US regulators can’t check the audits of these foreign 
accounting firms such as Nigerian auditors.


Consider this – Jumia disclosed that “approximately 95% of [Jumia’s] consumers paid in cash” in Kenya.  This resulted in “the large 
majority” of 720 thousand euros of cash payments never being collected from deliveries in 2016.  Jumia discovered this in early 2018.


How can anyone properly audit this company? 


https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1412494/000119312507221983/df1a.htm 10
Conclusion


Jumia hits the trifecta:


• This is a fraud and deserves immediate SEC attention


• This is the most expensive US listed ecommerce company with an unviable business


• If you’re reading this report, Amazon knows more about ecommerce than you and Naspers knows more about 
Africa than you.  Both companies have either divested or avoided investing regardless of valuation in the Nigerian 
ecommerce market, which is the growth story behind Jumia


Using the JOBS Act to push this out to US investors and flooding the media with misinformation is complete exploitation 
of the system and deserves immediate SEC attention.


There is nothing Jumia can say on next week’s call that will overshadow the ugly facts of their business along with their 
soiled history.  


Not all IPOs are created equal.


11
These reports have been prepared by either Citron Research (“Citron Research”) or 
Citron Capital, LLC (“Citron Capital”). Citron Research and Citron Capital are 
referred to collectively as “Citron” and each individually as a “Citron Entity.” Each 
report specifies the publisher and owner of that report. All reports are for 
informational purposes only. Under no circumstances should any of these reports or 
any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments.


Citron Research produces research reports on publicly traded securities, and Citron 
Capital is an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of 
Business Oversight. The reports are the property of the applicable Citron Entity that 
published that report. The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are 
solely attributable to the applicable Citron Entity and are not attributable to any 
Citron Related Person (defined below) (other than the Citron Entity that published 
the report).


By downloading, accessing, or viewing any research report, you agree to the 
following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research presented in any report is 
at your own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold 
harmless Citron Research, Citron Capital and each of their affiliates and related 
parties, including, but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, 
members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Citron Related 
Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) attributable to 
any information in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and 
due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities of the 
issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments 
that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You 
represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the 
information, analysis and opinion presented in any Citron report. You further agree 
that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials made 
available by Citron to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by 
these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports 
or other materials on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these 
Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports or 
other materials as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to 
these same Terms of Use.


You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Citron report, Citron Related 


Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, 
and/or consultants), Citron Related Persons clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors have a position (long or short) in one or more of the 
securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to 
one or more of these securities), and therefore may realize significant gains in the 
event that the prices of a Covered Issuer’s securities decline or appreciate. Citron 
Research, Citron Capital and/or the Citron Related Persons may continue to transact 
in Covered Issuers’ securities for an indefinite period after an initial report on a 
Covered Issuer, and such position(s) may be long, short, or neutral at any time 
hereafter regardless of their initial position(s) and views as stated in the Citron 
research. Neither Citron Research nor Citron Capital will update any report or 
information to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Citron Related 
Person.


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither 
Citron Research nor any Citron Related Person (including Citron Capital) are 
offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through any Citron 
research reports. Citron Research is affiliated with Citron Capital. Citron Capital is 
an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of Business 
Oversight and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Citron 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment 
adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and 
agree that Citron Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with 
you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires 
knowledge of your financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and 
Citron Capital has no such knowledge about you.


The research and reports made available by Citron reflect express the opinion of the 
applicable Citron Entity as of the time of the report only. Reports are based on 
generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through 
the applicable Citron Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the 
applicable Citron Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, is not material non-public information, and has been obtained 
from public sources that the applicable Citron Entity believe to be accurate and 
reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or 
who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to 
the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). However, such information is presented 
“as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. With respect to 


their respective research reports, Citron Research and Citron Capital makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 
any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 
Further, any research report contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. 
All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Citron does not 
undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis 
and opinion contained in them.


In no event shall Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons be 
liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or 
in any way connected with any information presented in any Citron report. This 
limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of 
Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons. You accept all risks 
in relying on the information presented in any report.


You agree that the information in any Citron research report is copyrighted, and you 
therefore agree not to distribute this information in any manner without the express 
prior written consent of the applicable Citron Entity. If you have obtained Citron 
research reports in any manner other than as provided by Citron, you may not read 
such research without agreeing to these Terms of Use. You further agree that any 
dispute between you and Citron and their affiliates arising from or related to this 
report or viewing the material presented herein shall be governed by the laws of the 
State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. The failure of 
Citron Research or Citron Capital to exercise or enforce any right or provision of 
these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree 
that each Citron Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these Terms of Use. If 
any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to 
be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect 
to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other 
provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any 
statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 
Citron report or related material must be filed within one (1) year after the 
occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or 
such claim or cause of action be forever barred.


Cautious Investing to All


12
