We have no interest in going back and forth with Shopify, we are releasing this
commentary as a response to the numerous media requests we have received.


 Citron understands Shopify’s platform is effective for small and medium sized
businesses to launch e-commerce platforms.  We never doubted they have good
software for accomplishing this task.


That being said, we were unimpressed by the company’s response to Citron’s
conclusion that Shopify sells business opportunities through affiliate marketers, and
they depend on affiliate marketing to drive their growth metrics.


It is impossible to understand the real strength of Shopify’s core business without
getting specifics of their true customer acquisition cost.  To accomplish that, churn
needs to be analyzed, so investors can discount or strip out the dirty/illegal part of
their business that will inevitably be curbed by regulators.  Immaturity and hubris of
management prevents them from addressing these issues.


Investors owning a stock selling at 15x sales deserve a clear and honest answer
about all aspects of the business…especially what is driving growth.


Citron has assembled a comprehensive folder, which we have forwarded to the
FTC, and we are certain that the company will face an investigation for selling
business opportunities.  


Shareholders can just search Youtube for “Shopify” and filter for the videos posted
over the past week alone.  Below is a montage we found in minutes.


CITRON RESPONDS TO
SHOPIFY CONFERENCE
CALL.
For Immediate Release – October 31, 2017



https://citronresearch.com/
Is this Shopify’s growth engine? Are
these the partners from its “strict
approval process” claimed during
their conference call this AM?


Why do these people not reveal their
compensation from Shopify? They, as
well as Shopify are required by FTC
regulation to disclose these financial
relationships.


It is time for management to stop
name-calling its critics and to be more
transparent.


Again, we ask the question, “Who are
the other 450,000 merchants”?


If you are going to be the highest
multiple SaaS company on the
exchange … Then Act Like it.


Cautious Investing To All


© Copyright 2018 - Citron Research | All Rights Reserved | "Cautious Investing To All"
