“[T]he best test of truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market.” 


                                                                                             -  Oliver Wendell Holmes 






























































THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is not 


investment advice nor should it be construed as such. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the 


securities covered herein. We have a short interest in FIZZ’s stock and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instrument declines. 


Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


COMPANY:  National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ 


INDUSTRY:  Beverage 


Price (as of close 
09/27/2016): 


US$ 46.48 





Market Cap: 


US$ 2.2 billion 





Daily Volume: 


296,096 shares 


(avg. 3mo)  





Float (shares): 


11.6 million  





GRG Valuation: 


US$ 16.15 
 





National Beverage Corp. (NASDAQ: FIZZ) (“FIZZ” or the “Company”) manufactures and distributes low-


priced sodas and carbonated beverages, including brands such as Faygo, Shasta, Rip It energy drinks, and 


LaCroix sparkling water.   





On the strength of LaCroix sparkling water, which is responsible for over 100% of FIZZ’s growth, FIZZ’s 


share price has doubled in the past year and its market capitalization has skyrocketed from $1 billion to a recent 


peak of $3 billion.  FIZZ has become a faddish stock-market darling du jour, but records produced as part of 


recent litigation paint a darker picture and suggest, in our opinion, that FIZZ has achieved its remarkable history 


of financial performance in part by manipulating earnings. 





 Alleged CEO Admission of Earnings Manipulation and Fraud in Federal Court Deposition and 
Complaint: Recently un-redacted complaint by a former attorney for FIZZ’s CEO and Chairman Nick 


Caporella alleged that Caporella admitted to manipulating FIZZ’s earnings using a “little jewel 


box” and by directing his son to create fake invoices.   


 Attempted Take-Private Killed By Refusing Asahi Access to Due Diligence: Records produced in a 
2014 litigation indicate that Caporella refused to allow a potential acquirer to perform adequate due 


diligence on the Company, which appears to be a contributing factor in the failure of the deal.  According 


to letters written by Caporella, counsel for the potential acquirer either stated or implied that Caporella’s 


fear of due diligence indicated that he was hiding something at FIZZ.   


 Ludicrous Corporate Governance Structure: FIZZ’s CEO and CFO are not paid or directly employed 
by FIZZ.  Rather, they are compensated by a privately held company, Corporate Management Advisors, 


(“CMA”) owned by the CEO.  In exchange for 1% of FIZZ’s revenue, CMA oversees FIZZ’s legal, audit 


and financial operations.  Shareholders have no visibility into CMA, creating a structure ripe for fraud.      


 Alleged Undisclosed Related Party: A complaint brought by FIZZ’s former marketing director for one 
of its premier brands alleges that he was instructed to set up a corporate entity in order to be paid as an 


independent contractor.  The Company denies he was an employee, even though he had business cards, 


full access to the facility and a corporate email address.   


 Alleged Undisclosed Related Party Distributor: A plaintiff alleged that a FIZZ employee was 
physically present at, operated, directed and managed an independent distributor not listed as a subsidiary 


or related party in any of the Company’s filings, raising the specter that such entities are used to hide 


costs or, per insider allegations, create fake invoices to boost sales.  This is reminiscent of Valeant and 


Philidor.   


 Undisclosed “Stock Gift”: Testimony from a 2014 deposition indicates that an employee received a 
“stock gift” of 150,000 shares (and a cash payment to cover the attendant taxes) from FIZZ’s CEO and 


majority shareholder even though such a stock transfer was never reflected in the Company’s SEC 


filings.   


 Falsifying Documents: Former Company counsel (and convicted criminal) Scott Rothstein testified that 
he and former FIZZ general counsel “fudged facts” on behalf of FIZZ in a previous litigation.  In addition, 


we believe that records raise credible allegations that Company officers did so again in a recent case.   





Without subpoena power, it is difficult to determine the extent of the inappropriate conduct.  Therefore, we 


conservatively value FIZZ at $16.15 per share.  That said, we believe that government regulatory and 


enforcement agencies with subpoena power should launch a full investigation of the Company, its accounting 


and its practices, creating a reasonable probability of further downside.   



https://www.glaucusinvestments.com/

http://www.wsj.com/articles/lacroix-bubbles-up-in-sparkling-water-brand-competition-1460047940

http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us
National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                                www.glaucusresearch.com 














































































































1. Inexplicable Operating Margins.  The Company sells regional brands at a ~40% ASP discount to its larger peers (e.g. Coca-Cola 
(“KO”), Pepsi (“PEP”) and Dr. Pepper Snapple (“DPS”)), and as a result, reports anemic gross margins ~40% lower than its larger 


rivals.  Inexplicably, despite its smaller size and market share, FIZZ reports comparatively incredible operating leverage.  FIZZ 


supposedly spends only 21% of revenues on SG&A compared to ~37-39% for KO, PEP and DPS.  Even more suspiciously, FIZZ’s 


revenue grew 36% (by $188 million) from 2006-2016, yet reported shipping and marketing costs have supposedly remained flat.  


How does a small, regional beverage manufacturer which sells discounted brands report such low operating expenses relative to its 


peers?  In our opinion, the answer is simple: either FIZZ has revolutionized the beverage business or it is falsifying its reported 


financial performance.  We believe it’s the latter.     





2. Former Attorney Alleges that CEO Admitted to Earnings Manipulation and Fraud.  In 2012, David Mursten sued Nick 
Caporella in federal court for breach of contract alleging that Caporella failed to pay him for work on the potential sale of FIZZ to 


Asahi, the Japanese conglomerate.  Mursten was an attorney and advisor to Caporella.  The two men were close.  The court noted 


that Mursten thought of Caporella as a father figure and that Caporella shared the sentiment.  Yet in a recently un-redacted complaint, 


Mursten alleged that Caporella admitted to him that FIZZ always hit earnings targets because if the Company was short, 


Caporella would reach into his “little jewel box” to manipulate earnings.  Mursten also alleged that Caporella admitted to him 


that Caporella’s son and FIZZ President (Joseph) once fabricated invoices to distributors in order to fraudulently inflate the 


Company’s reported financial performance.  Mursten declared in his deposition, under oath and under penalty of perjury, 


that he believed Caporella was admitting to illegal conduct.  Mursten alleges he was fired after stating he would commence 
an internal investigation of the CEO’s startling admissions.  Caporella categorically denies making any such statements.  But we 


believe that these allegations are credible, and explain FIZZ’s seemingly miraculous ability to hit its earnings forecasts and report 


inexplicable operating leverage, despite its smaller scale and low ASPs. 





a. Fear of Due Diligence by an Acquirer.  Mursten’s case produced a host of exhibits available to investors, including a 
series of bizarre letters in which Caporella attempted to entice Asahi back to the table after the deal fell apart.  The letters 


reveal that Caporella did not allow Asahi to perform sufficient due diligence, and that Asahi (or its lawyers) either stated 


or implied that Caporella’s prevented Asahi from conducting adequate due diligence because he was hiding something.  


Longs looking for a potential acquisition should take note that one such deal fell through because apparently Caporella 


was afraid of an acquirer’s due diligence.  In our opinion, such letters support Mursten’s allegations and further enhance 


our conviction that extensive due diligence by an acquirer would have revealed instances of earnings manipulation or 


accounting fraud. 





3. Suspicious Use of Off-Balance Sheet Entities.   
 


a. CMA: The Little Jewel Box? FIZZ’s operating structure creates an ideal opportunity for fraud.  FIZZ outsources key 
management functions to Corporate Management Advisors, (“CMA”), a blandly named entity privately owned by FIZZ 


CEO and Chairman Nick Caporella.  CMA manages FIZZ for a fee equal to 1% of net revenues and employs a handful of 


senior management and support staff, many of whom have been with Caporella since the 1980s. As a separate entity, 


shareholders have no insight into CMA’s operations despite the fact that, according to the Company’s proxy statement, 


CMA is responsible for the “supervision of the Company’s financial, legal, executive recruitment, internal audit and 


management information systems departments.” It warrants emphasis that the CEO and CFO of FIZZ are not actually 


employed or compensated by FIZZ. Additionally, financial and audit supervision are not performed by FIZZ’s employees, 


but by employees of CMA.  We are unaware of any other beverage (or consumer products) company which has a similar 


structure.  Shareholders have no visibility into CMA, creating a structure ripe for fraud.      





b. Undisclosed Related Parties Used for Expenses and as Sales Distributors? Other key FIZZ and CMA executives are 
also executives listed in the filings of separate entities controlled by Caporella that are not listed as FIZZ subsidiaries in 


its 10-K.  Some share the same address as the Company.  Two additional recent lawsuits allege that the Company transacts 


with undisclosed related parties.  





i. Rosenthal – Alleged Undisclosed Related Party Cost Center. A complaint brought by FIZZ’s former marketing 
director for one of its premier brands alleges that he was instructed to set up a corporate entity in order to be paid as 


an independent contractor.  The Company denies he was an employee, but he had business cards, full access to the 


facility and a corporate email.  In light of insider allegations, our suspicion is that such an arrangement could allow 


FIZZ to move costs off of the Company’s books.   





ii. Maverick – Alleged Undisclosed Related Party Distributor.  A 2015 wrongful termination suit alleged that a FIZZ 
employee was physically present at, operated, directed and managed an independent distributor not listed as a 


subsidiary or related party in any of the Company’s filings.  We believe that this undisclosed arrangement raises the 


specter that such entities are used to hide costs or, per insider allegations, potentially create fake invoices to boost sales.   



http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us
3 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 








4. Undisclosed Stock Gifts and the Obscurity of Ownership.  Depositions under oath also indicate that Caporella gave a “gift” 
of 150,000 shares of FIZZ’s stock to an employee of CMA in 2011.  Yet FIZZ’s public filings never reflect such a change in 


shareholding, indicating that the compensation was kept off the Company’s books and records.  We believe that securities 


rules require disclosure of this transaction.  Such gifts also highlight that investors have little transparency as to the ownership 


structure of the Company.  Caporella claims to own FIZZ through a complicated structure involving IBS Management 


Partners.  Yet FIZZ has failed to provide any transparency regarding the ownership structure of this entity, leaving 


shareholders to wonder if it is being used to compensate FIZZ’s employees (or CMA’s) and keep expenses off of the 


Company’s books.   





5. Falsifying Documents and Fudging Facts.  We have found at least two instances in which lawyers or employees have 
apparently fudged facts or falsified documents for FIZZ in a litigation.  In the first instance, convicted criminal Scott Rothstein 


admitted under oath that he and former FIZZ general counsel David Boden intentionally “fudged facts” on behalf of FIZZ in 


a 2006 case against Broward county.  In the second instance, records from the Mursten litigation raise a credible allegation 


that FIZZ managers produced a bogus, back-dated employment letter.  Such instances are frankly stunning, and, in our opinion, 


show a culture of unethical behavior and a complete lack of respect for the integrity of the courts.  





6. Other Red Flags.  Two other red flags are worth noting. The first is a bizarre, mysterious and (in our view) abusive issuance 
of high-interest preferred stock to management in January 2013.  The Company paid down cheap corporate debt with the 


proceeds of expensive financing from a mysterious team of executives, which is obviously detrimental to shareholders. The 


second red flag is allegations that Caporella and FIZZ violated campaign finance laws by reimbursing employee donations 


for political candidates.  Both instances scream for the use of the government’s subpoena power to find out the truth.  





Valuation.  The situation reminds us of Valeant: how do you value a Company when you believe that the management team 


manipulates  reported financials but that nonetheless possesses some decent assets? In this case, that means valuing LaCroix.  In 


July 2014, an acquirer purchased a 25% stake in the parent company of Vita Coco, the top-selling coconut water brand in the 


U.S., at a valuation of 2.2x sales.  This may be an overly generous comparison to LaCroix, because coconut water is a premium-


priced, high-margin beverage, but we believe it represents the top end of the brand’s valuation.  





The rest of FIZZ’s business is labored with slumping and unhealthy regional brands.  Analysts estimate that sales from FIZZ’s 


non-LaCroix beverages are declining.  Therefore, we assign a 0.5x sales multiple to FIZZ’s non-LaCroix business, the same 


multiple used for the purchase of branded juice maker American Beverage by Harvest Hill in March 2015.  





A sum of the parts yields a Glaucus valuation of $16.15 per share. 








Applying a 25% corruption discount to our valuation is also conservative.  We believe that the evidence presented in this report 


warrants the full exercise of the government’s subpoena power, and that the SEC and other agencies should investigate the 


Company’s practices.  This could put further downward pressure on FIZZ’s shares.   


FIZZ GRG Valuation Estimate


Figures are in $mm Valuation


FIZZ Reported Net Sales (TTM ending 


1Q'17)
736.50$            


EV/Sales Acquisition Multiples


LaCroix Sales Estimate - 51% of Total 375.62$              


Vita-Coco - Comp to LaCroix 2.2x


Implied LaCroix Valuation 826.35$            


Non-LaCroix Sales Estimate - 49% of Total 360.89$              


American Beverage - Comp to non-LaCroix 0.5x


Implied Non-LaCroix Valuation 180.44$            


Total Valuation 1,006.80$         


Corruption Discount 25%


Corruption Discounted Valuation 755.10$            


Shares Outstanding (mm) 46.767


FIZZ Value per Share 16.15$               


Current Price (as of 9/27/2016) 46.48$                


Downside -65%



http://www.wsj.com/articles/chinese-buyer-taps-into-coconut-water-craze-1405300157

http://www.capstonellc.com/sites/default/files/Capstone_Food%20%20Beverage%20Products_Q2%202015.pdf

http://harvesthill.com/
4 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





INEXPLICABLE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 





FIZZ is a Florida based producer and distributor of low-priced soft drinks and carbonated beverages, such as regional 


sodas Faygo and Shasta, LaCroix sparkling water, Rip It energy drinks, Everfresh juice, and a mix of other small 


private label brands.  





FIZZ is run by CEO Nick Caporella, his son, Joseph Caporella, President of FIZZ, and CFO George Bracken, an 


associate of Caporella for over 30 years. Nick Caporella allegedly owns 74% of FIZZ’s shares through a limited 


partnership called IBS Partners, Ltd., although as we will discuss in detail in this draft, the ownership amount and 


structure are murky.  After changing auditors from PwC in 2006, FIZZ has been audited by RSM US LLP. 





To fully understand FIZZ and what we believe is an unethical corporate culture, investors must understand its origin. 


In 1976, Nick Caporella was appointed the President and CEO of Burnup & Sims (“Burnup”), an installer of cable 


television and telecommunications systems.  In 1984, the government charged Burnup with a “pervasive pattern of 


private and public corruption” in a forty-nine count indictment.1  At its core, the government alleged that Burnup 


participated in a scheme to fraudulently sell telecommunications equipment and services to San Diego and Fresno 


between 1978 and 1984 through the “payment of bribes and sexual favors, pandering, money laundering, and influence 


peddling.” Burnup ultimately pleaded no contest to the racketeering charges and had to pay a fine, almost $1 million 


in prosecution costs, and $3.5 million in restitution to the City of San Diego.2 





Burnup then engaged in a bitter takeover battle with a corporate raider, which led to Caporella to create FIZZ using 


the proceeds from a quasi-reverse merger with Burnup to purchase its first regional soda brand (Shasta).   


Fast forward to 2016 and according to Nielsen data, FIZZ’s share of US carbonated soft drink sales is 0.6%.3  FIZZ 


sells these sodas at very low price points.  According to July 2016 Nielsen data, the average retail price per unit of 


FIZZ’s soda brands was $0.33 vs $0.53 for Coca-Cola’s soda brands, 37% cheaper (see table below). FIZZ’s ~40% 


ASP discount to its significantly scaled peers calls into question the long term financial viability of its business. 


 
Source: Nielsen Data: 7/16/2016 


ASPs: Average Selling Price per unit 





Moreover, FIZZ’s historic strength, its Shasta and Faygo soda brands, appears to be withering.  Since 2012, analysts  


estimate that Shasta, Faygo and the Company’s other brands have experienced negative growth. 





                                                           
1 24 F.3d 42 TELINK, INC.; Burnup & Sims, Inc., Petitioners-Appellants, v. UNITED STATES of America, Respondent-Appellee, 


County of Fresno, County of San Diego, Intervenors-Appellees. No. 93-50034.  (Burnup later appealed this conviction but it was 


denied).  
2 http://openjurist.org/24/f3d/42/telink-inc-v-united-states  
3 This figure excludes energy drinks. 


Nielsen Carbonated Soft Drink ASPs


Company Name 7/16/2016


Coca-Cola Company ("KO") 0.53 59%


PepsiCo Inc. ("PCP") 0.55 65%


Dr. Pepper Snapple ("DPS") 0.51 54%


National Beverage ("FIZZ) 0.33 -


Premium to 


FIZZ



http://www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/companyOfficers?symbol=FIZZ.OQ

http://openjurist.org/24/f3d/42/telink-inc-v-united-states
5 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: Credit Suisse FIZZ Initiation Report – September 15, 2016 





The jewel of FIZZ’s portfolio is undoubtedly LaCroix sparkling water.  LaCroix is responsible for 100% of FIZZ’s 


TTM growth and, some analysts estimate, over 50% of the Company’s sales.4  We will discuss the value of LaCroix 


in the valuation section, but the key point is that like the Company’s other brands, LaCroix sells at a low price point. 


With sub-scale primary products that are losing share (except for LaCroix) and sell at a ~40% lower price point than 


competitors, FIZZ’s unit economics are suboptimal.  This is reflected in its gross margins, which are ~40% lower than 


its larger peers (e.g., Coke, Pepsi, Dr. Pepper Snapple). 





 
Source: Bloomberg 


Note: We use COT FY 2013 because prior to the DSS acquisition in 2014, COT was a private label and branded 


beverage business and is included as a basis of comparison to the national soft drink brands. 


 
Due to FIZZ’s lack of scale and market share ($0.7bil in TTM sales vs $43.2bil for KO), common sense would dictate 


FIZZ’s operating leverage would be significantly lower than peers. However, according to FIZZ’s reported financial 


performance, this is not the case.   


FIZZ reportedly spends only 21% of revenue on SG&A while KO, PEP, and DPS each spend 37-39%. Also, one 


would think FIZZ’s strategy of branded products at near private label prices would produce margins similar to COTT 


Corporation’s (“COT”) private label business.  But FIZZ’s reported operating margins were 19% in Q1 FY 2017 


versus 4% for the COT business.  


                                                           
4 In what will become a common refrain, shareholders and investors have no transparency into the performance of individual 


brands.  Estimates vary widely as to the actual sales of LaCroix, yet the Company refuses to disclose even basic details of the 


performance of its beverages.   


Margin Comparison - Last FY


FIZZ KO PEP DPS
COT 


FY'13


Sales (US$ mm) 705         44,294    63,056    6,282      2,094      


Gross Margin 34% 61% 55% 59% 12%


SGA % of Revenue 21% 37% 39% 37% 8%


Operating Margin 13% 20% 13% 21% 4%


D&A 2% 4% 4% 4% 5%


EBITDA Margin 15% 24% 17% 24% 9%
6 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





The peculiarities in FIZZ’s operating expenses are hard to ignore.  From 1993-2009, FIZZ’s operating margins held 


within 100 bps of ~5-6%.  Yet seemingly out of nowhere, in 2009, the business started to produce operating leverage, 


with operating margins increasing to 8.7% in FY 2010 and 10.5% in FY 2011.  FIZZ did not diversify beyond its core 


beverage business, did not undergo any major cost restructuring, did not significantly increase capex spending, or say 


anything to suggest why this fixed margin business would start to produce operating leverage.   








Source: Company 10-K’s 


The only significant change around the time of its dramatic and impressive increase in operating leverage was 


a change in FIZZ’s auditor. 


FIZZ changed auditors from PriceWaterhouse Coopers (“PwC”) to McGladrey & Pullen (now RSM) for its 2007 


Annual Report. Investors should note that 2007 was the first year that Sarbanes-Oxley required auditors to sign off on 


the strength of a public company’s internal controls.  We find it very curious that FIZZ switched from PwC to RSM 


as soon as internal controls were going to be scrutinized.5   


Marketing and shipping costs are variable, and should increase commensurately with selling more beverages.  


Inexplicably, FIZZ claims that such variable costs have been flat for ten years despite a significant uptick in revenue.  


Indeed, FIZZ’s reported SG&A is basically flat since 2006.     


FIZZ has grown revenue from $517 million in 2006 to $705 million in 2016, a 36% increase.  During this same period, 


shipping costs and marketing costs have been inexplicably flat. Shipping costs were $44 million in 2006, and $45 


million in 2016. Marketing expenses were $38 million in 2006 and $39 million in 2016. FIZZ provides no rationale 


for its stunning ability to ship and sell more product at no additional variable cost. 


                                                           
5 Credit Suisse, in a recent initiation report on the Company, posited that FIZZ enjoys higher operating margins on sales of LaCroix 


(200-300 bps), and that as the sparkling water brand began to make up a larger share of the Company’s revenue mix, it may drag 


operating margins up with it.  But this cannot explain the Company’s ~500 bps operating margin expansion when LaCroix was a 


much smaller part of its revenue mix in 2010-2012.  Credit Suisse Equity Research Report, September 15, 2016.
7 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: Company Filings 


 
Source: Company Filings 


FIZZ’s inexplicable ability to sell more with almost no variability in shipping costs is, in our opinion, deeply 


suspicious.  Additionally, the decrease in marketing costs from a high of $50 million in 2014 to $39 million in 2016, 


defies logic considering the increases in sales during that time.  Oddly, FIZZ’s SG&A appears uncorrelated to its 


reported revenues.  In our opinion, this means one of two things.  Either FIZZ has revolutionized the beverage industry 


or its manipulating its financial statements to hide costs.    


Ultimately, FIZZ’s financials beg an obvious question: how can a subscale player in a highly competitive industry 


with half the gross margins of its competitor’s report operating margins close to its larger peers who are selling better 


known products at higher prices?  


We believe that once investors consider allegations of earnings manipulation, FIZZ’s poor corporate governance 


structure and the other evidence discussed in this report, they will conclude, like we have, that FIZZ’s results are not 


what they seem.  








FIZZ's Revenue and SG&A


US$ mm FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016


Revenues 517        539        566        575        593        600        629        662        641        646        705        


Shipping costs 44          43          45          44          43          41          42          44          44          44          45          


Marketing expenses 38          42          39          35          45          53          46          45          50          42          39          


CMA Expenses 5            5            6            6            6            6            6            7            6            7            7            


Other SG&A 48          46          48          47          51          56          52          51          52          52          58          


Total SG&A 135        137        138        132        145        156        146        146        153        145        148
8 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





CEO ALLEGEDLY ADMITTED TO EARNINGS MANIPULATION AND FRAUD 


In 2012, former CMA in-house counsel David Mursten sued Nick Caporella in federal court for breach of contract.  


Mursten had worked for Caporella on and off as an advisor, consultant and attorney.  Mursten worked as an assistant 


corporate counsel of CMA until 2008 and later advised FIZZ’s CEO on potential mergers and acquisitions. 


The two men appeared to be close.  The court adjudicating the matter noted that “over time, Mursten came to view 


Caporella as something of a father figure—a sentiment Caporella shared.”6  Joseph Caporella (Nick’s son and 


President of FIZZ) noted in the email below that his father Nick had set aside wealth for Mursten.7 





Source: Exhibit filing. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 122-4, p. 2. 


According to Mursten, Caporella hired him in 2010 to advise and assist in the sale of FIZZ to a Japanese beverage 


conglomerate, Asahi.8  The deal ultimately fell through (for reasons we will discuss below).  On December 12, 2012, 


Mursten filed a complaint against Caporella seeking to collect payment for his work on the deal.  The claim was 


dismissed and then refiled in 2014.  Ultimately, the court found against Mursten on the grounds that he had an attorney-


client relationship with Caporella and as a result, any compensation agreement or contract must be in writing to be 


enforceable.  


The outcome of the case is less interesting to investors than Mursten’s account of the statements allegedly made to 


him by CEO and Chairman Nick Caporella.   


The complaint was originally redacted,9 but an un-redacted copy is publicly available in Google and on the website 


“PlainSite,”  if you simply search for it.10  The un-redacted complaint can be viewed by any investor who enters the 


search terms “Mursten jewel box” into Google and selects Google’s html “cache” of the PlainSite link.   











Source: https://www.google.com/#q=mursten+jewel+box 


                                                           
6 Order Granting Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, Mursten v. Caporella.  Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 171. 
7 Mursten vs. Caporella; Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 122-4. 
8 Throughout the Mursten case, the acquirer is referred to as Company A, but Mursten’s deposition (Document 86-4, p. 173) 


explicitly states that Company A is Asahi. 
9 It appears from Mursten’s deposition, Mursten vs. Caporella 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 86-4, p. 254, that Mursten filed the 


complaint in redacted form.  Although that is simply our inference from the record.  
10http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%


3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us  



http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us

http://www.plainsite.org/about/

https://www.google.com/#q=mursten+jewel+box

http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us

http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us
9 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





The alleged admissions are a bombshell, and the complaint should be read in full by any interested shareholder or 


investor. The key details are as follows.   


Mursten and Caporella flew to Mexico in November 2011, in a private jet owned by FIZZ.  On November 16, 2011, 


Caporella hosted a birthday dinner for Mursten at Caporella’s luxury villa.  During the course of this trip, Mursten 


allegedly asked Caporella the “secret” to his “success,” particularly with respect to FIZZ’s great record of performance 


with earnings and tremendous dividends.  


According to Mursten, Caporella told him that when actual earnings were short of where he wanted, Caporella would 


go into his “little jewel box.”  Caporella also allegedly bragged that he got “his son Joseph – the President of National 


Beverage – to arrange for the company’s distributors to receive made-up invoices. Presumably, when rejected by the 


distributors, these invoices would be credited back to their accounts, but the reported earnings – inflated by the 


fictitious invoices – would not be restated.”11 








                                                           
11 Initial complaint. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:12-cv-62474- Document 1, p. 14-16. 



http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us
10 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 








 
Initial complaint. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:12-cv-62474- Document 1, p. 14-16. 



http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us
11 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





Mursten claims that he was greatly disturbed by these allegations and told Caporella that he had to return to FIZZ’s 


headquarters to review Caporella’s revelations.  According to Mursten, Caporella became irate and fired him a few 


days later. 





Mursten also declared, under oath and under penalty of perjury, that he believed Caporella was admitting to 


illegal conduct.   








~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 





Source: Mursten deposition. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 86-4, p. 251-252 


Caporella denies that this conversation with Mursten ever took place and insists that Mursten fabricated the entire 


story in order to extort money from the CEO and his company.  It is up to investors to decide for themselves the 


credibility of Mursten’s allegations.   


We believe Mursten’s account is credible for the following reasons.  His declaration that Caporella’s conduct was 


illegal was made under oath, under penalty of perjury.  As a lawyer, he would understand the gravity of his statements.  


Then there is the close relationship between the men.  They flew down with Caporella on a Company-owned private 


jet to Mexico where they celebrated his birthday.  After the alleged conversation took place, Mursten was persona non 


grata at a company where he had worked on and off with his quasi father figure for years.   


In our view, the behavior allegedly admitted by Caporella to Mursten also explains the puzzle presented by FIZZ’s 


inexplicable operating leverage, the suspicious consistency with which the Company reported revenue and net income 


growth, and its shipping and marketing costs which appear uncorrelated with rising sales.  The allegations also explain 


why a CEO of a public company would fear due diligence by a potential acquirer.   





1) Fear of Due Diligence by a Potential Acquirer 
 


In August 2010, FIZZ received an acquisition proposal letter from Asahi.  By January 2011, the deal had stalled.  By 


April 2011, all talks of the acquisition had been cut off completely.  


Yet documents produced in discovery show that Caporella desperately wanted to sell his Company to Asahi, and that 


he wrote many strange and rambling letters to Asahi in a bid to entice the Japanese conglomerate to re-engage in 



http://ir.nationalbeverage.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=705294
12 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





acquisition talks.12  These letters give investors some insight into why the acquisition fell through, despite Caporella’s 


apparent desperation to sell the Company.  We have included these exhibits (which are freely available on Pacer) as 


an appendix.   


In the letter excerpted below, Caporella references a comment by an Asahi advisor (or attorney) implying that 


Caporella refused to allow Asahi to conduct sufficient due diligence because he was “trying to hide something.” 





 
Source: Mursten vs. Caporella, Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 129-2 





A plain reading of the letter reveals that Caporella became highly defensive at this accusation, arguing instead that 


due diligence would create a greater risk of the news leaking or that the stock price of FIZZ would appreciate.  This 


is an odd excuse, considering that as a public company, FIZZ had a duty to find the highest reasonable stock price for 


its shareholders, and that an appreciation of FIZZ’s stock price would only benefit Caporella, its largest shareholder.   


Consistent with “trying to hide something,” Caporella also exhibited a vehement and irrational hatred of the lawyers 


involved in the transaction.  He called a lawyer representing Asahi an “ugly litigator” that was “harassing the intimate 


corporate family:”  


 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


 
Source: Mursten vs. Caporella, Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 129-2 


In another damning and almost inconceivable statement, Caporella expressed anger at the insinuation by Asahi’s 


representatives that Caporella could do “underhanded things or that something in my past (so terrible would come 


out during litigation).”   





                                                           
12 The letters are exhibits produced by Mursten.  Our understanding of the letters is that they were sent by Caporella to Asahi, but 


one of them is labelled “draft” so we cannot be sure that all of the letters were actually sent.  



https://www.pacer.gov/
13 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





In the CEO’s own words: 





Source: Mursten vs. Caporella, Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 129-2 


From the letters, we can infer that Asahi attorneys made statements to Caporella stating directly or insinuating that he 


was refusing to allow proper due diligence of FIZZ because he was hiding something.   


In addition to the lack of diligence made available, Asahi was uncomfortable with FIZZ’s proposed post-acquisition 


operating structure. 





Source: Mursten vs. Caporella, Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 129-2 


As we understand it, Caporella was insisting on a post-acquisition structure in which he and his son maintained control 


over the books, records and operations of FIZZ for at least a year.13   


Unsurprisingly, Asahi was not comfortable with a company that refused to allow sufficient diligence and that 


seemingly would not give them an intimate look at the real financials until a year after acquisition.   


While we do not know exactly how things ended, from the record we infer that Asahi cut off all contact with FIZZ 


and that Asahi (or its counsel) did not believe Caporella’s reasons for allowing so little diligence. Even so, Caporella 


continued to badger Asahi with letters, all of which apparently went unanswered. These letters are an excellent read 


and we encourage everyone to review the CEO’s own words.  


Vickie Carcaise, FIZZ’s lawyer from May 2003 until March 2015, apparently was so concerned about this information 


becoming public that she asked for discovery (and the related motions) to be held off the record.  





 
Source: Court transcript, Mursten v. Caporella, Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 76, p. 68-69. 





For any longs touting a prior sale process as being somehow indicative of a potential privatization, the details suggest 


the opposite to be true.  Caporella frantically tried to sell FIZZ to Asahi, but Asahi was apparently highly 


uncomfortable that Caporella refused to allow adequate due diligence and insinuated that he refused because he was 


hiding something. 





Caporella is adamant that Mursten is a liar, that he never admitted to accounting fraud and that Mursten’s lawsuit was 


an attempt at a naked money grab.  Yet, if Mursten’s allegations were not true, why would Caporella resist an 


acquirer’s attempt to conduct due diligence, all while writing embarrassingly gushy letters to Asahi in a misguided 


attempt to woo them back to the table?  





                                                           
13 Our understanding of this proposed structure comes from the 2012 Mursten complaint.
14 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





Large acquisitions of public companies can take place quickly while also satisfying due diligence requests from 


potential acquirers, so Caporella’s excuse that speed was of the essence appears, in our view, to be bogus.   


Additionally, Caporella’s letters clearly demonstrate a defensiveness and hostility towards Asahi’s lawyers, who at 


least according to Caporella, stated or insinuated that he was hiding something.   


Ultimately, we believe that the CEO’s letters corroborate Mursten’s allegations of accounting manipulation.  When 


considered in conjunction with FIZZ’s ludicrous operating structure and its relationships with a number of off-balance 


entities, we believe that such allegations only appear more credible.
15 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





SUSPICIOUS USE OF OFF-BALANCE SHEET ENTITIES 





1) CMA: Little Jewel Box?  
 


FIZZ has a ludicrous governance structure which in our opinion presents an ideal opportunity for earnings 


manipulation and accounting fraud.  FIZZ outsources key management functions of its Company to Corporate 


Management Advisors, (“CMA”), a blandly named entity privately owned by FIZZ CEO and Chairman Nick 


Caporella.   


CMA manages FIZZ for a fee equal to 1% of FIZZ’s net revenues (plus a discretionary bonus) and employs a handful 


of senior management and support staff, many of whom have been with Caporella since the 1980s.14   


As a separate entity, FIZZ’s shareholders have no insight into CMA’s operations whatsoever despite the fact that, 


according to the Company’s proxy statement, CMA “provides the services of and compensates the Company’s 


Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and senior and other corporate personnel, who provide 


management, administrative and creative functions to the Company” including “supervision of the Company’s 


financial, legal, executive recruitment, internal audit and management information systems departments.”15 It 


warrants emphasis, that FIZZ’s CEO and CFO are not actually employed or compensated by FIZZ. Additionally, 


financial and audit supervision is not performed by FIZZ’s employees, but by employees of outside consulting 


company CMA. 


The SEC took issue with the Company’s disclosures regarding compensation paid to CEO Caporella and CFO George 


Bracken by CMA in a series of correspondences in 2009.  The SEC requested in multiple letters that the Company 


disclose the amount of compensation received by Caporella and Bracken from CMA, but oddly, the Company resisted.  


Comparing its relationship to CMA to the relationship between a REIT and an asset manager, FIZZ dug in its heels 


that it was not necessary to include the exact amount of compensation paid by CMA to its CEO and CFO in its public 


filings.   


This is a ridiculous analogy.  Some REITs hire external management teams because a REIT’s portfolio of assets do 


not require intense day-to-day management (e.g., a portfolio of commercial real estate properties or pipelines).  But 


even in the REIT space, external management teams are controversial, as was evident in the instance of RESI and 


AAMC, which was plagued by governance concerns highlighted by Glaucus in our March 2014 short opinion on 


AAMC (available here).  


Although such arrangements exist in the REIT sector, it is virtually unheard of in the beverage and consumer products 


sector where managing brands, developing product and growing sales requires the full time attention of a management 


team.   


FIZZ’s analogy that it was like a REIT and that CMA was like a REIT’s external managers is also problematic because 


FIZZ provides no disclosures on CMA’s operations.  Does CMA manage other businesses? Does it offer similar 


services to other beverage companies? If, as we suspect, CMA is a private company which provides legal, audit and 


management services exclusively (or almost exclusively) for FIZZ, then we see no value in keeping the entity off the 


books, unless the purpose was to use CMA as a “little jewel box” to manipulate earnings.   


FIZZ eventually acquiesced to the SEC’s demands, but only partially.  Instead of breaking out how much 


compensation CMA pays to Caporella, FIZZ simply stated that Caporella was the beneficiary of the entire 


management fee.16 


Shareholders and investors should also question why FIZZ dug in is heels with the SEC.  As a public company, FIZZ 


has a duty to be transparent with the markets.  Disclosing the compensation of its top officers seems a basic part of 


fulfilling this duty.   





                                                           
14 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000095012309021608/filename1.htm  
15https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774916038140/fizz20160824b_def14a.htm  
16 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000095012309032294/filename1.htm  



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000095012309021608/filename1.htm

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2014/03/SHORT_AAMC-GlaucusResearch-LONG_RESI-Mar_19_2014.pdf

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000095012309021608/filename1.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774916038140/fizz20160824b_def14a.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000095012309032294/filename1.htm
16 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





2) Other Undisclosed Entities 
 


George Bracken, Margaret Madden, Linda Crawford, and Joseph Caporella are all key FIZZ and CMA executives (or 


employees) over the past two decades.  To the add to the opacity of FIZZ’s governance structure, these executives are 


also listed in the corporate filings of separate Nick Caporella entities that are not listed as FIZZ subsidiaries in its 10-


K, as we outline in the table below.17  


 
Note:  1. Disappeared from the list of subsidiaries after FY 2002 10-K 


2. Disappeared from the list of subsidiaries after FY 2006 10-K 





Some of these entities list 8100 SW 10th, Suite 4000, Plantation, Florida, as their principal place of business.18  This 


is the same registered address as the Company.19 





While normally the presence of such entities may not be a major red flag, in light of Mursten’s accusations that the 


Company’s earnings are manipulated, mysterious undisclosed related party entities could easily be used to either hide 


costs or inflate sales.  Two recent lawsuits both allege that the Company operates through undisclosed related parties.   





a) Rosenthal  
 


In a 2014 lawsuit between FIZZ and former employee Hugh Matthew Rosenthal,20 Rosenthal alleged that he was hired 


as the Director of Marketing at Faygo Beverages (“Faygo”) in October 1992 and served in that capacity until his 


termination in July 2012. 


Rosenthal states that upon hiring, he was instructed by FIZZ to incorporate a separate entity, Rosenthal & Company 


Advertising (“RCA”), to receive payments from FIZZ.  Faygo then entered into an agreement with RCA in order to 


pay Rosenthal as an independent contractor, not an employee.   


According to Rosenthal’s complaint, despite his nominal status as an independent third party, he was for all intents 


and purposes under the direct control and employment of Faygo.   


Specifically, Rosenthal stated that FIZZ “maintained the ability to control the manner and means by which [his] duties 


were accomplished, including, but not limited to the following: providing [Rosenthal] with business cards and a name 


badge identifying him as “Faygo Director of Marketing;” paying [Rosenthal] a regular salary plus a bonus; requiring 


[Rosenthal] to attend weekly management meetings; prohibiting [Rosenthal] or Rosenthal and Company from working 


for any other companies; providing [Rosenthal] with an office, computer, and company e-mail; setting [Rosenthal]’s 


hours and working conditions; subjecting him to employment policies and training; and directing members of its 


management to supervise [Rosenthal].”21 


FIZZ fired Rosenthal in 2012, after 20 years of working with the Company.  He sued for wrongful termination alleging 


the Company discriminated against him for his age.  The district court ruled against Rosenthal (granting FIZZ’s motion 


                                                           
 
18 https://www.floridareg.com/company/P94000051896/fountain-of-youth-beverage-company  
19 https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&ion=1&espv=2&ie=UTF-8#q=national+beverage+8100+SW+10th  
20 Rosenthal vs. National Beverage Corp. and Faygo Beverages, Case 4:14-cv-12384-MAG-DRG Document 1. All court document 


records referenced hereafter are publicly available through the Pacer system. https://www.pacer.gov/ 
21 Rosenthal v. National Beverage Corp., Case 14-CV0123840, Document 1. 


Entities Related to FIZZ Personnel with Unknown Business Purpose


Name of Entity N. Caporella J. Caporella G. Bracken M. Madden G. Cook D. McCoy L. Crawford


Broad River Aviation, Inc. x x x


Hayward Enterprises, Inc. x x x x


LDH Acquisition Corp x x


Freek Energy Inc x x x x


Fountain of Youth Beverage Company x x x x


8100 Partners LLC x x x


Related Entities that do not appear in 10-K as subsidiaries but appear in 2011 Credit Agreement


National Productions, Inc x x x x


Faygo Sales Company
1 x x x x


Shasta Midwest, Inc
2 x x x x



https://www.floridareg.com/company/P94000051896/fountain-of-youth-beverage-company

https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&ion=1&espv=2&ie=UTF-8#q=national+beverage+8100+SW+10th

https://www.pacer.gov/
17 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





for summary judgment) on the grounds that Rosenthal failed to shoulder his burden to prove an issue of material fact 


that his age was the motivating factor behind his termination.22  Rosenthal has appealed this decision.  





 
Initial complaint. Rosenthal vs. National Beverage Corp. and Faygo Beverages, Inc. Case 4:14-cv-12384-MAG-DRG  


Document 1 p. 2-3. 





What is fascinating for investors is not the merits of the discrimination claim, but Rosenthal’s description of his 


employment arrangement with the Company.  He claims that upon hiring, he was instructed to set up an entity so that 


the Company could pay him as a third party, yet for all intents and purposes he claims he was employed as the Director 


of Marketing of Faygo, one of FIZZ’s cornerstone brands.    





FIZZ, for its part, adamantly denies that Rosenthal was an employee, but in our view, the evidence supports 


Rosenthal’s contention.  For example, Rosenthal produced business cards stating he was Faygo’s director of 


marketing. 


                                                           
22 Rosenthal v. National Beverage Corp., Case 14-CV0123840, Document 71.
18 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 








Source: Rosenthal v. National Beverage Corp., Case 14-CV-0123840, Document 64-4 





Equally damming is a January 2003 letter addressed to Rosenthal by FIZZ’s President (Joseph Caporella) discussing 


stock options granted to Rosenthal as “a key employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates.” 








Source: Rosenthal v. National Beverage Corp., Case 14-CV0123840, Document 64-15.
19 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





In addition, Faygo HR manager Janette Emerson sent an email in 2010, addressed to “Faygo Management,” to 


Rosenthal and a number of Faygo managers.  The email asked the recipients to complete and return an I-9 


(Employment Verification Form).23  The district court even noted that Faygo paid RCA (Rosenthal’s supposedly 


independent entity) a check for services twice a month, an amount which was reduced when Rosenthal started working 


part time.  To us, this looks like a paycheck, not some “monthly retainer” to an outside entity, as the Company claimed 


in the litigation.   


Rosenthal had a Company email address, a security badge, full access to the Faygo facility, and an office at the Faygo 


offices (with phone and computer).  He even conducted interviews for positions at FIZZ, a duty not consistent with a 


third party entity.24   


The court never ruled on whether Rosenthal was an employee, and any interested investor should draw their own 


conclusion by reviewing the evidence produced in the litigation, which is available on Pacer.  FIZZ waged a brutal 


fight trying to prove that he was not an employee, and did present some evidence supporting their position (such as 


Rosenthal’s tax returns and his ERISA status).   


But in our opinion, if it looks like a duck, quacks like a duck, it’s a duck.  Rosenthal had business cards, he interviewed 


potential employees for positions at FIZZ, he received emails addressed to “Faygo management,” and (indirectly) 


received what to us appears to be twice monthly paychecks.25   


Ultimately, we do not know if payments to Rosenthal’s RCA were accounted for properly by the Company as SG&A.  


But in the context of Mursten’s allegations, this arrangement is a significant red flag.  In analyzing FIZZ’s financials, 


the Company’s reported operating leverage is inexplicable.  We suspect that the Company uses off the books entities 


to bury expenses to maintain the illusion of profitability.  Rosenthal’s case supports this suspicion, because even 


though (in our opinion) he was clearly an employee of the Company, his compensation could be easily kept off the 


Company’s books.  Such arrangements could explain why FIZZ reports such low administrative and operating 


expenses relative to its larger, more well established peers.  


Rosenthal’s case also raises deeper questions.  How many other quasi-employees does FIZZ “retain” with similar 


arrangements?  How did FIZZ account for payments to RCA?    





b) Maverick Distributing Company 
 


Not only do we believe that expenses are run through off the books entities, but there is also evidence to suggest that 


FIZZ runs sales through undisclosed related parties.  In Thornell vs National Beverage Corp, a 2015 wrongful 


termination litigation in Texas state court, Thornell was employed by a beverage distributor, Maverick Distributing 


Company (“Maverick”). 


Thornell’s complaint names FIZZ as a co-defendant on the grounds that FIZZ owns, funded and effectively operates 


Maverick.  Maverick has never been listed as a subsidiary of FIZZ in any of its filings, so if Thornell’s allegations are 


true, it would be another example of FIZZ working through an undisclosed related party.  FIZZ, unsurprisingly, denies 


that it ever employed Thornell, denies owning Maverick and denies that it in any way funds, controls or operates the 


distributor.   


We obviously have no view on whether Thornell’s claims of discrimination or wrongful termination have any merit, 


but Thornell’s description of the relationship between FIZZ and Maverick bears consideration by investors.  


According to the complaint, a FIZZ employee named Ricardo Leyva, worked out of the Maverick office and directed 


the operation of Maverick’s business as well as the day-to-day duties and responsibilities of Thornell, a sales 


representative. 


                                                           
23 Rosenthal v. National Beverage Corp., Case 14-CV0123840, Document 64, Exhibit 10. 
24 Rosenthal v. National Beverage Corp., Case 14-CV0123840, Document 57. 
25 Laughably, FIZZ claims that Rosenthal did not participate in an end-of-year bonus plan, even though they admit his Company, 


received an “extra year end payment from Faygo.”  Do independent third parties typically receive a year end special bonus?  This 


plainly looks like a year-end bonus for employees.  Rosenthal v. National Beverage Corp., Case 14-CV0123840, Document 57.
20 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: Thornell vs National Beverage Corporation Case # 201551725-7 Document BL-1 





There are parts of Thornell’s complaint we could verify.  We located a Ricardo Leyva on Facebook who claims to be 


a Houston based employee of National Beverage Corp.  Maverick is registered to a Gina Troy.  Troy’s other 


distribution businesses include Stampede Beverage and Best Brands International.  Stampede’s website indicates that 


it distributes a number of the Company’s brands.   


In September 2016, the court granted FIZZ’s motion for summary judgment, and dismissed Thornell’s claims against 


the Company.  But the merits of Thornell’s discrimination claims are less interesting from an investor’s point of view 


than his description of the day-to-day operations of a supposedly independent distributor.   


The credibility of Thornell’s statements is up to investors to decide.  But Thornell’s description of a FIZZ employee’s 


day-to-day management of an independent distributor, is in our opinion, credible in its specificity.    


In our view, the fact pattern alleged in Thornell supports the accusations of Mursten.  By directing and controlling 


distributors which are supposedly independent, FIZZ would have an ideal opportunity to manipulate its earnings and 


boost reported sales by creating fake invoices or by channel stuffing.   


This reminds us of Valeant and Philidor,26 where Valeant employees stationed at its supposed independent purchaser 


indicated that the distributor was actually a related party, controlled and operated for the benefit of the public company 


but kept off its books.  


It is up to investors to decide the credibility of litigants, but the facts alleged in both the Thornell and Rosenthal 


lawsuits point to a pattern: that FIZZ’s employees set up or control seemingly independent third party entities through 


which they transact with the Company.  


This creates a climate ripe for abuse.  As these entities are off the books, they escape the scrutiny of the Company’s 


auditors and give shareholders no visibility as to their operations and profitability.  Such arrangements also bolster the 


credibility of Mursten’s accusation that Caporella claimed he had a little jewel box with which to manipulate earnings 


and create fake invoices.  Manipulating earnings would be easy with so many expenses carried at undisclosed related 


parties, and faking invoices would be likewise easy with FIZZ’s employees controlling and directing the operations 


of a supposedly independent distributor.    


                                                           
26 http://www.reuters.com/article/us-valeant-investigation-idUSKCN10L2RG;  


    http://www.cbsnews.com/news/valeant-ceo-defends-ties-with-mail-order-pharmacy/ 



https://www.corporationwiki.com/p/2fwfa9/maverick-distributing-company-llc

http://stampedebeverage.com/

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-valeant-investigation-idUSKCN10L2RG

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/valeant-ceo-defends-ties-with-mail-order-pharmacy/
21 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





UNDISCLOSED STOCK GIFT  





The revelations of a “stock gift” continue this pattern of hidden transactions and call into question the structure of 


Caporella’s ownership of the Company.   





Margaret Madden is a CMA employee who has worked for Caporella for years.  In a deposition of Madden during the 


Mursten case, it was revealed that in 2011, she received 150,000 shares of FIZZ’s stock as a gift from Caporella 


and $951,337 in cash to cover the related taxes.  





 
Source: Mursten vs. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 113-2, p. 9 





This issue is complicated because only a partial transcript of Madden’s deposition is available to the public, as the rest 


was redacted.  Madden initially refused to answer questions about the payment, citing her right to privacy.  But the 


context of the deposition and subsequent case pleadings indicate in our opinion that she received the shares.  


The issue was contentious and ultimately went to the court under a motion to compel Madden to answer questions 


about her “gift.”  In the court’s ruling on the motion, the judge explicitly references that Madden received the shares 


in explaining why she had to answer questions regarding them.  


Court Order 





Source: Mursten v Caporella, Case 0:14-cv-60014 Document 145; Court Order, p. 2. 


We can infer from the court order that Madden received the shares discussed in her deposition.  To our knowledge, 


the dispossession of 150,000 shares of stock by Caporella was never and has never been reflected in a change in 


ownership in any SEC document.  In addition to the lack of any filing stating a change in ownership, see proxies 


excerpted below:
22 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





2010 Proxy 


 
1 Includes 33,302,246 shares held by IBS. The sole general partner of IBS is IBS 


Management Partners, Inc., a Texas corporation. IBS Management Partners, Inc. is 


owned by Mr. Nick A. Caporella. Also includes 24,000 shares held by the wife of Mr. 


Caporella, as to which Mr. Caporella disclaims beneficial ownership. 


Source: FIZZ 2010 Proxy Statement 





2011 Proxy 


 
1 Includes 33,302,246 shares held by IBS. The sole general partner of IBS is IBS 


Management Partners, Inc., a Texas corporation. IBS Management Partners, Inc. is 


owned by Mr. Nick A. Caporella. Also includes 27,056 shares held by the wife of Mr. 


Caporella, as to which Mr. Caporella disclaims beneficial ownership. 


Source: FIZZ 2011 Proxy Statement 





2012 Proxy 


 
1 Includes 33,302,246 shares held by IBS. The sole general partner of IBS is IBS 


Management Partners, Inc., a Texas corporation. IBS Management Partners, Inc. is 


owned by Mr. Nick A. Caporella. Also includes 27,056 shares held by the wife of Mr. 


Caporella, as to which Mr. Caporella disclaims beneficial ownership. 


Source: FIZZ 2012 Proxy Statement 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774910002831/natbev_def14a-082710.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774911006453/fizz_def14a-093011.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774912008907/fizz_def14a-082612.htm
23 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





The court records indicate that Caporella paid an employee a substantial “stock gift” without disclosing it in any SEC 


filings.  Like the use of related parties, stock gifts to employees provide another way for FIZZ to use off the books 


transactions to present a false picture of the Company’s costs and expenses to investors. 


Separately, the absence of change of ownership disclosure highlights the muddy structured through which Nick 


Caporella owns FIZZ.  Caporella supposedly owns ~74% of FIZZ through IBS Partners Ltd. (a Texas limited 


partnership) whose general partner is IBS Management Partners, Inc. (a Texas Corporation). From the proxy, all we 


know is that Caporella controls the general partner IBS Management Partners, Inc. (“IBS”).  Yet shareholders are not 


given any specific information about the structure of such ownership or if the amount owned by Caporella has changed.  


This double layered ownership structure mirrors the obfuscation of the Company’s operating expenses through CMA. 


We know the obfuscation extends beyond Caporella because FIZZ CFO and CMA employee George Bracken signs 


for IBS (see below). Given that Bracken controls the books at FIZZ, CMA, and IBS, we believe that key members of 


management are well aware of the stock gift from Caporella to Madden. 





Source: Texas Secretary of State Filings - http://www.sos.state.tx.us/Corp/sosda/index.shtml 


Given that the apparent gift to Madden was not reflected in SEC filings, we suspect that the CEO may have been 


compensating employees and possibly related parties via undisclosed share gifts that would be more appropriately 


recognized as compensation or operating expenses.  We further infer that Caporella is using the layered ownership 


structure to alleviate himself of reporting requirements.  


There is another possibility as well.  If Caporella is giving stock gifts to employees without reporting it, what is to say 


he is not compensating distributors or suppliers with similar gifts, removing expenses off of the Company’s books and 


presenting a materially false picture of the Company’s ownership structure and profitability to investors?  


 



http://www.sos.state.tx.us/Corp/sosda/index.shtml
24 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





FALSIFYING DOCUMENTS AND “FUDGING” FACTS 


In uncovering the corrupt history tracing back to the Burnup days, evidence of earnings manipulation and the presence 


of undisclosed related parties, we have also found instances where FIZZ’s counsel or employees apparently falsified 


facts or documents in litigation. In our opinion, these examples illustrate management’s complete disregard for the 


truth and lack of respect for the integrity of the court system. 





1) David Boden and Scott Rothstein 
 


The Ponzi Scheme cases of David Boden, former general counsel for FIZZ, and Scott Rothstein, former outside 


counsel, highlights the extremely unethical and criminal people that worked for the Company.  If you are unfamiliar 


with these men, Rothstein and Boden together perpetrated a $1.2 Billion Ponzi Scheme in South Florida between 2005 


and 2009.27  


Rothstein is currently serving a 50-year prison sentence and Boden an 18-month prison sentence, handed down in 


2015.  


Boden is very closely tied to the history of FIZZ; he held the position of Secretary on CMA’s oldest filings with the 


state of Florida and has at times held power of attorney for FIZZ. 28  Boden even represented FIZZ while actively 


involved in the Ponzi scheme that began in 2005.  


 
Source: FIZZ 2006 Proxy Statement 





 
Source: CMA 1999 Filing with Florida 


                                                           
27 http://www.forbes.com/sites/jordanmaglich/2014/10/31/on-fifth-anniversary-of-rothsteins-1-2-billion-ponzi-scheme-questions-


remain/#622d096a570f  
28http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/ConvertTiffToPDF?storagePath=COR%5C2000%5C0418%5C60197826.T


IF&documentNumber=F00000002080  



http://www.browardpalmbeach.com/news/david-boden-rothsteins-right-hand-man-6449680

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000095014406008316/g03194def14a.htm

http://www.forbes.com/sites/jordanmaglich/2014/10/31/on-fifth-anniversary-of-rothsteins-1-2-billion-ponzi-scheme-questions-remain/#622d096a570f

http://www.forbes.com/sites/jordanmaglich/2014/10/31/on-fifth-anniversary-of-rothsteins-1-2-billion-ponzi-scheme-questions-remain/#622d096a570f

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/ConvertTiffToPDF?storagePath=COR%5C2000%5C0418%5C60197826.TIF&documentNumber=F00000002080

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/ConvertTiffToPDF?storagePath=COR%5C2000%5C0418%5C60197826.TIF&documentNumber=F00000002080
25 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





In Rothstein’s deposition transcripts,29 which are thousands of pages in length, we have found explicit ties between 


Rothstein, Boden and Caporella. The two criminals met through their work together on a FIZZ case.  Moreover, 


working for FIZZ was the first time the two would break the law together, according to Rothstein.   


After he had already agreed to cooperate with law enforcement, Rothstein testified that he and Boden “fudged facts 


to aid Mr. Caporella” in litigation against Broward county and assisted with certain “campaign issues.” 


 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


 
Source: Deposition of Scott W. Rothstein taken December 23, 2011 Volume I – p.10, p. 13 


                                                           
29 https://www.scribd.com/document/77039302/2011-12-23-Rothstein-Scott-AM  



http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/scott-rothstein-50-years-12-billion-ponzi-scheme/story?id=10868086

https://www.scribd.com/document/77039302/2011-12-23-Rothstein-Scott-AM

https://www.scribd.com/document/77039302/2011-12-23-Rothstein-Scott-AM
26 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: Deposition of Scott W. Rothstein taken December 23, 2011 Volume I – p.14 





Rothstein is a convicted criminal, scumbag and fraud, but we see very little incentive for him to lie about his previous 


work for FIZZ, considering it was not in the ambit of the government’s investigation and he already agreed to 


cooperate with the government. So we believe it is credible when Rothstein admitted under oath that he and Boden 


“knowingly fudged facts or allowed facts that were untrue to be used in connection” with a case for the benefit of 


Caporella and FIZZ.   





That David Boden, FIZZ’s former general counsel and one of its longest serving advisors, was allegedly “fudging 


facts” for Caporella and running a Ponzi Scheme should tell investors a lot about the ethical standards of FIZZ’s core 


group. 





2) The Fabricated Retention Letter? 
 


In addition to the Boden & Rothstein case, we believe that FIZZ’s management fabricated another document in the 


Mursten case.  During discovery of the first litigation (Mursten dismissed and refiled his claim), Caporella produced 


a letter supposedly sent by CMA to Mursten’s consulting company, Cornam Corporation (“Cornam”).  The Cornam 


letter purported to show the terms of an agreement reached between Caporella and Mursten in July 2010, specifically 


with regard to Mursten’s fees on the Asahi deal.  


In addition, George Bracken and Linda Crawford, FIZZ’s HR Director, both signed sworn affidavits that this putative 


retention letter slash employment agreement was real. These affidavits are included in the appendix.  


 



https://www.scribd.com/document/77039302/2011-12-23-Rothstein-Scott-AM
27 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Exhibit of employment agreement. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 122-8  p.7
28 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





Unfortunately for Bracken and Crawford, the retention letter was dated July 15, 2010, but Cornam was not formed 


until January 21, 2011.30   





Source: Florida Sunbiz records 


Mursten accused Caporella, Bracken and Crawford of fabricating the letter.  The evidence certainly seems to support 


this reading.  The letter produced by Caporella’s team and sworn to by two of FIZZ’s executives pre-dates the 


formation of Cornam, indicating that the letter was simply a back-dated fabrication.  In addition, Caporella admits that 


his first payment to Mursten went to another consulting company, Integrated Research, in December 2010.  It was 


only in January 2011 that CMA paid Mursten through Cornam, after Florida records indicate that Cornam was 


registered.31  This was well after the letter was supposedly sent to Cornam.   


Given the testimony that FIZZ’s former general counsel David Boden fudged facts in a previous FIZZ case, it certainly 


seems plausible that certain underlings tried again.   


There is more evidence.  Mursten had to re-file his case to fix jurisdictional issues, and the seemingly bogus “letter” 


mysteriously disappeared during the second round of discovery and was not produced again by Caporella.   





Mursten’s legal team highlighted the failure to produce this seemingly critical document in the second round of 


discovery, bolstering their contention that the letter was an outright fabrication and an attempt at fraud on the court.  








 
Mursten affidavit. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 122-1 pages 5-6 





                                                           
30http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&searc


hNameOrder=CORNAM%20P110000071670&aggregateId=domp-p11000007167-b7c4e881-6cfe-4541-9385-


1a273b0a233f&searchTerm=cornam%20corporation&listNameOrder=CORNAM%20G177910  
31 Caporella Motion for Summary Judgment, Mursten v Caporella, C: 14-CIV-600014, p. 5-6. 



http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=CORNAM%20P110000071670&aggregateId=domp-p11000007167-b7c4e881-6cfe-4541-9385-1a273b0a233f&searchTerm=cornam%20corporation&listNameOrder=CORNAM%20G177910

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=CORNAM%20P110000071670&aggregateId=domp-p11000007167-b7c4e881-6cfe-4541-9385-1a273b0a233f&searchTerm=cornam%20corporation&listNameOrder=CORNAM%20G177910

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=CORNAM%20P110000071670&aggregateId=domp-p11000007167-b7c4e881-6cfe-4541-9385-1a273b0a233f&searchTerm=cornam%20corporation&listNameOrder=CORNAM%20G177910
29 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





The following excerpt from the court transcript also provides a good summary of the allegations.    





 
Court transcript, Mursten lawyer speaking. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 136, p.17 


For their part, Caporella’s attorneys denied any such fabrication and argued that the letter was immaterial.   Investors 


are free to decide for themselves if Caporella’s cronies forged a back dated letter, but we think the evidence supports 


this conclusion.
30 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





OTHER RED FLAGS 


Two other red flags are worth noting, both by investors and by government agencies with subpoena power of FIZZ’s 


books and records.  The first is a bizarre, mysterious and (in our view) abusive financing in January 2013.  The second 


are allegations that Caporella and FIZZ violated campaign finance laws by reimbursing employee donations to 


political candidates. 





1) 8100 Partners and the Unexplained Series D Financing  
 


In February 2011, as the potential Asahi acquisition was beginning to derail, FIZZ paid a special dividend of $106.3 


million.  As a 74% owner of the Company, Caporella got a good chunk of these funds.   


On December 27, 2012, a few weeks after Mursten sued Caporella, FIZZ paid a special dividend of $118.1 million by 


raising ~$80 million in debt from unnamed banks with a weighted average interest rate of 1.1%.  


On January 25, 2013, FIZZ conducted a $20 million Series D round of financing, issuing 400,000 preferred shares 


that accrued a 3% dividend for 12 months and paid interest at 370 bps above the 3-month LIBOR thereafter, rates 


significantly higher than FIZZ’s existing debt. 


It was opaquely described in the accompanying 8-K, which we have included in the appendix, as “a private placement 


with a Management Group that includes a trust previously established by” Caporella.  


Only in the subsequent 10-Q did investors discover that FIZZ used the $20 million to re-pay part of the lower cost 


debt borrowed under its credit facility.32   


This transaction makes little financial sense.  Why would the Company repay cheap debt using the proceeds of high 


interest financing raised from its management team? This transaction seems obviously detrimental to shareholder 


interests while unjustly enriching insiders.   


Graphic representation of the transactions which occurred between October 2012 and February 2013 





                                                           
32 FIZZ, 2013 Q-3 10-Q, p. 10 “the net proceeds of $19.7 million were used to repay borrowings under the credit facilities.”  The 


Company 10-Q states that it borrowed $60 million on the credit facility for the quarter, so we calculate that if $20 million in 


proceeds from the preferred shares were used to repay credit facility debt, the original amount of borrowings before such repayment 


was $80 million.
31 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





The $20 million was raised from an entity known as 8100 Partners (FIZZ’s address is 8100 SW 10TH St., Plantation, 


FL) which has FIZZ’s CFO, George Bracken, as well as Linda Crawford listed in the corporate records.33 From 


deposition testimony we learnt that Margaret Madden also holds an interest in 8100 Partners but that neither Nick nor 


Joseph Caporella is included in the management group.34  


Suspiciously, in deposition testimony, George Bracken, through his lawyer, refused to answer a single question about 


the transaction, including regarding who funded it. Presumably if the management group funded the $20 million, this 


would be a rather easy question to answer. 





             
David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-


60014-JIC Document 113-1   p.11 


     
David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv- 


60014-JIC Document 113-1   p.7-8 

















                                                           
33_http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&sear


chNameOrder=8100PARTNERS%20L130000115290&aggregateId=flal-l13000011529-47a0e1c4-fee2-4ea7-a206-


ab9337448362&searchTerm=8100%20Partners&listNameOrder=8100PARTNERS%20L130000115290     
34 Mursten vs. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 113-2 



http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=8100PARTNERS%20L130000115290&aggregateId=flal-l13000011529-47a0e1c4-fee2-4ea7-a206-ab9337448362&searchTerm=8100%20Partners&listNameOrder=8100PARTNERS%20L130000115290

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=8100PARTNERS%20L130000115290&aggregateId=flal-l13000011529-47a0e1c4-fee2-4ea7-a206-ab9337448362&searchTerm=8100%20Partners&listNameOrder=8100PARTNERS%20L130000115290

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=8100PARTNERS%20L130000115290&aggregateId=flal-l13000011529-47a0e1c4-fee2-4ea7-a206-ab9337448362&searchTerm=8100%20Partners&listNameOrder=8100PARTNERS%20L130000115290
32 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





Through her lawyers, Margaret Madden similarly chose to not answer any questions related to 8100 Partners.  





 
David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 113-2   p.10-11 


 
In a subsequent response motion, Caporella’s lawyers admitted that Caporella paid Bracken and Madden 


“compensation in various forms35” and said that this is “unremarkable.”  





Caporella response. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 119, p. 2 


It seems unfeasible that these management members could have funded the financing given their compensation. 


Bracken, the highest paid member of the group, had pre-tax total compensation of $2.3 million in the 6 years leading 


up to the preferred stock issuance. After taxes and normal annual expenses, how did Bracken and a couple colleagues 


come up with $20 million to lend the Company at a high interest rate? 





 
Source: FIZZ Proxy Statements 





Mursten’s lawyers argued that the financing was an incentive to key executives to ensure their loyalty, but we have 


no view on the credibility of those accusations.   





It is likely something much simpler.  Our sense is that the 8100 Partners financing is an example of more off-the-


books compensation to the Company’s executives.  We believe National Beverage should fully explain the logic of 


this transaction, the beneficiaries of 8100 Partners as well as the source of the original financing.  


This episode also presents an ideal use of subpoena power.  The Company has kept investors in the dark regarding 


this transaction.  But it is indisputable that the Company repaid cheap debt with expensive financing sourced from a 


group of FIZZ executives who, based on their reported compensation, should not have had the liquid cash to fund such 


a vehicle.  This transaction was clearly not in the best interests of FIZZ or its shareholders, yet benefited at least the 


three executives that have been with Caporella for decades and that are associated with a number of other mysterious 


unaffiliated entities.  


Because the Series D has now been repaid in full, shareholders have the right to know how management benefitted 


from this and why the Company used such expensive financing to repay cheap borrowings from its credit facility.   





                                                           
35 Mursten vs. Caporella Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 119 


Total Compensation - George Bracken from FIZZ Proxy


Figures are in US$ FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 Total


George R. Bracken 284,285      304,250      306,995      325,400      351,400      626,320      2,198,650
33 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





2) Campaign Finance 
 


Mursten’s complaint raised the issue that FIZZ and Caporella may have violated campaign finance laws and that 


FIZZ’s previous attorney, convicted criminal David Boden, was concerned about the conduct. 





 
Initial complaint. David B. Mursten vs. Nick A. Caporella Case 0:12-cv-62474- Document 1 


Scott Rothstein, the Ponzi scheme mastermind, also alluded to campaign issues under oath when discussing David 


Boden’s involvement with past illegal activities.  





 



http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZMe9mZxOpmAJ:www.plainsite.org/dockets/download.html%3Fid%3D30649069%26z%3D51c75661+&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us
34 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Deposition of Scott W. Rothstein taken December 23, 2011 Volume I – p.13-14 


Campaign finance laws are byzantine, but we believe the issue could be the prohibition against so-called conduit 


contributions.  The Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA) broadly prohibits corporations from directing employees 


to make campaign contributions and then reimbursing them for the expense. Both the Federal Election Commission 


and the Justice Department have prosecuted companies and individuals for civil and criminal violations of this 


provision.36 





Mursten alleged that Caporella directed CMA and FIZZ employees to make donations to political campaigns and then 


reimbursed them for their “personal” contributions.  We are no experts in election law, but if true, this seems like a 


violation of the conduit prohibition in campaign laws.  At least two separate sources flagged campaign financing issues 


with respect to the Company, so we categorize it as another significant red flag. 








                                                           
36 Election law is in a state of uncertainty following the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, but there is a consensus that 


laws and prohibitions against conduit contributions by corporations remain in place.  


http://www.nationallawjournal.com/id=1202753889461/Time-to-Brush-Up-on-Campaign-Finance-


Laws?slreturn=20160822113150  



https://www.scribd.com/document/77039302/2011-12-23-Rothstein-Scott-AM

http://www.nationallawjournal.com/id=1202753889461/Time-to-Brush-Up-on-Campaign-Finance-Laws?slreturn=20160822113150

http://www.nationallawjournal.com/id=1202753889461/Time-to-Brush-Up-on-Campaign-Finance-Laws?slreturn=20160822113150
35 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





3) Shareholder Financed Private Jet 
 


Mursten also alleged in his initial complaint that Vincent Caporella, another son of Nick’s, falsified aircraft 


maintenance logs for the corporate Falcon 2000-EX jet at Nick’s request.  There is not much evidence either way to 


support these allegations, but we have included a picture of the jet below for reference and bet a number of 


shareholders didn’t even realize that they paid for such a thrifty form of transportation.  The fixed costs (including 


maintenance) for Falcon 2000 average ~$750,000 a year.  The Company plane even has a tail number of “N1NC,” 


presumably in honor of their #1 CEO Nick Caporella (NC).  








Paid for by Shareholders: Caporella’s Corporate Jet 





FIZZ asserted to the SEC that the plane has never been used for personal reasons.37  Photos posted online by jet 


aficionados indicate more than one visit to Geneva, Switzerland, as well as a stop in Amsterdam. Moreover, Mursten 


alleged that they took N1NC to Mexico.  We do not believe that FIZZ sells many cans of LaCroix or its other brands 


internationally, so perhaps the government will be interested in inquiring as to the bona fide business purpose of these 


trips.   


Related to the plane, another undisclosed Caporella entity shows up. Caporella, Bracken and Madden are all officers 


of Broad River Aviation,38 the entity we have discovered through which CMA owns 20% of the jet and FIZZ owns 


80%.39 Another layered, off the books transaction. 











                                                           
37 March 15, 2011 SEC Correspondence.  https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774911001558/filename1.htm  
38_http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=OfficerRegisteredAgentName&direction


Type=Initial&searchNameOrder=MADDENMARGIE%20F990000026183&aggregateId=forp-f99000002618-faf0eeb5-7e2d-


4b23-b405-c64b46af241c&searchTerm=MADDEN%20MARGIE&listNameOrder=MADDENMARGIE%208513193  
39 FIZZ 2015 Proxy p.18 - https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774915016654/fizz20150826_def14a.htm  



http://www.vanallen.com/index.php/acquisition-services/vanallen-jetguide/dassault-falcon-2000lx/

http://www.jetphotos.net/showphotos.php?regsearch=N1NC&view=true

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774911001558/filename1.htm

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=OfficerRegisteredAgentName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=MADDENMARGIE%20F990000026183&aggregateId=forp-f99000002618-faf0eeb5-7e2d-4b23-b405-c64b46af241c&searchTerm=MADDEN%20MARGIE&listNameOrder=MADDENMARGIE%208513193

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=OfficerRegisteredAgentName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=MADDENMARGIE%20F990000026183&aggregateId=forp-f99000002618-faf0eeb5-7e2d-4b23-b405-c64b46af241c&searchTerm=MADDEN%20MARGIE&listNameOrder=MADDENMARGIE%208513193

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=OfficerRegisteredAgentName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=MADDENMARGIE%20F990000026183&aggregateId=forp-f99000002618-faf0eeb5-7e2d-4b23-b405-c64b46af241c&searchTerm=MADDEN%20MARGIE&listNameOrder=MADDENMARGIE%208513193

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/69891/000143774915016654/fizz20150826_def14a.htm
36 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





VALUATION 


FIZZ’s reported financial performance is inexplicable.  It sells regional brand sodas and carbonated beverages for a 


~40% ASP discount compared to its peers, and as a result struggles with gross margins ~40% below its comps.  Yet 


it reports comparatively amazing operating leverage, despite its smaller size and weaker brands.  Suspicious details 


abound.  Despite sales increasing 36% from 2006-2016, its reported advertising and shipping costs have not changed.  


Indeed, FIZZ’s reported SG&A has remained almost flat since 2006.  Has FIZZ so revolutionized the beverage 


business so that variable costs such as shipping and marketing are uncorrelated with rising sales?  How could FIZZ 


report greater operating leverage than larger peers like Coca-Cola or Pepsi, who should benefit from economies of 


scale and greater brand capital?   





We believe that the answer, based on our analysis of the evidence discussed in this report, is that FIZZ manipulates 


its reported earnings.  





Mursten, a former attorney and trusted advisor of the CEO, as a lawyer, alleged in a federal complaint that CEO Nick 


Caporella admitted to him that he manipulated earnings using a “little jewel box” and by creating fake invoices.  He 


declared under oath and under penalty of perjury that he believed that Caporella’s alleged use of the “little jewel box” 


was illegal.  We believe that this insider account is credible, given Mursten’s status as an attorney, his history with the 


Company, and his close relationship with the CEO.   





Other evidence corroborates his allegations.  Letters produced in discovery indicate that Caporella refused to allow 


Asahi, a potential acquirer, to conduct adequate due diligence of the Company.  The CEO even admits that Asahi’s 


lawyers either stated or insinuated that his fear of due diligence indicated he was hiding something.  





FIZZ’s very operating structure presents an ideal opportunity for earnings manipulation.  FIZZ outsources legal, 


accounting and audit functions to CMA, a private company under the control of insiders.  FIZZ’s CEO and CFO are 


not even paid by the Company.  There are also a number of other suspicious entities which are never disclosed as 


subsidiaries in SEC filings but which are registered or apparently controlled by FIZZ’s executives.  The purpose and 


function of these entities is unclear, although such arrangements present an ideal opportunity to hide costs, inflate 


sales and otherwise manipulate earnings.   





The credibility of FIZZ’s management team is less than zero.  In one instance, FIZZ’s former lawyer admitted to 


“fudging facts” in a litigation on behalf of the Company.  The Company’s former general counsel (Boden) and outside 


counsel (Rothstein) were convicted in a Ponzi scheme.  Unpacking the Burnup days in the 70s and 80s also shows a 


dark history of corruption.   





This does not even touch on the unrecorded stock gifts, the murky ownership structure, the allegations regarding 


campaign finance contributions, and the questionable equity issuance that further undermine our confidence in the 


integrity of the management team and the Company’s financial statements.   





The situation reminds us of Valeant: how do you value a Company when you believe that the management team 


manipulates reported financials but that nonetheless possesses some decent assets? In this case, that means valuing 


LaCroix.  In July 2014, an acquirer purchased a 25% stake in the parent company of Vita Coco, the top-selling coconut 


water brand in the U.S., at a valuation of 2.2x sales.  This may be an overly generous comparison to LaCroix, because 


coconut water is a premium-priced, high-margin beverage, but we believe it represents the top end of the brands 


valuation.  





The rest of FIZZ’s business is labored with slumping and unhealthy regional brands.  Analysts estimate that sales from 


FIZZ’s non-LaCroix beverages are declining.  Therefore, we assign a 0.5x sales multiple to FIZZ’s non-LaCroix 


business, the same multiple used for the purchase of branded juice maker American Beverage by Harvest Hill in March 


2015.  





A sum of the parts yields a Glaucus valuation of $16.15 per share. 



http://www.wsj.com/articles/chinese-buyer-taps-into-coconut-water-craze-1405300157

http://www.capstonellc.com/sites/default/files/Capstone_Food%20%20Beverage%20Products_Q2%202015.pdf

http://harvesthill.com/
37 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 








Applying a 25% corruption discount to our valuation is also conservative.  We believe that the evidence presented in 


this report warrants the full exercise of the government’s subpoena power, and that the SEC and other agencies should 


investigate the Company’s practices.  This would put further downward pressure on FIZZ’s shares.   




















FIZZ GRG Valuation Estimate


Figures are in $mm Valuation


FIZZ Reported Net Sales (TTM ending 


1Q'17)
736.50$            


EV/Sales Acquisition Multiples


LaCroix Sales Estimate - 51% of Total 375.62$              


Vita-Coco - Comp to LaCroix 2.2x


Implied LaCroix Valuation 826.35$            


Non-LaCroix Sales Estimate - 49% of Total 360.89$              


American Beverage - Comp to non-LaCroix 0.5x


Implied Non-LaCroix Valuation 180.44$            


Total Valuation 1,006.80$         


Corruption Discount 25%


Corruption Discounted Valuation 755.10$            


Shares Outstanding (mm) 46.767


FIZZ Value per Share 16.15$               


Current Price (as of 9/27/2016) 46.48$                


Downside -65%
38 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





APPENDIX 


Letters to Asahi from Nick Caporella40 


First Letter on January 22, 2011:  





                                                           
40 Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 129-2.
39 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com
40 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





2nd letter on April 4, 2011:
41 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com
42 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





3rd letter on April 8, 2011:
43 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com
44 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com
45 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





4th letter on April 13, 2011:
46 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com
47 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





Series D Financing 8K
48 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





Employment Agreement and Accompanying Affidavits which in our opinion, appear to be forged.41  





                                                           
41 Case 0:14-cv-60014-JIC Document 122-8
49 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com
50 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com
51 
 


National Beverage Corp.│ Nasdaq: FIZZ                           www.glaucusresearch.com 





DISCLAIMER 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is FIZZ. So are the banks that raised money for FIZZ. If you are 


invested (either long or short) in FIZZ, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like everyone 


else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the publication of our 


opinions about the public companies we research is in the public interest.  





You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of FIZZ stock declines. This report and 


all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of fact. Our 


opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we set out in our research report 


to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a manner that any person could have 


done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on 


to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making any investment decisions. We are 


prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law.  





As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) (possibly 


along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors 


has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize 


significant gains in the event that the price of FIZZ’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research at 


your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to the 


securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be construed as 


investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, 


or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any 


security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under 


the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and 


reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected 


persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is 


evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure that our 


research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to support our 


opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented “as is,” without 


warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, 


LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high 


value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international 


organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  





This report should only be considered in its entirety.  Each section should be read in the context of the entire report, and no section, 


paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its author to stand alone or to be interpreted in isolation without reference to the 


rest of the report.  The section headings contained in this report are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in 


reference to the detailed statements of opinions in their respective sections.  





Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 


completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or supplement 


this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and independently 


agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by the laws of the 


State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the 


superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in California; and (iii) that 


regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the 


material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a 


waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the 


parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision and 


rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction 


provision.
