GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC www.gothamcityresearch.com info@gothamcityresearch.com 
 


GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC 





AAC Technologies LTD (Ticker = 2018):  


Why are AAC’s reported profit margins  


higher AND smoother than Apple’s? Part I  





GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH’S OPINIONS 


 AAC has used 20+ undisclosed related parties & dubious accounting to overstate & smoothen 
profits since 2014.  In this regard, AAC reminds us of Longtop Financial Technologies. 


 AAC has used these hidden entities to evade Apple’s labor standards specified in the Apple 
Supplier Code of Conduct. 


Example #1: Lian Tai Precision连泰精密科技江苏有限公司 


The Lian Tai factory shown below has the AAC logo displayed (circled in red), instead of its own name:





Site visit to: 江苏省沭阳县沭城镇经济开发区北园区永嘉路 40号_ 


 Employs ~4,000 people & mentions Apple as a customer. Apple does not list Lian Tai as a supplier. 
 Lian Tai is owned by a family member of AAC’s CEO. 
 There are documented allegations of physical abuse of workers & dirty working conditions. 
 AAC has never disclosed the existence of Lian Tai as a related party.
Page 2 of 5 
 


WARNING – The views expressed in this report are opinions based on publicly available information. The 
expression of these views should not be construed as statements of facts.  GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH 
LLC has not sought a response from any of the companies which are the subject of this report and has 
not engaged the services of lawyers, accountants, financial advisers or other professionals to advise 
upon specific laws and regulations, accounting practices and industry practices which may be relevant 
to the views being expressed.   


By reading this report, you agree to the following: 


(a) Use of this report is at your own risk. In no event will you hold GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC or any 
affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information in this report. This report 
is not investment advice or a recommendation or solicitation to buy any securities. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH 
LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. Gotham City Research LLC is not affiliated or 
associated with Gotham Asset Management, LLC or any of its affiliates. 


(b) This report is intended only for use by institutional investors, not retail investors. You will do your own 
research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. 
You represent to GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically 
assess the information, analysis and opinions in this report, including as to the laws and regulations, accounting 
practices and industry practices which may be relevant to the views being expressed herein. 


(c) You will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed 
to be bound by these same terms of service. 


On the publication date of this report, GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC has a net short position with respect to 
the securities (including shares, options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the shares) of the issuer 
discussed in this report.  GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC stands to profit in the event the price of the issuer’s 
securities declines, and may incur investment losses if the price of such securities increases. GOTHAM CITY 
RESEARCH LLC may, without notice to the market, buy, sell, cover or otherwise change its position in the issuer 
in its sole discretion at any time 


This report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, and opinions prepared with respect to, 
among other things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer faces and the potential impact of 
those issues on its future business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as more generally, the 
issuer’s anticipated operating performance, access to capital markets, market conditions, assets and liabilities. 
Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions may prove to be substantially inaccurate and are inherently 
subject to significant risks and uncertainties beyond GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC’s control. 


The analysis in this report is based upon publicly available information and field research.  GOTHAM 
CITY RESEARCH LLC believes all publicly available information contained herein is accurate and reliable.  
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. 
GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC, makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, 
or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  


 All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC is not 
obligated to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 


You should assume that this report, as well as additional material not included in this report, has and/or will be 
submitted to various regulators.
Page 3 of 5 
 


Table of Contents 


I. Disclaimer 
II. Summary 


III. Preview & Introduction
Page 4 of 5 
 


GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC 


a 




































































GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH HAS REASON TO BELIEVE THAT: 


 AAC has used 20+ undisclosed related parties & dubious 
accounting to overstate & smoothen profits since 2014.   


 At least 20 undisclosed related party suppliers are owned 
or managed by AAC CEO’s family members or employees. 


 These undisclosed related party suppliers are not listed in 
Apple’s supplier list, despite some claiming otherwise. 


 Some of the undisclosed related entities supply the same 
products as AAC does, are based in the same locations as 
AAC is, & hire employees under AAC’s name. 


 AAC has used these hidden entities to evade Apple’s labor 
standards specified in the Apple Supplier Code of Conduct. 


 Apple (and other parties) will conduct independent 
investigations, & validate our findings. As a result, AAC’s 
profit margins will decline, converging to its peers’ levels. 


 AAC is in violation of Hong Kong listing rules, Apple’s 
supplier code of conduct, and its own representations.  


OBSERVATIONS 


 AAC’s operating profit margins have been unusually high & 
smooth relative to its peers & Apple, since 2014. 


 AAC’s costs per employee is less than half its peers’.  
 AAC has no listed CFO since 2010, per its annual reports. 
 Chunyuan Wu, the wife of AAC’s CEO, is a member of 


AAC’s audit & risk committee. 
 AAC had 3 COOs within 1 year (2013-2014), around the 


same time AAC’s margins became unusually smooth. 
 AAC’s auditor, Deloitte, is considered the Audit Firm That 


Has Had the Most Trouble in China.  
 AAC’s relationship with respect to its undisclosed related 


parties reminds us of Longtop Financial Technologies’ 
relationship with its undisclosed related parties. 


 AAC’s 2016 audit fee as a % of revenue is only 0.02%, 
lower than Let’s Gowex’s (a Spanish fraud, where 90% of 
the revenues were fake). 





Company: AAC 
Technologies LTD 


Ticker: 2018 


Exchange: Hong Kong 
(SEHK) 


CEO: Zhengmin Pan 


CFO: None disclosed 


Share price performance 
2017 YTD: +58% 


Share price (May 10th, 
2016): 111 HKD per share   


Initial price target: 44 HKD 
per share 


Market cap: 136.3B HKD 


52-week high: 116.50 HKD 


52-week low: 55.70 HKD 


Shares outstanding: 
1,228M 


Foreign ownership (as % 
of float): 66% 


2014-2016 gross margins: 
41.4%, 41.5%, & 41.5%   


2016 Audit fee as % of 
revenue: 0.02% 


Auditor: Deloitte Touche 
Tohmatsu
Page 5 of 5 
 


PREVIEW & INTRODUCTION 


GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH first heard about AAC Technologies LTD in 2015, an Apple supplier, when Apple 
was said to have found a defect in components produced by AAC for the Apple Watch. With AAC’s stock 
up nearly 3x since then, we decided to re-visit AAC recently. Upon a cursory review, AAC appears to be an 
exceptionally good company with notably higher and smoother margins relative to its peers: 





AAC margins are so good, it has reported higher & smoother margins than Apple, Google, & Microsoft: 





What is AAC Technologies’ “secret sauce”? How does AAC, an Apple supplier, achieve higher and 
smoother profit margins than Apple, Google, & Microsoft? Some have attributed AAC’s superior & smooth 
margins to a myriad of factors, such as workforce automation.  While some of these explanations may 
sound plausible, we see it differently.  


In our opinion, the evidence supports a more nefarious explanation: AAC uses undisclosed related party 
suppliers to inflate and smoothen its margins. Such an explanation may seem far-fetched, except that 
there are a number of case studies of companies that relied on nearly identical schemes to overstate 
profits (and whose share prices subsequently declined). Take for example, Longtop Financial Technologies 
Ltd (“LFT”), a formerly US-listed Chinese company that used undisclosed related parties to overstate its 
profits. In this regard, AAC reminds us of LFT (coincidentally, AAC uses the same auditor as LFT did).  


Unlike certain schemes that can last indefinitely, Gotham City Research believes that AAC’s apparent 
schemes will come to an end shortly. We believe Apple (and other parties) will conduct their own 
investigations, and independently come to similar conclusions as we have. 


We believe shares will initially decline to 40 HKD - 50 HKD per share, as the undisclosed related party 
supplier revelations are digested.  We see far greater downside potential if the company were to 
concurrently experience the same problems that other Apple suppliers have in the past, e.g. increased 
competition, pricing pressure from its customers, wage inflation, etc. In our coming report(s), which we 
intend to release in the near future, we will explain our case for these opinions. 


Net Profit Margins - AAC versus Peers
2014 2015 2016


Goertek 13.0% 9.2% 8.6%
ALPS Electric 3.0% 5.8% 6.0%
Knowles Corp 13.1% 1.9% 2.2%
Merry Electronics 10.1% 5.2% 11.9%
Jinlong Machinery 9.5% 10.8% 4.0%
AAC Tech 26.0% 26.5% 26.0%


Net Profit Margins - AAC versus the Best
2014 2015 2016


Google 21.9% 21.8% 21.6%
Microsoft 25.4% 13.0% 19.7%
Apple 21.6% 22.9% 21.2%
AAC Tech 26.0% 26.5% 26.0%
