Zafgen is a biopharmaceutical company on the brink of extinction. From its founding in 2005, 


Zafgen’s “big idea,” in the words of one piece of early press coverage, was to “fight fat by cutting 


off its blood supply.” After licensing a drug called beloranib that was originally designed to inhibit 


angiogenesis (the development of new blood vessels) in order to treat cancer, Zafgen ultimately 


focused its development efforts on Prader–Willi syndrome (PWS), a rare genetic disorder in 


which a specific group of genes is missing or unexpressed, leading to an array of problems, 


including obesity and hyperphagia (extreme over-eating and food-seeking). 





But Zafgen’s work has ended in tragedy. In October, the company announced that a beloranib 


patient in its Phase 3 PWS trial died from pulmonary embolism – blood clots in the lungs’ 


arteries. The FDA put a partial clinical hold on the drug but allowed Zafgen to continue the trial. 


Beloranib patients were only put back on the drug after being “screened for existing thrombotic 


[i.e. clotting-related] disease” and were then “regularly monitored” to ensure safety. 


Nonetheless, in December another beloranib patient died, also from pulmonary emboli, leading 


the FDA to apply a complete clinical hold. Moreover, Zafgen disclosed that other beloranib 


patients had experienced an additional seven (non-fatal) “thrombotic events.” (Meanwhile, no 


placebo patients died, and no placebo patients suffered from thrombotic events.) With Zafgen’s 


only well-developed drug candidate now revealed to be woefully dangerous – even in the face 


of enhanced screening and monitoring – its stock price collapsed. 





But hope springs eternal. Last Wednesday, Zafgen released results from the Phase 3 PWS trial 


indicating that beloranib had statistically significant positive effects on weight and hyperphagia. 


The company’s stock price rallied 79%, and multiple sell-side analysts issued new “buy” ratings. 


But this reaction is absurd. Nothing meaningful has changed: beloranib is highly dangerous but 


only modestly effective. While optimistic analysts think Zafgen can somehow “mitigate” the risks 


and placate the FDA enough to secure approval, beloranib is a drug that reduces weight by 4-


5% at the expense of increasing patients’ annual mortality rate by, according to our estimates, a 


factor of 4 or more. Quadrupling the risk of death in exchange for 5% weight loss is a 


monumentally bad bargain. Unlike those with late-stage cancer, for whom the health risks of 


angiogenesis inhibitors like beloranib make sense, PWS patients live relatively long lives, and 


Zafgen has already proven that, even when it ramps up its screening and monitoring, it does not 


know how to keep these patients safe. The FDA will not approve beloranib, and Zafgen is worth 


nothing more than the present value of its future cash balance, which we estimate is 65% below 


the current price. 




















January 2016 





Zafgen, Inc. (ZFGN) 
FDA Approval for a Deadly Drug? Fat Chance 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC 
(“Kerrisdale”), other research contributors, and others with whom we have shared our research 
(the “Authors”) have short positions in and may own option interests on the stock of Zafgen, Inc. 
(the “Company”), and stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. 
Following publication, the Authors may transact in the securities of the Company. The Authors 
have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be accurate and reliable. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express 
or implied – and without any representation as to the results obtained from its use.  All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the Authors do not undertake 
to update this report or any information contained herein. Please read our full legal disclaimer at 


the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 2 





I. Beloranib Is Unsafe 





To understand the dangers of beloranib, it’s important to put its body count in context. In 


Zafgen’s Phase 3 PWS trial, patients randomized to the beloranib arms (corresponding to two 


different doses) received the drug for six months, followed by an additional six-month open-label 


extension in which they could opt to continue receiving the drug. Because the trial was cut short, 


however, many beloranib patients did not have time to receive the maximum twelve months of 


drug exposure even if they wanted to. Thus, although 2 dead patients out of 73 who received 


beloranib looks like a 2 / 73 = 2.7% death rate, we estimate that this corresponds to a 3.3% 


annual death rate – more than 20% higher.1 At a 3.3% annual death rate, a staggering ~15% of 


beloranib patients (taking the drug twice weekly) would die over a five-year period.   





What’s the normal mortality risk faced by patients with PWS? Zafgen would like everyone to 


believe that it’s very high, implying that beloranib’s safety track record isn’t as bad as it looks. 


But the best available evidence indicates that PWS, though clearly damaging to long-term 


survival, is a slow killer. We identified three recent studies of PWS that analyzed survival using 


the standard Kaplan–Meier method. The largest, drawing on the records of 425 PWS patients in 


Italy, showed that 20-year-olds with PWS had a 98% likelihood of surviving the next five years 


and a 94% likelihood of surviving the next ten.2 (The mean age in the beloranib arms of 


Zafgen’s Phase 3 was ~19, with a standard deviation of ~5.5.) Two smaller studies produced 


similar results. One, based on 163 individuals with PWS in Victoria, Australia, estimated that 5-


year survival from age 20 was 97%;3 another, based on only 37 patients (also in Australia), 


estimated 82%.4 Simply put, those with PWS who survive to early adulthood should have many 


years ahead of them. 





Below, we use these three studies to estimate forward-looking annual death rates for PWS 


patients of different ages and take a sample-size-weighted average for each age. The typical 


                                                
1 Zafgen has not provided enough information about how many patients opted to take beloranib during 


the open-label extension and for how long to allow us to adjust the death rate precisely. We assume that 


the first patient was enrolled on 10/1/14, that 67 patients were enrolled by 3/19/15 (based on comments 


from the 2015 Q1 earnings call), that 102 patients were enrolled by 5/12/15 (based on comments from the 


2015 Q2 earnings call), and that the final 5 patients were enrolled by 5/15/15 (assuming the same pace of 


patients added per day as was seen between March and May). If enrollments were linear between those 


dates, then the average date of enrollment was 2/5/15. (Simply averaging the start and end dates of 


10/1/14 and 5/15/15 produces a similar date: 1/22/15.) From that date to the date of the complete clinical 


hold (12/2/15), 0.82 years elapsed. We thus estimate the death rate per patient-year as 2 deaths / (73 


patients x 0.82 years) = 3.3% per patient-year. 
2 Grugni et al., “The Italian National Survey for Prader-Willi Syndrome: An Epidemiologic Study,” 


American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A, 2008. See Figure 3a. 
3 Lionti et al., “Prader-Willi Syndrome in Victoria: Mortality and Causes of Death,” Journal of Paediatrics 


and Child Health, 2012. See Figure 1. 
4 Einfeld et al., “Mortality in Prader-Willi Syndrome,” American Journal on Mental Retardation, 2006. See 


Figure 1.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





rate for those in the relevant age groups is approximately 0.7%. Thus the death rate of PWS 


patients on beloranib is ~4.7 times higher than normal. 





Prader–Willi Syndrome: Normal Death Rates by Age 





 Average annual death rate over following 5 years 


Starting 


age 


Grugni 2008 


(n = 425) 


Lionti 2012 


(n = 163) 


Einfeld 2006 


(n = 37) 


n-weighted 


average 


15 0.3% 0.4% 0.0% 0.3% 


20 0.5% 0.6% 3.8% 0.7% 


25 0.8% 0.9% 0.0% 0.7% 


30 1.7% 0.0% 1.8% 1.3% 





Source: Grugni et al. 2008, Lionti et al. 2012, Einfeld et al. 2006, Kerrisdale 


analysis 


Death rates shown are derived from published Kaplan–Meier survival curves. Note: 


0% values are artifacts of small sample sizes. For instance, in Einfeld 2006, the 


survival curve implies that no patients die from age 15 to age 20 – obviously an 


imprecise estimate, but an indication of the relatively low risk of death. 





Consistent with the conclusion that beloranib is deadly (but that PWS itself rarely is, at least in 


the short run), zero placebo patients died in the Phase 3 trial. Moreover, both beloranib fatalities 


had the same proximate cause – pulmonary embolism – while other beloranib patients 


experienced less severe but similar types of adverse events. Is this all just a big coincidence – a 


fundamentally innocuous drug with a run of bad luck? At times, Zafgen management has taken 


this tack, arguing that pulmonary embolism and thrombotic issues in general are common for 


those with PWS – so who’s to say that beloranib is to blame? 





This line of reasoning defies logic and common sense. Zafgen’s preferred data source,5 an 


unpublished analysis of 310 deaths tracked by the Prader–Willi Syndrome Association, 


indicates that 6% of PWS deaths result from pulmonary embolism – not a very high number. Of 


course, the probability of two dead patients both dying from pulmonary embolism purely by 


chance is 6% x 6% = 0.36% – odds of 277 to 1. And we calculate that, assuming an underlying 


PWS death rate of 0.7% per year, the probability of 2 out of 73 patients coincidentally dying 


from the same 6%-likely cause is vanishingly tiny – 0.03%, or odds of 3,520 to 1. These are not 


coincidences. In PWS patients – and potentially in others – beloranib increases the risk of death 


from pulmonary embolism astronomically. With these data in hand, what kind of doctor would 


risk prescribing this drug? What kind of regulator would allow it onto the market? 





                                                
5 Discussed e.g. on slide 8 of Zafgen’s 2015 Q3 earnings presentation.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 4 





II. Drugs Like Beloranib Are Known to Cause Thrombosis 





As previously mentioned, beloranib was originally intended to inhibit angiogenesis – the 


development of new blood vessels – to treat cancer. Not only is it intuitively plausible that a drug 


that affects blood-vessel function could lead to dangerous vascular side effects (like fatal blood 


clots); the risk was even identified ahead of time by a third party. Last March, Dr. Robert 


Howland wrote a short piece with the subtitle “The Story behind Beloranib,”6 which noted some 


of the safety concerns (emphasis added): 





The safety of beloranib in particular will need to be evaluated carefully. Angiogenic 
factors have broad biological functions that are necessary for normal physiological 
functioning…Hence, angiogenesis inhibitor drugs used for treating obesity may have 
many expected and unexpected adverse effects. For example, the drug thalidomide 
was found to be an angiogenesis inhibitor more than 30 years after it was notoriously 
associated with major teratogenic effects. Other angiogenesis inhibitor drugs have been 
associated with bleeding, hypertension, proteinuria, and fatal cardiovascular events, 
and angiogenesis inhibition may impair wound healing and tissue repair. 





Furthermore, angiogenesis inhibitors have been linked to thrombosis specifically. The National 


Cancer Institute’s layman-oriented web page on angiogenesis inhibitors, answering the 


question, “Do angiogenesis inhibitors have side effects?” says, “Side effects of treatment with 


angiogenesis inhibitors can include problems with bleeding, clots in the arteries (with resultant 


stroke or heart attack), hypertension, and protein in the urine” (emphasis added). A 2009 review 


paper entitled “Thrombosis Associated with Angiogenesis Inhibitors” noted that “[m]any new 


biological agents with anti-angiogenic properties appear to be associated with an increased risk 


for thrombosis,” with evidence implicating thalidomide, lenalidomide, semaxibin, prinomastat, 


bevacizumab, sunitinib, and sorafenib.7 In short, beloranib’s thrombosis problem is not out of left 


field; it’s consistent with the history of other angiogenesis inhibitors.8 The FDA won’t fail to 


notice this pattern. 





Zafgen’s management denies that the track record of angiogenesis inhibitors is relevant 


because, it argues, the doses of beloranib used in its recent clinical trials are far too low to 


actually stop angiogenesis. In fact, while Zafgen originally believed that beloranib “[fought] fat by 


cutting off its blood supply,” it later discovered a different mechanism of action unrelated to the 


blood. But there’s nothing stopping a drug from having multiple effects on different parts of the 


body, and the same intrinsic properties that made beloranib a strong angiogenesis inhibitor at 


                                                
6 Robert Howland, “Aspergillus, Angiogenesis, and Obesity: The Story Behind Beloranib,” Journal of 


Psychosocial Nursing, 2015. 
7 Elice et al., “Thrombosis Associated with Angiogenesis Inhibitors,” Best Practice & Research Clinical 


Haematology, 2009. 
8 Interestingly, a 2013 paper points to a possible mechanism by which beloranib might cause thrombosis. 


Beloranib is an artificial analog of a natural compound called fumagillin, and fumagillin has been found to 


stimulate eryptosis – red-blood-cell suicide – which, the authors note, “favours the development of 


thrombosis.”
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





high doses are still there at low doses. Perhaps small amounts aren’t enough to block blood-


vessel growth outright but are enough to have other, subtler effects, which might accumulate 


over time. No one knows – certainly not Zafgen. But beloranib’s history as an angiogenesis 


inhibitor, coupled with the propensity of such agents to cause thrombosis, is yet another 


uncomfortable “coincidence,” suggesting that the drug is ineluctably dangerous and that the two 


deaths it caused were not flukes. 





III. Beloranib Is Only Modestly Effective 





For all the excitement that beloranib’s Phase 3 results fostered, they’re simply not life-changing. 


Over a six-month period, beloranib patients lost, on average, 4-5% of their body weight, while 


placebo patients gained 4%. No one knows whether this weight loss persists much beyond six 


months. The benefit, though real, is small, especially by the standards Zafgen had previously 


set for itself. In a 2010 interview with Xconomy.com, Zafgen CEO Thomas Hughes went so far 


as to argue that beloranib “will likely be a competitor for bariatric surgery” and “will need to show 


about an additional 20 percentage points of body weight loss beyond what patients get from a 


placebo.” The article concludes: 





If Zafgen can reach its lofty goal later this year, it will be in a position to raise more 


capital, or strike a partnership, Hughes says. If not, then it might be time to throw in the 


towel. 





“If the molecule works the way we think it does based on animal studies, we’re in good 


shape. If it isn’t, then maybe we shouldn’t be doing it,” Hughes says. 





Zafgen got only halfway to its goal of a 20-percentage-point advantage over placebo, at the cost 


of two dead patients. It is indeed time to throw in the towel. 





Beyond weight loss, beloranib appeared to improve hyperphagia – the extreme overeating and 


sometimes dangerous food-seeking that drives obesity in PWS. Again, however, the benefit was 


real but modest. According to Zafgen, the improvement in behavior rose to the level of “at least 


moderate” (from the perspective of patients’ caregivers) for approximately 44% of beloranib 


patients and 12% of placebo patients.9 Moreover, instances of hyperphagia were actually more 


common among beloranib patients than placebo patients.10 On one side of the scale, we have 


4-5% weight loss and a 44% chance of “at least moderate” behavior improvement – neither of 


which may last much beyond six months. On the other side of the scale, we have a four-fold 


                                                
9 52% in the 37-patient high-dose group and 36% in the 36-patient low-dose group. Source: Bloomberg 


transcript of Zafgen’s 1/20/16 conference call. 
10 See slide 19 of Zafgen’s 1/20/16 presentation. Hyperphagia occurs in 8.8% of placebo patients, 16.7% 


of low-dose beloranib patients, and 5.4% of high-dose beloranib patients, for a total beloranib rate of 


11.0%.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





increase in the risk of death (and an astronomical increase in the risk of death by pulmonary 


embolism). Is there any question which way the scales tip? 





Ignoring this unpalatable trade-off, Zafgen bulls argue that, because Prader–Willi syndrome is 


an “orphan” ailment, the FDA will be lenient. But beloranib is only in the loosest sense a 


treatment for PWS specifically; it’s really just one of several obesity drugs. Others, like Belviq, 


Qsymia, and Contrave, are already approved and available, though their efficacy for PWS in 


particular is unknown. (A private firm called Rhythm is developing a drug that directly addresses 


the genetic defect now thought to cause obesity in PWS.) Perhaps the FDA would err on the 


side of leniency for a drug aimed at a disease with a terrible prognosis and no alternative 


treatment, but beloranib isn’t such a drug: people with PWS typically have decades, not months, 


to live, and other obesity-reducing drugs already exist, with more on the way. Beloranib is 


somewhat effective, but the benefits are trivial compared to the grievous dangers.   





IV. There Is No Good Way to “Mitigate” Beloranib’s Risks 





On its conference call last week, Zafgen said it was “hopeful that with proper screening and 


monitoring protocols in place, potential thrombotic risk can be effectively managed.” The sell 


side has picked up this idea and run with it, expressing delusional confidence in some as yet 


undefined “risk mitigation plan.” 





It all sounds a lot like the party line in October, when Zafgen first revealed that a beloranib 


patient had died. Striving to blame the death on everything but beloranib, Zafgen said it would 


screen patients for “existing thrombotic disease to make sure that none of these patients have 


the disease before we continue to dose” – implying that the dead patient was a victim of pre-


existing but undetected disease, not beloranib.11 Patients and their caregivers took comfort in 


the new precautions. One parent of an individual with PWS who was enrolled in the beloranib 


trial said, “The risk factor needs to be dealt with, but he’s getting the blood tests and the 


ultrasound and if everything’s ok, I have no problem putting him back on the drug.” 





Yet despite “the blood tests and the ultrasound” and other measures that Zafgen encouraged 


patients to have faith in, another beloranib patient died from pulmonary embolism in a matter of 


days. It is now glaringly obvious that Zafgen doesn’t know what to look for. The 


countermeasures it came up with after one patient died didn’t stop a second patient from dying 


of the same cause. Why should anyone – patients, doctors, or the FDA – trust that whatever 


new countermeasures Zafgen comes up with will prevent additional deaths? No one knows 


what’s going wrong, so how can it be reliably “mitigated”? Since this is truly a matter of life or 


death, no animal models will suffice, but, by the same token, further human experiments are 


unethical. (Would you like to enroll in a trial of a deadly drug with modest benefits? It kills people 


at an alarming rate, and no one knows exactly why, but maybe if we give you a lower dose or 


                                                
11 Source: Bloomberg transcript of Zafgen’s 10/16/15 conference call.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





some anticoagulants, you won’t die. Or maybe you will. Science is a messy business. 


Interested?)  





V. Zafgen Is Worth ~$3 per Share 





With beloranib on complete clinical hold and with no meaningful development pipeline,12 Zafgen 


has no future. It does, however, have cash – $204 million as of 9/30/15. But it’s not about to 


close up shop tomorrow and return that money to shareholders; it’s going to keep trying to 


salvage beloranib, just as many other biopharma firms have wasted money on other lost 


causes. According to consensus estimates, Zafgen will burn $113 million from 2015 Q4 to 2016, 


reducing its cash balance to $91 million, or $3.33 per share.13 Using a generous 8% discount 


rate, $3.33 at the end of 2016 is worth $3.07 today. Thus Zafgen’s stock has at least 65% 


downside. The notion that has reanimated the stock – that beloranib is so strikingly effective that 


the FDA will take it off clinical hold and allow it onto the market despite all the risks – is a bizarre 


fantasy. Protecting patients from drugs like beloranib, with small potential benefits and huge, 


terrifying costs, is the FDA’s most basic job, and the agency isn’t going to stop doing it just to 


make a few investors happy. 





                                                
12 Zafgen’s two non-beloranib drug candidates are both preclinical. Moreover, they both have the same 


mechanism of action as beloranib; given what happened to beloranib, they are likely non-starters.  
13 According to Capital IQ, consensus free cash flow is $(27.2)mm for 2015 Q4 and $(86.0)mm for 2016.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





Full Legal Disclaimer  





As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates 


(collectively "Kerrisdale"), others that contributed research to this report and others that we have 


shared our research with (collectively, the “Authors”) have short positions in and may own 


options on the stock of Zafgen, Inc. (“ZFGN”), and stand to realize gains in the event that the 


price of the stock decreases. Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the 


securities of the company covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of 


Kerrisdale. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be 


accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any 


kind – whether express or implied. The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as 


to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the 


results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, 


and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any information 


contained herein. 





This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 


confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted 


as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 


included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing 


conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change. 


The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded 


as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 





Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, 


inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated 


fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation 


of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a 


security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 





This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 


any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the 


Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to 


buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the 


securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all 


information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their 


affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed 


in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors 


should assume that the Authors are short shares of ZFGN and have positions in financial 


derivatives that reference this security and stand to potentially realize gains in the event that the 


market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the original publication 


date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to inform any investor or 


viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading activities. In addition, the 


Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other companies, securities, or
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this report are compensated 


based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the Authors’ operations and their 


affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is generally a derivative of their 


effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment ideas and the performance of 


recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a potential conflict of interest in 


the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents. 





The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-


looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical 


fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions 


or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can 


be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other 


factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent 


due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all 


securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone 


judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
