Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 





These Terms of Use govern current reports published by Muddy Waters Research and supersede any prior Terms of Use for older reports of Muddy Waters 
Research, which you may download from the Muddy Waters Research’s website. 


 
The reports on this website have been prepared by Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters Capital”).  We refer to Muddy Waters Research and Muddy Waters Capital collectively 
as “Muddy Waters” and individually these entities are referred to as a “Muddy Waters Entity”.  You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Muddy Waters report, 
Muddy Waters Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants), Muddy Waters Related Persons clients 
and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors have a short position in one or more of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives 
related to one or more of these securities), and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of a Covered Issuer 
decline or appreciate. Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and/or the Muddy Waters Related Persons intend to continue transacting in the securities of Covered Issuers for 
an indefinite period after an initial report on a Covered Person, and such person may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position and views as stated 
in the research report published by Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital will update any report or 
information on its website to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Muddy Waters Related Person.  Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that report.  All reports 
are for informational purposes only.  Under no circumstances should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments. 


Muddy Waters Research is an online research publication that produces due diligence-based reports on publicly traded securities, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC is an investment 
adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The reports are the property of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity that published that report.    This website is 
owned by Muddy Waters Research.  The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely attributable to the applicable Muddy Waters Entity and are not attributable to any 
Muddy Waters Related Person (defined below) (other than the applicable Muddy Waters Entity). 


By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research on this website is at your own risk. You (or any 
person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold harmless Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and its affiliates and related parties, including, but not limited to any 
principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Muddy Waters Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses 
(including trading losses) attributable to any information on this website or in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any 
securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this website. You 
further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use. 
If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If 
you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same 
Terms of Use. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor any Muddy Waters Related Person (including Muddy Waters Capital) 
are offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through this website or reports on this website. Muddy Waters Research is affiliated with Muddy Waters Capital. 
Muddy Waters Capital is an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Muddy Waters 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Muddy 
Waters Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial 
situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and Muddy Waters Capital has no such knowledge about you. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO (each a “Permitted Recipient”).  In 
relation to the United Kingdom, the research and materials on this website are being issued only to, and are directed only at, persons who are Permitted Recipients and, without 
prejudice to any other restrictions or warnings set out in these Terms of Use, persons who are not Permitted Recipients must not act or rely on the information contained in any of the 
research or materials on this website.  


The research and reports presented on this website express the opinion of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity only.  Reports are based on generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s ability and belief, 
all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that the applicable Muddy Waters Entity believe to be accurate and reliable, and 
who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or 
indirectly). However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied.  With respect to their respective research reports, Muddy Waters 
Research and Muddy Waters Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and 
neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital undertakes to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.  


In no event shall Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, 
indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any information on this website. This limitation of liability 
applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons. You accept all risks in relying on 
the information on this website. 


You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, 
or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained research published by Muddy 
Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms 
of Use. You further agree that any dispute between you and Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website 
or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to 
submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, 
given that Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates are based in San Francisco, California. The failure of Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital to exercise or enforce any 
right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree that each Muddy Waters Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these 
Terms of Use. If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give 
effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law 
and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to this website or the material on this 
website must be filed within one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred.
Page 1 of 10 


TAL Education: A Real Business With Fake Financials 
Part IV Management is Misleading About Peiyou Performance 


 
In addition to reporting fraudulent profits, TAL has been misleading investors about the health of 
its core Peiyou business.  TAL’s core Peiyou business appears to be in decline.  We believe that 
Peiyou offline Q3 revenue YoY growth was likely negative, despite TAL CFO Rong Luo stating 
the growth rate was “healthy” and implying it was in line with small class revenue growth of 
52.4%.  We also suspect that Peiyou online is not doing well.  Peiyou online Q4 sequential 
growth seems to have been at best high single digit, and quite possibly negative. 
 
TAL needs to stop playing games with its disclosures and clearly tell investors what respective 
Peiyou online and offline enrollments and ASPs were FY2017-FY2019 by quarter.  We have 
shown that TAL’s profits are fraudulent.  This report and the previous one answer part of the 
question “why?” – because TAL cannot grow its core business in a healthy manner.  The lack of 
health is probably due to a combination of being too large to generate meaningful returns and / or 
disruption by more established China online education players.   
 
TAL needs to disclose for FY2017 – FY2019 by quarter, respective Peiyou offline and online 
enrollments and ASPs.  We dare it to. 
 
 
Background 
 
TAL’s disclosures are opaque, which fits the pattern of a fabricator.  It is significantly harder to 
defraud investors when providing consistent, granular data.  TAL has reports its different 
businesses as one segment in its SEC filings, which eliminates requirements to provide more 
granular detail in its formal disclosures.1  In its earnings calls, TAL primarily discusses three 
metrics: Enrollments, average selling prices (ASP) and revenue.  For a given business unit and 
the company as a whole, enrollment times ASP equals revenue.  The company is split into small 
class, one-on-one, online (Xueersi.com), and “other” units.  Peiyou constitutes the vast majority 
of small class revenues and three-quarters of total revenues; and, Peiyou online (Speiyou.com), 
which effectively started contributing in Q3 2018, is also part of the small class segment.  TAL 
seems careful not to disclose enrollment or ASP numbers at the unit level, but we believe that 
with some effort, one can extrapolate them.  We believe TAL has revealed enough information 
that we can see its FY2018 Q3 and Q4 statements about Peiyou do not mesh with management’s 
portrayal of a healthily growing business.   
 
Our analyses are based on our historical model, which, in some cases, is based on extrapolations 
from TAL’s disclosures.  It is unclear whether TAL will produce missing granular information in 
response, particularly given that it has seemed uninterested in defending itself. 
 
  


                                                
1 TAL FY2018 20-F, p. F-75, TAL FY2017 20-F, p. F-78, TAL FY2011 20-F, p. F-39, etc.
Page 2 of 10 


Model 
 
We modeled Peiyou鈥檚 respective offline and online enrollments and ASPs through FY2018 Q4.  
These do not reconcile with TAL鈥檚 disclosures and management statements, depending on which 
of them you accept as accurate.   
 
To construct this model, we went back to FY2015 and built forward.  In a given quarter, the 
company discloses total revenue and enrollments, and it usually gives revenue contribution data 
as well as the percentage of enrollments contributed by the online segment (Xueersi.com).  From 
these, you can derive equations for segment revenues, total enrollment, and online enrollments. 
 
For FY2015 Q2, for example, small-class revenues were about $100.344 million, so we can say 
that small-class enrollments, e_s, times small-class ASPs, a_s, equals 100,344,000.2  Likewise, 
one-on-one enrollments, e_o, times one-on-one ASPs, a_o, equals dollar revenue of 
approximately 18,356,000.3  Online enrollments, e_x (the x being for Xueersi.com) times online 
ASPs, a_x, equals dollar revenue of about 3,671,000.4  Total FY2015 Q2 enrollments were 
407,970, so e_s, e_o, and e_x sum to 407,970.5  Finally, for the quarter, online enrollments 
constituted 13% of the enrollment total, so e_x is .13 times 407,970.6  Putting these all together 
yields: 
 


饾憭_饾憼 路 饾憥_饾憼 = 100,344,000 
饾憭_饾憸 路 饾憥_饾憸 = 18,356,000 
饾憭_饾懃 路 饾憥_饾懃 = 3,671,000 


饾憭_饾憼 + 饾憭_饾憸 + 饾憭_饾懃 = 407,970 
饾憭_饾懃 = .13 路 407,970 


 
However, we need as many equations as we have variables.  Our fieldwork showed that one-on-
one FY2018 ASPs were about 3x small-class ASPs, a ratio that we extrapolate back to FY2015.7 
This data point allows us to solve the system of equations: 
 


饾憥_饾憸 = 3 路 饾憥_饾憼 
 
                                                
2 The small class unit contributed 82% of FY2015 Q2 revenues of $122.4 million. Source: TAL investor 
presentation from FY2016 Q2, p. 17 and TAL FY2015 Q2 6-K. 
3 The one-on-one unit contributed 15% of FY2015 Q2 revenues. Source: TAL investor presentation from FY2016 
Q2, p. 17. 
4 The online (Xueersi.com) unit contributed 3% of FY2015 Q2 revenues. Source: TAL investor presentation from 
FY2016 Q2, p. 17. 
5 TAL FY2015 Q2 6-K. 
6 TAL FY2016, Q2 earnings call. 
7 This figure is based on multiple site visits, telephone calls to service centers, and interviews. One-on-one to small-
class price differentials for top cities we observed range between 2.9 to 3.5 and aggregate around 3. Although one-
on-one ASPs grew slower than small-class ASPs, in large part due to the introduction of a three-to-one format, 
TAL鈥檚 disclosures do not show enormous divergence between ASP growth in the two segments. And even if the 
ratio diverged significantly from 3, a range of substitutions between 2 and 4 left modeled small-class results 
essentially unchanged, as we note.
Page 3 of 10 


After solving the system of equations, we get that for FY2015 Q2, small-class enrollments are 
334,535 with an ASP of $299.95; one-on-one enrollments are 20,399 with an ASP of $899.85; 
and online course enrollments are 53,036 with an ASP of $71.28.  One can repeat this for the rest 
of FY2015 in order to get ASPs and enrollments for the remainder of the year.  Assuming TAL’s 
disclosures are correct, we believe we have an accurate view of how enrollment and ASPs have 
changed over time. 
 
In the following section, we present our model results. We look at TAL’s assertions from several 
different angles: in each case, we lay out what we take to be true regarding growth rates and 
other management assertions.  Then, we show our model output, check it against stated results or 
management commentary, and note the difference. 
 
A note on model construction: We conducted sensitivity analysis with respect to the ratio of one-
on-one ASPs to small-class ASPs.  Modulating the ratio of one-on-one ASPs to small-class ASPs 
between 2 and 4 does not produce significant fluctuations in small-class figures or results.  Our 
starting small-class enrollments and ASPs—the absolute values—did not change by more than 
4.8% in any quarter, as one-on-one is quite a small segment.  Across this ratio range, outputs 
either remained directionally the same or got much worse.  We also constructed the same system 
of equations for 2016, rather than 2015, to see if seeding the model with those other values 
yielded different results.  Again, there was no material impact to our outputs or conclusions, 
since 2016 small-class figures changed by less than a percent from 2015’s system of equations as 
brought forward a year using TAL’s stated ASP, revenue, and enrollment growth rates. 
 
FY2018 Q3: Peiyou Disclosures Do Not Reconcile 
 
We tried to reconcile FY2018 Q3 disclosures about Peiyou four ways.  Because our model has 
ASP, enrollment, and revenue data, we held different elements constant—i.e., trusting different 
slices of management’s statements—to see if we could recreate what TAL reported.  
 
Method 1: Assuming FY2016 to FY2018 revenue figures and enrollment growth rates for TAL’s 
three business units are accurate, as is FY2018 Q3 Peiyou offline ASP growth 
 
If we assume that historical small-class, one-on-one, and Xueersi.com revenues are as stated and 
that their associated enrollment increases are credible, then Peiyou offline revenue growth should 
have been negative.  This would seemingly contradict Rong Luo’s statement on the FY2018 Q3 
call that “Offline is also very stable.  I think their net revenue from the Peiyou small class 
segment, that was up by 52.4% this quarter.”8  Peiyou offline revenue growth looks negative 
regardless how one interprets “high single digit” Peiyou offline YoY ASP growth, ranging from 
6.5% to 9.5%.  This results from the fact that stated enrollment numbers, coupled with the “high 
single digit” ASP increase and Peiyou online’s 40% discount to Peiyou offline, would imply a 
massive shift to online in Q3, resulting in online enrollments nearly equaling or even exceeding 
offline enrollments.  Here, we show the result of 7.5% ASP growth. 
 


                                                
8 TAL FY2018, Q3 earnings call., CFO Rong Luo reply in the Q&A
Page 4 of 10 








 
 
An offline revenue decline of 4.5% is quite different from even the “healthy” or “stable” Peiyou 
core business which management described, let alone the 52.4% CFO Rong Luo implied.                                                                                                                                                                             
 
Method 2: Assuming FY2016 to FY2018 revenue figures and enrollment growth rates for TAL’s 
three business units are accurate, as is the implied 52.4% FY2018 Q3 Peiyou offline revenue 
growth 
 
We next asked: Could TAL’s Peiyou offline revenue growth have hit 52.4% in Q3?  If not, then 
Rong Luo’s answer in which he cited the purported small class growth rate is greatly misleading.  
To run this test, we solve for total small class ASP growth to see whether it matches 
management’s claim of 15.3% total small class ASP decline.
Page 5 of 10 


 
 
Total small-class ASPs would need to have increased significantly more than disclosed, rising 
28.7% YoY in FY2018 Q3 to meet TAL’s Peiyou offline revenue growth claim.  This does not 
reconcile with TAL’s claim of a 15.3% total small-class ASP decline for the quarter. 
 
Method 3: Assuming FY2016 to FY2018 revenue figures and ASP growth rates for TAL’s 3 
business units are accurate, as is FY2018 Q3 Peiyou offline “high single digit” ASP growth 
 
If we take TAL’s statements about historical revenue and ASP growth for small class, one-on-
one, and Xueersi.com to be true and compute enrollment based on those, then we get negative 
revenue growth for Peiyou offline in FY2018 Q3 once again for all “high single digit” Peiyou 
offline ASP growth values.  This too contradicts Rong Luo’s statement about Peiyou offline 
revenue growth being positive.  Consistent with the conclusion we detailed in our last report, 
Peiyou offline enrollment growth comes out negative, as well. 
 





 
 
A FY2018 Q3 offline revenue decline of -3.5% once again contravenes the implication of 
“healthy” growth. 


 
 
Under all high single digit ASP growth conditions, FY2018 Q3 Peiyou offline enrollment also 
shrank.
Page 6 of 10 


 
 
Method 4: Trying to square the circle 
 
In attempting to reconcile TAL’s FY2018 Q3 statements as best as possible, we stretched the 
values of two data points to come up with a workable variant that approximately matches TAL’s 
representations while producing a modicum of Peiyou offline revenue and enrollment growth.  
This required pushing the online ASP discount to 42.9%, closer to approximately 45% than the 
“approximately 40% (4-0)” that TAL disclosed.  Additionally, Peiyou offline FY2018 Q3 ASP 
growth had to dip to 6.0%, slightly below what we think most would consider to be “high” single 
digits. 
 
 








 
 
Even this best-case scenario, which takes liberties to give TAL the benefits of most doubts, it 
still implies only single digit revenue growth in Peiyou offline. 
 
 
FY2018 Q4: Decreased Disclosure 
 
As noted in the previous report, we believe that in response to the common size Peiyou model we 
sent to TAL investor relations (prior to the Q4 call), TAL ceased disclosing Peiyou online’s ASP 
discount.  Keeping the discount information hidden prevents us from analyzing the split between 
Peiyou online and offline to determine the exact root of the misstatement.  However, assuming 
different discounts, from 50% to the improbable 0%, gives us a range to work with in order to try 
to reconcile TAL’s disclosures.  We believe that under any reasonable set of conditions, the 
representations made by management do not make sense.
Page 7 of 10 


 
Method 1: Assuming FY2016 to FY2018 revenue figures and enrollment growth rates for TAL’s 
three business units are accurate, as is FY2018 Q4 Peiyou offline ASP growth 
 
In the FY2018 Q4 call, TAL’s Head of IR stated that Peiyou offline ASP grew by low single 
digits.9  If we assume this means 3% ASP growth and apply Method 1 to Q4 results, we get that 
Peiyou offline revenue declined by 3.4% YoY, while Peiyou online revenue only rose by 5.2% 
sequentially quarter-over-quarter. In fact, across all low single digit offline ASP growth rates and 
reasonable offline-online discount assumptions, either YoY Peiyou offline revenue declined or 
Peiyou online revenue even fell sequentially.  YoY declines in Peiyou offline contradict the 
company’s statements about the stable state of the business unit.  A Peiyou online revenue 
decline from Q3 to Q4 also seems unexpected, unless the discount was much steeper than the 
40% offered in Q3.  (In the calculation below, we model the discount at 30%, which we found to 
produce the most logical Peiyou online and offline trends.10 Applying a 40% discount tended to 
produce highly uneven enrollment splits between Peiyou online and offline.)  
 











                                                
9 TAL FY2018, Q4 earnings call. 
10 A Deutsche Bank analyst note dated April 27, 2018, reports that the pricing discount of the Peiyou 
online business is c.30%.  A Jefferies analyst note, also dated April 27, 2018, reports that the pricing 
discount of the Peiyou online business is still 40%.  As we explain, discounts greater than 30% create 
sequential QoQ online revenue declines while higher discounts result in erosion of offline revenues.
Page 8 of 10 


Peiyou offline revenue shrank 3.4%. YoY, while online revenue grew 5.2% sequentially quarter 
on quarter.  In our model, there is no combination of low single digit Peiyou offline ASP or 
Peiyou offline-online discount assumptions that yields positive YoY Peiyou offline growth and 
positive sequential Peiyou online growth simultaneously.  If we assume a different interpretation 
of single digit Peiyou offline ASP growth, 1.5%, the picture reverses: 
 








 
 
Under a scenario of 1.5% offline ASP growth, Peiyou offline revenue grew 2.6% YoY, while 
online revenue declined by 6.0% sequentially quarter-on-quarter. 
 
Method 2: Assuming FY2016 to FY2018 revenue figures and enrollment growth rates for TAL’s 
three business units are accurate, as is FY2018 Q4 Peiyou offline ASP growth 
 
On the other hand, if we assume strong growth in Peiyou offline revenues—for example, an 
FY2018 Q4 continuation of the 52.4% offline growth insinuated in FY2018 Q3—, this would 
result in enormous Q4 small-class ASP growth as compared to TAL’s stated decline of 9.9%.11 
 


                                                
11 TAL FY2018, Q4 earnings call, Echo Yan, Director of Investor Relations, “In the quarter, small-class ASP 
decreased by 9.9% in USD terms year-over-year. The decrease was mainly caused by significant enrollment 
contribution from Peiyou online, of which, the price is much lower than Peiyou off-line classes.”
Page 9 of 10 








 
 
This scenario of strong Peiyou offline growth results in 36.8% small-class ASP growth, whereas 
TAL disclosed that small-class ASPs declined by 9.9%.12 
 
Method 3: Assuming FY2016 to FY2018 revenue figures and ASP growth rates for TAL’s three 
business units are accurate, as is FY2018 Q4 Peiyou offline ASP growth 
 
Applying Method 3 from above, FY2015 Q4 growth in Peiyou offline continued to be flat to 
negative, depending on one’s exact choices within the “low single digit” Peiyou offline ASP 
growth range provided by management.13 
 





                                                
12 TAL FY2018, Q4 earnings call
Page 10 of 10 





 
 
No matter which offline ASP growth values or reasonable Peiyou online-offline discount 
selections we made, one of three things happened: either Peiyou offline revenue declined year-
over-year, Peiyou online revenue declined sequentially quarter-on-quarter, or all were flat.  None 
of these outcomes suggest Peiyou is displaying the continuous healthy growth that management 
implies. 
 
Conclusion 
 
We believe that FY2018’s declining disclosures are intended to mislead investors and analysts 
from meaningfully understanding the company.  Whereas before we could verify, now we just 
have to trust.  TAL’s incongruous utterances have shown they are not a company that merits 
investor faith.
