Peiyou in Decline


TAL: A Real Business With Fake Financials 
Part III


July 23, 2018
See important disclaimer / terms of use at end of report
Peiyou offline enrollments appear 
to be declining YoY


2
Peiyou Q3 2018 Disclosures


• Total enrollment YoY +91.7%
• Total revenue YoY +62.4%
• Online ASPs ~40% lower than offline in quarter
• Offline ASPs experienced YoY “high single digit” 


growth


We use a common-size model to show how this data 
implies YoY offline enrollment decreases


3
1. Common Size the Data


Enrollment 100.0
ASP 100.0


Revenue (Enrollment x ASP) 10,000.0


Enrollment 191.7
ASP "high single digit" growth


Revenue (Enrollment x ASP) 16,240.0


FY2017 Q3
Total Peiyou (All of Which Was Offline in FY2017 Q3)


FY2018 Q3
Total Peiyou (All of Which Was Offline in FY2017 Q3)


4
2. This Gives Us Two Equations


e_off + e_on = 191.7
e_off * (100 + g_offASP) + e_on * ((100 + g_offASP) * .6) = 16,240


e_off  = Peiyou offline enrollment
e_on  = Peiyou online enrollment
g_offASP = Peiyou offline growth rate percentage


5
3. Insert a “High Single Digit” Offline 
ASP Growth Rate and Solve for e_off
• If g_offASP = 6.0%, then offline enrollment declined 4.5%


• If g_offASP = 7.5%, then offline enrollment declined 9.9%


• If g_offASP = 9.0%, then offline enrollment declined 15.1%


6
Why Didn’t TAL Disclose Online / 
Offline ASP Ratio on the Q4 Call?
• We think it’s because our analyst sent a similar 


version of this model to TAL IR for comment prior to 
the Q4 call 


• We never received a response
• Until that time, our and analyst and IR had been 


actively dialoguing


7
Our next report will detail why we 
believe TAL has fabricated Peiyou
results


8
These Terms of Use govern current reports published by Muddy Waters Research and supersede any prior Terms of Use for older reports of 
Muddy Waters Research, which you may download from Muddy Waters Research’s website.


The reports on this website have been prepared by Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters Capital”). We refer to Muddy Waters Research and Muddy Waters 
Capital collectively as “Muddy Waters” and individually these entities are referred to as a “Muddy Waters Entity”. You should assume that, as of the publication 
date of a Muddy Waters report, Muddy Waters Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or 
consultants), Muddy Waters Related Persons clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors have a short position in one or more of the 
securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to one or more of these securities), and therefore stand to realize 
significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of a Covered Issuer decline or appreciate. Muddy Waters Research, Muddy 
Waters Capital and/or the Muddy Waters Related Persons intend to continue transacting in the securities of Covered Issuers for an indefinite period after an initial 
report on a Covered Person, and such person may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position and views as stated in the research 
report published by Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital will update any report or 
information on its website to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Muddy Waters Related Person. Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that 
report. All reports are for informational purposes only. Under no circumstances should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment 
advice, or as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments. 
Muddy Waters Research is an online research publication that produces due diligence-based reports on publicly traded securities, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC is 
an investment adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The reports are the property of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity that 
published that report. This website is owned by Muddy Waters Research. The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely attributable to the 
applicable Muddy Waters Entity and are not attributable to any Muddy Waters Related Person (defined below) (other than the applicable Muddy Waters Entity). 
By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research on this website is at your 
own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold harmless Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and its affiliates and related 
parties, including, but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Muddy 
Waters Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) attributable to any information on this website or in a research report. You 
further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a 
“Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You represent that you have 
sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this website. You further agree that you will not communicate the 
contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use. If you access this website, 
download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If you 
access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to 
these same Terms of Use. 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor any Muddy Waters Related Person (including Muddy 
Waters Capital) are offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through this website or reports on this website. Muddy Waters Research is 
affiliated with Muddy Waters Capital. Muddy Waters Capital is an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is not registered as 
investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Muddy Waters Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client 
relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Muddy Waters Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with 
you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and 
Muddy Waters Capital has no such knowledge about you. (continued on next page)


9
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within 
Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 
49 of the FPO (each a “Permitted Recipient”). In relation to the United Kingdom, the research and materials on this website are being issued only to, and are 
directed only at, persons who are Permitted Recipients and, without prejudice to any other restrictions or warnings set out in these Terms of Use, persons 
who are not Permitted Recipients must not act or rely on the information contained in any of the research or materials on this website. 
The research and reports presented on this website express the opinion of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity only. Reports are based on generally 
available information, field research, inferences and deductions through the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the 
best of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public 
sources that the applicable Muddy Waters Entity believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or 
who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). However, such information 
is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. With respect to their respective research reports, Muddy Waters Research 
and Muddy Waters Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with 
regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of 
opinion are subject to change without notice, and neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital undertakes to update or supplement any 
reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
In no event shall Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages 
of any kind, including direct, indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any 
information on this website. This limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters 
Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons. You accept all risks in relying on the information on this website. 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, 
copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained research published by Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital in any 
manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Use. You further 
agree that any dispute between you and Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research 
website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You 
knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California 
and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates are based in San Francisco, California. 
The failure of Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a 
waiver of this right or provision. You agree that each Muddy Waters Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these Terms of Use. If any provision of 
these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to 
the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or 
related to this website or the material on this website must be filed within one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim 
or cause of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred. 


10
