Six Questions for Asanko
June 5th 2017
6 Questions for management
Inside:


• Six questions related to insufficient disclosures on share ownership, 
stockpiles, depletion and technical information.


• Three pictures of the Nkran pit from May 28, 2017, so investors can make 
their own judgement on the condition of Nkran. 


• Pictures of puppies and rainbows, which we feel is the theme of most of 
management’s statements.
Disclaimer
By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Service. You agree that use of the research on this website is at your own risk. In no event will 
you hold Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“MWC”), Muddy Waters LLC, or any affiliated party, including officers, directors, employees and agents of those companies, liable for any direct or indirect 
trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered 
herein. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site. You further agree that you will not communicate 
the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive the contents 
of reports or other materials on this site as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service.


You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, MWC, (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) and our 
clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors, have a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and 
therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of our subject companies decline. We intend to continue transacting in the securities of 
issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial position and views as stated in our 
research.  We will not update any report or information on our website to reflect changes in our positions.


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall MWC offer, sell or buy any security to or from any person through this site or reports on this site. MWC is an 
investment advisor only in the United States, but it does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing.  
You understand and agree that MWC does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or fiduciary duties to you.  Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial 
situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and MWC has no such knowledge about you.


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO.


Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical 
process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and 
who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is 
presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. MWC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject 
to change without notice, and MWC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.


You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link 
to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained MWC’s research in any manner other than by 
download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute between you and MWC and its 
affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without 
regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, 
California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that MWC is based in San Francisco, California. The failure of MWC to exercise or enforce any right or provision 
of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties 
nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full 
force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or 
related to this website or the material on this website must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.
West wall failure 
as of May 28th
probably within 
the transition 
zone.
Cracking in the east wall as 
of May 28th
Pit floor as of 
May 28th
1. The foregoing very recent images show significant cracking on both 
the west and the east walls.  You recently stated there is “no need for a 
$115 million pushback expense, as speculated by Muddy Waters”. In 
fact, MW gave an estimated range of $75 million to $115 million. 


How much do you expect to spend on pushbacks at Nkran?
2. Why did you include inferred ore and ounces in your depletion from 
reserves in February 2017 – isn’t doing so non-compliant?
3. Were Messrs. Breese and Steyn’s stakes always this immaterial, or did they in fact sell 
down?


• The company just stated Messrs. Breese and Steyn “have not sold any Asanko 
shares”,


• Highland Park invested “$32.5 million as a management team” which was 9,443,500 
shares at the then market price, but


• IR recently emailed an investor that “Management, directors and officers own 2.18%. 
Colin Steyn holds 2.4m shares Peter holds 680,000 shares” (total ~3.1 million shares)
4. Why did you stop disclosing the size and grade of your high 
medium and low stockpiles in Q1 2017?
5. You continue to dismiss criticism of your MREs. If you are confident 
your models and MREs are good, why do you not provide the following 
on your website (in full): 


• all 3-D mine models,
• all drill data,
• all parameters and constraints
• You’ve said there were five or six new failures since you started mining in 
2015,


• The latest failure is much bigger than those before it,
• You still don’t “expect the geo-technical designs of the mine to change 


materially”, which implies that the geo-technical designs and MREs do not 
have major problems.


6. Given the above facts, either a) the geo-technical designs and MREs are 
flawed, or b) you must have deviated from them.  Which is it?
