THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Prescience Point Capital Management’s research opinions at your own risk. This is not investment 
advice nor should it be construed as such. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the 
securities covered herein. Forward-looking statement and projections are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and involve many risks (known and unknown) 
that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. You should assume we have a short interest in Kellogg stock and therefore stand to 
realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instrument declines. Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 test 
\ 





On April 26, 2018, Prescience Point published a research paper (the “Initiation Report”) on Kellogg 
Company (“K”, or “the Company”).  We predicted Kellogg would be forced to (1) reduce FY’2018 guidance 
and (2) cut its dividend or lose its credit rating.  On 10/31/18, part one of our thesis was proven correct 
when K slashed its FY’2018 adjusted EBIT and earnings growth guidance.  Part two is still playing out.  
While recently announced asset sales, reduced disclosure, and other actions taken to obfuscate 
underlying results may buy K some time, we believe it only prolongs the inevitable; a dividend cut or 
credit downgrade.  In this report, we shed light on why K really reduced guidance and explain why we 
now expect a drawn out and painful period for K shareholders.      
 
Prescience Point Opinions: 





• Revenue growth is a facade, reversal of years of extended DSOs will wreak havoc on growth 
expectations and cash flow in FY’2019: Years of transitory benefits from extended terms and stuffed 
channels are starting to unwind and will be an enormous headwind in the near-term.  Kellogg can 
either (1) spend massively on brand-building to maintain sales growth at the expense of margins 
or (2) let sales growth falter while trying to salvage profitability; these are the best-case scenarios.  
We expect revenue growth and margins will both deteriorate.          


• CAO resignation immediately before guidance cut & working capital “unwind” is highly suspicious:   
We were already concerned the sudden and peculiar departures of the CEO, CFO, and President 
of Kellogg North America were a glaring red flag; the resignation of the CAO just months before 
extremely poor results just adds to our suspicions.     


• FY’2018 adjusted EBIT & earnings growth guidance slashed; K’s explanation for the miss doesn’t 
make sense, appears deceptive: We find the rationale behind drastically lowering FY’2018 adjusted 
EBIT margin and earnings guidance suspect and full of contradictions with prior commentary.  We 
don’t believe management is being forthright with investors.   


• North America re-org/supply chain buildout leads to more obfuscation and a likely scapegoat for 
poor FY’2019 performance:  It would not surprise us if these restructuring efforts take longer than 
the Company anticipates.  We believe this sets the stage for the re-org/supply chain to take the 
blame for weak results in FY’2019 (and maybe beyond).   


• K remains more levered than meets eye; dividend cut/credit downgrade risk remains high:  K 
generates barely enough cash to cover dividends and other short-term obligations.  Recently 
announced asset sales are not opportunistic, but necessary to fund buybacks, pay dividends, and 
shore up balance sheet.   


• Shares are still dramatically overvalued:  Based on our adjustments, K is still trading at an 
unjustifiably high multiple of 14.0x EV/EBITDA, while its adjusted leverage ratio of 4.5x remains in-line 
with high yield CPG peers.  Consensus continues to take management’s commentary at face 
value and incorrectly anchors estimates to K guidance; failing to adequately account for the 
massive unraveling of years of accounting excesses.  We reiterate our price target of $39.50, 
implying ~35% downside.                    


Kellogg Company 
NYSE: K 


 
SHARE PRICE 
$61.73 


 
AVG DAILY VOLUME 
1.95M 


 
MARKET CAP 
$21.4B 


 
NET DEBT 
$8.6B 


 
ENTERPRISE VALUE 
$30.0B 














TARGET PRICE: $39.50  



https://www.presciencepoint.com/research/research-archives/kellogg/
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 2 








Thesis Update: We Believe Management is Misleading Investors, Recent 
Actions Raise More Questions than Answers; Our Conviction Has Never 
Been Higher  


We remain short shares of Kellogg Company and our conviction has never been higher.  After two quarters 
(Q1’2018 and Q2’2018) of relatively in-line results and improved investor sentiment, despite continued 
deterioration in the underlying fundamentals, the Company missed Q3’2018 estimates and drastically cut 
FY’2018 adjusted EBIT and earnings guidance.   
 
The Company attributed weak Q3’2018 profitability and reduced FY’2018 guidance to the Direct Store Delivery 
(“DSD”) transition and Multi-pro impact, adverse mix shifts (pack formats and emerging markets), and higher-
than-expected cost inflation.  In addition, the Company discussed at length how increased re-investments and 
brand-building spend on single-serve formats (10% of US Snacks revenue, 2% of Kellogg revenue) created near-
term margin pressure but improved top-line.  Interestingly, the Company said it would not wait to find “solutions” 
to offset and reduce these additional costs, instead focusing solely on investments for long-term growth.   
 
While we agree about investing for long-term growth, we find this strategy somewhat hypocritical given 
Kellogg is currently in the final stages of a near decade long restructuring effort (K LEAN, Project K, & Zero-Based 
Budgeting).  Why spend years cutting costs only to throw large sums of money at a small product category 
without first understanding how to offset those costs?  Moreover, we find it even harder to believe how a 
product category that accounted for only 2% of revenue was the primary driver behind cutting FY 18 adjusted 
EBIT guidance from 5-7% growth to flat!    
 
Over the last few quarters, we believe management engaged in some very misleading behavior in an attempt 
to hide poor performance.  The Company: 
 


• Indicated it was aware “very early” in Q3’2018 re-investment and brand-building costs were 
tracking higher than previously communicated, yet reaffirmed FY’2018 guidance and went so far 
to say it was “confident” in its outlook on its Q2’2018 Conference Call (one month into Q3).  Then at 
the Barclay’s Conference in September (two months into Q3) it said it was “confident” in its growth 
trajectory and margin expansion 


• Unexpectedly announced a complete re-org of its entire North America business as part of Project 
K, despite indicating two-months ago Project K was “largely complete” 


• Announced it would eliminate North America business-unit level disclosures   
• Removed the working capital slide from its FY’2018 Investor Presentations and stopped discussing 


working capital on its Conference Calls as reported core working capital levels started to 
deteriorate for the first time since FY’2015  


 
Contradictory statements and actively reducing/removing disclosures are all hallmark examples of a 
company trying to hide something.  We have already seen the CEO, CFO, President of North America, and CAO 
all resign somewhat suddenly; did they know something management isn’t telling shareholders?  All these 
activities bring more questions than answers and it’s clear to us that something doesn’t add up.       
 
So, what do we think actually happened?   
 
As we discussed in our Initiation Report, under former CEO Mr. John Bryant, Kellogg instituted massive cost cuts 
for nearly a decade and used accounting gimmicks and financial engineering to mask its deteriorating 
performance and boost short-term sales and cash flow metrics.  As a result, we believe new CEO Mr. Steven 
Cahillane faced a precarious situation.  He could either work to eliminate the previous accounting excesses 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 3 








and gimmicks by resetting near- and long-term expectations (essentially wipe the slate clean) or continue 
with the status quo for a Company at the end of a restructuring cycle; shift focus to revenue growth.  He chose 
the latter.  At the CAGNY Conference in February 2018, Kellogg announced its “Deploy for Growth” strategy which 
called for low-single-digit revenue growth and mid-single-digit EBIT growth.   
 
While it may have seemed like a logical decision for Kellogg to focus on revenue growth after years of 
restructuring, the Company has a bigger problem; the reversal of all the prior accounting excesses including 
years of stuffing the channel via extended payment terms.  The Company may blame high trade inventory on 
the DSD transition, but we would argue it’s only the tip of the iceberg.  DSOs have unsustainably benefited from 
factoring for several years and as the factoring programs slow, the “unwind” will wreak havoc on sales.  We 
believe the aggressive accounting tactics finally caught up with Kellogg in Q3’2018 and we anticipate things 
may get much worse before they get better.   
 
Kellogg has told investors its growth trajectory would be “markedly different” from prior years and will feature 
steady, consistent top-line growth and margin expansion.  In reality, we believe the Company is at a crossroads.  
Kellogg can either (1) spend massively on brand-building/re-investment to maintain sales growth at the 
expense of margins or (2) let sales growth falter while trying to salvage profitability.  Moreover, these are the 
best-case scenarios!  It’s highly probable revenue growth and margins will both deteriorate.   
 
Finally, what about buybacks, the dividend, and investment grade credit rating? 
 
Our initial claim Kellogg would have to cut its dividend or risk losing its investment grade credit rating was met 
with heavy skepticism.  However, in the last month we witnessed two stalwarts cut their dividend to shore up 
the balance sheet.  General Electric (GE) cut its dividend by 92% and AB-InBev (BUD) by 50%.  Could Kellogg follow 
suit?  We think so.   
 
In some respects, Kellogg already started to reduce shareholder return by drastically slowing share 
repurchases this year.  In the LTM ended Q3’2018, Kellogg spent approximately 5x less on share repurchases 
than it had in each of previous five years.   
 
While slowing buybacks helped Kellogg’s liquidity a little bit, at the end of Q3’2018, it still had barely enough cash 
to cover its dividends and short-term debt obligations.  So, what did Kellogg do?  It announced it would divest 
its cookies, fruit-flavored snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cone businesses and use the proceeds for debt 
reduction and/or share buybacks.  Kellogg indicated these assets were “freed up” after the DSD exit and had 
difficultly competing for resources/investments within the portfolio.  However, we believe these asset sales were 
not opportunistic, but necessary to fund buybacks, pay dividends, and shore up the balance sheet.     
 
While this may buy Kellogg some precious time, we don’t think it can solve the problem; Kellogg is still 
substantially less profitable, more levered, and more expensive than meets eye.      
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 4 








High Trade Inventories Blamed on DSD Transition, But That’s Just the Tip 
of the Iceberg; Reversal of Years of Extended DSOs will Wreak Havoc on 
Revenue Growth Expectations 


When a company extends payment terms (i.e. increases DSOs) and incentivizes customers to purchase more 
inventory than they need and/or typically purchase (i.e. “stuffing the channel”), it effectively pulls forward 
revenue from future periods.  So, if a company continuously expands DSOs, it can continue to pull forward 
revenue.  However, this benefit is transitory and will dissipate/reverse as DSOs “unwind” and return to more 
normalized levels.  This process is not instantaneous and can take time (sometimes several quarters), but it 
can lead to “revenue misses” as the pulled forward revenue creates a “gap” in current/future period revenue.  
This “gap” can be further exacerbated if a company used additional levers that created other transitory 
benefits (e.g. change from “sell-through” to “sell-in” model).   
 
Stuffed channel blamed on DSD transition, guided for trade inventory rationalization to negatively impact 
growth  
On its Q3’2018 Conference Call, the Company effectively admitted to stuffing the channel, confirming 
suspicions outlined in our Initiation Report.   We believed the US Snacks business unsustainably benefited from 
earlier revenue recognition and the one-time “sell-in” benefit from switching to the warehouse model vs. the 
Direct Store Delivery (“DSD”) model.  We started to see these benefits reverse in the last few quarters.; US 
Snacks revenue declined in each of the last five quarters and were below consensus estimates in three of 
them.     
 


In terms of inventory, when we exited DSD, obviously, it was a major transition that we've been talking 
about for some time now, where the inventory went from our system into the customer's warehouse 
system.  And over time, we expected that they would have a higher level of inventory as they got used 
to, obviously, carrying a whole new line of goods, and that would be optimized over time, which we 
would expect.  So we've been expecting inventory to come down, and it has not come down.  So we're 
not calling that it will come down in Q4, but it may because we're just expecting that retailers like us 
would look for optimal levels of inventory.  So we're not saying that it will happen.  But just to be 
precautionary, we're pointing out that it is possible at some point in time, and it's U.S. Snacks that we're 
talking about. 


CEO Mr. Steven A. Cahillane, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/31/18 [emphasis added] 
 


US Snacks Revenue Declined for Fifth Consecutive Quarter 


      
($ in millions) Q3’2017 Q4’2017 Q1’2018 Q2’2018 Q3’2018 


US Snacks revenue* $764.0  $736.0  $762.0  $745.0  $737.0 


Y/Y change (4.0%) (4.0%) (4.2%) (8.6%) (3.5%) 


Consensus estimate $756.1  $723.7  $764.0  $767.3  $736.3 


Surprise 0.5%  (0.1%) (0.3%) (2.9%) 0.1% 
Source: 10Qs and quarterly Earnings Releases 
*Restated to include in the impact of Accounting Standard Updates (“ASU’s) adopted in Q1’2018 


 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 5 








The DSD transition certainly contributed to high trade inventories (especially in US Snacks), but the real problem 
is the Company-wide receivable “unwind” after years of extended DSOs  
As discussed in our Initiation Report, we believe Kellogg implemented its extended terms program (in FY’2016) 
in response to aggressive actions from some of its largest customers (e.g. customer wants a large discount 
for paying earlier or it will delay payment well beyond regular terms).  In order to avoid large early payment 
discounts, Kellogg accepted longer terms. To mitigate the negative net working capital and cash flow impact 
from the extended payments term program, Kellogg initiated an accounts receivable factoring program.    
 
At the end of FY’2017, Kellogg discontinued its primary securitization program due to declining customer 
interest and a change in presentation of the gross proceeds on the cash flow statement.  We believe 
declining customer interest suggested (1) customers no longer wanted to purchase more inventory than 
what was required given elevated channel inventories and/or (2) customers preferred to take advantage of 
early payment discounts.  To us, this signaled factored receivable levels would probably start to decline (i.e. 
there would be less need to offset the negative impact from extended terms) and the unsustainable benefits 
after years of extending DSOs would begin to reverse.  This process started to unfold over the last three 
quarters.       
 


Receivables Sold, but Outstanding Stayed Just Under $1.0 billion 
($ in millions) 


 
Source: Company 10Ks and 10Qs 


 
Flat reported DSOs coupled with a decline in adjusted DSOs implies customers are paying on time (or earlier) 
but could potentially be making fewer and/or smaller purchases as they work through excess channel 
inventory.  We find it highly unlikely customers would actively choose to start paying on-time after years 
benefitting from extended terms.  We think its more reasonable customers were sitting on too much channel 
inventory and no longer wanted to continue purchasing more inventory than what was required.  Instead, we 
believe customers took (and will continue to take) advantage of early payment discounts; negatively 
impacting revenue and margins.         


 
In the last two quarters, adjusted DSOs declined 4.7% and 8.5% year-over-year, respectively, while reported 
DSOs remained relatively flat.  It appears customers are sitting on too much inventory and/or would rather 
have early payment discounts, not a good sign for revenue growth and profitability.  While Kellogg may 
blame brand-building and re-investments, we believe these discounts may have been a contributing factor 


$53.0 


$517.0 


$806.0 
$978.0 $1,014.0 


$1,133.0 $1,154.0 $1,120.0 
$970.0 $962.0 $965.0 


$0.0


$200.0


$400.0


$600.0


$800.0


$1,000.0


$1,200.0


$1,400.0


Q1 16 Q2 16 Q3 16 Q4 16 Q1 17 Q2 17 Q3 17 Q4 17 Q1 18 Q2 18 Q3 18


Receivables sold, but still outstanding



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 6 








to weaker FY’2018 profitability.  Moreover, the reversal of a stuffed channel/extended DSOs will wreak havoc on 
sales and cash flow.           
 
 


Adjusted DSOs Decline, While Reported DSOs Stayed Relatively Flat 
 


 
Adjusted AR = AR + AR sold, but outstanding 
DSO = Average AR / 3M Sales * 91.25   


 
 
 
CAO Resignation Immediately before Guidance Cut and Working Capital 
“Unwind” is Incredibly Suspicious      


In its 8K on 07/19/18, Kellogg announced VP, Corporate Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer Mr. Donald 
Mondano resigned to “pursue another opportunity.”  We find it highly concerning the principal accounting 
officer resigned just months before the Company cut FY’2018 guidance and shares had the worst day since 
FY’2000.  
 
As we already discussed, a core part of our thesis is centered around the egregious accounting excess over 
the past several years, with the majority of the excesses directly related to the US Snacks business (i.e. in North 
America).  So, we find it incredibly suspicious and highly concerning the top two financial/accounting 
executives (CFO & CAO) and arguably the top two North America business operators (CEO & President, North 
America) all recently left the Company right as the accounting excesses peaked and are reversing course.         
 


0
10


20
30
40
50
60
70
80


Q1 16 Q2 16 Q3 16 Q4 16 Q1 17 Q2 17 Q3 17 Q4 17 Q1 18 Q2 18 Q3 18


Reported DSOs Adjusted DSOs



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 7 








Timeline of Executive Departures & Important Events 





 Date 
Accounting 


Event 


Project K Announced 11/02/13 -- 


CFO Mr. Ron Dissinger resigned 01/13/17 -- 


Mr. Fareed Khan appointed as CFO 01/13/17 -- 


CEO Mr. John Bryant resigned, but stayed as Chairman 09/28/17 -- 


New CEO Mr. Steven Cahillane appointed 09/28/17 -- 


Adjusted DSOs/factored receivables peak -- H2’2017 


Working capital slide removed from Earnings Presentations -- Q1’2018 


President, Kellogg North America Mr. Paul Norman resigned 02/16/18 -- 


Mr. John Bryant resigned as Chairman 03/15/18 -- 


VP, Corporate Controller, Principal Accounting Officer Mr. Donald Mondano resigned 07/16/18 -- 


Q3’2018 results miss, FY’2018 guidance cut -- 10/31/18 


North America restructuring, asset sales announced -- 11/12/18 


Source: Company 8Ks   





 
FY’2018 Adjusted EBIT & Earnings Growth Guidance Slashed (As We 
Predicted); K’s Explanation for the Miss Doesn’t Make Sense, Appears 
Deceptive 


K attributed guidance revision to weaker Q3’2018 results (particularly gross margin), re-investment in certain 
businesses, and continued additional brand-building expenditures for single-serve offerings  
 


We're bringing down our guidance for currency-neutral adjusted operating profit growth.  Some of 
this reflects Q3 results but also reflects similar dynamics anticipated for Q4. We're putting more 
investment dollars to work in certain businesses and capabilities, and we decided to continue to 
expand single-serve even in a high freight cost environment.  Again, as Steve mentioned, we could 
pull back in these areas in order to preserve operating profit, but that would go against what we're 
trying to do, build momentum for our brands and develop capabilities that will help us sustain sales 
and profit growth well into the future. 
 


CFO Mr. Fareed A. Khan, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/31/18 
  



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 8 








Revised FY’2018 Guidance  


 
Source: K Q3’2018 Investor Presentation Slides, 10/31/18 


 
Single-serve is only 10.0% of US Snacks revenue, meaning it’s only 2.0% of total revenue.  We don’t understand 
how a relatively immaterial product category can have such a material impact on Company margins 
Throughout its Q3’2018 Conference Call and Investor Slides, Kellogg highlighted there was “terrific potential” in 
the single-serve category, however it currently only accounts for 2.0% of revenue.  We are highly suspicious 
brand-building for such a small product category would materially impair Company-wide margins.  Instead, 
we believe underlying profitability across the Company (particularly North America) was weaker than Kellogg 
had anticipated, and it used the spending on single-serves narrative as a scapegoat.          
 


On single-serve, basically, we're seeing a lot of growth in those categories. We like that growth. Long-
term, it offers terrific potential. It's already a sizable part of our snacks business, so think about 10% of 
sales. 


CFO Mr. Fareed A. Khan, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/31/18 
 
  Even sell side analysts were asking Kellogg for an answer (albeit with limited success) 
 


Could you just explain a little bit on the evolution of why is this such a big change? You certainly 
expand the strategy doing single-serves for a long time now, so I don't perceive that the growth in 
single-serve was shocking to the Kellogg company.  But I feel like you guys really had a big change of 
understanding your cost structure of what those products mean.  But I just kind of like to understand 
why that changed so much. And then just to build on that, in the Q1 and Q2 of next year, I think, Fareed, 
you said that it's a similar magnitude event on what those impacts would be, but you -- could you just 
confirm that? 
 


Citigoup Analyst [emphasis added] 
 


We chose a high-quality miss versus a low-quality make. We could have cut back, but the hardest 
thing to do in consumer packaged goods today is create demand and drive growth. 


 
CEO Mr. Steven A. Cahillane, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/31/18 [emphasis added] 


 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 9 








You have a couple of factors that played out in Q3 that will continue into Q4.  And the first of those is 
our Deploy for Growth investments to really accelerate the top line…in brand building alone, we're 
greater than the OP decline in the quarter, right?  So continue to be very significant. Some of those are 
around our core brands, some innovation that's coming down the pipeline…The second factor is the 
single-serve dynamics…those don't get fixed overnight.  But over time, as we optimize and streamline 
some of the supply chain co-pack areas, those margins will come up as probably more of a second 
half of next year phenomenon.  So if you take those together, that's sort of about 2/3 to 3/4 of the 
pressure. Now in Q4, we do expect continued inflationary pressures in transportation.  But from where 
we saw it at the beginning of the year, it's actually more significant than we expected.  We have RGM 
initiatives on that as well as other cost pressures.  But in Q4, you've got sort of a timing balance 
between those 2 that are going to play out. And then also, we're starting to see some hedging in some 
of the procurement commodity areas rolling off, and that creates some pressure. 
 


CFO Mr. Fareed A. Khan, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/31/18 
 
Kellogg is not waiting to find “solutions” to offset and reduce these additional costs.  Is that prudent 
management?  We don’t think so 
It appears to us the Company is just throwing money at small but expanding product category to show 
investors it can grow revenue.  However, without understanding how to offset and reduce these additional 
costs, it seems nearly of decade of restructuring and cost cutting programs may have been a waste.  Even 
more concerning; what gives Kellogg confidence the single-serve category will continue to grow?  If single-
serves slow, it could be a recipe for disaster.         
 


We're investing for long-term growth, and building demand and scale for On the Go is a strategic 
priority for us.  We're also not waiting to find solutions to offset and reduce these costs. 


 
CEO Mr. Steven A. Cahillane, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/31/18 [emphasis added] 


 
 
“Restrained” FY’2019 operating profit growth guidance gives little comfort these cost pressures will abate 
anytime soon 
On its Q3’2018 Conference Call, the Company indicated some the cost pressures seen in Q3’2018 and Q4’2018 
would continue through the first half of FY’2019.  Moreover, at its FY’2018 Investor Day on 11/13/18, Kellogg guided 
for FY’2019 operating profit growth to lag sales growth and be “restrained” due to “significant” investments in 
brands and capabilities.  Without quantitative guidance, it’s difficult to say how “restrained” profit growth will 
be.  However, we believe its abundantly clear FY’2019 operating profit growth will be well below initial 
expectations and any hope of profit growth will be pushed into FY’2020 at the earliest.        
 


The co-pack challenges really are solved through investments in the supply chain, many of which are 
in place. They just don't happen overnight.  So you could see some of these pressures continuing 
through the first half of next year as we get co-packing centers put in place, as we have more 
streamlined back into some of our production lines and we have the capacity to meet the demand 
growth that we have in place 
 


CFO Mr. Fareed A. Khan, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/31/18 [emphasis added] 
 
 
Timeline of previous guidance reiterations indicates possible deception, something clearly does not add up 
At its FY’2018 Investor Day on 11/13/18, Kellogg said it started to see the additional costs play out in early Q3’2018 
and decided to not “take off the gas” but continue to push for demand creation.  However, Kellogg indicated 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 10 








it could not go public with the information until the end of Q3’2018 even though it knew early in the quarter 
about these additional costs.  We beg to differ.        
 


Can you speak to the business planning of 2018 and how necessarily what happened along the 
journey of 2018, that led to the $100 million delta that you -- I understand the buckets, but like what was 
the timing and reaction, like why now? It's very rare midyear or 3 quarters through the year that we 
see this kind of change. 


 
Analyst 


 
We saw the beginnings of this, more than the beginnings of this, very early in the third quarter. 
Obviously, we talked to you about it at the close of the third quarter, so there's a lag time there.  So we 
made the decision early in the third quarter not to take off the gas but to continue to press against 
the demand creation.  And that's why I said earlier, if there is a mea culpa perhaps we should have 
worked harder at mitigation [planning] or not taking as much faith in the mitigation plans, because it 
did get worse.  But we made the conscious decision that we were going to continue to execute against 
our top line strategy but we couldn't become public with it until the close of the third quarter, which is 
why it does seem sudden when you're 3 quarters of the way through the year, and you're calling it 
down.  But we knew much earlier than that, that we were making these choices in order to continue 
the drive our top line strategy. 


 
CEO Mr. Steven A. Cahillane, FY’2018 Investor Day, 11/13/18 [emphasis added] 


 
On its Q2’2018 Conference Call on 08/02/18, Kellogg reiterated FY’2018 adjusted operating profit growth 
guidance and highlighted it was “confident” in its full year outlook.  Keep in mind, Kellogg reported Q2’2018 
results more than one-month into Q3’2018.  It seems odd to us that if Kellogg was aware “very early” in Q3’2018 
that additional brand-building and reinvestment costs were ramping faster than previously communicated it 
wouldn’t take the chance to alert investors on its Q2’2018 Conference Call.  We find it even more misleading 
Kellogg went so far to say it was “confident” in its FY’2018 outlook when it apparently “knew” about these 
additional costs.       
 


Masked by this increase in brand building is a sharp reduction in overhead, mainly related to the DSD 
exit, but also reflecting good cost disciplines and Project K savings.  So Q2 was a quality quarter, 
marked by an improving top line and heavy reinvestment for future growth and even overcoming 
unexpected headwinds like the truckers' strike in Brazil.  This gives us good confidence in our full year 
outlook.  We are reaffirming our guidance for adjusted operating profit growth of 5% to 7% on a 
currency-neutral basis…To some degree, our decision to leave operating profit unchanged is related 
to our first half mix impact, but it also reflects our desire to maintain the opportunity to reinvest more. 


 
CFO Mr. Fareed A. Khan, Q2’2018 Conference Call, 08/02/18 [emphasis added] 


 
Kellogg was given a second opportunity to alert investors about these unexpectedly high costs at the 
Barclay’s Global Consumer Staples Conference on 09/05/18, more than two-thirds of the way into Q3’2018; yet 
it did not.  While the Company did not explicitly discuss or reiterate FY’2018 guidance, Kellogg continued to 
highlight it was “confident” its growth trajectory was “markedly different” from recent years and featured 
steady, consistent top-line growth and margin expansion.  With nearly two-thirds of Q3’2018 complete, we find 
it hard to believe Kellogg wasn’t well aware it’s margins were tracking below guidance.  Why not tell investors? 
We think the Company was scrambling to find a scapegoat and needed more time to craft a story the street 
would buy.  Well, we are not buying it!        
 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 11 








What excites me most is that we're applying the same intensity and executional focus to this 
investment in growth that was so successfully applied to a reduction -- to our cost reduction over the 
course of the last couple of years.  This is why we're confident that we can ultimately emerge from 
this investment stage with a growth trajectory that is markedly different from recent years, one that 
features a balance of steady, consistent top line growth, balanced with steady, consistent margin 
expansion.         


 
CEO Mr. Steven A. Cahillane, Barclay’s Global Consumer Staples Conference, 09/05/18 [emphasis added]    





More Obfuscation? Kellogg Removed Working Capital Slide from its 
FY’2018 Investor Presentations, Just as the Previously Reported Metric 
Deteriorates  


In Q2’2015, Kellogg first included a slide in its Investor Slides that highlighted core working capital (“working 
capital”) improvement.  In FY 2015, Kellogg indicated its working capital was “best-in-class” and guided for 
further improvement to offset the cash requirements of Project K and improve operating cash flow; which 
would be used for dividends and share repurchases.  In subsequent years, Kellogg continued to tout it had 
“industry leading” working capital levels and guided for long-term working capital levels to be between 3% 
and 4%.  However, in its Q1’2018 Earnings Presentation, Kellogg removed the working capital slide and for the 
first time since Q2’2015 did not discuss working capital levels on its Conference Call.1  
 
Q4’2017:  Kellogg highlighted improved working capital 
 


K Management Highlighted Core Working Capital Levels Continued to Decline 


 
Source: K Q4’2017 Investor Presentation Slides, 02/08/18 





                                                      
1 See Appendix for additional Company commentary about working capital levels.  



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 12 








“Reported” core working capital levels deteriorated for the first time since FY’2015, but most investors wouldn’t 
know: Kellogg removed the working capital slide from its FY’2018 Presentations – incredibly misleading behavior  
In each of its quarterly Investor Slides in FY’2018, the Company omitted the working capital slide.  Historically, the 
Company was extremely vocal about touting its “Best-in-Class” working capital levels (albeit without 
acknowledging it factored receivables).  Interestingly, LTM “reported” core working capital levels in FY’2018 
deteriorated for the first time since FY’2015 and were above its long-term guidance range of 3% to 4%., while 
adjusted core working capital remained well above reported levels.   
 
Why did Kellogg remove this slide?  
 
We think the Company wanted to avoid any analyst questions about what caused the deterioration and to 
hide the fact that “reported” core working levels over the last four years was unsustainably low due to the 
receivable factoring program.        
 


MGMT Removed Core Working Capital Slide As “Reported” Levels Deteriorate 


 
Source: Company filings, Prescience Point estimates 
Adjusted core working capital = (LTM average trade receivables + LTM average inventory + receivables sold, but outstanding – 
LTM trade payables) / LTM net sales. 
*K did not report a core working capital metric in Q1 18.  Prescience Point estimated the “Reported” metric based on K’s 
definition of core working capital; (LTM average trade receivables + LTM average inventory – LTM average payables) / LTM net 
sales.    
 
 


North America Re-Org/Supply Chain Buildout Leads to More Obfuscation 
and a Likely Scapegoat for Poor FY’2019 Performance 


Profit continued to be artificially inflated by excluding recurring “non-recurring” costs from adjusted results  
So, not only did the Company massively reduce adjusted EBIT guidance, but it simultaneously raised its 
Project K & Cost Restructuring guidance more than 50.0% to $157.5 million at midpoint.  Remember, the 
Company excludes Project K and Cost Restructuring activities from its adjusted results.  As we argued before, 
recurring “non-recurring” costs should not be excluded from adjusted results; we believe this is another 
means of artificially inflating profit.        
 


6.2% 


4.0% 
3.0% 


4.2% 


6.2% 


11.9% 11.7% 11.4% 


0.0%


2.0%


4.0%


6.0%


8.0%


10.0%


12.0%


14.0%


2015 2016 2017 LTM Q3 18*


Core working capital (reported) Adjusted core working capital



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 13 








FY’2018 Project K & Cost Restructuring Activities  


  
($ in millions)  


Prior guidance $90.0 - $110.0 


Raised guidance  $150.0 - $165.0 


% change (at midpoint) 57.5% 


Source: Company 8Ks  


 
Four changes announced to Kellogg’s North America organizational structure at FY’2018 Investor Day  
In its Press Release on 11/12/18, Kellogg announced four primary changes to its North America organizational 
structure: 
 


• US Morning Foods, Snacks and Frozen Foods businesses will be consolidated into a single, 
categories-focused organization comprising 80% of Kellogg North America (“KNA”) revenue 
 


• Morning Foods, Snacks and Frozen and Retail Channels sales teams combined within a single 
Kellogg US sales organization 


 
• Building a consolidated, end-to-end KNA Supply Chain including procurement, manufacturing, 


logistics, and customer services 
 


• Investing in new eCommerce and Integrated Business Planning capabilities  
 


In addition, Kellogg indicated the reorganization was one of the final planned initiatives under the Project K 
restructuring program.  As such, its up-front costs and ongoing savings were included in the previously 
communicated financial estimates for the five-year Project K program.   
 
Eliminating North America business unit-level disclosures will obfuscate results; Kellogg may be trying to hide 
poor underlying performance by providing less granularity  
In its FY’2018 Investor Day Slides, Kellogg indicated it was assessing business unit-level net sales/operating 
profit disclosures, as most will no longer exist.  In our experience, limited disclosure can make analysis more 
difficult, but actively reducing disclosure is usually a reliable indicator the Company is trying to hide 
something; typically, poor performance.        
 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 14 








Most of North America Business Unit-Level Disclosures Will No Longer Exist 


 
Source: K FY’2018 Investor Day Slides, 11/13/18 


 
We don’t believe the additional Project K restructuring/reorganization efforts were originally planned; just two 
months ago (September 2018) Kellogg said its Project K restructuring was “largely completed”  
At Barclay’s Global Consumer Staples Conference on 09/05/18, Kellogg highlighted it had “largely completed” 
its Project K restructuring.  While the Company indicated these recently announced restructuring efforts were 
“planned” and already included in the previously communicated estimates, it seems contradictory to 
commentary only two months ago at the Barclay’s conference.  To us, “largely completed” suggests there 
could potentially be a few additional small initiatives left in FY’2018 (at most), NOT a complete reorganization 
of the entire North America business unit AND a new end-to-end supply chain.      
 


We've launched our Deploy for Growth strategy. This formally shifts focus toward top line growth now 
that cost structure has been properly identified. Today, we'll talk more about some of the less visible 
changes that Deploy for Growth has prompted. We've largely completed our Project K restructuring. 
This has reduced our cost structure and it included the transition out of DSD, which frees up resources 
for U.S. Snacks to invest behind its brands while enhancing its profitability. 
 


CEO Mr. Steven A. Cahillane, Barclay’s Global Consumer Staples Conference, 09/05/18 [emphasis added] 
 
We think Kellogg may be setting up the North America re-org/supply chain build-out to take the blame for 
poor underlying profitability in FY’2019  
In our experience, management teams, analysts, and investors are often more willing to accept lower 
profitability (or give companies a pass) during times of restructuring, but time and time again, restructuring 
and re-org plans get pushed out or don’t yield the expected cost savings.  In effect, restructuring plans 
become an easy scapegoat to blame for poor profitability or at least it’s better than the alternative; admit 
the underlying business in actually underperforming.  We think the case is no different at Kellogg.  We believe 
something happened in Q3’2018 to make Kellogg management realize their profitability expectations (and 
consensus estimates) were way too high.  However, instead of admitting margins were underperforming, 
Kellogg blamed brand-building/re-investments and announced, what we believe to be, a previously 
unplanned restructuring initiative.  It would not surprise us if these restructuring efforts take longer than the 


 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 15 








Company anticipates, and we believe this sets the stage for the North America re-org to take the blame for 
poor underlying profitability in FY’2019 (and maybe beyond).              
 


K Generates Barely Enough Cash to Cover Dividend/Current Debt 
Obligations & Is Significantly More Leveraged Than it Appears 


K generates barely enough cash to cover dividend and current debt obligations 
The only adjustment we made to FY’2018 consensus EBITDA was a 50% addback of Project K/restructuring 
charges.  We believe this estimate is extremely conservative.  So, even with conservative estimates, K barely 
generates enough cash to cover its dividend and current debt obligations.  We believe it’s highly likely run-
rate EBITDA could be materially lower as the accounting excess reverse.          
 


Small Cash Surplus Suggests Limited Capital Flexibility  


  
($ in millions)  


Prescience Point FY’2018 adjusted EBITDA*2 $2,321.5  


Less: interest expense** $283.0  


Less: capital expenditure** $545.0  


Less: income taxes** $329.0  


Amount left to cover debt obligations and dividends $1,164.5  


Less:  dividends*** $771.3  


Amount left to cover debt obligations $393.2  


Less: current maturities of long-term debt $6.0  


Less: notes payable $202.0  


Surplus/(deficit) $185.2  
Source: Company 10Ks, 10Qs, 8Ks 
*Prescience Point estimate 
**FY’2018 FactSet estimates 
*** Prescience Point estimate based on 349 million average shares 
outstanding and FactSet estimate of FY’20 18 dividends of 
$2.21/share. 





 
 
K is significantly more leveraged than it appears  
All of Kellogg’s peers with net debt/EBITDA above 4.0x have non-investment grade credit ratings.  We believe 
Kellogg’s adjusted net debt/EBTIDA of 4.5x suggests it may soon join its non-investment grade peers.  Again, 
while a high net debt/EBITDA does not mean Kellogg’s credit rating should be instantly downgraded, we do 
believe it corroborates the fact that Kellogg has limited capital structure flexibility.    
 


                                                      
2 See Appendix for detailed calculated of adjusted EBITDA.   



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 16 








Adjusted Total Debt/EBITDA of 4.5x Suggests Credit Downgrades May 
Be Imminent 


  
($ in millions) Q3’2018 


Current maturities of long-term debt  $6.0  


Notes payable  $202.0  


Long-term debt  $8,715.0  


Receivables sold, but still outstanding $965.0  


Estimated amount of extended DPO $972.5  


Cash ($309.0) 


Prescience Point Adjusted Net debt $10,551.5  


Prescience Point FY’2018 adjusted EBITDA $2,321.5  


Adjusted net debt/EBITDA 4.5x  


Source: Company 10Ks, 10Qs, 8Ks, Prescience Point estimates  





Divestiture is Necessary (not Opportunistic) to Resume Buybacks, Pay 
Dividend, & Temporarily Save its Credit Rating 


Did K slow/halt share repurchases to conserve cash and avoid downgrade? 
In December 2017, Kellogg’s Board of Directors approved a share purchase plan of up to $1.5 billion beginning 
in January 2018 through December 2019.  As of Q3’2018, LTM share repurchases were $120.0 million (the lowest 
level in over five years).    
 


Share Buybacks at Lowest Level in Over Five Years 


($ in millions) 


 
Source: Company 10Ks & 10Qs   





$690.0 
$731.0 


$426.0 
$516.0 


$120.0 


$0.0
$100.0


$200.0
$300.0
$400.0
$500.0
$600.0
$700.0
$800.0


2014 2015 2016 2017 LTM Q3 18


Common stock repurchases



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 17 








From Q4’2017 to Q2’2018, share prices were at or near-multi year lows, yet buybacks were miniscule.  If 
management really believed in the long-term prospects of the business, it should have been buying shares 
aggressively 
Surprising, share buybacks slowed despite the average price paid per share being at multi-year lows.  Why 
would Kellogg not buyback more shares when its average price paid per share was well below prior levels 
and it had ample authorization capacity?  We believe it couldn’t buyback shares or it would risk a credit 
downgrade.     
 


Shares Repurchases Well Below Historical Levels Despite Lower Average Share Price 


($ in millions, except per share data) 


 
Source: Company 10Ks & 10Qs   


 
 
Sale of cookies and fruit snacks businesses is not opportunistic, Kellogg needs the cash for buybacks and 
debt reduction 
In its FY’2018 Investor Day Slides, Kellogg announced it was exploring the potential sale of its cookies, fruit-
flavored snacks, pie crusts and ice cream cones businesses.  The Company indicated these brands have had 
difficulty competing for resources and investments within its portfolio.  Aggregate estimated FY’2018 net sales 
for the possible divestitures is $900.0 million.  Moreover, Kellogg highlighted it would use the proceeds for debt 
reduction for future acquisitions and/or share buybacks.      
 
Interestingly, on its Q3’2018 Conference Call, Kellogg highlighted it “resumed investment support” behind 
several key cookies brands to bring them back into consumption and share growth.  At the time, we 
interpreted this to mean the Company had previously not focused on investments in its cookies business but 
changed course in Q3’2018.  We find it somewhat unusual to re-invest in a product category during the 
quarter only to announce its sale a few weeks later due to “difficulty competing for resources and 
investment.”          
 


In cookies, resumed investment support behind Keebler Fudge Shoppe, Keebler Grahams, Mother's 
and Famous Amos is bringing these key brands back into consumption and share growth, stabilizing 
our share overall.  Across our snacks categories, we like what we're seeing in base sales and velocities. 


 
CEO Mr. Steven A. Cahillane, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/31/18 [emphasis added] 





$74.87 $75.80 $78.41 


$0.00 


$75.02 $70.73 $66.82 


$0.00 $0.00 


$61.29 $72.59 


$0.0


$50.0


$100.0


$150.0


$200.0


$250.0


$300.0


Q1 16 Q2 16 Q3 16 Q4 16 Q1 17 Q2 17 Q3 17 Q4 17 Q1 18 Q2 18 Q3 18


Common stock repurchases Average price paid per share



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 18 








After realizing profitability was going to be well below expectations and growth would be “restrained” through 
FY’2019, we believe the Company needed to divest assets and raise cash to fund its dividend, share 
repurchases, and ultimately save its credit rating (at least temporarily).      
 


Other Stalwarts (AB InBev & GE) Cut Dividends to Improve Balance Sheet; 
Will Kellogg Follow Suit?  


Over the last month, two stalwarts drastically cut their dividend to improve the balance sheet and accelerate 
debt paydown.  While each of those companies had their own unique obstacles, we think Kellogg may follow 
suit.       
 
AB InBev cuts dividend by 50% 
In its Press Release on 10/25/18, AB InBev (BUD) announced it would reduce its dividend from €1.60 per share to 
€0.80 per share, a 50% reduction.  Moreover, AB InBev said the dividend cut would help accelerate its 
deleveraging program.   
 


Consistent with these long-standing capital allocation priorities and in light of recent currency 
volatility, we are rebasing our dividend payout to accelerate deleveraging toward our optimal capital 
structure of around a net debt to EBITDA, as defined (adjusted for exceptional items), ratio of around 
2x while continuing to prioritize investment in organic growth opportunities and creating greater 
financial flexibility. 


 
BUD Q3’2018 Press Release, 10/25/18 


 
GE cuts dividend by 92% 
In its Press Release on 10/30/18, General Electric (GE) announced it would reduce its dividend from $0.12 per 
share to $0.01 per share, a 92% reduction.  On its Q3’2018 Conference Call, GE said the dividend cut was 
fundamentally straightforward; to preserve cash and de-lever the business.     
 


The dividend move today, to me, fundamentally is straightforward given our desire to preserve that 
cash to help de-lever the business. We have a lot of options. We laid these out, I think, in some detail 
back in June. Certainly, the strategy that we talked about relative to de-risking and focusing the 
portfolio is very much intact today. How we move through those various options, the timing, the pace 
of sequencing, is something very much on the table to make sure that we tend to the balance sheet 
as quickly as we can. We don't want to be rushed. We don't want to be rash, but we need to get after 
this straight away. And I hope today's move on the dividend is evidence of that intent in action. 


 
GE CEO Mr. H. Lawrence Culp, Q3’2018 Conference Call, 10/30/18 










https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 19 








Appendix 


Q2’2015:  Working capital slide first included in Earnings Presentation; Kellogg touts working capital as “best-in- 
class” 


Slide 10 shows our core working capital as a percentage of net sales.  As you can see, our performance 
had flattened out over the past several years.  But we have made a lot of progress improving our 
position recently, and have best-in-class levels of working capital. 
 


CFO Mr. Ron Dissinger, Q2’2015 Conference Call, 08/04/15 
 


K Management First Highlighted Improved Core Working Capital Levels in Q2’2015 Slides 


 
Source: K Q2’2015 Investor Presentation Slides, 08/04/15 


 
FY 2015 Barclays Conference:  Kellogg guided to improve working capital “even further” to drive stronger cash 
flow; cash flow to be returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases 
 


Back in 2012, 2013, our core working capital was a little less than 8% to sales on a rolling 12 month basis. 
We showed in our second quarter earnings call that we've dropped that by a point.  We are a little 
under 7%.  So we've made good headway in reducing our working capital on our balance sheet and 
we have plans to improve it even further to drive stronger cash flow. And of course, we return that 
cash flow to our shareowners, through our dividend program and share repurchases as well. 
 


CFO Mr. Ron Dissinger, Barclays Global Consumer Staples Conference Call, 09/09/15 
 
Q4’2015:  Working capital “improvements” used to offset the cash requirements for Project K 
 


Our cash for Project K is a couple hundred million dollars.  And what we're doing is, we are continuing 
to roll out that supplier financing initiative to offset the cash requirements for Project K.  We did just 
that in 2015, and we were able to offset the cash requirements for Project K based on the 
improvements we saw in our core working capital.  So we're expecting the same thing in 2016, and that 
is what is allowing us to convert our net income to cash at 100%. 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 20 








 
CFO Mr. Ron Dissinger, Q4’2015 Conference Call, 02/11/16 


 
FY 2016 CAGNY Conference:  Touted “Industry leading” working capital metrics  
 


“Industry Leading” Core Working Capital Metrics Touted 


 
Source: K CAGNY Presentation Slides, 02/17/16 


 
FY 2016 Barclays Conference:  K guided for long-term working capital levels to be in the 3% to 4% range 
 


We have been very disciplined on core working capital, and I'll show you a slide in a minute on the 
progress that we've made on our core working capital.  We've remained disciplined on capital 
spending as well.  We fully expected to get down into that 3% to 4% capital spending range as a percent 
to sales over the long term. 
 


CFO Mr. Ron Dissinger, Barclays Global Consumers Staples Conference, 09/07/16 
 
Prescience Point adjusted EBITDA calculation 
 


Prescience Point Adjusted EBITDA 


  
($ in millions) FY’2018 


Consensus estimate $2,399.0  


(-) Restructuring charges adjustment (50%) ($77.5) 


Prescience Point adjusted EBITDA $2,321.5  


Source: Company 10Ks, 10Qs, 8Ks, Prescience Point estimates  







https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 21 








Restructuring charges adjustment 
In our Initiation Report, we argued excluding “non-recurring” restructuring charges that persist for more than 
five years does not accurately reflect the costs associated with running the business.  If a business needs 
perpetual restructuring, the costs should not be excluded as “non-recurring.”  In addition, persistent 
restructuring charges provide the Company an opportunity to bucket normal recurring costs as 
“restructuring” and have them excluded from non-GAAP results.  An argument could be made that all 
restructuring charges should be included in comparable operating income (and EBITDA), but to be on the 
more conservative side, we only included 50% of the restructuring charges in our adjusted EBITDA metric.   
 


Restructuring Charges Adjustment 


  
($ in millions) FY’2018 


Project K & cost restructuring guidance (at midpoint) $155.0  


Prescience Point adjustment (%) 50.0%  


Prescience Point adjustment ($) $77.5  


Source: Company 10Ks, 10Qs, 8Ks, Prescience Point estimates  










https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
presciencepoint.com @presciencepoint 
 
 
 


  
Kellogg Company (NYSE: K) 22 








Disclaimer 


This research report expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are 
based upon publicly available information, and all of which are set out in this research report.  Any investment 
involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative 
purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information 
contained in this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, and projections.  You should 
assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons 
beyond Prescience Point Capital Management’s (“Prescience Point”) control. This report should only be 
considered in its entirety. Each section should be read in the context of the entire report, and no section, 
paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its authors to stand alone or to be interpreted in isolation 
without reference to the rest of the report. The section headings contained in this report are for reference 
purposes only and may only be considered in reference to the detailed statements of opinions in their 
respective sections.   This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Prescience Point’s 
research is at your own risk.  You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment 
decision with respect to securities covered herein. 


You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point (possibly along with 
or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 
investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, 
including without limitation Kellogg Company (“K”), and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event 
that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue 
transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter 
regardless of our initial recommendation.  


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold 
to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such 
jurisdiction.   


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and 
reliable and does not omit to state material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, 
and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who 
are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary 
duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the 
transmission of information to Prescience Point.  However, Prescience Point recognizes that there may be non-
public information in the possession of K or other insiders of K that has not been publicly disclosed by K. 
Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether 
express or implied.  Prescience Point makes no other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, 
timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.     


 



https://www.presciencepoint.com/

https://twitter.com/PresciencePoint
