5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 1/12


World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short
Sep. 13, 2013 9:38 AM ET31 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


I'm going to stick my neck out and share my view on a battleground stock that is among
my largest short positions: World Acceptance Corp. (NASDAQ:WRLD).


World Acceptance is an installment lender that makes small, unsecured loans to subprime
borrowers via 1,210 offices in 13 states and Mexico. It has highly attractive financial
characteristics and has grown strongly for many years, leading to exceptional stock
performance. Keep in mind, however, that these statements also characterized subprime
mortgage lenders like Countrywide up to the peak of the housing bubble -- just before it
collapsed. Like them, I believe that World Acceptance is a truly predatory company,
victimizing and exploiting its customers with usurious interest rates, outrageous fees and
overpriced, unnecessary credit insurance. This business is so shady and exploitative that
it is effectively outlawed in all but the 13 states World Acceptance operates in.


I became aware of the company by reading an expose published by ProPublica, which
has won two Pulitzer Prizes for its investigative journalism. Its series of articles on World
Acceptance is an extraordinary piece of work that lays out in detail the many ways in
which the company deceives and defrauds its customers. Here are the highlights
(lowlights) from the series:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WRLD

http://www.marketplace.org/topics/wealth-poverty/beyond-payday-loans
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 2/12


Repeat Refinancing of Delinquent Borrowers


• In every World office, employees say, there were loan files that had grown inches
thick after dozens of renewals. "That's (World's) favorite phrase: 'pay and renew, pay
and renew, pay and renew,'" Simmons said. "It was drilled into us." It's a tempting
offer: Instead of just scrambling for the money to make that month's payment, the
borrower gets some money back. And the renewal pushes the loan's next due date
30 days into the future, buying time."


• "For Sutton, making her monthly payments was always a struggle. She
remembered that when she called World to let them know she was going to be late
with a payment, they insisted that she come in and renew the loan instead."


• World's credit quality is a fiction, a substantial number of customers can't repay and
are repeatedly refinanced. "At World, a normal month begins with about 30 percent
of customers late on their payments, former employees recalled."


Comments on Deceptive Sales of Credit Insurance


• "Former World employees say they were instructed not to tell customers the
insurance is voluntary."


• "World can legally understate the true cost of credit because of loopholes in federal
law that allow lenders to package nearly useless insurance products with their loans
and omit their cost when calculating the annual rate."


• "As part of her loan, Sutton purchased credit life insurance, credit disability
insurance, automobile insurance and non-recording insurance. She, like other
borrowers ProPublica interviewed, cannot tell you what any of them are for: 'They
talk so fast when you get that loan. They go right through it, real gibberish.'"


• "'Every new person who came in, we always hit and maximized with the insurance,'
said Matthew Thacker, who worked as an assistant manager at a World branch in
Tifton, Ga., from 2006 to 2007. 'That was money that went back to the company.'"


• "When insurance products are optional - meaning the borrower can deny coverage
but still get the loan - borrowers must sign a form saying they understand that. 'We
were told not to point that out,' said Thacker, the former Tifton, Ga., assistant
manager."
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 3/12


• "'You were supposed to tell the customer you could not do the loan without them
purchasing all of the insurance products, and you never said 'purchase,''' Buys
recalled. 'You said they are 'included with the loan' and focused on how wonderful
they are.'"


• A regional supervisor threatened to discipline a sales person for advising
customers that the insurance was voluntary.


• World's systems don't let a customer decline the optional insurance: "But World
soon made it harder to remove the insurance premiums,' Buys said. She couldn't
remove them herself but instead had to submit a form, along with a letter from the
customer, to World's central office. That office, she said, sometimes required
borrowers to purchase the insurance in order to get the loans."


Threatening Customers in Violation of FTC Rules


• "If the phone calls don't work, the next step is to visit the customer at home,
'chasing,' in the company lingo. 'If somebody hung up on us, we would go chase
their house,' said Kristin from Texas. The experience can be intimidating for
customers, especially when coupled with threats to seize their possessions, but the
former employees said they dreaded it, too. 'That was the scariest part,' recalled
Thacker, a former Marine, who as part of his job at World often found himself driving,
in the evening, deep into the Georgia countryside to knock on a borrower's door."


• "Visits to the borrower's workplace are also common. The visits and calls at work
often continue even after borrowers ask the company to stop, according to
complaints from World customers to the Federal Trade Commission. Some
borrowers complained the company's harassment risked getting them fired."


• World also threatened to collect personal possessions pledged as collateral even
though the FTC bars pledging "household goods" such as a TV and furniture.


The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was established precisely to combat practices
like World's. As the ProPublica article notes:


The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ... has the power to sue non-bank
lenders for violating federal laws. It could also make larger installment lenders
subject to regular examinations, but it hasn't yet done so. Installment companies
have supported Republican efforts to weaken the agency, echoing concerns raised
by the lending industry as a whole.
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 4/12


Will the CFPB act to rein in World and its ilk? I think it's likely, as it's already acting against
payday lenders, which utilize similar techniques to victimize consumers. In April, the CFPB
released a report entitled Payday Loans & Deposit Advance Products, which the Wall
Street Journal covered in an article entitled, U.S. Regulators to Warn Against Payday-
Style Loans:


Federal regulators are preparing to crack down on short-term payday loans and
similar products offered by banks after concluding they trap consumers into taking
on debt that they can't repay.


The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
in an effort to prevent so-called direct deposit advance loans, plan to warn banks
against offering such products and erect hurdles for those that continue doing so,
said people familiar with the matter.


The regulators plan to issue guidance mandating that banks evaluate consumers'
ability to repay such loans and limit how often they can make repeated loans to the
same customer.


Meanwhile, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said it also intends to throw
up roadblocks to payday loans, suggesting it could limit the number of consecutive
loans to discourage consumers from taking on too much debt. 
 
The CFPB, in a report to be released Wednesday, said it expects to use its authority
to provide consumer protections to loans issued by nonbank lenders.


Dennis Shaul, chief executive of the Community Financial Services Association of
America, which represents payday lenders, said his industry would "work with the
CFPB to ensure payday loans are a safe, reliable option for the millions of
consumers who need access" to short-term loans.


The crackdown comes amid criticism of short-term loans that are intended to help
consumers through a financial rough patch but can quickly trap them in a cycle of
debt, in which they need to take out subsequent loans to pay debts they have
already incurred.


In late July the company finally issued its 10K, which was delayed, and dropped these
bombs (which are most definitely not boilerplate):



http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201304_cfpb_payday-dap-whitepaper.pdf

http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323551004578441003256035788.html/
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 5/12


Comments (31)


Management's assessment of the Company's internal control over financial reporting
identified a material weakness related to the documentation of the establishment
and assumptions underlying the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and the
documentation of management's assessment of renewals that may be considered
loan modifications as of March 31, 2013…


…The material weakness resulted from the aggregation of the following deficiencies:


• The Company did not have a documented policy that addressed the establishment
of the allowance for loan losses, including the assumptions underlying the allowance
for loan losses and how management would review and conclude on the
appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses; and,


• The Company did not have a control to assess whether the accounting treatment of
renewals was in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and
what impact, if any, renewals would have on the estimate of the allowance for loan
losses


So I guess it shouldn't be surprising that the company released the news this week that its
CFO, Kelly Malson, "retired" (at the age of 43???), which was obviously very sudden
given that the company hasn't even begun a search for a new CFO. (In an unrelated note:
Malson is Chair of the audit committee at CONN, another highly questionable company.)


What's the proper price for the stock of a highly levered financial company doing
unsecured lending to subprime customers, which admits to material weaknesses in
calculating loan losses and determining if a loan has been modified, that suddenly and
unexpectedly lost its CFO, facing potentially crippling regulatory action? I'd argue that 1x
book value would be generous, especially in light of questionable loss reserves. Yet
World's shares trade at nearly 3x book value, so I think the stock has at least 67%
downside -- and I wouldn't rule out a zero. Simply put, this business should not exist.


 Like this article


mateo999
Smaller retail investors may not be able to short WRLD given it's hard to borrow. For though who lack enough pull
with a broker to secure borrowed shares, do you have any suggestions on how to play this? The longest dated puts



http://finance.yahoo.com/news/world-acceptance-corporation-announces-planned-200100064.html

https://seekingalpha.com/user/760938
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 6/12


go out to April of next year. Are there any immediate catalysts (planned CFPB meetings, etc.) that you can think of?
Thanks in advance.


13 Sep 2013, 11:12 AM


User 942036
This may be one of the silliest short thesis' I have ever read. Cash flows are sizeable and massive stock repurchases
are ongoing for a business which is both regulated and legal. The fact that you abhor the ethics is simply irrelevant to
the legality of the business. Your view of the quality of the loan book is irrelevant if its being serviced and fees are
being paid. I would gladly loan $100 to someone at 40 per interest and have them pay me 40 for 4 yrs and then never
repay the loan, provided I believed at the time they had the capacity to repay.


13 Sep 2013, 11:48 AM


SerrCo, Contributor
CFPB will come down on these guys. KPMG resigned as auditor. CFO was fired. This ship is going to sink.


01 Mar 2015, 03:25 PM


nicholas9976
WRLD has 20+ years of consistent 20% earnings growth, nearly 20% net profit margin and over 20% ROE. This wall
of cash will swallow short sellers, the longer you're short the more you'll lose year after year.


People leave my company all the time, often without notice, it makes no difference whatsoever to the sales or
profitability of my company, nor will it to WRLD.


They have been upfront and honest that they are improving some of their practices which involve judgment calls. This
is a professional organization providing a service that's needed (often desperately). The alternative for such
borrowers is loan sharks, so any talk of bans would be madness.


These same concerns have persisted for over 20 years, that's why a company with such fantastic financials and
growth consistently trades at a PE of 10 instead of 20-30. WRLD shareholders have made 19% annual rate of return
over the last 15 years (in line with earnings growth). WRLD is buying back more shares than ever, increasing future
earnings per share.


If WRLD had financial issues these would have been put to the ultimate test during the GFC, like every other financial
organisation that had their shareholders selling/shorting and their customers going bankrupt at that time. Instead
WRLD continued to grow earnings 20% a year throughout, as they continued to open more locations.


Here's a tip for short sellers: shorting companies that are massively profitable may not be the very best of investment
ideas, especially when the company already trades at a very modest PE.


Disclosure: I am long WRLD.


13 Sep 2013, 11:53 AM


Greenwich Research Group, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/942036

https://seekingalpha.com/author/serrco

https://seekingalpha.com/user/15449292

https://seekingalpha.com/author/greenwich-research-group
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 7/12


We have been focusing on some of the same issues Whitney. Send a message sometime and we will connect


13 Sep 2013, 03:24 PM


User 942036
Can you provide an answer to a simple question. If your thesis was indeed correct, why did the Lender recently
LOWER the consolidated net worth covenant from 300mm to 275mm on Sept 9th? If the lender subscribed to your
thesis then it would have RAISED the minimum net worth for the covenant so as to adequately protect its collateral.


Is my question just too inconvenient for you to answer? Do you really think you have more information than the
Lender regarding the credit quality of the loan book or the legality of its operations? Me thinks you are precisely wrong
and that you have jeapordized the safety of YOUR clients assets.


13 Sep 2013, 03:26 PM


Stephen Ryan, Contributor
Valuedriver, I really have no skin in the game either way..but the point of his article, or thesis seems to be; the
company is a terminal short based on impending, or the possibility or regulatory crackdowns. In fact, he presented
pretty reasonable evidence.


To your point, his introduction reflects your point regarding the fundamental qualities of the company:


"It has highly attractive financial characteristics and has grown strongly for many years, leading to exceptional stock
performance."


16 Sep 2013, 06:22 PM


OD Dave
nice pick! I am sure the same thing will happen to Inter Oil too! Keep up the shorts.


01 Oct 2013, 10:31 AM


User 942036
I have to say, what a foolish proposition.


01 Oct 2013, 11:35 AM


NYGator
Eleven trading days since you wrote this and WRLD is up over 15% to a new all-time high. It looks like your portfolio
is off to a great start in the fourth quarter.


01 Oct 2013, 12:39 PM


Forrest
Yea, bla, bla, bla . . . WRLD is the big bad company that rips off the consumer and is "a business that should not
exist" . . . You sound just like some analyst from Citron Research back in 2009 who brought attention to this relatively
unknown (at the time) company which in-turn initially caused its stock price to drop, but once people really started



https://seekingalpha.com/user/942036

https://seekingalpha.com/author/stephen-ryan

https://seekingalpha.com/user/164597

https://seekingalpha.com/user/942036

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1024363

https://seekingalpha.com/user/142893
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 8/12


looking into WRLD and realized that WRLD knows how to make money, drove its stock price to where it is today. Too
bad I bailed in the mid-$60s. I guess that you can thank Citron Research for uncovering this "gem" back then and its
rapid rise to where it is today.


But let's make one thing clear. No one is sticking a gun to anyone's head and making them do business with World
Acceptance. The real reason to short WRLD at this time is because it's a $35 to $40 stock trading just shy of a $100.


09 Oct 2013, 07:20 PM


User 942036
At what point does intellectually honesty kick in and you inform your clients (and any readers), that you are precisely
wrong?


22 Oct 2013, 09:51 AM


NYGator
KASE Capital (run by Tilson) has yet to release the 3rd quarter letter to partners. He usually writes the letter within a
week of the end of the quarter. His 500bp underperformance in the 2nd quarter didn’t prevent him from publishing on
July 1, so it appears he must have really be underperforming YTD.


22 Oct 2013, 04:54 PM


Badgold
I think its so nice that all the senior management is leaving to spend more time with their families.


Does it have anything to do with their auditor putting the hammer down on their 'odd' accounting of NPLs?


Coincidence I am sure.


Sandy is the man! He will lead us forward!


Damn the auditors! Full Speed ahead!


04 Nov 2013, 03:55 PM


Alkaline Capital, Contributor
The fact is that WRLD keeps making great returns for its investors - which is more than can be said of Whitney Tilson.


07 Dec 2014, 09:14 AM


Badgold
Carstin. Good come back! If you are 8 years old. Speak to the merits of the piece as per the board rules.


Madoff made great returns too...until he didnt.


The former CFO quit along with COO shortly before the audit firm quit. Lots of issues. I think this is a zero but
do your homework before buying and snippy remarks are not homework.


10 Dec 2014, 03:00 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/942036

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1024363

https://seekingalpha.com/user/600242

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alkaline-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/600242
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 9/12


Alkaline Capital, Contributor
Badgold, the merits to Tilson's piece are nil. Hence why I was not able to speak to them.


As other posts have noted, Tilson's thesis boils down to his not liking the ethics of WRLD's business and then
seeking to draw all sorts of sinister inferences from management's comings and goings.


That is a stupid reason to short a company.


11 Dec 2014, 08:52 PM


Badgold
Carstin


How ya like me know? You still think that WRLD is a money machine?


The banks who lend to them DO NOT believe this.


Hope your shares are on margin so I can short them.


BG


25 Jun 2015, 09:44 PM


Alkaline Capital, Contributor
Why would you assume that I was ever long WRLD? The point of my comment and that of others was that
the moral repugnancy that the business of a stock may hold for you is a dumb reason to short the stock.


26 Jun 2015, 01:06 PM


Badgold
Turns out you were wrong. I assume you are also doing well with your holdings of gun makers.


28 Jun 2015, 08:21 PM


SerrCo, Contributor
There have been numerous red flags heralding the recent decline over the past few weeks and months.
Anyone surprised by this development isn't cut out for the serious due diligence required to bet against
successful short sellers.


The CEO and Chairman is stepping down amidst a major investigation by the CFPB, The banks have been
tightening the screws through covenants amendments and reduced credit availability, and WRLD had to
withdraw a bond issuance in what was the most favorable market for high yield issuance we will ever see in
our lifetimes (in a rather transparent attempt by the banks to unload their toxic paper on high yield index and
mutual funds, the failure of which is all the more damning).


Without the ability to conduct buybacks, this sucker likely heads to bankruptcy/restructuring and equity gets
wiped out. Grab the popcorn and enjoy the ride.


28 Jun 2015, 08:31 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alkaline-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/600242

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alkaline-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/600242

https://seekingalpha.com/author/serrco
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 10/12


Alkaline Capital, Contributor
Oh, you are full of moral outrage, aren't you, Badgold! Why don't you go and invest with the Amish?


29 Jun 2015, 03:11 AM


SerrCo, Contributor
Carstin,


Moral outrage are not, this company is in the crosshairs of the CFPB. The short thesis was never solely
based on 'moral outrage', but moral outrage combined with real regulatory action. Buy some shares here and
post your average price.


29 Jun 2015, 11:19 AM


Alkaline Capital, Contributor
I think you mean the "possibility of real regulatory action". I wasn't aware that the CFPB had done anything other than
commence an investigation into WRLD. If WRLD's business practices were in clear violation of federal law, an
investigation would not be necessary. The short thesis is based on speculation that WRLD's operations are not
presently in compliance with the law. Speculation is not my game.


29 Jun 2015, 02:17 PM


SerrCo, Contributor
Carstin,


The CEO is stepping down in the midst of a huge investigation. Did you listen to the latest conference call?
He said (puzzlingly) that the investigation will likely take a long time to resolve based on the extraordinary
amount of information and files the CFPB requested.


Did you read the proposed rule making by the CFPB? At the very end they make quite clear that they are
targeting large term loan lenders for further investigation and supervision.


Why do you think the banks tried to have WRLD retire half their debt through a high yield issuance? Why do
you think there was no appetite for WRLD paper, causing WRLD to declare that they are pulling a note
offering in one of the most accommodative HY markets on recent memory if not all time? Why do you think
the banks have reduced the revolver? Forced WRLD to cease share buybacks? and most importantly,
specifically define various default scenarios in the context of an initiation of regulatory action?


The writing is on the wall, and anyone semi-literate can read it.


30 Jun 2015, 01:41 AM


Alkaline Capital, Contributor
"Why do you think the banks tried to have WRLD retire half their debt through a high yield issuance?"


I don't know and neither do you. We can only speculate.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alkaline-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/serrco

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alkaline-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/serrco

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alkaline-capital
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 11/12


"Why do you think there was no appetite for WRLD paper, causing WRLD to declare that they are pulling a
note offering in one of the most accommodative HY markets on recent memory if not all time?"


I don't know and neither do you. We can only speculate.


"Why do you think the banks have reduced the revolver? Forced WRLD to cease share buybacks? and most
importantly, specifically define various default scenarios in the context of an initiation of regulatory action?"


I don't know and neither do you. We can only speculate.


30 Jun 2015, 02:44 AM


Alkaline Capital, Contributor
I would just add also: it is important not to confuse cause and effect here. It is the CFPB's investigation into
WRLD that has triggered the reactions of WRLD's banks. If that investigation results in no action being taken
against WRLD, then WRLD will spike up. If, on the other hand, CFPB takes action against WRLD, then,
depending on the action that it takes, WRLD's business could be slightly affected, moderately affected, greatly
affected or entirely wiped out.


Which of these outcomes ultimately comes to pass is a matter of pure speculation at this stage.


While one cannot dismiss the possibility that WRLD, either knowingly or inadvertantly, has been operating in
breach of federal consumer law, commonsense suggests that businesses don't normally adopt (or consider
as viable) a business model whose legality is fundamentally questionable. More than likely, WRLD has had
legal advice on every aspect of its operations. Now, that advice could turn out to be wrong. But that remains
to be seen.


Personally, I don't have a view either way on whether WRLD's operations comply with federal law or
regulations. Nevertheless, I would caution against betting the house that it is a foregone conclusion that the
CFPB's investigation will result in crimping, significantly or entirely, WRLD's business operations.


30 Jun 2015, 03:08 AM


SerrCo, Contributor
Carstin,


The fact that the CEO and Chairman chose to step down amidst this investigation betrays where his
confidence lies. That was enough for me to add to my short much higher than here.


30 Jun 2015, 10:29 AM


Alkaline Capital, Contributor
Good luck!


30 Jun 2015, 11:36 AM


FrankArabia
whats with the childish arguments. make your bet and move on.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alkaline-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/serrco

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alkaline-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4119491
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 12/12


14 Jul 2015, 12:25 AM


Whitney Tilson, Contributor
Author’s reply »  It's nice to be vindicated on this -- and I still think it's a great short (I added to it in the past week), for
reasons I outline in the latest issue of Value Investor Insight, posted at: http://bit.ly/1Nf7FoC


04 Sep 2015, 10:35 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/whitney-tilson

http://bit.ly/1Nf7FoC
