1	


	
Cyberdyne	(7779):	
Talks	the	Talk,	but	Does	it	Walk	the	Walk?	 	 	 	 	 July	12,	2016	
	
	
We	recently	published	two	reports	on	a	company	called	Jig-Saw	(3914),	a	“high-tech”	
company	that	had	seen	an	incredible	run-up	on	the	back	of	buzzwords	and	dozens	of	vague	
statements.	Since	our	first	commentary	Jig-Saw’s	declined	by	about	70%	as	investors	turned	
a	more	critical	eye	on	the	company’s	practices.	During	our	research	we	were	amazed	at	the	
bubble	that’s	built	around	many	robot-themed	names	in	the	Mothers	Index.	Nowhere	was	
the	extreme	overvaluation	as	apparent	as	with	its	second-largest	component:	Cyberdyne.		
	
Cyberdyne	is	a	researcher	and	developer	of	robotic	suits	that	shot	up	in	value	by	515%	in	
two	years	since	its	IPO	on	the	Mothers	Index.	Its	current	valuations	on	an	earnings	basis	
are	potentially	the	highest	we’ve	seen	since	Japan’s	own	internet	bubble	burst	in	2000	
(See	Appendix:	Where	are	they	now?).	The	valuations	may	make	you	think	Cyberdyne	is	
about	to	become	the	next	big	thing	in	robotics.	The	reality	is,	the	company’s	never	made	a	
profit.	It	is	not	present	in	the	world’s	biggest	market	for	wearable	robots	and	deliberately	
eschews	the	lucrative	military	market	on	ethical	grounds.	Its	products	are	not	covered	by	
insurance	in	the	U.S.	and	in	Japan	coverage	is	extremely	limited.	Cyberdyne	peers	reveal	
that	this	business	is	much	more	niche	than	mass	market.	And,	Cyberdyne’s	claim	to	be	
uniquely	positioned	in	the	development	of	powered	exoskeletons,	also	known	as	
wearable	robots,	can	be	easily	contested.	Here	are	just	some	of	the	competitors	it	faces:	
	
Hyundai	 	 Panasonic							 		 Honda	 	 Toyota	
Rayaethon	 	 Lockheed	Martin	 Daewoo	 BAE	
Boston	Dynamics	 Ekso	 	 	 Rewalk		 Rex	
Indego		 	 RB3D	 	 	 SuitX	 	 NASA	
SAMSUNG	 	 GoXtudio	 	 ExoAtlet	 Bionik	Labratories	
	
At	present,	Cyberdyne	is	priced	as	if	it	has	already	succeeded	in	what	the	company	set	out	
to	do.	Sales	numbers	show	that	it	is	nowhere	near	that	stage	yet	(and	one	has	to	accept	that	
there’s	a	chance	that	it	never	will).	As	you	can	see	above,	there	are	over	20	companies	
active	in	the	exoskeleton	business	–	many	with	much	larger	financial	and	staff	resources.	
Which	means	Cyberdyne	is	a	huge	risk	with	little	potential	return	for	equity	holders.		
	
We	fear	the	Cyberdyne	scenario	is	all	too	familiar	to	those	who	remember	the	previous	hi	
tech	stock	crash	in	Japan.	In	1999-2000	a	number	of	high	tech	companies	(IRI,	Liquid	Audio,	
and	Crayfish	to	name	but	a	few)	drew	similar	valuations	and	plaudits	without	posting	the	
revenue	or	profits	to	back	them	up.	Then	their	stocks	dropped	95%	in	the	space	of	a	year.	 	





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Well Investments Research  
www.wellinvestmentsresearch.com  
whistleblower@wellinvestmentsresearch.com  
Director of Research: Yuki Arai
2	


BUILDING	UP	GREAT	EXPECTATIONS	
	
Cyberdyne	currently	has	a	market	cap	of	approx.	470	billion	yen.	This	compares	to	a	mere	
3.7	billion	yen	in	reported	cumulative	R&D	spending	since	inception	about	12	years	ago	(see	
below).	It	trades	at	590x	forward	earnings,	assuming	it	finally	makes	a	profit	next	year.		
	


	
Source:	company	data	via	Bloomberg	
	
Cyberdyne	is	a	researcher	and	developer	of	medical	equipment	with	a	focus	on	exoskeleton	
suits.	The	firm’s	main	product	is	a	“cyborg-type”	robotic	suit	called	HAL	that	helps	disabled	
people	walk.	In	the	robotics	field,	Cyberdyne	would	like	you	to	believe	that	they	are	the	only	
player	and	their	stock	is	the	only	way	to	get	exposure	to	this	segment.	
	
The	truth	is,	there	are	a	LOT	of	competitors	doing	the	exact	same	thing	(see	p1	for	a	far	
from	exhaustive	list	we	put	together	based	on	company	product	info).	Take,	for	example,	
the	Israeli	firm	ReWalk1,	the	U.S.-based	Ekso2	and	Indego3	and	U.K.’s	Rex4.	All	these	firms	
have	been	around	for	a	while,	all	have	active	products,	most	speak	about	targeting	the	
same	customers,	and	yet	the	market	value	of	listed	ReWalk,	Ekso	and	Rex	is	below	10	billion	
yen.	This	is	compared	with	Cyberdyne’s	approx.	470	billion	yen.	Why	is	there	such	a	
disparity?		
	


Company	 Local	
CCY	


Market	
Cap	in	
Local	CCY	


Market	Cap	
in	USD		


Revenue	
in	Local	
CCY	


Multiple	 Revenue	
in	USD	


R&D	in	
Local	CCY	


R&D	in	
USD	


Cyberdyne	 JPY	 	478.3	Bn	 	4,693.4	mm	 1.3	Bn		 367.9x	 	13.2	mm	 3.7	Bn	 	37.7	mm	
ReWalk	 USD	 	78.8	mm	 	78.8	mm	 5.2	mm	 15.2x	 	5.2	mm	 18.8	mm	 	18.8	mm	
Ekso	 USD	 	78.6	mm	 	78.6	mm	 15.5	mm	 5.1x	 	15.5	mm	 14.1	mm	 	14.1	mm	
Rex	 GBP	 	5.8	mm	 	7.8	mm	 0.7	mm	 8.3x	 	0.9	mm	 0.5	mm	 	0.7	mm	
Source:	Bloomberg,	Company	data	


																																																								
1	http://rewalk.com	
2	http://eksobionics.com/about/	
3	http://www.indego.com/indego/en/home	
4	http://www.rexbionics.com
3	


	
RIVAL	SUITS	HAVE	SAME	LOOK,	SAME	TARGET	AUDIENCE		
	
	





				 					 	
	
	
The	manufacturers	are	all	targeting	either	the	market	for	rehabilitation,	which	means	a	few	
units	per	clinic	shared	between	50	or	so	patients,	or	the	personal	market,	which	requires	a	
much	higher	safety	threshold	for	devices	because	companies	need	to	prove	to	regulators	
such	as	the	FDA	in	the	U.S.	that	individuals	can	use	them	without	medical	supervision.	
Cyberdyne	currently	does	not	advertise	to	individuals,	pursuing	sales	only	to	institutions.	At	
the	same	time,	Cyberdyne	discusses	its	potential	market	size	citing	the	number	of	individual	
patients	who	may	require	muscular	assistance.	We	think	this	is	one	of	several	misleading	
statements	that	the	company	–	and	the	brokerage	analysts	that	cover	it	–	make	to	investors.		
	
The	following	are	some	of	the	key	statements	made	by	the	company	in	the	last	few	years	
about	its	prospects.	We	believe	they	are	not	only	overly	bullish	but	verging	on	hype.		
	
	
	
Statement	1,	from	June	23rd,	20155	 Reality	
Cyberdyne	claims	in	2014	that	it	is	applying	
for	the	U.S.	FDA	approval	and	that	it	would	


It	is	now	June	2016,	and	Cyberdyne	still	
doesn’t	have	the	FDA	approval.	Clinical	


																																																								
5	http://www.cyberdyne.jp/english/company/PressReleases_detail.html?id=1460
4	


receive	this	after	a	120-day	examination	
period	and	subsequent	review	process.	In	
this	same	press	release,	the	company	
indicates	that	it	aims	to	get	this	cleared	by	
the	end	of	2015.		


trials	for	some	of	its	products	are	still	open	
and	actively	recruiting	candidates.	
Company	analysts	now	forecast	a	2017	
approval	date….	We	are	not	holding	our	
breath.	


	
Cyberdyne	is	noticeably	missing	from	the	U.S.	markets.	In	fact,	Cyberdyne	doesn't	seem	to	
be	even	trying	to	raise	its	profile	or	network	in	the	U.S.	Its	staff	don’t	attend	any	of	the	key	
trade	shows	in	the	U.S.	even	though	the	competitors	do.	Take	as	example	some	of	the	
country’s	biggest	rehabilitation	expo:	Abilities,	ASCIP,	and	OT	World.	ReWalk	and	Ekso	show	
up	for	these	events.	Cyberdyne	does	not.	The	U.S.	is	the	top	market	for	medical	robotics.	
Why	isn’t	Cyberdyne	there?	
	
	
	
	
Statement	2,	from	Nov.	20146	 Reality	
Cyberdyne	claims	they	have	no	direct	
competitors	as	there	are	no	medical	
devices	which	would	bring	about	medical	
effects	equal	to	or	better	than	HAL.	


ReWalk,	Ekso,	Indego	and	Rex	all	have	
products	in	the	market	today	that	have	
very	similar	levels	of	functionality	as	
Cyberdyne’s	core	offering.	Though	the	
competitors	may	differ	in	their	approach,	
their	products	ultimately	look	alike	and	
target	the	same	patients	and	treatments	as	
Cyberdyne.		


	
Technology	in	this	sphere	moves	extremely	quickly.	For	example,	ReWalk	and	Harvard	
University	entered	a	collaboration	to	accelerate	development	of	a	lightweight,	wearable	
soft	exo-suit	for	assisting	people	with	lower	limb	disabilities.	This	is	the	direction	the	
industry	is	moving	towards	as	existing	products	in	the	market	are	extremely	cumbersome	
and	functionality	is	very	challenging.	Here,	Cyberdyne	actually	needs	to	catch	up.	
	
Even	Cyberdyne’s	existing	sensor-based	approach	isn’t	completely	unique.	Other	research	
institutions	have	developed	their	own	“sensor-based”	robotic	suits,	including	the	“Walk	
Again”	project,	which	was	a	collaboration	of	a	number	of	research	institutions	led	by	Duke	
University.	Their	sensor-based	body	suit	was	showcased	in	Brazil	in	2014	as	a	paraplegic	
man	made	the	first	ceremonial	kick	at	the	2014	World	Cup7.	So,	how	can	Cyberdyne	claim	to	
be	unique?	
			
Outside	of	Cyberdyne’s	core	products,	they	have	been	expanding	into	those	that	focus	more	
on	industrial	uses.	This	segment	is	lucrative	yet	very	tightly	contested	by	the	likes	of	Toyota,	
Honda	and	Panasonic,	as	well	as	overseas	companies	such	as	Lockheed	Martin,	Hyundai	and	
Raytheon.	Those	companies	have	far	bigger	R&D	budgets	and	staff,	giving	them	a	serious	
advantage	in	the	race	to	build	better	products.	
	


																																																								
6	Cyberdyne’s	Convertibles	Prospectus,	page	57	
7	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=inCvbDLfXBo
5	


	
	
Statement	3,	August	20158	 Reality	
Cyberdyne	advertises	very	large	markets:	
9.9	million	stroke	patients,	0.6	million	
people	with	spinal	cord	injuries,	0.8	million	
MS	patients	and	1.9	million	Parkinson’s	
disease	patients	in	Europe,	the	United	
States	and	Japan	combined.	


Cyberdyne	is	not	even	operating	in	the	U.S.,	
so	the	numbers	from	the	world’s	largest	
medical	market	are	irrelevant	to	its	business	
calculations.	Even	if	we	do	include	the	U.S.,	
we	believe	the	total	market	Cyberdyne	can	
penetrate	is	much	smaller	because	not	all	
sufferers	the	company	says	it	can	help	need	
mechanically	assisted	walking	devices.		


	
Cyberdyne’s	competitors	admit	that	counting	the	number	of	patients	is	not	the	same	as	
giving	the	size	of	the	potential	customer	base.	For	example,	medical	studies9	cited	by	rival	
Ekso	in	a	Dec.	2015	presentation	show	only	a	third	of	stroke	victims	cannot	walk	without	
assistance.		
	


	
Source:	Ekso	presentation	material	
	
Add	to	this	the	fact	that	Cyberdyne	targets	hospitals,	not	individuals,	which	need	only	a	
couple	of	units	to	service	double-digit	patient	numbers,	and	the	reality	that	this	market	will	
inevitably	be	shared	by	all	the	assisted	walking	product	companies	and	we’re	no	longer	
looking	at	millions	of	Cyberdyne	device	sales.	They	can	probably	only	hope	for	a	single-digit	
percentage	of	that	overall	patients’	base.	Even	in	the	company’s	key	geography	–	Japan	–	


																																																								
8	Annual	Report	2015,	p.11,	which	can	be	viewed	at:	
http://www.cyberdyne.jp/english/company/ar2015/pdf/CYBERDYNE-AR.pdf	
9	Sourced	from	Vincent,	Y.	M.,	L.	Chan,	and	K.	J.	Carruthers.	2014.	Archives	of	Physical	
Medicine	and	Rehabilitation	95	(5):986-95.
6	


the	target	market	today	may	be	as	small	as	3,500	patients,10	based	on	the	material	provided	
by	the	Central	Social	Insurance	Medical	Council	and	dated	Jan.	27th,	2016.	
	
With	the	industrial	market	for	powered	suits	and	assisted	robotics	hotly	contested	by	
domestic	tech	giants	of	the	U.S.,	Japan,	South	Korea,	and	others,	Cyberdyne	does	not	have	a	
lot	of	options	for	finding	new	markets	outside	of	the	medical	field.	After	all,	the	company	
has	already	precluded	itself	from	one	of	the	biggest	markets	for	robotics,	which	is	military	
sales.		
	
Cyberdyne	founder	and	CEO,	Professor	Sankai,	has	guaranteed	the	company	would	not	
become	a	seller	of	devices	to	the	military	by	setting	up	a	dual	share	structure	at	the	
company	that	guarantees	him	ultimate	control11:	
	





																																																								
10	http://www.mhlw.go.jp/file/05-Shingikai-12404000-Hokenkyoku-
Iryouka/0000110416.pdf	
11	http://www.cyberdyne.jp/english/company/IR.html
7	


DREAMS	OF	THE	VERY	DISTANT	FUTURE	
	
Cyberdyne	presented	the	public	with	an	exciting	development	in	robotics	and	a	product	that	
seemed	like	it	could	become	an	integral	part	of	medical	treatment.	That	first	presentation	
was	in	200712.		
	
Almost	10	years	on,	Cyberdyne’s	technology	is: 
	


• NOT	available	in	the	world’s	biggest	market	(while	its	competitors’	offerings	are)	
• NOT	aimed	at	individual	sales	(Cyberdyne	only	targets	hospitals)	
• NOT	unique	(competitors	have	even	stolen	ahead	in	some	fields)	
• NOT	the	only	such	product	available	in	Japan	(ReWalk	since	2013	has	partnered	with	


top	Japanese	robot	maker	Yaskawa	Electric,	which	acts	as	its	sales	and	distribution	
agent	in	the	country;	ReWalk	says	it’s	already	available	in	3-4	centers	in	Japan)	


	
At	this	point,	Cyberdyne	faces	a	huge	challenge	to	justify	its	“wonderkid”	status	from	2007	
and	explain	how	the	company’s	market	capitalization	can	be	54	times	that	of	ReWalk,	55	
times	that	of	Ekso,	and	470	times	that	of	Rex.	(See	table	on	p.2	for	more	comparisons).	
	
What’s	concerning	from	an	investor	standpoint	is	that	the	analysts	that	cover	the	company	
are	justifying	their	incredibly	bullish	valuations	that	support	the	stock	by	making	forecasts	
for	profits	in	the	very	distant	future.	
	
One	of	the	top	analysts	for	the	stock	said	this	in	April	2014:	“We	project	that	overseas	sales	
will	reach	around	Y170	billion	in	2033.”	(Nomura	Securities,	initiation	report	dated	April	30,	
2014)	
	
Brokerage	analysts	all	repeat	the	company’s	line	about	the	market	potential	in	the	distant	
future.	Almost	all	of	their	valuations	are	from	sales	in	the	years	2024/2025	and	beyond.	But,	
as	we	saw	with	Jig-Saw	(3914),	talking	about	a	market	size	does	not	correlate	with	your	
ability	to	profit	from	it.	In	the	case	of	Cyberdyne,	for	example,	the	company	has	talked	at	
length	about	potential	for	sales	in	Germany.	More	than	three	years	after	gaining	entry	to	
the	German	market	its	products	are	available	in	only	9	hospitals13	and	are	covered	by	
accident	(not	full	medical)	insurance	for	public	/	industrial	sector	workers.	
	
So,	what	else	could	be	driving	Cyberdyne’s	valuation	inflation?	Probably	it	is	simply	riding	on	
the	back	of	the	current	fad	for	buying	into	anything	related	to	robots.	Last	year,	Nikko	Asset	
Management	and	Daiwa	even	launched	a	“robot-themed”	equity	fund.	(You	can	and	should	
ask	them	how	the	returns	are	going,	by	the	way.)	
	
The	bottom	line	is	that	this	is	a	company	whose	potential	has	been	blown	up	into	a	
bubble	before	it	proved	itself.	The	valuations	are	at	levels	last	seen	in	the	IT	sector	just	
before	the	dot.com	crash.	You	know	what	happened	next.	(Or	if	you	don't,	please	take	a	
look	at	the	Appendix	on	the	next	page).	
	 	


																																																								
12	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynL8BCXih8U	
13	http://toyokeizai.net/articles/-/40027?page=2
8	


APPENDIX:	WHERE	ARE	THEY	NOW?		
	
This	is	the	story	of	wonderkids	of	Japan’s	last	hitech	boom	at	the	end	of	the	1990s.	We	won’t	
attempt	to	write	the	full	obituary	but	each	of	the	stocks	you	see	below	was	once	thought	to	
be	an	iron-clad	winner,	the	next	big	thing,	backed	by	respectable	institutions	and	confident	
investors.	In	each	case	the	company	exhibited	the	same	characteristics	as	today’s	Cyberdyne	
stock:	“much-loved”	by	the	retail	investors,	ever	on	the	cusp	of	a	business	breakthrough,	and	
hyped	to	lofty	valuations	on	the	back	of	revenues	that	were	forecast	to	spike	drastically	at	
some	distant	point	in	the	future.	In	each	case,	once	the	crash	occurred	the	stock’s	decline	
was	quick,	ruthless	and	almost	total	(95%+).	Below	are	a	few	of	our	top	picks.	
	
Internet	Research	Institute			This	was	an	internet	consultant	and	technology	provider	that	
was	valued	at	118x	revenue	at	the	end	of	FY2000	(Versus	the	590x	forward	earnings	value	
of	Cyberdyne	today).	It	had	a	market	cap	of	¥130	billion.	Peak-to-trough,	the	market	value	
dropped	by	98%	by	the	end	of	2001.	
	


	
Source:	Bloomberg	


	
Met’s	Corp			A	software	developer	and	seller	that	in	FY2000	had	a	market	capitalization	of	
approximately	¥53	billion	on	no	existing	revenue.	The	popping	of	the	internet	bubble	saw	its	
share	price	drop	from	¥1,478	in	2000	to	¥60	by	the	end	of	2001	–	an	implied	peak-to-trough	
decline	of	96%.	
	


	
Source:	Bloomberg
9	


	
	
Liquid	Audio			A	developer	of	internet-based	music	delivery	systems	that	sold	shares	to	the	
public	at	the	peak	of	the	internet	boom	with	effectively	no	revenues.	It	traded	as	high	as	
¥31,333	a	share	in	2000,	giving	it	a	¥122	billion	market	cap,	before	collapsing	shortly	
thereafter	to	¥280	per	share.	Implied	peak-to-trough	decline:	99%.	
	


	
Source:	Bloomberg	





Crayfish				 This	Japanese	e-mail	provider,	which	listed	on	the	NASDAQ	amid	a	boom	in	
outsourcing	of	hosting	services,	promised	that	its	net	losses	before	the	1999	listing	were	a	
temporary	phase.	Shares	went	to	sky-high	valuations	in	2000.	Then	came	the	98%	peak-to-
trough	plummet	through	2001.	
	


	
Source:	Bloomberg
