November	13,	2017	


	
Aeria	(3758):		
Our	responses	to	Aeria’s	press	release	dated	Oct.	26th	





1. Aeria	admits	that	their	downloads	are	far	less	than	they	advertised	


In	 Aeria’s	 response	 to	 our	 report,	 they	 admit	 that	 we	 are	 right	 and	 that	 they	 had	 substantially	 and	
materially	overstated	the	number	of	A3!	downloads	by	including	marathon	resets.		


Thus,	 it’s	 clear	 to	 see	 that	 in	 including	 the	marathon	 resets,	 Aeria	 purposefully	misled	 investors	 into	
believing	 that	 the	 game	 was	 far	 more	 popular	 than	 it	 was;	 also	 through	 substantially	 increasing	 the	
number	of	users.	This	was	false!	


After	misleading	investors,	Aeria	are	now	trying	to	justify	their	actions	but	claiming	that	the	marathon	
resets	are	important,	although	not	encouraged,	and	show	just	how	popular	the	game	is.	This	is	deeply	
misleading	 in	 terms	 of	 earnings	 outlook;	 Aeria	 had	 told	 shareholders	 that	 there	 were	 an	 additional	
500,000	downloads	each	month	when	 it	was	closer	 to	40,000.	 It	 is	hard	 to	 sustain,	never	mind	grow,	
revenue	when	a	game	is	no	longer	attracting	many	new	users.	Investors	were	led	to	believe	that	A3!	was	
gaining	many	more	users	than	it	was.	


2. Aeria’s	claim	that	A3!	Is	still	very	popular	is	dubious	


In	their	response,	Aeria	claimed	that	they	are	managing	to	keep	A3!	very	popular.	If	this	is	true	then	why	
according	 to	 the	 app	 analytics	 sites,	A3!	 posted	 its	 lowest	 revenue	 in	October	 2017	 since	 its	 first	 full	
month	in	February	2017?	


A3!	is	obviously	not	as	popular	as	Aeria	is	telling	investors.		





Well Investments Research  
www.wellinvestmentsresearch.com  
whistleblower@wellinvestmentsresearch.com  
Director of Research: Yuki Arai
3. Aeria	do	not	deny	that	they	have	made	poor	acquisitions	


Aeria	made	ten	acquisitions	in	2017	including	a	number	of	real	estate	related	acquisitions.	It	is	hard	to	
believe	that	they	would	be	this	active	in	M&A	in	such	a	short	period	of	time	if	they	did	not	fear	that	their	
current	performance	and	stock	price	was	unsustainable.	


We	pointed	out	that	Aeria	had	taken	a	50%	write-down	on	its	acquisitions	in	FY16	within	just	one	year	of	
making	six	acquisitions.	Aeria	did	not	deny	this	in	their	response,	in	fact	they	proved	the	point	by	trying	
to	argue	that	two	of	the	six	acquisitions	have	made	profit	so	Aeria	are	themselves	admitting	that	only	a	
third	of	their	acquisitions	generate	any	profit.		


It	is	worth	noting	that	on	February	1,	2017,	Aeria	announced	a	reduction	of	directors’	remuneration	as	a	
sign	of	responsibility	for	the	write-down.	Sadly,	it	does	not	look	like	they	learnt	their	lesson.	


In	light	of	their	previous	failures,	we	find	it	hard	to	believe	that	Aeria	could	have	spent	enough	time	on	
due	diligence	when	it	made	10	acquisitions	within	just	six	months	from	April	2017.	There	is	little	chance	
of	any	success	 from	these	acquisitions	and	all	shareholders	will	have	 is	 further	dilution	of	their	shares	
and	more	value	destruction.	


4. Aeria	does	not	deny	our	thesis	that	Ichu	generated	minimal	profit	in	China	


We	 claimed	 that	 Ichu	made	 no	money	when	 it	was	 distributed	 in	 China	 and	 as	 a	 result	 shareholders	
should	 not	 expect	 A3!	 to	 perform	 any	 better	 as	 it	 will	 be	 distributed	 by	 the	 same	 company.	 Aeria	
corrected	 our	 claim	 by	 stating	 that	 they	 received	 the	 minimum	 guarantee	 (without	 disclosing	 how	
much!)	 from	 the	 Chinese	 distributor.	 This	 tactic	 of	 avoiding	 a	 clear	 explanation	 of	 the	 scale	 of	 China	
sales	 and	 also	 avoiding	 giving	 a	 clear	 statement	 on	whether	 this	 action	 generated	 profit,	 leads	 us	 to	
believe	that	the	game’s	Chinese	sales	did	not	make	a	noticeable	profit	contribution.		


Aeria’s	comments	again	support	our	view	that	A3!	is	unlikely	to	generate	any	meaningful	profit	from	the	
royalty	in	China	except	perhaps	the	minimum	guarantee,	the	amount	of	which	has	not	been	disclosed.	


5. Low	expectations	for	new	games	


We	noted	in	the	report	that	Aeria’s	newest	game	Soen	no	Kantai	has	had	an	underwhelming	debut	but	
in	their	response	Aeria	claim	that	is	performing	above	expectations	and	will	become	a	pillar	of	earnings	
following	Ichu	and	A3!.	


This	is	a	shocking	and	misleading	statement.	In	September	2017,	the	month	of	its	debut,	Soen	No	Kantai	
had	 a	 total	 of	 41,368	 downloads	 and	 revenue	 of	US$500,000	 (about	 56.5	million	 yen).	 The	 following	
month,	the	total	number	of	downloads	was	just	15,284	and	revenue	at	US$300,000	(about	33.9	million	
yen).	This	does	not	look	like	a	new	earnings	pillar.	If	it	really	did	exceed	Aeria’s	expectations	then	they	
must	have	had	extremely	low	expectations.
6. Change	of	auditor	rationale	still	unclear		


Aeria	did	not	provide	a	satisfactory	answer	for	 its	downgrade	of	auditor	from	Shin	Nihon	to	the	much	
smaller	firm	Avantia	which	has	audited	some	suspicious	companies.		


Aeria	made	some	abstract	statements,	such	as:	“Size	is	not	the	only	measure	of	an	audit	company,”	and	
“We	select	an	audit	corporation	with	a	focus	on	being	able	to	disclose	information	in	a	form	that	is	more	
secure	and	which	does	not	mislead	investors."	However,	there	was	no	response	to	our	report’s	claims	
that	since	changing	auditor	Aeria	continues	to	mislead	investors	in	its	disclosure.		


We	also	note	that	the	change	of	auditor	was	made	at	the	AGM	on	March	30,	2017.	This	was	 just	one	
month	before	Aeria	began	its	spending	spree	resulting	in	10	acquisitions	within	six	months.	


7. The	Accounting	Standards	Foundation	


We	 find	 Aeria’s	 claim	 that	 they	 did	 not	 join	 in	 order	 to	 save	 on	 costs	 to	 be	 laughable.	 Only	 5%	 of	
companies	 have	 not	 joined	 and	 we	 are	 shocked	 that	 their	 first	 cost	 cuts	 are	 to	 accounting	 related	
memberships.	


The	company	claims	that	they	did	not	join	the	annual	membership	fee	of	the	Financial	Accounting	
Standards	Organization	as	a	way	to	save	costs,	but	this	is	a	laughable	excuse.	Approximately	95%	of	the	
listed	companies	are	members,	while	the	annual	fee	is	just	300,000	yen	(US$2,600).	The	fact	that	this	
item	was	seen	as	high-priority	in	cost	cutting	by	the	company	should	give	investors	cause	for	concern	
regarding	the	attitude	current	management	shows	towards	disclosure.
Disclaimer:	


Our	research	and	reports	express	our	opinions,	which	we	have	based	upon	generally	available	public	information,	field	research,	inferences	and	
deductions	through	our	due	diligence	and	analytical	process.	To	the	best	of	our	ability	and	belief,	all	information	contained	herein	is	accurate	
and	reliable,	and	has	been	obtained	from	public	sources	we	believe	to	be	accurate	and	reliable,	and	who	are	not	insiders	or	connected	persons	of	
the	stock	covered	herein	or	who	may	otherwise	owe	any	fiduciary	duty	or	duty	of	confidentiality	to	the	issuer.		We	strive	for	accuracy	and	
completeness	to	support	our	opinions,	and	we	have	a	good-faith	belief	in	everything	we	write.	However,	all	such	information	is	presented	"as	is,"	
without	warranty	of	any	kind	–	whether	express	or	implied.		Well	Investments	Research	makes	no	representation,	express	or	implied,	as	to	the	
accuracy,	timeliness,	or	completeness	of	any	such	information	or	with	regard	to	the	results	to	be	obtained	from	its	use.		


You	agree	that	the	use	of	Well	Investments	Research	is	at	your	own	risk.		In	no	event	will	Well	Investments	Research	or	any	affiliated	party	be	
liable	for	any	direct	or	indirect	trading	losses	caused	by	any	information	available	on	this	report.		Well	Investment	Research	is	not	registered	as	
an	investment	advisor	in	any	jurisdiction.	This	report	does	not	represent	an	investment	advice	or	a	recommendation	or	a	solicitation	to	buy	any	
securities.	Think	critically	about	our	opinions	and	do	your	own	research	and	analysis	before	making	any	investment	decisions.		You	should	seek	
the	advice	of	a	security	professional	regarding	your	stock	transactions.		


You	should	assume	that	as	of	the	publication	date	of	our	reports	and	research,	Well	Investments	Research,	as	well	as	our	clients	and/or	
investors,	may	have	a	short	position	in	the	stock	(and/or	options,	swaps,	and	other	derivatives	related	to	the	stock)	covered	herein,	and	
therefore	may	stand	to	realize	significant	gains	in	the	event	that	the	price	of	the	covered	stock,	options	or	other	securities	rises	or	declines.	We	
may	continue	transacting	in	the	securities	of	the	company	covered	in	this	report,	and	we	may	buy,	sell,	cover	or	otherwise	change	the	form	or	
substance	of	our	position	in	the	issuer	regardless	of	our	initial	views	set	out	herein.	


This	is	not	an	offer	to	sell	or	a	solicitation	of	an	offer	to	buy	any	security,	nor	shall	Well	Investments	Research	offer,	sell	or	buy	any	security	to	or	
from	any	person	through	this	site	or	reports	on	this	site.	Well	Investments	Research	is	not	registered	as	an	investment	advisor	in	any	jurisdiction.			
You	agree	to	do	your	own	research	and	due	diligence	before	making	any	investment	decision	with	respect	to	the	securities	discussed	herein.		You	
represent	to	Well	Investments	Research	that	you	have	sufficient	investment	sophistication	to	critically	assess	the	information,	analysis	and	
opinions	in	this	report.	


We	are	entitled	to	our	opinions	and	to	the	right	to	express	such	opinions	in	a	public	forum.		We	believe	that	the	publication	of	our	opinions	about	
public	companies	that	we	research	is	in	the	public	interest.		This	report	and	all	statements	contained	herein	are	the	opinion	of	Well	Investments	
Research	and	are	not	statements	of	fact.		You	can	publicly	access	any	piece	of	evidence	cited	in	this	report	or	that	we	relied	on	to	write	this	
report.		All	opinions	are	subject	to	change	without	notice,	and	Well	Investments	Research	does	not	undertake	to	update	or	supplement	any	
reports	or	any	of	the	information,	analysis	and	opinion	contained	in	them.		


You	agree	that	use	of	Well	Investments	Research’s	research	is	at	your	own	risk.	You	further	agree	to	do	your	own	research	and	due	diligence	
before	making	any	investment	decision	with	respect	to	securities	covered	herein.	You	represent	to	Well	Investments	Research	that	you	have	
sufficient	investment	sophistication	to	critically	assess	the	information,	analysis	and	opinion	on	Well	Investments	Research’s	site	and	in	this	
report.		You	further	agree	that	you	will	not	communicate	the	contents	of	this	report	to	any	other	person	unless	that	person	has	agreed	to	be	
bound	by	these	same	terms	of	service.		


By	opening	this	report	you	knowingly	and	independently	agree:	(i)	to	abide	by	the	terms	of	service	posted	on	our	website,	which	are	hereby	fully	
incorporated	herein,	(ii)	that	any	dispute	arising	from	your	use	of	this	report	or	viewing	the	material	herein	shall	be	governed	by	the	laws	of	
Japan,	without	regard	to	any	conflict	of	law	provisions;	(iii)	to	submit	to	the	personal	and	exclusive	jurisdiction	of	the	superior	courts	located	
within	Japan	and	waive	your	right	to	any	other	jurisdiction	or	applicable	law;	and	(iv)	that	regardless	of	any	statute	or	law	to	the	contrary,	any	
claim	or	cause	of	action	arising	out	of	or	related	to	use	of	this	website	or	the	material	herein	must	be	filed	within	one	(1)	year	after	such	claim	or	
cause	of	action	arose	or	be	forever	barred.	The	failure	of	Well	Investments	Research	to	exercise	or	enforce	any	right	or	provision	of	this	
disclaimer	shall	not	constitute	a	waiver	of	this	right	or	provision.	If	any	provision	of	this	disclaimer	is	found	by	a	court	of	competent	jurisdiction	
to	be	invalid,	the	parties	nevertheless	agree	that	the	court	should	endeavor	to	give	effect	to	the	parties'	intentions	as	reflected	in	the	provision	
and	rule	that	the	other	provisions	of	this	disclaimer	remain	in	full	force	and	effect,	in	particular	as	to	this	governing	law	and	jurisdiction	
provision.
