1	





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Well Investments Research  
      www.wellinvestmentsresearch.com  
      whistleblower@wellinvestmentsresearch.com  
      Director of Research: Yuki Arai 


Jigsaw	Inc.	(3914):	
A	Hi-Tech	Forgery	
	
April	27,	2016	














Jig-Saw	claims	 to	be	 a	cutting-edge	 tech	 company	that	 is	 involved	 in	
every	fashionable	investment	theme	of	the	past	two	years.	Its	span	is	
unbelievable!	(See	the	list	on	the	right).	
	
Since	its	IPO	exactly	a	year	ago,	the	company	has	released	more	than	
60	 vague	 press	 releases	 stuff	 with	 these	 industry	 buzzwords.	 The	
stock	is	up	1,500%	since	the	IPO!	
	
But,	 the	 company’s	 financial	 statements	 tell	 a	 different	 story.	 In	
reality,	 Jig-Saw	 is	 a	 small	 server	 monitoring	 and	 maintenance	
company.	It	makes	close	to	zero	investment	 in	capex,	R&D,	and	staff	
to	carry	out	their	hyped	initiatives	and	tie	ups.	
	
And,	importantly,	most	of	Jigsaw’s	insiders	are	dumping	the	stock!	
What	do	they	know	that	ordinary	investors	don’t?	
		
To	help	solve	Jig-Saw’s	puzzle,	we’ve	done	months	of	due	diligence,	
looking	at	its	financial	statements	and	accounting	practices.	Our	full	
report	will	be	out	later,	but	first	we	have	some	questions	that	we	
suggest	you	ask	Jig-Saw	management.	


JIGSAW	CLAIMS	TO	BE	DEVELOPING	
	


• Auto	Sensoring	&	Auto	
Direction	(A&A)	


• Internet	of	Things	(IoT)	
• Artificial	Intelligence	(AI)	
• Blockchain	
• Autonomous	Driving	
• Big	Data	
• Augmented	&	Virtual	Reality	


(AR	&VR)	
• MVNO	
• Smart	Transportation	
• …even	monitoring	robots	on	


the	moon!
2	





1) Why	were	 “external”	 auditors	 granted	 Jig-Saw	 stock?	 This	 appears	 to	 be	 a	major	
conflict	of	interest.	We	also	note	that	the	auditors	sold	their	stock	at	the	IPO	price	of	
¥1,195.	


2) What	 is	 your	 business	model	 in	 IoT,	 Big	 Data,	MVNO,	 Space,	 ZMP,	 Blockchain,	 AI,	
VR/AR,	and	Smart	Transportation?		Give	details	not	just	hyped	themes.	


3) How	 can	 you	 act	 on	 all	 these	massive	 projects	 spending	 only	 ¥0.6m	 in	 capex	 and	
¥11.7m	 in	 R&D	 per	 year?	 This	 is	 enough	 money	 to	 employ	 one	 engineer	 and	
purchase	one	computer!	The	investment	spending	in	technology	and	people	would	
have	to	be	10,000	times	greater	to	pull	off	these	initiatives.		Something	does	not	add	
up.	


4) Why	is	your	average	salary	per	employee	only	¥4.3m?	This	is	less	than	a	call	center	
wage…..not	expensive	engineer	 salaries	we	would	expect	 to	 find	at	 a	 cutting-edge	
tech	company!		


5) Why	do	you	consistently	issue	press	releases	for	investment	stakes	(ie.	In	Mobicomm,	
Kudan,	Sekai,	and	CHANGE)	that	are	immaterial	to	your	financials?		Details	regarding	
the	amount	invested	or	size	of	the	stake	is	never	included	in	the	press	releases.	But,	
Jig-Saw’s	cash	flow	statement	confirms	these	stakes	are	worth	very	little.	


6) The	 company	 is	 very	 good	 at	 announcing	 big	 name	 tie-ups	 with	 SoftBank,	 IBM,	
Google,	Altair,	NASA	among	others.		Why	have	none	of	these	partners	announced	a	
tie-up	with	Jig-Saw?	


7) How	 did	 revenues	 decelerate	 in	 FY15	 (ended	 Dec	 31,	 2015)	 and	 miss	 company	
guidance	despite	all	your	new	tie-ups	and	initiatives?			


8) Why	did	Jig-Saw	withhold	FY16	guidance?	


9) Insiders	 such	 as	 the	 CFO,	 Jun	 Emi,	 TransCosmos,	 Sun8	 among	 others	 have	 been	
dumping	stock	well	below	the	current	stock	price.		What	do	they	know	that	common	
shareholders	don’t?	


10) Your	biggest	shareholder	used	to	be	listed	as	Mr.	Jun	Emi	(@jun_emi	)	with	24%	of	
Jigsaw.	 	His	 fund,	Net	Capital	Partners,	sold	 Jig-Saw	stock.	Mr	Emi	no	 longer	 files	a	
transaction	report	for	his	personal	stake.		How	much	stock	does	Mr.	Emi	still	own	in	
Jigsaw?			


	
Despite	these	puzzling	issues,	Jig-Saw’s	stock	trades	at	nearly	200x	revenues	and	800x	OP!	
We	looked	at	similar	companies	in	Japan	and	they	seem	to	be	growing	their	business	faster	
and	investing	more.	If	we	tried	to	price	Jig-Saw	based	on	the	multiples	for	their	peer	group,	
its	stock	would	be	worth	95%	less.	See	table	below:
3	


	
Source:	Well	Investments	Research	








Source:	Well	Investments	Research	





We	will	address	these	“puzzling”	questions	and	more	in	our	detailed	Jig-Saw	report	that	will	be	released	later	
in	May.		Stay	tuned…
4	





























IMAGE	


JIG-SAW
