7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 1/9


Short	Ideas 	|	 Services	 	|	 Editors'	Picks 	|	 South	Africa


Net	1	UEPS	Technologies:	Deceptive	Management	Practices,	Opaque
Financial	Reporting	And	Other	Red	Flags
Nov.	3,	2015	2:30	PM	ET24	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


Serge	Belamant,	the	CEO	of	UEPS,	has	publicly	made	several	misleading	and	at
times	untruthful	comments	about	his	business.


Over	the	past	few	years,	the	Company's	financial	reporting	methods	have	become
increasingly	less	transparent	and	more	confusing.


Low	insider	ownership	and	continuous	selling	of	shares	by	insiders	are	another
concern.


Also	concerning	is	UEPS's	September	2012	purchase	of	Pbel,	a	business	that	was
jointly	owned	by	Serge	Belamant	and	his	son.


The	Company	remains	an	attractive	short	opportunity	at	the	current	share	price.


In	my	first	follow-up	article	on	Net	1	UEPS	Technologies	(NASDAQ:UEPS)	("UEPS"	or	the
"Company"),	I	argued	that	almost	70%	of	the	Company's	total	revenue	in	FY	2015	was
from	SASSA-related	businesses.	This	represented	a	significant	increase	from	my	initial
estimate	that	around	50%	of	the	Company's	revenue	was	from	SASSA-related	sources.	In
this	article,	I	will	primarily	focus	on	the	conduct	of	UEPS's	management,	as	well	as	the
Company's	financial	reporting	practices.


In	the	first	section,	I	will	discuss	the	conduct	of	Serge	Belamant,	the	CEO	of	UEPS.	During
my	research	of	UEPS,	I	came	across	two	separate	interviews	that	Mr.	Belamant	gave	to
CNBC	South	Africa	and	Summit	TV.	During	these	interviews,	Mr.	Belamant	made	several
questionable	and	misleading	statements	about	UEPS's	business	and	in	one	case
seemingly	lied	about	the	Company's	revenue	composition.	Following	my	discussion	of	Mr.
Belamant,	I	will	discuss	UEPS's	questionable	financial	reporting	practices.


During	my	review	of	UEPS's	historical	quarterly	reports,	I	was	alarmed	to	find	out	that	the
Company's	financial	reporting	has	become	increasingly	less	transparent	and	more
confusing	over	the	past	few	years.	It	appears	that	the	management	has	continuously
changed	its	financial	reporting	practices	in	an	effort	to	mask	certain	aspects	of	its	business



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/services

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/editors-picks

https://seekingalpha.com/market-outlook/global-investing/analysis/South%20Africa

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3620546-why-net-1-ueps-will-soon-lose-almost-70-percent-of-its-revenue

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UEPS
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 2/9


from	shareholders.	Finally,	to	close	this	article,	I	will	discuss	the	continuous	amount	of
selling	of	UEPS's	shares	by	insiders,	as	well	as	my	concerns	over	a	related-party
acquisition	that	the	Company	completed	in	2012.	Based	on	the	additional	management
and	financial	reporting	concerns	that	are	highlighted	in	this	article,	I	feel	even	more
strongly	that	the	company's	shares	should	not	be	owned	at	any	share	price.


The	Questionable	Conduct	of	Mr.	Belamant


In	May	2013,	Mr.	Belamant	granted	an	interview	to	Summit	TV	("STV"),	a	South	African
news	channel.	The	majority	of	this	interview	was	dedicated	to	discussing	the	controversy
over	UEPS's	lending	business.	At	the	time,	the	Company	had	just	started	to	receive	a
great	deal	of	criticism	regarding	its	practice	of	providing	microloans	to	social	grant
beneficiaries.	The	interviewer	from	STV	asked	Mr.	Belamant	whether	it	was	unethical	to
offer	expensive	microloans	to	unsophisticated	and	financially	vulnerable	individuals.	Not
surprisingly,	Mr.	Belamant	unequivocally	supported	his	Company's	lending	practices.
Although	I	expected	him	to	defend	his	Company's	conduct,	I	was	troubled	to	see	Mr.
Belamant	use	very	misleading	and	some	could	say	untruthful	statements	in	order	to
support	his	position.	For	example,	consider	the	following	exchange	between	the	STV
interviewer	and	Mr.	Belamant:


STV:	What	interest	rate	do	you	charge?


Mr.	Belamant:	Zero.	We	charge	no	interest	rates	on	our	loans.


STV:	And	the	allegations	from	the	DA.	You're	saying	it's	interest-free	but	in	some
cases	the	interest	rate	can	be	up	to	50%	-	that's	the	allegation.


Mr.	Belamant:	The	DA	is	a	political	party.	I'm	not	100%	sure	who	they've	been	talking
to	-	I	wish	they	would	speak	to	us	and	then	maybe	we	could	come	in	and	they	could
look	at	our	books	and	they	could	see	if	in	fact	we're	charging	50%	or	zero.


STV:	So	you	don't	charge,	you	offer	them	how	much	money?


Mr.	Belamant:	We	offer	them	very	small	loans,	like	R100	or	R200.	I	think	it	goes	up
to	R500	or	something	like	that.


STV:	And	then	you	don't	charge	interest	...


Mr.	Belamant:	We	charge	fees.



http://www.bdlive.co.za/companies/2013/05/29/summit-tv-net1-welcomes-probe-into-social-grants-loan-scheme
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 3/9


As	can	be	seen	from	the	above	exchange,	Mr.	Belamant	is	actually	trying	to	convince
the	STV	interviewer	that	UEPS's	loans	are	interest	free.	As	I	discussed	in	my	initial
article	on	UEPS,	this	is	a	fairly	absurd	claim.	Although	the	Company	classifies	its	loans	as
"interest	free",	in	actuality	UEPS's	microloans	carry	very	high	service	charges	which	are
basically	a	form	of	interest.	These	fees	can	run	in	excess	of	100%	on	an	annualized	basis.
Thus,	the	fact	that	Mr.	Belamant	has	the	gall	to	claim	that	his	loans	are	interest	free	is	very
misleading	and	some	could	say	untruthful.	Fortunately,	the	STV	interviewer	does	not	buy
his	outlandish	claims,	and	eventually	Mr.	Belamant	admits	that	there	are	in	fact	fees
attached	to	the	loans.


Over	a	year	later,	in	August	2014,	Mr.	Belamant	conducted	a	separate	interview	with
CNBC	South	Africa.	During	this	interview,	Mr.	Belamant	once	again	made	some	very
questionable	remarks	about	UEPS's	business.	For	example,	as	I	demonstrated	in	my
initial	article	on	UEPS,	almost	100%	of	the	Company's	Zazoo	revenue	is	generated	from	a
cell	phone	text	message	marketing	scheme	called	Umoya	Manje.	Basically,	the	Umoya
Manje	scheme	consists	of	sending	a	text	message	to	a	grant	beneficiary	instructing	the
beneficiary	to	call	a	telephone	number	in	order	to	receive	airtime	and	other	prepaid
products.	Thus,	as	can	be	seen	from	this	description,	the	Company's	Zazoo/Umoya	Manje
business	is	more	of	a	marketing	operation	than	a	mobile	payment	technology	business.
Despite	this	fact,	Mr.	Belamant	had	the	following	to	say	about	the	Zazoo	business	during
his	interview	with	CNBC:


"We're	really	a	technology	company.	We're	not	a	marketing	company...	We	went
mobile	18	months	ago	because	we	have	some	fantastic	apps	that	work	on	a	mobile
phone,	which	I	personally	believe	is	going	to	be	the	future	all	over	the	world	in	any
case.	Over	the	last	18	months,	we've	picked	five-and-a-half	million	clients	(just
on	our	mobile	channel)	with	electricity	and	with	airtime…	They're	either
downloading	the	app	or	using	our	USSD	string,	because	there	are	many	ways	of
doing	it,	but	we	have	five-and-a-half	million	customers	who	use	this	thing	every
single	month."


Based	on	his	above	comments,	Mr.	Belamant	appears	to	be	implying	that	the
Zazoo/Umoya	Manje	business	generates	its	revenues	from	customers	who	use	their
mobile	apps	and	mobile	payment	technologies.	He	also	states	that	UEPS	is	a	technology
company	as	opposed	to	a	marketing	company.	These	statements	by	Mr.	Belamant	are
very	misleading.	In	reality,	Zazoo/Umoya	Manje	is	primarily	a	marketing	scheme	designed
to	profit	off	of	grant	beneficiaries.	The	Company's	portfolio	of	mobile	payment	technologies
have	achieved	very	little	market	acceptance	to	date.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-to-concerns-over-potentially-unlawful-behavior-and-business-fundamentals

http://www.biznews.com/interviews/2014/08/29/serge-belamant-of-net1-sa-technology-genius-allan-grays-a-fan/
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 4/9


Unfortunately,	the	highly	questionable	statements	from	Mr.	Belamant	do	not	end	there.
Earlier	in	this	interview,	Mr.	Belamant	had	the	following	exchange	with	Alec	Hogg	from
CNBC:


Mr.	Hogg:	You	report	in	US	Dollars.	How	much	of	your	income	is	generated	outside
of	South	Africa?


Mr.	Belamant:	It	used	to	be	about	20	percent.	Now,	it's	closer	to	65	to	70	percent.


Mr.	Hogg:	Outside	South	Africa?


Mr.	Belamant:	Yes…


Mr.	Belamant's	assertion	that	UEPS	generates	"65	to	70	percent"	of	its	revenue
outside	of	South	Africa	is	not	true.	Provided	below	is	a	table	which	shows	UEPS's
revenue	by	geographic	region	for	FY	2014	and	FY	2015:


As	shown	in	the	table	above,	in	both	FY	2014	and	FY	2015,	the	Company	generated	74%
of	its	revenue	in	South	Africa	and	just	26%	from	international	markets.	Thus,	Mr.	Belamant
was	overstating	the	Company's	international	revenue	composition	by	around	40-45%.	His
apparent	untruthful	comments	were,	in	my	opinion,	quite	reckless	and	resulted	in	a	good
deal	of	confusion	in	the	investment	community.	For	example,	in	his	introduction	to	his
August	2014	interview	with	Mr.	Belamant,	Alec	Hogg	stated	the	following	about	UEPS:


"…Belamant	is	philosophical	about	SASSA.	He	can	afford	to	be	as	65%	of	the
group's	revenues	are	generated	outside	of	the	country…"


As	another	example,	consider	the	following	quote	from	a	bullish	fin24tech	article	published
in	September	2014:


"Perhaps	the	most	underrated	aspect	of	Net1	is	the	fact	that	the	company	now
generates	in	excess	of	65%	of	its	revenues	outside	South	Africa."



http://www.fin24.com/Tech/Opinion/Dont-disregard-Net1-20140904
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 5/9


I	believe	that	Mr.	Belamant's	questionable	comments	during	both	his	STV	and	CNBC
interviews	are	very	concerning	for	shareholders.	How	can	shareholders	trust	anything	Mr.
Belamant	says	about	UEPS's	business	when	he	conducts	himself	in	such	a	manner?	It	is
often	said	that	a	Company's	culture	stems	directly	from	its	CEO.	Given	Mr.	Belamant's
tendency	to	mislead,	it	is	no	wonder	that	UEPS	has	conducted	itself	in	such	an	unethical
and	allegedly	unlawful	manner.	As	long	as	Mr.	Belamant	remains	as	CEO,	I	do	not	expect
this	to	change.


UEPS's	Increasingly	Opaque	Financial	Reporting	Practices


Over	the	years,	UEPS	has	reported	its	financials	in	an	increasingly	confusing	and	less
transparent	manner.	For	example,	provided	below	are	the	historical	metrics	that	the
company	has	reported	for	its	EasyPay	transaction	processing	business	(acquired	July
2006)	from	FY	2007	to	FY	2015:


Next,	provided	below	are	the	historical	metrics	that	UEPS	has	reported	for	its	FIHRST
payroll	processing	business	(acquired	March	2010)	from	FY	2011	to	FY	2015:


As	shown	in	the	above	two	figures,	UEPS	has	progressively	reported	less	and	less
information	about	its	EasyPay	and	FIHRST	businesses.	For	the	EasyPay	business,	the
Company	initially	reported	the	number	of	transactions	processed,	fee	per	transaction	and
revenue.	However,	in	FY	2010,	the	Company	stopped	reporting	the	fee	per	transaction
and	revenue	for	this	business.	Then,	in	FY	2014,	it	stopped	providing	any	meaningful
metrics	for	the	EasyPay	business	altogether.


In	regards	to	the	FIHRST	business,	UEPS	has	not	reported	the	number	of	transactions
processed	for	this	segment	since	FY	2014.	I	believe	that	the	Company	has	provided
increasingly	less	information	about	these	two	business	segments	in	order	to	hide
their	poor	performance.	As	can	be	seen	in	the	EasyPay	data	above,	before	the
Company	stopped	disclosing	the	revenue,	fee	per	transaction	(on	a	USD	basis)	and
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 6/9


number	of	transactions	processed	for	this	segment,	all	of	these	metrics	were	in	a
meaningful	decline.	The	same	goes	for	the	FIHRST	business	in	regards	to	the	number	of
transactions	processed.


In	addition	to	seemingly	hiding	the	poor	performance	of	certain	business	lines,	UEPS	has
also	made	significant	changes	to	its	segment-by-segment	reporting	methods.	Prior	to	Q4
2014,	the	Company	organized	its	business	into	five	reportable	segments:	(1)	South
African	Transaction-based	Activities,	(2)	International	Transaction-based	Activities,	(3)
Smart	Card	Accounts,	(4)	Financial	Services	and	(5)	Hardware,	Software	&	Related
Technology	sales.	Provided	below	is	a	breakdown	of	the	Company's	reported	YTD
revenue	by	segment	in	Q3	2014	(pg.	36	of	Q3	2014	10-Q):


In	Q4	2014,	the	Company's	Smart	Card	Accounts,	Financial	Services	and	Hardware,
Software	&	Related	Technology	segments	were	combined	into	a	single	segment	called
Financial	Inclusion	&	Applied	Technologies.	As	a	result,	since	Q4	2014,	UEPS	has
organized	its	business	into	the	following	segments:	(1)	South	African	Transaction
Processing,	(2)	International	Transaction	Processing	and	(3)	Financial	Inclusion	&	Applied
Technologies.	Attached	below	is	a	breakdown	of	UEPS's	reported	revenue	by	segment
provided	on	pg.	F-51	of	its	FY	2014	10-K:


The	Company's	decision	to	reduce	its	reportable	operating	segments	from	five	to	three
has	made	its	financial	reporting	much	less	transparent.	As	a	result,	it	is	now	much	more
difficult	to	determine	the	amount	of	revenue	and	profit	UEPS	receives	from	SASSA-related
sources.	The	reason	is	because	SASSA-related	businesses,	which	were	previously
reported	as	separate	segments	(Smart	Card	Accounts,	Financial	Services),	have	now



http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=9974726-897-230796&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=77961&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1041514

http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=10179564-898-583250&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=77961&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1041514
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 7/9


been	lumped	together	with	non-SASSA-related	businesses	(Hardware,	Software	&
Related	Technology).	Due	to	this	change,	the	large	amount	of	revenue	the	Company
generates	from	its	SASSA	contract	is	much	less	obvious	to	investors.


I	believe	that	management	changed	its	segment-by-segment	reporting	in	an	effort
to	hide	just	how	much	of	its	business	comes	from	the	SASSA	contract.	As	stated
previously,	the	Company	changed	its	operating	segments	in	Q4	2014	(quarter	ended	June
30,	2014).	With	this	in	mind,	consider	the	fact	that,	in	April	2014,	the	Constitutional	Court
ordered	SASSA	to	retender	the	grant	payments	contract.	In	other	words,	UEPS's	decision
to	change	its	financial	reporting	fell	in	the	same	quarter	that	its	SASSA	contract	was
ordered	to	be	retendered.	Now,	some	might	argue	that	this	may	merely	be	a	coincidence.
However,	given	management's	track	record	of	misleading	and	unethical	behavior,	I	do	not
believe	it	deserves	the	benefit	of	the	doubt.


In	summary,	I	believe	that	UEPS's	management	has	acted	in	an	inappropriate	manner
regarding	its	financial	reporting	methods.	Through	increasingly	opaque	financial	reporting,
the	Company	appears	to	be	trying	to	hide	the	decline	in	its	FIHRST	and	EasyPay
businesses,	as	well	as	its	heavy	reliance	on	the	SASSA	contract.	This	questionable
behavior	is	yet	another	example	of	the	great	lengths	the	Company	and	management
appear	to	have	gone	to	mislead	investors.


Concerns	Over	Insider	Selling	And	Related-Party	Transactions


Over	the	past	year,	management	has	continuously	communicated	to	investors	that	it
believes	UEPS's	shares	are	significantly	undervalued.	Given	this	fact,	I	was	surprised	to
discover	that	management's	actions	over	the	past	year	run	completely	counter	to	its
bullish	comments.	According	to	the	Company's	most	recent	DEF	14A	filing,	insiders
(e.g.	directors,	executive	officers)	own	just	5.58%	of	UEPS's	total	outstanding
shares.	In	addition	to	the	low	insider	ownership,	insiders	have	been	continuously	selling
shares.	Since	June	2014,	insiders	at	UEPS	have	sold	a	total	of	over	1.1mm	shares.
At	the	same	time,	other	than	cheap	options	and	restricted	stock	grants,	insiders	have	not
acquired	shares	on	the	open	market	in	more	than	two	years.	If	management	is	so	bullish
on	the	Company's	future	prospects,	then	why	is	it	selling	such	a	large	amount	of	shares?


The	final	item	which	I	would	like	to	address	in	this	article	once	again	relates	to	the
questionable	behavior	of	UEPS's	CEO,	Serge	Belamant.	During	my	research	of	UEPS,	I
discovered	a	rather	troubling	related	-party	transaction	that	the	Company	completed	in
September	2012.	A	description	of	this	transaction	was	provided	in	UEPS's	FY	2013	10-K:



http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=10940573-938-227671&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=77961&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1041514

http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=9473792-898-599014&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=77961&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1041514
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 8/9


"On	September	14,	2012,	the	Company	acquired	all	of	the	outstanding	and	issued
ordinary	shares	in	Pbel,	a	South	African	private	company,	for	ZAR	33	million
(approximately	$3.8	million)…	Prior	to	the	acquisition,	Pbel	was	jointly	owned	by
the	Company's	chief	executive	officer,	Dr.	Serge	Belamant	and	his	son,	Mr.
Philip	Marc	Belamant."


In	September	2012,	UEPS	acquired	Pbel	and	its	Mobile	Virtual	Card	("MVC")	technology
for	$3.8mm.	As	highlighted	in	the	above	description,	Pbel	was	jointly	owned	by	Serge
Belamant	and	his	son	Philip	Marc	Belamant.	The	fact	that	UEPS	acquired	a	business
that	was	jointly	owned	by	its	CEO	and	the	CEO's	son	is	highly	unusual.	It	also	raises
questions	about	why	UEPS	decided	to	purchase	this	business.	Did	the	Company	acquire
Pbel	based	on	the	merits	of	its	technology?	Or	was	this	transaction	merely	consummated
in	order	to	line	the	pockets	of	the	Belamant	family?	Given	the	track	record	of	poor	conduct
by	Mr.	Belamant,	I	suspect	the	latter.	The	other	negative	implication	of	this	transaction	is
the	fact	that	Pbel	was	acquired	for	such	a	low	purchase	price.	The	Company	has	touted
MVC	as	one	of	the	key	mobile	payments	technologies	of	its	Zazoo	business.	However,	if
Pbel	was	acquired	for	only	$3.8mm,	it	is	unlikely	that	its	MVC	technology	is
anything	special.	Thus,	this	provides	further	support	for	my	belief	that	UEPS's	Zazoo
business	has	little	chance	of	achieving	success.	Finally,	since	acquiring	the	Pbel
business	in	2012,	the	Company	has	failed	to	generate	any	meaningful	revenue	from
the	MVC	technology.	This	further	speaks	to	the	likelihood	that	the	MVC	technology	is	not
that	attractive.


Conclusion


Based	on	the	additional	information	provided	in	this	article,	I	believe	that	UEPS's
management	simply	cannot	be	trusted	by	shareholders.	The	poor	conduct	of	UEPS
begins	at	the	very	top	with	its	CEO	Serge	Belamant.	His	tendency	to	make	publicly
misleading	and	at	times	seemingly	untruthful	statements	is	very	alarming.	Also	alarming	is
the	fact	that	UEPS	actually	purchased	a	business	that	was	jointly	owned	by	Mr.	Belamant
and	his	son.	In	addition	to	this,	the	Company's	increasingly	opaque	financial	reporting
methods	only	add	to	the	concerns	over	management's	behavior.	Finally,	the	heavy	selling
of	shares	by	insiders	suggests	that	management	may	not	be	as	bullish	on	UEPS's
business	as	it	has	publicly	let	on.	Overall,	the	additional	issues	raised	in	this	article
strongly	support	my	belief	that	UEPS	is	highly	overvalued	at	the	current	share	price.


Disclosure:	I	am/we	are	short	UEPS.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving
compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is
mentioned	in	this	article.
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Deceptive Management Practices, Opaque Financial Reporting And Other Red Flags - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NAS…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags 9/9


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


Comments	(24)


Careful	Investor,	Contributor
Jay	wrote	some	short	pieces	that	were	predicated	on	headlines	that	now	look	to	be	proven	false,	ie,	"They	will	lose
SASSA"	--	it	seems	like	a	good	chance	SASSA	will	actually	renew.


Regardless,	this	stock	has	been	hammered	along	with	the	currency.	The	latest	earnings	look	strong	and	they
announced	a	buyback	representing	almost	20%	of	the	outstanding.


The	stock	trades	at	a	multiple	of	5x	fully-taxed	p/e.	Maybe	it's	time	for	a	bullish	piece!


07	Feb	2016,	06:14	PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/careful-investor
