7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 1/21


Short	Ideas 	|	 Services	 	|	 Editors'	Picks 	|	 South	Africa


Net	1	UEPS	Technologies:	Strong	Sell	Due	To	Concerns	Over
Potentially	Unlawful	Behavior	And	Business	Fundamentals
Top	Idea | Oct.	27,	2015	5:00	AM	ET38	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


Due	to	the	upcoming	expiration	of	its	SASSA	contract,	UEPS	will	soon	lose	over
50%	of	its	revenue	base.


UEPS	is	using	its	SASSA	contract	to	take	advantage	of	grant	beneficiaries	via
predatory	lending	practices	and	a	cell	phone	marketing	scheme	called	Umoya
Manje.


Management	has	acted	in	an	unethical	manner	and	has	mislead	investors	regarding
many	aspects	of	its	business.


UEPS	is	the	target	of	a	number	of	ongoing	investigations	which	could	create	severe
liabilities	for	the	business	and	at	worst	could	lead	to	insolvency.


UEPS	shares	are	overvalued	by	over	70%	at	the	current	share	price	level.


Since	2012,	Net1	UEPS	Technologies	(NASDAQ:UEPS)	("UEPS"	or	the	"Company")	has
been	responsible	for	handling	the	South	African	government's	distribution	of	social	grant
payments.	The	Company	was	selected	to	be	the	sole	administrator	of	the	social	grant
program	in	a	competitive	tender	process	conducted	by	the	South	African	Social	Security
Agency	("SASSA").	Due	to	a	well-publicized	and	drawn-out	legal	battle	with	AllPay,	the
Company's	contract	with	SASSA	was	eventually	ruled	to	be	invalid.	As	a	result	of	the
invalidation	of	its	SASSA	contract,	UEPS	will	soon	lose	a	significant	portion	of	its
business.	In	FY	2015	alone,	UEPS	generated	~$150mm	or	24%	of	its	total	revenue	from
the	SASSA	contract.


The	fact	that	UEPS	will	soon	lose	the	SASSA	contract	is	well-known	by	US	investors	and
research	analysts.	Various	articles	have	recently	been	published	on	SA	(here,	here	and
here)	which	acknowledge	this	issue.	The	authors	of	these	articles	are	all	generally	bullish
on	UEPS	stock.	Their	argument	is	that,	although	the	SASSA	contract	will	soon	go	away,
the	growth	in	the	Company's	other	business	lines	will	make	up	for	its	loss.	Research
analysts	are	also	bullish	on	UEPS	and	have	assigned	a	$28	price	target	(as	per	Yahoo



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/services

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/editors-picks

https://seekingalpha.com/market-outlook/global-investing/analysis/South%20Africa

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UEPS

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3452166-net-1-ueps-cash-flow-machine-set-to-double

https://seekingalpha.com/research/16243802-alpha-gen-capital/4167335-net-1-uepss-sassa-contract-loss-will-re-rate-the-shares-further

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3337825-net-1-ueps-technologies-immense-upside-potential-at-a-severely-depressed-valuation

http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ao?s=UEPS+Analyst+Opinion
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 2/21


Finance)	to	the	Company's	shares.	Overall,	it	appears	that	many	members	of	the	US
investment	community	have	an	optimistic	view	of	the	Company's	future	business
prospects.


I	believe	that	the	bullishness	of	authors	on	SA	and	research	analysts	is	misplaced.	It
appears	that	the	investment	community	in	general	has	a	very	poor	understanding	of
UEPS'	business	and	the	various	issues	the	Company	will	soon	face.	In	regards	to	the
SASSA	contract,	investors	are	grossly	underestimating	the	degree	to	which	UEPS'
microloan	and	Zazoo	businesses	are	dependent	on	this	contract.	Once	the	SASSA
contract	ends,	most	of	the	over	$180mm	in	combined	revenue	from	these	two	business
lines	will	likely	disappear.	Thus,	in	total,	I	estimate	that	over	$300mm	or	50%	of	the
Company's	revenue	base	will	disappear	following	the	loss	of	the	SASSA.	This	is	far
greater	than	the	$150mm	decline	that	investors	are	currently	expecting.


In	addition	to	underestimating	the	importance	of	the	SASSA	contract,	investors	and
research	analysts	appear	to	be	largely	oblivious	to	the	highly	questionable	conduct	of
UEPS.	The	Company's	microlending	and	Zazoo	business	lines	employ	unethical	and
allegedly	criminal	business	practices	to	profit	from	unsophisticated	social	grant
beneficiaries.	In	addition	to	taking	advantage	of	grant	beneficiaries,	UEPS	management
has	also	mislead	investors	regarding	many	aspects	of	the	business.	For	example,
management	has	touted	its	Zazoo	business	as	a	leading-edge	mobile	payments
technology	provider.	In	reality,	Zazoo	is	merely	a	vehicle	that	the	Company	uses	to	prey
on	grant	beneficiaries	via	a	cell	phone	marketing	scheme	called	Umoya	Manje.


Finally,	the	US	investment	community	seems	largely	unaware	of	the	myriad	of	legal	issues
that	the	Company	now	faces.	Although	UEPS'	dispute	with	AllPay	has	been	well-
documented	by	the	US	media,	there	has	been	little	to	no	coverage	of	the	other
investigations	that	are	ongoing	into	the	Company.	Due	to	UEPS'	poor	conduct,	the
Company	has	drawn	the	scrutiny	of	the	South	African	government,	the	US	government
and	various	human	rights	groups.	Should	UEPS	be	found	guilty	in	any	of	these	ongoing
investigations,	the	resulting	penalties	could	have	a	significant	negative	impact	on	the
Company's	financial	performance.


Overall,	based	on	the	issues	which	I	have	highlighted	above,	I	believe	that	UEPS	is	highly
overvalued	at	the	current	share	price.	My	estimate	of	fair	value	for	UEPS	shares	is	$2.84	-
$4.46	per	share	which	represents	an	84%-75%	discount	to	the	current	share	price	of
$17.53.


The	SASSA	Contract	Dispute



http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ao?s=UEPS+Analyst+Opinion
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 3/21


In	January	2012,	UEPS	was	selected	by	SASSA	to	administer	the	payment	of	social
welfare	grants	to	people	in	South	Africa.	Under	the	terms	of	the	five-year	contract,	the
Company	is	responsible	for	distributing	about	120Bn	RAND	($9Bn)	in	social	grants	to
approximately	10mm	people	in	South	Africa	each	year.	To	carry	out	its	grant	distribution
services,	the	Company	distributed	biometric	smart	cards	to	every	one	of	its	10mm
registered	grant	recipients.	Each	month,	the	Company	deposits	money	into	an	account
which	is	linked	to	a	given	grant	recipient's	smart	card.	Grant	recipients	are	then	able	to
use	their	smart	cards	to	conduct	electronic	transactions	and	withdraw	cash	via	fixed	and
mobile	ATM	machines.	The	SASSA	contract	has	been	one	of	the	primary	drivers	of	the
Company's	strong	financial	performance	over	the	past	few	years.	In	FY	2015	alone,	the
Company	received	~$150mm	in	revenue	from	the	distribution	of	welfare	grants.


Although	this	contract	has	been	a	positive	for	the	Company's	financial	performance,	the
manner	in	which	UEPS	won	this	deal	has	been	mired	in	controversy.	Just	one	month	after
UEPS	was	selected	as	the	winning	bidder	by	SASSA,	the	awarding	of	this	contract	was
disputed	by	AllPay	(one	of	the	competing	bidders)	in	the	North	Gauteng	High	Court	of
South	Africa.	Allpay	alleged	that	SASSA	had	run	a	highly	irregular	bidding	process	and
also	suggested	that	UEPS	had	bribed	SASSA	officials	in	order	to	secure	the	contract.
Based	on	these	allegations,	AllPay	requested	that	the	North	Gauteng	court	invalidate
SASSA's	agreement	with	UEPS	and	order	the	contract	to	be	retendered.	In	August	2012,
the	court	found	that	the	tender	process	for	the	SASSA	contract	was	conducted	in	an
improper	manner.	However,	the	court	did	not	invalidate	the	contract	because	it	did	not
want	to	disrupt	the	payment	of	grants	to	needy	individuals.	The	case	then	moved	to	the
South	African	Supreme	Court	of	Appeal	("SCA").	On	March	27th	2013,	the	SCA	ruled	that
the	awarding	of	the	SASSA	contract	to	UEPS	was	valid	and	legal.	Despite	this	setback,
AllPay	did	not	relent	and	decided	to	take	its	case	to	the	Constitutional	Court.	On
November	29th	2013,	the	court	ruled	that	the	tender	process	followed	by	SASSA	was
constitutionally	invalid.	As	a	result,	on	April	17th	2014,	the	court	declared	the	UEPS
contract	was	invalid	and	ordered	SASSA	to	initiate	a	new	tender	process.


Due	to	the	Constitutional	Court's	decision,	UEPS	will	soon	lose	the	~$150mm	in
annualized	revenue	that	it	currently	receives	from	the	SASSA	grant	distribution
program.	Although	UEPS	was	invited	to	take	part	in	the	new	tender,	the	Company
eventually	decided	not	to	participate.	Current	indications	are	that	SASSA	will	likely	move
the	grant	distribution	program	in-house	rather	than	use	a	third	party	contractor.	It	will	take
over	a	year	for	SASSA	to	set	up	the	infrastructure	necessary	to	take	over	the	grant
program.	Thus,	current	expectations	are	that	UEPS	will	continue	to	administer	the
distribution	of	grants	until	its	contract	ends	in	early	2017.
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 4/21


UEPS'	Predatory	Lending	Practices


From	my	research,	I	discovered	that	allegations	of	fraud	on	the	part	of	UEPS	during	the
SASSA	tender	is	just	the	tip	of	iceberg	in	regards	to	the	Company's	unethical	and
potentially	illegal	actions.	The	lengthy	dispute	between	AllPay,	UEPS	and	SASSA
regarding	the	tender	process	has	been	covered	extensively	by	the	US	media	and
research	outlets.	What	has	not	been	as	well	documented	by	the	US	media	and	research
outlets	is	the	consistent	pattern	of	unethical	and	potentially	illegal	behavior	of	UEPS	and
its	management	team.	Of	particular	concern	is	the	fact	that	UEPS	appears	to	be	using
the	SASSA	contract	as	a	vehicle	to	make	money	by	exploiting	its	social	grant
recipients.	When	UEPS	took	over	the	entire	grant	payment	system	in	2012,	the	Company
gained	unfettered	access	to	the	bank	accounts	and	welfare	payments	for	about	10mm
individuals.	One	way	that	management	has	taken	advantage	of	this	access	is	by
offering	expensive	microloans	to	grant	recipients.	The	Company	collects	repayments
for	these	loans	by	directly	deducting	the	owed	amount	from	a	loan	recipient's	monthly
grant	before	it	is	paid	out.	The	following	quote	is	from	a	May	2014	Mail	&	Guardian	article
which	outlines	how	a	typical	loan	is	structured:


"No	interest	is	charged	on	these	loans,	just	service	fees.	But	these	can	add	up	to
50%	of	the	principal	amount	over	a	six-month	period.	On	an	R800	unsecured	loan,
with	a	repayment	period	of	six	months,	the	service	fee	is	R280	-	equivalent	to	70%
annual	interest.	A	loan	of	just	R200	will	attract	fees	of	R100	-	equivalent	to	100%
annual	interest."


In	my	opinion,	the	Company's	lending	practices	are	highly	unethical.	UEPS	is	preying	on
individuals	with	limited	means	and	limited	financial	knowledge.	As	stated	in	the	quote
above,	the	typical	loan	carries	service	fees	that	can	range	from	70%	-	100%	of	the
principal	amount	on	an	annual	basis.	The	Company	markets	its	loan	products	as	being
"interest	free"	which	is	misleading	since	the	service	fee	is	effectively	a	form	of	interest
payment.	Thus,	some	grant	recipients	can	be	fooled	into	thinking	that	the	"interest	free"
loans	offered	by	UEPS	are	a	good	deal.	Due	to	high	service	fees,	grant	recipients	who
take	out	loans	from	UEPS	often	get	stuck	in	a	cycle	of	never-ending	debts.	After	the	direct
deduction	of	loan	repayments	from	their	monthly	welfare	payment,	many	grant	recipients
are	unable	to	pay	for	their	basic	monthly	necessities.	As	a	result,	these	individuals	are
forced	to	borrow	even	more	money	from	UEPS	which	drives	them	into	further	financial
despair.	Overall,	the	Company's	predatory	lending	behavior	has	served	to	further
impoverish	many	of	its	grant	beneficiaries.



http://mg.co.za/article/2014-05-22-cashing-in-on-social-grants
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 5/21


In	addition	to	unethical	behavior,	UEPS'	lending	segment	is	engaging	in	various	activities
that	appear	to	be	either	unlawful	or	in	violation	of	its	contract	terms	with	SASSA.	For
example,	UEPS	is	compelled	by	its	contract	with	SASSA	to	protect	the	confidential
information	of	grant	beneficiaries.	Based	on	various	published	media	reports,	the
Company	is	violating	this	contract	term	by	sharing	confidential	beneficiary	data	with	its
lending	subsidiaries.	These	lending	subsidiaries	appear	to	be	using	this	confidential	data
to	market	microloans	directly	to	grant	recipients.	In	a	statement	published	on	September
11th	2014,	Ms.	Bathabile	Dlamini,	South	Africa's	Minister	of	Social	Development,
expressed	her	disappointment	over	the	handling	of	the	social	grant	contract	by	UEPS	and
SASSA.	In	her	statement,	Ms.	Dlamini	confirmed	that	confidential	beneficiary	data	was
likely	being	used	by	UEPS	to	market	directly	to	grant	beneficiaries:


"…access	to	grant	beneficiaries'	confidential	data	-	including	identity	numbers,	bank
account	and	contact	details,	biometric	data,	appear	to	fuel	the	marketing	and	sale	of
financial	products	including	loans…"


In	regards	to	potentially	illegal	behavior,	the	Company's	practice	of	directly	deducting	loan
repayments	from	social	grants	appears	to	be	in	violation	of	South	African	law.	In	her
September	2014	statement,	Ms.	Dlamini	had	the	following	to	say	in	regards	to	the	direct
deduction	of	payments	from	social	grants:


"These	practices	are	in	contravention	of	the	Social	Assistance	Act,	Regulations	of
the	Social	Assistance	Act	and	the	SASSA	Act…The	legislation	allows	for	the	social
grants	not	be	burdened	or	ceded	and	allows	for	one	deduction	not	exceeding	10
percent	for	funeral	insurance	only."


Finally,	many	grant	recipients	have	reported	unauthorized	deductions,	such	as	loan
repayments,	from	their	monthly	welfare	payments.	To	make	matters	worse,	individuals
seeking	recourse	for	unauthorized	deductions	run	into	significant	hurdles	in	recouping	lost
grant	money.	Oftentimes,	disputes	take	months	to	resolve	or	promises	to	refund	money	go
unfulfilled.	When	a	refund	is	received,	these	refunds	often	exclude	service	fees	and	the
additional	bank	charges.	Thus,	from	these	examples,	it	is	clear	that	UEPS	has	operated
its	lending	business	with	little	regard	for	the	law	or	the	terms	of	its	SASSA	contract.


Zazoo	-	Separating	Fact	From	Management's	Fiction



http://www.dsd.gov.za/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=625&Itemid=1
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 6/21


From	my	research,	I	was	disturbed	to	discover	that	UEPS'	Zazoo	business	appears	to	be
worse	than	its	lending	business	in	terms	of	the	Company's	conduct.	In	this	section,	I	will
describe	how	management	and	the	Company	have	used	Zazoo	as	a	vehicle	to	further
exploit	grant	beneficiaries	as	well	as	mislead	investors.	My	discussion	of	Zazoo	will
be	divided	into	two	parts	-	Fiction	and	Fact.	In	part	one	(Fiction),	I	will	discuss	how	the
Company	has	managed	to	fool	investors	into	believing	that	Zazoo	is	an	emerging	provider
of	high-tech	mobile	payment	solutions.	Then,	in	part	two	(Fact),	I	will	reveal	the	true	nature
of	the	Company's	Zazoo	business.


Fiction:	Zazoo	is	an	emerging	provider	of	high-tech	mobile	payment	solutions	that	are
poised	to	gain	widespread	adoption	in	various	countries	around	the	world


UEPS	management	has	put	forth	a	substantial	amount	of	effort	in	convincing	investors
that	Zazoo	is	primarily	a	mobile	payments	technology	business.	For	example,	in	its	FY
2015	10K,	the	Company	describes	its	Zazoo	business	as	follows:


"Our	ZAZOO	business	unit	is	responsible	for	the	worldwide	technical	development
and	commercialization	of	our	array	of	web	and	mobile	applications	and	payment
technologies,	such	as	Mobile	Virtual	Card,	or	MVC,	Chip	and	GSM	licensing	and
Virtual	Top	Up,	or	VTU,	and	has	deployed	solutions	in	many	countries,	including
South	Africa,	Namibia,	Nigeria,	Malawi,	Cameroon,	the	Philippines,	India	and
Colombia."


Also,	during	recent	earnings	calls,	UEPS	management	has	made	a	concerted	effort	to	tout
the	potential	of	Zazoo	and	its	portfolio	of	mobile	payments	technologies.	For	example,
during	the	Company's	Q4	2015	earnings	call,	management	stated	the	following	regarding
Zazoo:


"…new	initiatives	like	EasyPay	Everywhere	and	ZAZOO,	which	are	the	pillars	that
will	drive	our	Company	forward	in	the	years	to	come…	ZAZOO's	differentiated
product	suite,	including	mobile	virtual	card	and	variable	PIN,	enables	it	not	only	to
work	seamlessly	with	Net	1's	card-centric	solutions,	but	to	be	offered	on	a
completely	standalone	basis	to	any	potential	partner	anywhere	in	the	developed	or
developing	world."


As	the	above	quote	demonstrates,	management	has	tried	to	position	Zazoo	as	one	of	the
"pillars"	of	the	Company's	future.	During	that	same	earnings	call,	management	even
hinted	that	it	might	spin	off	the	Zazoo	business	because	the	market	was	not	properly



http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=10876226-898-567181&type=sect&TabIndex=2&dcn=0001062993-15-004727&nav=1&src=Yahoo

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/edited-transcript-ueps-earnings-conference-190304507.html
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 7/21


recognizing	its	potential:


"…we	are	laser-focused	on	building	ZAZOO	into	one	of	the	leading	mobile	FinTech
companies	globally,	period…	Net1's	executive	management	for	its	part,	is	actively
evaluating	all	possible	avenues	through	which	the	value	of	ZAZOO	does	not	become
encumbered	by	whatever	perceived	issues	may	still	exist	with	regard	to	Net	1's
valuation."


So,	based	on	these	examples,	it	is	clear	that	UEPS	has	led	investors	to	believe	that	Zazoo
is	a	leading-edge	mobile	payments	technology	provider.	However,	as	I	will	discuss	in	part
two	(Fact)	below,	the	true	nature	of	the	Zazoo	business	is	far	different	from	what
management	has	described.


Fact:	Zazoo	is	another	vehicle	that	UEPS	uses	primarily	for	the	purpose	of	making	money
from	the	accounts	of	social	grant	beneficiaries


In	reality,	Zazoo's	primary	business	activity	is	to	further	profit	from	the	accounts	of	social
grant	beneficiaries	through	the	sale	of	prepaid	airtime	(aka	prepaid	cellular	minutes),
prepaid	electricity	and	other	products.	Similar	to	its	lending	business,	the	manner	in	which
Zazoo	carries	out	its	business	activities	is	highly	unethical	and	in	some	respects	likely
illegal.


Zazoo	conducts	its	business	primarily	through	a	service	called	Umoya	Manje.	During
UEPS'	Q3	2015	earnings	call,	management	provided	the	following	information	regarding
the	financial	performance	of	the	Umoya	Manje	business:


"Let	me	now	spend	some	time	on	our	Zazoo	initiative	both	locally	and
internationally…Locally,	our	Umoya	Manje	business	has	now	broken	ZAR200
million	per	month	in	sales	for	airtime,	electricity,	and	other	services."


As	shown	above,	the	Umoya	Manje	business	was	generating	sales	in	excess	of
ZAR200mm	per	month	as	of	Q3	2015	(quarter	ended	3/31/15).	Based	on	the	current
exchange	rate	of	0.075	USD	per	ZAR,	this	equates	to	$15mm	Umoya	Manje	sales	per
month.	Thus,	as	of	Q3	2015,	the	Umoya	Manje	business	was	generating	an	annual	sales
run-rate	of	$180mm	(Q4	2015	Umoya	Manje	sales	were	not	disclosed).	In	terms	of	the
overall	Zazoo	business,	the	following	information	was	provided	in	UEPS'	Q4	2015
earnings	call:



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3163986-net-1-ueps-technologies-ueps-ceo-serge-belamant-on-q3-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 8/21


"From	a	financial	and	metric	perspective,	ZAZOO's	revenue	exceeded	$120
million	in	fiscal	2015	and	grew	71%	over	2014	in	constant	currency."


So,	to	summarize,	the	Umoya	Manje	business	generated	an	annual	sales	run-rate	of
$180mm	(as	of	Q3	2015)	while	the	overall	Zazoo	business	generated	over	$120mm	in
revenue	in	FY	2015.	Given	these	facts,	it	is	reasonable	to	assume	that	almost	all	of
Zazoo's	sales	are	from	the	Umoya	Manje	business.


So	how	exactly	does	Umoya	Manje	generate	revenue?	Before	I	answer	this	question,	it
will	be	helpful	to	first	establish	who	the	customers	of	Umoya	Manje	are.	On	Zazoo's
corporate	website,	the	following	information	is	provided	regarding	Grindrod	Bank,	one	of
Zazoo's	key	clients:


"Enabling	Grindrod	bank	to	distribute	both	prepaid	airtime	and	electricity	to	the
account	holders.	The	service	is	called	Umoya	Manje	and	has	over	3.7	million
registered	customers."


From	the	above	information,	it	can	be	concluded	that	all	of	the	customers	of	Umoya	Manje
are	Grindrod	bank	account	holders.	With	this	in	mind,	consider	the	following	quote	from
UEPS'	FY	2015	10K:


"…our	South	African	social	welfare	grant	distribution	and	EasyPay	Everywhere
business	activities	requires	us	to	be	registered	as	a	bank	in	South	Africa	or	to	have
access	to	an	existing	banking	license.	We	are	not	currently	so	registered,	but	we
have	entered	into	an	agreement	with	Grindrod	Bank	Limited,	or	Grindrod,	that
enables	us	to	implement	our	social	welfare	grant	distribution	and	EasyPay
Everywhere	solution	in	compliance	with	the	relevant	laws	and	regulations."


UEPS	does	not	currently	hold	a	banking	license.	Thus,	the	Company	has	engaged
Grindrod	Bank	as	its	third	party	banking	provider	for	the	grant	distribution	program.	Given
this	information,	it	is	fairly	easy	to	connect	the	dots.	All	of	Umoye	Manje's	customers	are
Grindrod	bank	account	holders.	UEPS	is	using	Grindrod	as	its	third	party	banking	provider
for	its	grant	distribution	program.	Thus,	it	is	clear	that	the	customers	of	Umoya	Manje	are
the	beneficiaries	of	the	social	grant	distribution	program.


So,	going	back	to	the	original	question,	how	does	Umoya	Manje	generate	revenue?	Is	it
primarily	from	providing	advanced	mobile	payment	technology	services?	Not	quite.	Umoya
Manje	is	basically	a	cell	phone	text	message	marketing	scheme	that	UEPS	uses	to	sell



http://www.zazooltd.com/advance-value-services/
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 9/21


prepaid	airtime,	prepaid	electricity	and	other	products	to	grant	beneficiaries.	The	following
is	an	excerpt	from	a	December	2013	AllAfrica	article	which	describes	how	the	scheme
works:


"…they	take	all	the	cell	numbers	of	the	pensioners	that	they	have	from	Sassa's
database	and	send	them	SMSs	to	convince	them	to	buy	airtime	from	them.	The	cell
numbers'	users,	i.e.	pensioners,	have	to	follow	the	steps	provided	by	the	SMS…
they	have	their	details	like	IDs,	etc,	from	the	Sassa	database,	so	if	the	cell	number
user	accepts	everything	from	the	SMS	they	will	automatically	pick	it	up…come
month-end	they	will	deduct	it	from	the	grant."


In	a	separate	April	2014	IOL	article,	further	detail	was	provided	on	how	Umoya	Manje
prices	and	collects	payment	for	its	products:


"CPS	(a	Net	1	subsidiary)	has	been	accused	of	taking	advantage	of	the	beneficiary
database	to	market	airtime	in	a	scheme	called	Umoya	Manje.	Last	year	the	SABC
reported	that	CPS	was	selling	the	airtime	in	R5	bundles	on	credit	yet	deducted
R5.50	from	the	grant	the	following	month."


As	can	be	seen	from	these	descriptions,	the	Umoya	Manje	business	is	operated	in	a	very
similar	manner	to	UEPS'	lending	business.	Confidential	beneficiary	data	is	used	to	market
products	to	grant	beneficiaries.	Once	a	beneficiary	agrees	to	purchase	a	product,	this
amount	is	automatically	deducted	from	the	beneficiaries	account	along	with	a	high	service
fee.	Umoya	Manje	is	also	similar	to	UEPS'	lending	business	in	that	it	is	operated	in	a
highly	unethical	and	allegedly	criminal	fashion.	From	an	ethical	standpoint,	I	believe	it	is
highly	irresponsible	to	try	and	profit	off	of	grant	money	that	individuals	rely	on	for	their
basic	needs.	From	a	legality	standpoint,	as	I	established	previously,	the	direct	deduction	of
payments	from	social	welfare	grants	appears	to	be	prohibited	by	the	South	African	law.
Umoya	Manje	is	ignoring	this	and	is	deducting	payments	for	its	products	directly	from
welfare	grants	each	month.	Also,	it	appears	that	Umoya	Manje	is	using	misleading	tactics
to	market	its	products.	For	example,	in	the	December	2013	AllAfrica	article	that	I	cited
previously,	a	description	was	provided	of	the	text	message	that	Umoya	Manje	sends	out	to
market	its	products:


"…the	SMS	she	received	was	from	Sassa,	promising	her	free	airtime	if	she	dialled
*130*4444#."



http://allafrica.com/stories/201312030845.html

http://www.iol.co.za/business/companies/now-we-can-clip-the-wings-of-cps-sassa-1.1678449#.VilM336rTIV
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 10/21


Based	on	the	above	statement,	it	appears	that	Umoya	Manje	is	falsely	advertising	its
prepaid	airtime	product	as	a	free	service.	Finally,	there	have	been	numerous	complaints	of
unauthorized	deductions	for	Umoya	Manje	products	from	beneficiary	accounts.	Going
back	to	the	December	2013	AllAfrica	article	one	more	time,	the	following	is	an	account
given	by	a	woman	whose	father	was	a	victim	of	fraudulent	grant	deductions:


"This	number,	0737058980,	used	to	be	my	father's.	When	Sassa	was	re-registering
the	pensioners	he	was	still	using	this	number	and	was	requested	to	provide	his	cell
number,	which	he	did.	After	that	my	father	stopped	using	that	number	and	changed
to	another	network.	When	Net1	was	sending	an	SMS	to	this	number	selling	its
airtime	product,	MTN	had	already	transferred	the	number	to	someone	else	and	that
person	followed	all	the	steps	provided	on	the	SMS	and	she	started	receiving	airtime
for	free."


Given	all	of	Umoya	Manje's	highly	questionable	actions,	it	is	no	surprise	that	many	grant
beneficiaries	have	started	to	voice	their	concerns.	In	fact,	if	the	phrase	"Umoya	Manje"	is
Googled,	the	third	result	that	shows	up	is	a	link	to	a	Facebook	group	titled	"End	Umoya
Manje	SASSA	Airtime."	This	group's	Facebook	page	is	mostly	filled	with	complaints
regarding	Umoya	Manje's	services	and	conduct.	Pasted	below	are	just	a	few	of	the
complaints	regarding	Umoya	Manje	provided	by	different	Facebook	users:


In	conclusion,	it	is	evident	that	the	Zazoo/Umoya	Manje	business	was	set	up	mostly	as	a
way	for	the	Company	to	prey	on	grant	beneficiaries,	mislead	investors	and	prop-up	its
stock	price.	To	date,	UEPS	has	been	successful	in	carrying	out	this	scheme,	as	well	as	its
predatory	lending	practices,	with	only	modest	repercussions.	However,	as	I	explain	in	the
next	section,	all	good	(or	bad)	things	must	come	to	an	end.


The	Good	Times	Are	About	to	End


On	March	31,	2017,	UEPS'	contract	with	SASSA	will	expire	and	control	over	the	payments
of	social	grants	will	fall	into	the	hands	of	either	SASSA	or	another	third	party	provider.	As	a
result,	the	Company	will	soon	lose	the	~$150mm	in	annual	revenue	that	it	currently



https://www.facebook.com/End-Umoya-Manje-SASSA-Airtime-528360647273140/
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 11/21


receives	from	SASSA	for	distributing	grant	payments.	Unfortunately	for	UEPS	and	its
shareholders,	the	bad	news	does	not	end	there.	Without	the	SASSA	contract,	the
Company	will	no	longer	have	direct	access	to	the	bank	accounts	and	grant	payments	of
about	10mm	beneficiaries.	In	addition	to	this,	due	to	the	public	outcry	over	UEPS'
questionable	grant	deductions,	the	South	African	Department	of	Social	Development	has
directed	SASSA	to	ensure	that	the	new	payments	system	protects	beneficiaries	from
immoral	and	unlawful	debit	deductions	for	products	like	microloans	and	prepaid	airtime.	In
other	words,	UEPS	will	soon	be	completely	cut	off	from	the	grant	payment	system.
As	a	result,	the	Company's	microloan	and	Zazoo/Umoya	Manje	businesses	will	no
longer	be	sustainable.	Thus,	UEPS	stands	to	lose	far	more	than	just	$150mm	in	annual
revenue	when	its	SASSA	contract	expires.


Without	any	access	to	grant	money,	UEPS'	microloan	business	will	no	longer	be	a	viable
operation.	To	help	illustrate	why	this	is	the	case,	I	have	pasted	below	the	following	table
from	the	Company's	FY	2009	10K:


Prior	to	selling	its	traditional	microlending	business	in	March	2009,	UEPS	operated	two
lending	businesses	-	traditional	microlending	and	UEPS-based	(grant-based)
microlending.	UEPS-based	microlending	refers	to	loans	that	are	made	to	social	grant
beneficiaries	and	repaid	via	direct	deductions	from	grant	payments.	Traditional
microlending	refers	to	loans	that	are	made	outside	of	the	social	grant	system.	These	loans
are	repaid	via	more	traditional	means	rather	than	through	direct	deduction	from	social
grant	payments.	The	default	rate	for	traditional	microlending	is	very	high	because	the
loans	are	not	secured	by	direct	deductions	from	monthly	grant	payments.	In	the	table
above,	the	high	default	rate	for	traditional	microloans	is	reflected	in	the	large	amount	of
"Allowance	for	doubtful	finance	loans	receivable"	line	item.	Allowance	for	doubtful
receivables	as	a	%	of	gross	receivables	was	35%	in	FY	2008	and	99%	in	FY	2009.	Due	to
the	high	percentage	of	doubtful	accounts	(defaults),	UEPS	was	unable	to	turn	a	profit	in	its
traditional	microlending	business.	As	a	result,	the	Company	decided	to	sell	this	business



http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=6776383-935-641035&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=77961&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1041514
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 12/21


in	March	2009.	By	comparison,	the	default	rate	for	grant-based	lending	is	extremely	low
because	loan	repayments	are	directly	deducted	from	monthly	grant	payments.	As	a	result,
the	Company's	grant-based	microloan	business	generates	operating	margins	in	excess	of
70%.


Based	on	this	comparison,	it	is	evident	that	the	Company's	microloan	business	will	likely
go	away	completely	once	the	SASSA	contract	expires.	The	lifeblood	of	this	business
(direct	access	to	grant	money)	is	about	to	be	taken	away.	If	UEPS	wants	to	continue
providing	microloans	to	underbanked	individuals,	the	Company	will	have	to	revert	back	to
its	traditional	microlending	model.	As	demonstrated	by	the	poor	performance	of	UEPS'
prior	traditional	microlending	business,	it	is	doubtful	that	the	Company	will	be	able	to
generate	any	meaningful	profit	by	reverting	back	to	this	model.


In	addition	to	its	microloan	business,	UEPS'	Umoya	Manje	business	will	also	struggle	to
survive.	Like	its	lending	business,	the	Umoya	Manje	scheme	is	reliant	on	the	direct	access
to	grant	payments	that	the	SASSA	contract	provides.	Currently,	it	is	very	easy	for	the
Umoya	Manje	business	to	generate	a	sale	and	collect	payments.	The	Company	simply
has	to	text	a	product	offer	to	a	grant	beneficiary	and	then	automatically	deduct	the
payment	for	that	product	once	the	offer	is	accepted.	However,	once	the	SASSA	contract
expires,	the	Umoya	Manje	business	will	have	to	rely	on	more	traditional	marketing	and
payment	methods	for	its	products.	This	will	introduce	a	lot	more	friction	in	both	the	sales
and	payment	collection	process.	Thus,	it	is	doubtful	that	the	Company	will	be	able	to
sustain	this	business	in	a	profitable	manner.	In	terms	of	international	markets,
management	has	mentioned	that	Zazoo's	mobile	payments	technologies	are	rapidly
gaining	customers	internationally.	However,	the	Company's	revenue	from	international
markets	outside	of	South	Korea	actually	declined	39%	from	$6.1mm	in	FY	2014	to
$3.7mm	in	FY	2015.	In	addition	to	this,	the	Company	has	spent	a	grand	total	of	just
$5.9mm	in	R&D	expenses	over	the	past	three	years!	Given	this	low	level	of	R&D
spend,	it	is	highly	unlikely	that	Zazoo's	mobile	payments	technologies	are	anything
special.	As	a	result,	I	do	not	believe	Zazoo	has	much	hope	of	achieving	success
internationally.


The	True	Impact	of	Losing	the	SASSA	Contract


So,	just	how	much	will	UEPS'	financial	performance	decline	when	its	SASSA	contract
ends?	In	addition	to	losing	~$150mm	of	grant	payment	distribution	revenue,	UEPS
will	also	likely	lose	its	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	revenue	streams.	The	loss	of
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 13/21


these	three	key	lines	of	business	will	have	a	devastating	impact	on	the	Company's
financial	performance.	Provided	below	is	my	estimation	of	UEPS'	FY	2015	revenue	pro
forma	for	the	loss	of	the	SASSA	contract,	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	businesses:


The	key	assumptions	that	I	used	to	estimate	UEPS'	FY	2015	pro	forma	revenue	are	as
follows:


SASSA	Revenue:	According	to	UEPS'	FY	2015	10K,	total	FY	2015	revenue	from	the
SASSA	contract	was	24%	of	total	revenue.
Microlending	Revenue:	The	Company	reported	$62.2mm	of	microlending	revenue	in
FY	2015.
Umoya	Manje	Revenue:	I	have	estimated	that	Umoya	Manje	accounted	for	90%	of
Zazoo's	reported	FY	2015	revenue	of	$120mm.


As	shown	in	the	pro	forma	analysis	above,	I	estimate	that	SASSA-related	revenue
accounted	for	over	51%	of	UEPS'	total	revenue	in	FY	2015.	Thus,	the	Company	stands
to	lose	over	half	of	its	business	once	the	SASSA	contract	expires.	UEPS	reports	its
revenue	in	three	segments	-	South	African	Transaction	Processing,	International
Transaction	Processing,	and	Financial	Inclusion	and	Applied	Technologies.	The	Company
includes	SASSA	grant	distribution	revenue	in	its	South	African	Transaction	Processing
segment,	while	microlending	revenue	and	Zazoo/Umoya	Manje	revenue	are	included	in
the	Financial	Inclusion	and	Applied	Technologies	segment.	I	have	provided	below	my
estimation	of	the	Company's	FY	2015	revenue	by	segment	pro	forma	for	the	loss	of	the
SASSA	contract:


Given	that	UEPS	does	not	disclose	gross	margin	by	business	line,	it	is	somewhat	tricky	to
evaluate	the	impact	that	the	SASSA	contract	expiration	will	have	on	the	Company's
profitability.	However,	I	believe	that	reasonable	conclusions	can	be	drawn	from	the
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 14/21


available	information.	As	shown	in	the	revenue	by	segment	table	above,	pro	forma	for	the
SASSA	contract	loss,	I	estimate	that	South	African	Transaction	Processing	revenue	would
decline	69%	from	$216mm	to	$66mm.	At	the	same	time,	I	estimate	that	Financial
Inclusion	and	Applied	Technologies	revenue	would	also	decline	69%	from	$246mm	to
$75mm.	Both	the	South	African	Transaction	Processing	and	Financial	Inclusion	segments
generate	their	revenue	from	customers	in	South	Africa.	Thus,	the	loss	of	the	SASSA
contract	will	dramatically	reduce	the	Company's	scale	and	presence	in	South	Africa.	This
loss	of	revenue	and	scale	will	make	it	very	tough	for	UEPS	to	compete	and	operate	a
profitable	business	in	the	South	African	market.


In	terms	of	the	International	Transaction	Processing	segment,	the	vast	majority	(over	95%)
of	the	revenue	in	this	segment	comes	from	the	Company's	subsidiary,	KSNET.	KSNET	is
a	payment	processing	business	located	in	South	Korea.	The	loss	of	the	SASSA	contract
should	not	affect	this	business	line.	That	being	said,	KSNET	is	a	relatively	low	margin,
capital	intensive	business	that	has	not	contributed	much	to	the	Company's	overall
profitability.


Putting	it	all	together,	following	the	expiration	of	the	SASSA	contract,	UEPS	will	be	left
with	a	subscale	South	African	business	and	its	low	margin	South	Korean	business.	In
terms	of	international	opportunities	outside	of	South	Korea,	the	Company's	revenue	from
international	markets	outside	of	South	Korea	actually	declined	39%	from	$6.1mm	in	FY
2014	to	just	$3.7mm	in	FY	2015.	As	a	result,	I	believe	it	is	reasonable	to	conclude	that
UEPS	will	struggle	to	turn	a	profit	and	grow	its	business	following	the	SASSA	contract
expiration.	In	fact,	I	believe	that	UEPS	will	become	a	loss-making	business	once	its
SASSA-related	revenue	sources	disappear.	To	further	support	my	argument,	consider
the	fact	that	in	FY	2013	the	Company	reported	$452mm	of	revenue	which	translated	to
just	$0.28	of	EPS.	As	shown	previously,	pro	forma	for	the	SASSA	contract	expiration,	I
estimate	the	Company	will	generate	around	$300mm	of	annual	revenue.	If	UEPS
struggled	to	turn	a	profit	in	FY	2013	when	its	reported	revenue	was	$452mm,	it	is	likely
that	the	Company	will	find	it	even	harder	to	turn	a	profit	with	just	north	of	$300mm	in
annual	revenue.


Potential	Liabilities	From	Mounting	Legal	Issues	Are	Another	Serious	Concern


Unfortunately	for	UEPS	shareholders,	the	bad	news	does	not	end	there.	Due	to	its	highly
questionable	conduct,	UEPS	now	faces	a	mountain	of	legal	and	regulatory	issues.	In
addition	to	this,	UEPS	has	also	drawn	the	attention	of	the	South	African	and	US
governments,	as	well	as	human	rights	groups.	I	have	provided	below	a	fairly
comprehensive	list	of	the	various	ongoing	investigations	into	the	Company:
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 15/21


In	April	2015,	Corruption	Watch,	a	civil	society	group,	challenged	the	legality	of	a
payment	in	the	amount	of	317mm	RAND	made	by	SASSA	to	UEPS	in	June	2014	for
the	re-registration	of	social	grant	beneficiaries	(article	here).	Corruption	Watch	stated
that	it	was	"unable	to	find	any	contractual	basis	for	the	payment	and	no	new	contract
had	been	concluded	between	the	parties	which	could	have	justified	the	payment."
Since	November	2012,	the	US	Department	of	Justice	has	been	conducting	an
investigation	into	whether	UEPS	bribed	officials	of	the	South	Africa	government	in
connection	with	the	SASSA	tender	and	whether	the	Company	violated	federal
securities	laws	in	connection	with	statements	regarding	the	SASSA	contract	made	in
its	SEC	filings.
In	September	2014,	the	South	African	National	Credit	Regulator	("NCR")	applied	to
cancel	the	Company's	registration	as	a	credit	provider.	If	the	registration	is	cancelled,
UEPS	will	no	longer	be	able	to	provide	microloans	to	its	customers.
In	February	2014,	the	South	African	Department	of	Social	Development	appointed	a
Ministerial	Task	Team	("MTT")	to	investigate	complaints	regarding	UEPS'	handling	of
the	social	grant	distributions.	The	MTT	discovered	a	number	of	irregularities	and
alarming	behavior	on	the	part	of	UEPS.	A	report	of	was	submitted	by	MTT	to	the
government	in	August	2014	with	its	finding	and	recommendations.
Since	November	2013,	the	Black	Sash,	a	human	rights	group,	has	conducted	a
campaign	called	"Hands	Off	Our	Grants".	The	campaign	was	organized	with	goal	of
reforming	the	social	grant	payment	system.	The	Black	Sash	has	been	openly	critical	of
UEPS'	handling	of	the	SASSA	contract	and	has	pushed	the	government	to	demand
the	Company	refund	the	illegal	deductions	taken	from	grant	payments.


The	multitude	of	ongoing	investigations	into	UEPS	could	result	in	severe	negative
financial	consequences	and	at	worst	insolvency	for	the	Company.	For	example,	if
Corruption	Watch	wins	its	case	against	UEPS,	the	Company	would	likely	have	to	return
the	317mm	RAND	(~$24mm)	re-registration	payment	it	received	from	SASSA.	Also,
based	on	findings	of	the	MTT	investigation,	the	Department	of	Social	Development	has
recommended	that	all	unlawful	and	immoral	deductions	should	be	refunded	to
beneficiaries.	If	UEPS	is	eventually	forced	to	refund	the	hundreds	of	millions	in	deductions
it	has	taken	from	grant	payments,	this	would	likely	put	the	Company	in	severe	financial
distress.	Finally,	if	the	NCR	wins	its	case,	UEPS	may	be	forced	to	cease	its	microlending
activities	well	before	its	SASSA	contract	expires.


Reasons	For	Current	Mispricing	in	UEPS	Shares



http://www.fin24.com/Tech/News/Corruption-Watch-questions-Sassa-payment-to-Net1-20150402

http://www.blacksash.org.za/index.php/sash-in-action/campaigns/hands-off-our-grants
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 16/21


Given	all	of	the	severe	issues	which	I	have	outlined	in	this	article,	I	believe	that	UEPS
shares	are	grossly	overvalued	at	the	current	share	price	level.	So	why	is	the	stock	still
trading	relatively	close	to	its	52-week	high?	I	believe	there	are	a	couple	reasons.	First,
because	UEPS	is	a	South	African	business,	the	Company	has	been	able	to	mostly	fly
under	the	radar	and	avoid	the	scrutiny	of	US	media	outlets.	Although	the	SASSA	tender
dispute	received	a	meaningful	amount	of	coverage	in	the	US,	all	of	the	other	issues
surrounding	UEPS	have	gone	largely	unnoticed.	For	example,	during	my	research	of	the
Company,	I	had	to	rely	almost	exclusively	on	South	African	news	sources	to	learn	more
about	the	Company's	predatory	lending	practices	and	Umoya	Manje	scheme.	There	was
simply	no	mention	of	these	issues	by	US-based	news	outlets	and	research	analysts.


In	addition	to	a	lack	of	US	media	coverage,	I	believe	the	other	reason	for	the	mispricing	in
UEPS	shares	can	be	attributed	to	the	Company's	management	team.	More	specifically,
management	has	been	very	effective	at	misleading	the	US	investor	community.	Due	to
misleading	management	statements,	research	analysts	and	major	investors	in	the	US	do
not	seem	to	be	aware	of	the	true	nature	of	the	Company's	microloan	and	Zazoo
businesses.	They	do	not	seem	to	understand	that	both	businesses	are	essentially	vehicles
that	have	been	setup	to	take	advantage	of	social	grant	beneficiaries.	Instead,	the	US
investor	community	seems	to	believe	that	these	two	businesses	will	be	two	of	the	primary
growth	drivers	for	UEPS	going	forward.	For	example,	during	the	Company's	Q1	2015
earnings	call,	Bruce	Galloway	from	Galloway	Capital	Management	posed	the	following
question	to	management:


"And	also,	with	regard	to	the	financial	inclusion	business,	it	seems	that	that's
the	real	growth	worth	of	this	company,	and	it	seems	like	that's	the	crown	jewel
and	the	technology	play.	Have	you	considered	spinning	that	off	to	the
shareholders	and	possibly	locating	it	in	--	from	UTA	or	some	place	like	that	where
they	could	get	a	higher	multiple?"


Mr.	Galloway	does	not	appear	to	understand	that	almost	70%	of	the	financial	inclusion
segment's	revenue	is	from	the	Company's	microloan	and	Zazoo	/	Umoya	Manje
businesses.	Once	the	SASSA	contract	expires,	revenues	from	these	two	businesses	will
fall	off	a	cliff.	Mr.	Galloway	also	does	not	appear	to	understand	that,	given	the	Company's
minimal	R&D	spending	(just	$5.9mm	combined	over	the	past	three	years),	it	is	likely	that
the	Zazoo	technology	is	not	very	attractive.	Thus,	the	notion	of	spinning	off	the	financial
inclusion	business	to	unlock	value	seems	fairly	absurd.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2658655-net-1-ueps-technologies-ueps-ceo-serge-christian-pierre-belamant-on-q1-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 17/21


Management	has	also	mislead	the	US	investment	community	in	regards	to	the	true	impact
of	the	SASSA	contract	expiration	on	their	financial	performance.	For	example,	in	the
comments	section	of	the	following	UEPS	article	on	SA,	a	user	commented	that	he	had
received	the	following	information	in	an	email	from	management:


"We	have	disclosed	in	our	2014	10K,	that	for	the	year	ended	June	30,	2014,	SASSA
contributed	27%	of	total	revenue.	Given	the	growth	in	our	other	businesses,	it	is
likely	that	for	the	year	ended	June	30,	2015,	that	contribution	will	be	under	20%	and
will	continue	to	decline	as	a	%	of	total	revenue."


Also,	the	following	information	is	provided	in	the	Company's	FY	2015	10K:


"During	our	2015,	2014	and	2013	fiscal	years,	we	derived	approximately	24%,	27%,
and	42%	of	our	revenues	respectively,	from	CPS'	social	welfare	grant	distribution
business."


In	my	opinion,	UEPS	has	not	done	a	proper	job	in	informing	investors	about	just	how
much	of	its	business	is	reliant	on	the	SASSA	contract.	As	shown	from	the	quotes	above,
UEPS	has	only	provided	the	amount	of	revenue	that	it	receives	from	the	SASSA	contract
by	itself.	The	Company	has	not	mentioned	that	it	also	receives	over	$180mm	in	annual
revenue	from	the	sale	of	microloans,	prepaid	airtime	and	other	products	directly	to	grant
beneficiaries.	As	a	result	of	this	lack	of	transparency,	many	investors	do	not	seem	to
understand	that	SASSA-related	revenue	actually	accounts	for	over	50%	of	the	Company's
revenue	base.	They	also	do	not	appear	to	understand	that	most	of	the	growth	in	UEPS'
revenue	over	the	past	few	years	has	been	driven	by	the	SASSA-dependent	microlending
and	Umoya	Manje	businesses.	For	example,	in	a	bullish	article	published	by	Forbes	in
March	2014,	the	author	of	the	article	states	the	following:


"…even	if	UEPS	were	to	lose	the	SASSA	contract,	one	could	make	a	strong	case
that	the	growth	and	earnings	potential	from	these	other	businesses	over	the	longer
term	still	make	the	stock	worth	acquiring	at	current	levels."


In	terms	of	catalysts,	I	am	not	sure	when	US	investors	and	analysts	will	come	to	their
senses.	Hopefully	my	article	will	help	bring	some	awareness	to	the	various	issues	that
plague	the	Company.	However,	at	the	latest,	I	would	expect	UEPS	shares	to	decline
significantly	soon	after	the	SASSA	contract	expires	in	early	2017.	Following	the	contract
expiration,	investors	should	begin	to	re-rate	the	shares	as	UEPS'	financial	performance



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3505546-low-p-e-stock-of-the-day-no-33-net-1-ueps-technologies-inc

http://www.forbes.com/newsletters/forbes-investor/2014/03/25/forbes-investor-one-stock-to-buy-and-one-to-sell-4/
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 18/21


declines.	Finally,	the	various	ongoing	legal	and	regulatory	investigations	into	the
Company's	conduct	could	eventually	result	in	a	negative	judgement	that	causes	a	severe
decline	in	UEPS'	share	price.


Valuation


To	recap,	the	following	is	a	list	of	all	the	issues	and	concerns	that	I	have	discussed	in	this
article	regarding	UEPS:


UEPS	is	using	the	SASSA	contract	as	vehicle	to	take	advantage	of	social	grant
beneficiaries	via	predatory	lending	practices	and	its	Umoya	Manje	cell	phone
marketing	scheme
It	appears	that	UEPS	may	be	violating	various	South	African	laws.	The	Company	is
using	confidential	beneficiary	information	to	market	its	products	to	grant	recipients	and
debiting	money	directly	from	grant	payments.	There	have	also	been	numerous
complaints	of	fraudulent	deductions.
The	Company	has	mislead	investors	regarding	the	true	nature	of	the	Zazoo/Umoya
Manje	business.	Management	has	also	been	less	than	forthcoming	about	the	true
impact	of	the	SASSA	contract	expiration	on	their	future	financial	performance.
UEPS	will	soon	lose	over	50%	of	its	revenue	base	due	to	the	expiration	of	the	SASSA
contract	and	will	likely	become	a	loss-making	business	following	the	contract
expiration.
The	Company	is	the	subject	of	various	legal	and	regulatory	investigations	which	could
result	in	significant	liabilities	for	the	business	and	even	insolvency


Given	all	of	these	serious	red	flags,	I	believe	that	trying	to	value	UEPS	on	any	sort	of
fundamental	basis	is	a	largely	meaningless	exercise.	I	would	not	recommend	owning	the
Company's	shares	at	any	price.	However,	for	the	sake	of	being	thorough,	I	will	attempt	to
assign	a	value	to	the	Company.	As	calculated	previously,	pro	forma	for	the	loss	of	the
SASSA	contract,	I	estimate	that	the	Company	currently	generates	$306mm	of	annual
revenue.	I	do	not	believe	the	Company	can	turn	a	profit	with	just	$306mm	of	annual
revenue.	Thus,	a	valuation	based	on	a	multiple	of	revenue	makes	the	most	sense.


In	the	past,	I	have	published	short	articles	on	Rosetta	Stone	(TICKER:	RST)	and	Voxx
(TICKER:	VOXX).	These	companies	are	similar	to	UEPS	in	that	they	are	financially
distressed	tech-based	companies	with	management	issues.	RST	and	VOXX	currently
trade	at	an	EV	/	LTM	revenue	multiple	of	0.48x	and	0.33x,	respectively.	Thus,	I	believe	a
valuation	based	on	an	EV/LTM	revenue	multiple	of	0.25x-0.50x	is	appropriate.	Applying	a
0.25x-0.50x	multiple	to	pro	forma	FY	2015	revenue	of	$306mm	results	in	an	implied



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/RST

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VOXX
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 19/21


enterprise	valuation	of	$76.5mm-$153.0mm.	Adding	net	cash	of	$58.0mm	results	in	an
implied	equity	valuation	of	$134.5mm-$211.0mm.	Thus,	assuming	47.3mm	fully-diluted
shares	outstanding,	I	believe	fair	value	for	UEPS	shares	to	be	approximately
$2.84-$4.46	per	share.	This	represents	an	84%-75%	discount	to	the	current	share
price	of	$17.53	as	of	market	close	on	October	23.


My	Interaction	With	Investor	Relations


I	would	like	to	note	that	I	reached	out	to	investor	relations	last	week	via	email.	I	asked
them	to	provide	clarification	regarding	some	of	the	key	issues	which	I	raised	in	this	article.
If	I	receive	a	reply	from	the	Company,	I	will	provide	an	update	in	the	comments	section	or
in	a	separate	article.


Conclusion


The	conduct	of	UEPS	and	its	management	team	is	simply	unacceptable.	The	Company
has	been	getting	away	with	its	highly	questionable	behavior	for	far	too	long.	It	amazes	me
that	these	types	of	companies	can	still	exist	in	a	stock	market	that	is	so	highly	regulated.
Fortunately,	given	the	upcoming	SASSA	contract	expiration	and	the	various	ongoing
investigations	into	the	Company,	it	looks	like	UEPS	will	soon	face	severe	consequences
for	its	actions.	I	believe	that	UEPS	is	one	of	the	best	short	opportunities	that	I	have	come
across	in	quite	some	time.	Thus,	I	recommend	shorting	UEPS	or	selling	UEPS	shares	if
you	are	an	existing	shareholder.


Disclosure:	I	am/we	are	short	UEPS.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving
compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is
mentioned	in	this	article.


Comments	(38)


MagicDiligence,	Contributor
So	first	of	all,	did	you	miss	the	news	on	October	15th	that	SASSA	canceled	the	tender	offer	and	is	completing	the
contract	with	Net1?	(http://1.usa.gov/209IZCH)


Secondly,	you	are	assuming	that	all	the	SASSA	revenue	just	goes	away.	SASSA	is	not	capable	of	running	its	grant
distribution	program.	The	whole	point	of	UEPS	is	that	most	of	the	social	grant	recipients	in	South	Africa	are	unbanked
and	delivering	them	cash	is	a	bad	idea.	UEPS	has	been	distributing	the	grants	for	a	long	time	and	even	if	they	don't
run	the	contract,	they	almost	certainly	will	be	licensing	technology	to	whoever	does.	It	took	years	for	SASSA	to
complete	the	last	tender.	I	highly	doubt	they	lose	ANY	of	this	business	before	2020,	if	at	all.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/magicdiligence

http://1.usa.gov/209IZCH
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 20/21


Do	you	really	think	that	management	would	really	just	decide	consciously	to	NOT	EVEN	BID	on	a	contract	that
accounts	for	50%	(by	your	estimation)	of	their	business!	That's	an	insane	assumption!


SASSA	isn't	50%	of	the	business,	by	the	way.	It's	about	20%.	Linking	micro-lending	in	there	and	prepaid	sales	(at
100%	to	boot)	is	an	enormous	stretch.


One	thing	is	true:	there	have	been	some	legal	activity	against	the	company.	Big	surprise,	its	is	a	financial	services
provider.	But	we	are	on	the	downside	of	that.	The	investigation	by	the	U.S.	District	Court	was	dropped	in	September.
SAFSB	just	re-instated	the	company's	ability	to	sell	life	insurance.	The	legal	risk	is	a	bunch	of	noise.	It's	fun	to	call	any
financial	services	company	"predatory".	You	could	easily	call	credit	cards	"predatory",	as	they	are	essentially	micro
loans	at	enormous	interest	rates.	What	is	Net1	doing	that	is	so	different?


I	think	you've	made	a	lot	of	dramatic	assumptions	for	theater	here,	without	a	lot	of	strong	evidence	to	support	your
case.	It	is	more	of	an	emotional	argument	than	a	logical	one.	Disappointing	for	a	"pro"	article.


28	Oct	2015,	06:35	AM


Jay	Yoon,	Contributor
Author’s	reply	» 	"So	first	of	all,	did	you	miss	the	news	on	October	15th	that	SASSA	canceled	the	tender	offer
and	is	completing	the	contract	with	Net1?	"


I	clearly	mentioned	that	SASSA	would	continue	using	Net1	until	its	contract	runs	out	in	2017	and	that	SASSA
would	take	the	contract	in-house.


"you	are	assuming	that	all	the	SASSA	revenue	just	goes	away.	SASSA	is	not	capable	of	running	its	grant
distribution	program...I	highly	doubt	they	lose	ANY	of	this	business	before	2020,	if	at	all."


How	can	you	say	this	business	will	not	go	away	when	the	CEO	as	well	as	various	news	reports	in	the	South
African	media	clearly	stated	that	SASSA	is	taking	the	contract	in-house.	Also,	the	CEO	stated	that	it	would
take	SASSA	around	12-16	months	to	takeover	the	program	but	that	SASSA	WILL	be	taking	over	the	payment
program.


"	Linking	micro-lending	in	there	and	prepaid	sales	(at	100%	to	boot)	is	an	enormous	stretch."


You	clearly	missed	all	of	the	references	which	I	linked	to	in	the	article.	The	lending	business	IS	100%	linked	to
SASSA.	They	are	deducting	repayments	for	loans	directly	from	the	grant	payments.	I	have	clearly
documented	this	in	my	article.	It	is	how	they	make	around	75%	margins	on	it.	How	can	payday	lenders	like
EZPW	make	razor	thin	margins	yet	these	guys	make	over	75%	margins?	How	can	the	Company	have	such	a
low	default	rate	despite	loaning	money	to	the	most	at-risk	individuals?	It	doesn't	take	a	genius	to	figure	out
that	the	reason	is	because	they	can	directly	deduct	repayments	from	grants.	In	terms	of	prepaid	airtime,	I
believe	my	article	does	a	sufficient	job	of	supporting	that	this	is	also	reliant	on	having	direct	access	to	grant
payments.


"The	legal	risk	is	a	bunch	of	noise.	It's	fun	to	call	any	financial	services	company	"predatory".	You	could	easily
call	credit	cards	"predatory",	as	they	are	essentially	micro	loans	at	enormous	interest	rates."


The	legal	risk	is	NOT	a	bunch	of	noise.	First	off,	how	can	you	trust	a	company	that	has	been	at	the	center	of
so	much	controversy.	It	is	not	like	it	is	just	an	isolated	incident.	There	have	been	allegations	of	bribery,



https://seekingalpha.com/author/jay-yoon
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Strong Sell Due To Concerns Over Potentially Unlawful Behavior And Business Fundamentals - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business 21/21


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


receiving	questionable	re-registration	payments,	unlawful	lending	practices,	unlawful	deductions	from	grant
payments,	etc.


Also,	you	can't	just	dismiss	their	behavior	as	being	common.	What	these	guys	are	doing	is	not	typical
behavior.	There	is	a	reason	why	there	has	been	so	much	negative	media	coverage	in	South	Africa.	Also,	I
don't	think	Black	Sash	(the	human	rights	group)	is	going	after	them	just	for	fun.	Finally,	a	potential	acquirer	of
Grindrod	bank	(Net1's	3rd	party	banking	provider)	pulled	out	of	the	deal	because	they	did	not	want	to	be
associated	with	all	of	the	SASSA	controversy.	If	the	Company's	behavior	was	so	common,	then	why	has	there
been	so	much	negative	backlash	from	so	many	different	people?


28	Oct	2015,	08:49	AM
