7/18/2019 Rosetta Stone Update: Recent Share Sales By Osmium A Warning Sign For Longs - Rosetta Stone Inc. (NYSE:RST) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2798695-rosetta-stone-update-recent-share-sales-by-osmium-a-warning-sign-for-longs 1/6


Short	Ideas 	|	 Tech	


Rosetta	Stone	Update:	Recent	Share	Sales	By	Osmium	A	Warning
Sign	For	Longs
Jan.	5,	2015	6:09	PM	ET44	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


Osmium	Partners	revealed	in	a	December	31st	Form	4	filing	that	it	had	recently	sold
147,247	shares	of	RST.


I	believe	the	share	sales	are	an	indication	that	Osmium's	confidence	in	RST's
business	is	wavering.


An	analysis	of	Osmium's	four	point	plan	reveals	that	the	firm's	turnaround	plan	for
RST	has	a	low	chance	of	success.


Osmium	has	reduced	its	RST	ownership	to	just	below	the	insider	threshold	of	10%.
This	indicates	that	further	share	sales	are	likely.


RST	remains	an	excellent	short	opportunity.


In	my	prior	article	on	Rosetta	Stone	(NYSE:RST),	I	argued	that	RST	was	a	tremendous
short	opportunity	due	to	the	Company's	misleading	financial	reporting	methods	and
deteriorating	business	performance.	In	just	a	few	short	days	since	the	release	of	this
article,	the	bear	case	against	RST	has	only	strengthened,	as	Osmium	Partners	recently
liquidated	a	portion	of	its	holdings.


On	December	31st,	Osmium	Partners	reported	in	a	Form	4	filing	that	it	had	sold	a
significant	amount	of	shares	in	RST.	From	December	29th	to	December	31st,	Osmium
sold	a	total	of	147,247	shares,	which	reduced	its	stake	in	RST	from	2.276mm	to	2.129mm
shares	(a	6.5%	reduction).	Many	RST	shareholders	have	placed	a	significant	amount	of
faith	in	Osmium's	ability	to	help	turn	the	Company	around.	Thus,	Osmium's	recent
decision	to	reduce	its	investment	is	a	troubling	event	for	RST	longs.	I	believe	that	Osmium
has	lost	confidence	in	its	ability	to	help	turnaround	RST's	business.


Also,	further	share	sales	appear	to	be	likely	in	the	near	term.	The	firm's	decision	to	reduce
its	ownership	in	RST	to	below	the	SEC's	insider	threshold	of	10%	will	allow	it	to	sell
additional	shares	without	having	to	report	them	immediately.	These	points	are	fleshed	out
in	further	detail	below.



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/technology

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2775165-rosetta-stone-misleading-financials-mask-continued-deterioration-in-business

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/RST

http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=10386912-4534-18900&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=697501&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1351285
7/18/2019 Rosetta Stone Update: Recent Share Sales By Osmium A Warning Sign For Longs - Rosetta Stone Inc. (NYSE:RST) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2798695-rosetta-stone-update-recent-share-sales-by-osmium-a-warning-sign-for-longs 2/6


Osmium	Appears	To	Have	Lost	Some	Confidence	In	Rosetta	Stone


The	timing	of	Osmium's	decision	to	reduce	its	investment	in	RST	was	rather	odd.	Firms
usually	do	not	sell	a	significant	amount	of	shares	in	their	top	holding	on	the	last	3	trading
days	of	the	year.	The	reason	is	because	the	last	trading	days	of	the	year	are	usually	very
slow	from	a	volume	perspective.	Selling	a	large	amount	of	shares	during	these	days	can
severely	pressure	the	share	price.	This	is	particularly	true	for	thinly	traded	small-cap
stocks	like	RST.	In	addition	to	this,	Osmium's	decision	to	reduce	its	investment	comes	just
a	few	weeks	after	the	firm	gained	a	board	seat	and	released	a	four-point	turnaround	plan
for	RST.	Typically,	activist	investors	do	not	decrease	their	ownership	stake	at	the
beginning	stages	of	a	turnaround	campaign.	Thus,	the	peculiar	timing	seems	to	indicate
that	Osmium's	share	sale	was	a	somewhat	spur	of	the	moment	decision	rather	than	a
carefully	planned	sale.


So	why	did	Osmium	decide	to	sell	RST	shares	at	such	a	peculiar	time?	I	believe	Osmium
has	lost	some	confidence	in	RST's	business	and	the	feasibility	of	its	four-point	turnaround
plan.	As	I	pointed	out	in	my	prior	article,	RST's	bookings	and	cash	flow	this	year	have
been	temporarily	boosted	by	the	Company's	increased	focus	on	signing	multi-year
contracts.	In	addition	to	this,	the	Company	has	grossly	inflated	financial	results	by
switching	to	a	new	definition	of	Adjusted	EBITDA,	which	adds	future	deferred	revenue	to
current	results.	I	estimate	that	management's	guidance	for	FY	2014	Adjusted	EBITDA
($18mm-$22mm)	is	overstated	by	at	least	$22mm.	In	light	of	these	discoveries,	I	believe
that	Osmium	may	now	realize	that	its	turnaround	plan	has	a	relatively	low	chance	of
success.	In	fact,	I	believe	that	implementing	Osmium's	turnaround	plan	may	actually	do
more	harm	than	good	for	RST	shareholders.	I	arrived	at	this	conclusion	after	analyzing
each	of	the	four	points	of	Osmium's	action	plan.	I	have	provided	below	my	detailed
analysis	of	Osmium's	turnaround	plan.


Point	#1:	…take	advantage	of	Rosetta	Stone's	significant	brand	equity,	business	models,
and	assets	to	deliver	meaningful	value	to	shareholders	with	the	objective	of	doubling
targeted	free	cash	flow	margins	from	2%	in	2014	to	4%	in	2015.


I	believe	that	free	cash	flow	is	a	misguided	measure	of	the	current	financial	performance
of	RST's	business.	The	reason	is	because	the	Company	is	in	the	process	of	converting	a
higher	proportion	of	its	customers	to	multi-year	contracts.	As	I	demonstrated	in	Section	2
of	my	prior	article,	converting	customers	from	single-year	to	multi-year	contracts
temporarily	boosts	free	cash	flow,	because	all	of	the	cash	for	a	multi-year	contract	is
received	in	the	first	year.	When	the	conversion	to	multi-year	contracts	eventually	slows
down,	free	cash	flow	will	be	significantly	pressured.	In	fact,	if	the	current	trend	in	RST's



http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/osmium-partners-four-point-action-plan-for-rosetta-stone-283180771.html
7/18/2019 Rosetta Stone Update: Recent Share Sales By Osmium A Warning Sign For Longs - Rosetta Stone Inc. (NYSE:RST) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2798695-rosetta-stone-update-recent-share-sales-by-osmium-a-warning-sign-for-longs 3/6


business	continues,	the	Company's	free	cash	flow	is	likely	to	be	deeply	negative	once	the
conversion	to	multi-year	contracts	slows	down.	Instead	of	focusing	on	bookings	and	free
cash	flow,	Osmium	should	instead	focus	on	the	GAAP	P&L	results	and	a	revenue-based
Adjusted	EBITDA	metric.	If	the	firm	did	this,	it	would	see	that	the	Company's	performance
has	deteriorated	significantly	this	year.	As	I	detailed	in	my	prior	article,	RST	is	projected	to
generate	a	GAAP	net	loss	of	over	$2	per	share	this	year.	In	addition	to	this,	its	FY	2014
Adjusted	EBITDA	guidance	is	overstated	by	at	least	$22m.	Based	a	more	reasonable
revenue-based	metric,	FY	2014	Adjusted	EBITDA	is	expected	to	be	a	loss	of	at	least
$4mm.


Point	#2:	Create	a	sharp	focus	with	a	clear	strategy	on	how	to	evolve,	innovate	and
profitably	grow	BOTH	the	Consumer	and	Education	&	Enterprise	segments.


I	agree	that	this	is	a	good	goal	to	have.	I	do	not	have	much	to	comment	on	here	except
that,	as	of	right	now,	RST	has	failed	to	evolve,	innovate	and	profitably	grow.


Point	#3:	Provide	clear	disclosures	and	appropriate	business	metrics	for	shareholders	to
understand	both	the	Consumer	and	Education	&	Enterprise	segments.


I	agree	that	RST	needs	to	provide	business	metrics	which	more	accurately	convey	the
performance	of	the	business.	Unfortunately,	as	I	discussed	in	detail	in	my	previous	article,
the	Company's	current	financial	reporting	practices	significantly	mislead	and	inflate	the
performance	of	the	business.	The	first	step	RST	needs	to	make	is	to	abandon	its
bookings-based	definition	of	Adjusted	EBITDA.	This	metric	has	thoroughly	confused
investors	and	sell-side	analysts	regarding	the	true	financial	status	of	the	Company.	In
addition	to	this,	more	segment-specific	performance	metrics	would	also	be	welcome.
Overall,	providing	more	detailed	and	accurate	business	metrics	will	most	likely	show	a
worse-than-expected	trend	in	the	business.	Although	more	transparency	is	better	for	the
Company	in	the	long	run,	the	adoption	of	more	accurate	business	metrics	may	have	a
detrimental	effect	on	RST's	share	price	in	the	short	term.


Point	#4:	Conduct	an	aggressive	share	repurchase	either	in	the	open	market	or	via	a
"Dutch	Tender."	We	believe	Rosetta	Stone's	balance	sheet	is	considerably	overcapitalized
given	projected	and	historical	cash	flows.


As	discussed	above	when	addressing	Point	#1,	free	cash	flow	has	been	artificially
boosted	by	the	conversion	to	multi-year	contracts.	The	Company	is	receiving	cash	flow
from	multi-year	contracts	upfront	at	the	expense	of	future	cash	flow.	If	the	current	trend	of
7/18/2019 Rosetta Stone Update: Recent Share Sales By Osmium A Warning Sign For Longs - Rosetta Stone Inc. (NYSE:RST) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2798695-rosetta-stone-update-recent-share-sales-by-osmium-a-warning-sign-for-longs 4/6


the	business	continues,	it	is	likely	that	RST's	free	cash	flow	will	be	deeply	negative	once
the	conversion	to	multi-year	contracts	slows	down.	As	a	result,	conducting	an	aggressive
share	repurchase	at	this	time	is	a	risky	proposition.


To	summarize,	Osmium's	four-point	action	plan	appears	to	have	a	low	chance	of	success.
In	regards	to	Point	#1,	free	cash	flow	is	a	misguided	measure	due	to	the	ongoing
conversion	to	multi-year	contracts.	It	is	highly	likely	that	free	cash	flow	will	decline
substantially	once	the	conversion	to	multi-year	contracts	slows	down.	In	addition	to	this,
implementing	Point	#3	and	Point	#4	of	Osmium's	turnaround	plan	may	actually	destroy
rather	than	create	shareholder	value	in	the	long-term.	Thus,	it	is	reasonable	to	conclude
that	Osmium	may	be	reevaluating	its	investment	in	RST	and	the	feasibility	of	its
turnaround	plan.


Osmium	Will	Likely	Sell	More	Shares


It	is	unknown	whether	Osmium	has	sold	additional	shares	since	the	latest	sale	on
December	31st.	However,	I	believe	it	is	likely	that	Osmium	will	further	reduce	its	stake	in
RST	in	the	near	future.	As	I	detailed	above,	I	believe	that	Osmium	has	lost	some
confidence	in	the	feasibility	of	the	Company's	four-point	turnaround	plan.	In	addition	to
this,	the	firm's	recent	share	sales	have	conveniently	lowered	its	ownership	in	RST	to	just
under	the	SEC's	designated	insider	threshold	of	10%.	I	have	provided	below	a	figure
which	shows	Osmium's	ownership	before	and	after	the	recent	share	sales:


As	a	result	of	reducing	its	ownership	to	just	under	10%,	Osmium	is	no	longer	considered
an	insider	by	the	SEC.	This	is	significant,	because	insiders	are	required	to	report	any
purchase	or	sale	of	stock	within	two	business	days	with	a	Form	4	filing.	Now	that	Osmium
is	no	longer	an	insider,	it	is	only	required	to	report	any	meaningful	purchase	or	sale	of
stock	(greater	than	1%	of	RST's	outstanding	shares)	within	10	business	days	in	a	13D
filing.
7/18/2019 Rosetta Stone Update: Recent Share Sales By Osmium A Warning Sign For Longs - Rosetta Stone Inc. (NYSE:RST) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2798695-rosetta-stone-update-recent-share-sales-by-osmium-a-warning-sign-for-longs 5/6


So	what	does	this	all	mean?	Osmium	will	have	10	business	days	to	report	any	significant
change	in	its	ownership	of	RST.	Also,	it	will	not	have	to	report	anything	until	the	firm	sells
additional	shares	that	in	aggregate	are	greater	than	1%	of	RST's	outstanding	shares.
Thus,	I	believe	that	Osmium's	decision	to	reduce	its	investment	to	just	under	10%	is	not	a
coincidence.	Instead,	I	believe	that	Osmium	wanted	to	lose	its	insider	designation	to	get
more	time	to	liquidate	shares	without	reporting	it	to	the	public.	This	is	not	just	baseless
speculation.	Osmium	actually	utilized	this	same	tactic	when	it	reduced	its	position	earlier
in	the	year.	I	have	provided	below	a	figure	which	shows	the	change	in	Osmium's
ownership	from	March	2014	to	June	2014:


As	shown	in	the	figure	above,	from	March	21st	to	April	7th,	Osmium	sold	173K	shares	and
reduced	its	ownership	to	just	under	10%	(9.91%).	After	reducing	its	ownership	to	under
10%,	Osmium	was	able	to	sell	an	additional	161K	shares	without	tipping	off	RST
shareholders.	These	actions	by	Osmium	earlier	in	the	year	strongly	indicate	that	it	is	likely
to	sell	additional	shares	in	the	near	future.	Just	how	many	more	shares	it	will	sell	is
uncertain.	However,	given	the	issues	that	I	have	raised	regarding	RST's	accounting
practices	and	business	performance,	I	expect	Osmium	will	further	reduce	its	holdings	by	a
significant	amount.	It	is	also	worth	nothing	that	since	March	21st,	Osmium	has	significantly
reduced	its	holdings	of	RST	in	its	two	largest	funds	-	Osmium	Capital,	LP	(22%	decrease)
and	Osmium	Capital	II,	LP	(38%	decrease).	This	is	another	strong	indication	that	Osmium
is	losing	confidence	in	the	investment.


Conclusion


In	conclusion,	I	believe	that	the	peculiar	timing	of	Osmium's	recent	share	sales	is	an
indication	that	the	firm	has	lost	confidence	in	its	turnaround	plan	for	RST.	Also,	Osmium's
decision	to	reduce	its	ownership	to	under	10%	indicates	that	the	firm	plans	on	selling
additional	shares	in	the	near	future.	Further	share	sales	by	Osmium	will	likely	put
additional	downward	pressure	on	RST's	stock	price	over	the	short	term.	Also,	any
7/18/2019 Rosetta Stone Update: Recent Share Sales By Osmium A Warning Sign For Longs - Rosetta Stone Inc. (NYSE:RST) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2798695-rosetta-stone-update-recent-share-sales-by-osmium-a-warning-sign-for-longs 6/6


indication	that	Osmium	may	be	wavering	in	its	commitment	to	RST	will	certainly	hurt	the
Company's	perceived	chances	of	a	successful	turnaround.	Thus,	I	believe	RST	remains
an	excellent	short	opportunity	at	the	current	share	price	level.


Disclosure:	The	author	is	short	RST.	The	author	wrote	this	article	themselves,	and	it	expresses	their	own	opinions.	The
author	is	not	receiving	compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	The	author	has	no	business	relationship	with
any	company	whose	stock	is	mentioned	in	this	article.


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


Comments	(44)


AlanSocratek
I	would	say	this	is	a	very	risky	short.	Rosetta	will	have	a	strong	Q4,	with	likely	positive	cash	flow	in	the	$15M+	range.


The	argument	in	these	posts	is	that	Rosetta	is	playing	accounting	tricks	by	counting	a	changing	mix	of	multi-year
contracts	as	Adjusted	EBITDA.	I	haven't	seen	much	evidence	the	changing	mix	to	bolter	this	claim,	plus	company	still
reports	standard	GAAP	which	corrects	for	any	deferred	revenue	effect.


On	the	contrary,	their	online	learner	base	grew	46%	year	over	year	in	Q3	and	will	certainly	end	Q4	much	higher	than
that.	If	the	company	was	just	swapping	1	year	contracts	for	3	year	contracts,	the	user	base	would	be	flat,	NOT
growing.	The	evidence	is	that	there	are	new	bookings	from	new	customers	in	the	mix,	on	top	of	its	existing	base.


Rosetta	still	has	much	to	prove	in	the	consumer	space,	but	being	short	in	their	Q4	is	a	losing	position.	Shorts	should
at	least	wait	until	after	earnings,	where	they	will	likely	announce:


-	$315MM	to	$325MM	bookings	range
-	Organic	double-digit	exit	rate	in	4Q14
-	Year-end	cash	balance	of	$65-$70MM


Current	market	cap	is	only	$212M.	The	business	would	really	need	to	fly	off	the	rails	for	that	to	go	much	lower,	and	it
won't	happen	in	Q4	in	my	opinion.


05	Jan	2015,	07:50	PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/20847001
