7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 1/11


Short	Ideas 	|	 Services	 	|	 South	Africa


Net1	UEPS	Technologies:	New	Legislation	Spells	Trouble	For	UEPS
Feb.	29,	2016	10:00	AM	ET7	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


According	to	recent	media	reports,	the	South	African	government	will	soon	pass	new
legislation	which	outlaws	the	direct	deduction	of	payments	from	grant	beneficiary
accounts.


As	a	result	of	this	new	legislation,	UEPS’s	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje
businesses	will	likely	struggle	to	survive.


Due	to	the	loss	of	these	business	lines,	I	estimate	that	UEPS’s	annual	EPS	will
decline	~50%	(Microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	contributed	an	estimated	$1.17	of
EPS	in	FY	2015.


A	recent	media	report	has	claimed	that	UEPS	created	Easypay	Everywhere	for	the
primary	purpose	of	circumventing	the	new	legislation	and	continuing	its	exploitation
of	beneficiaries.


UEPS	remains	an	attractive	short	at	the	current	share	price	level.


Last	week,	in	an	article	posted	by	Quoth	the	Raven,	it	was	revealed	that	the	CEO	of	Net1
UEPS	Technologies	("UEPS"	or	the	"Company")	(TICKER:	UEPS)	may	have	lied	about	his
PhD	degree.	A	couple	days	later,	on	February	25th,	the	Company's	board	of	directors
released	a	statement	which	verified	that	the	PhD	was	in	fact	from	a	fake	university.	This
latest	revelation	confirms	my	belief	that	the	Company	and	management	have	almost	zero
credibility.


Unfortunately	for	UEPS	shareholders,	the	bad	news	does	not	end	there.	Last	week,	the
South	African	government	announced	new	legislation	(to	be	passed	next	month)	aimed	at
protecting	the	accounts	of	grant	recipients	from	the	unscrupulous	business	practices	of
UEPS.	The	new	legislation	will	criminalize	the	direct	debiting	of	payments	by	UEPS	from
beneficiary	accounts.	Surprisingly,	it	appears	that	this	significant	regulatory	change	has
gone	unreported	in	the	US.	As	a	result,	it	is	likely	that	not	many	US	investors	are	aware	of
this	negative	development	for	UEPS's	business.	As	I	will	discuss	in	this	article,	this	new
law	will	likely	result	in	a	severe	reduction	in	UEPS's	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/services

https://seekingalpha.com/market-outlook/global-investing/analysis/South%20Africa

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3925706-ueps-ceo-touting-sham-phd-degree

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UEPS

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/net1-comments-social-media-allegations-181122721.html
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 2/11


businesses.	Without	direct	access	to	beneficiary	accounts,	I	believe	that	the	vast	majority
of	the	revenue	and	profitability	of	these	two	businesses	will	soon	go	away.	As	a	result	of
the	loss	of	these	two	business	lines,	I	project	that	UEPS's	annual	EPS	will	drop	by	around
50%.


To	finish	this	article,	I	will	discuss	the	Company's	Easypay	Everywhere	("EPE")	initiative.
On	the	surface,	EPE	appears	to	be	a	fairly	traditional	and	noncontroversial	retail	bank
serving	the	underbanked	market.	In	reality,	it	appears	that	EPE	is	simply	a	vehicle
designed	to	circumvent	the	new	legislation	and	continue	taking	advantage	of	beneficiaries.
Recently,	nonprofit	groups	have	started	to	voice	their	concerns	over	the	questionable
practices	of	EPE.	Thus,	it	is	likely	only	a	matter	of	time	before	the	South	African
government	once	again	cracks	down	on	UEPS.


A	Quick	Refresher	on	UEPS's	Microlending	And	Umoya	Manje	Businesses


Before	discussing	the	new	legislation	and	its	impact	on	UEPS's	financial	performance,	I
think	it	would	be	helpful	to	provide	readers	with	a	refresher	on	the	Company's
microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	businesses.	Over	the	past	few	years,	these	two
businesses	have	grown	at	a	rapid	pace	and	have	quickly	become	two	of	the	largest
contributors	to	UEPS's	revenue	and	profitability.	On	a	combined	basis,	microlending	and
Umoya	Manje	revenue	accounted	for	27%	of	the	Company's	total	revenue	and	69%	of
Financial	Inclusion	revenue	in	FY	2015.	Provided	below	is	a	breakdown	of	the	Company's
FY	2015	revenue	by	segment:
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 3/11


UEPS's	microlending	business	is	based	on	providing	microloans	to	grant	beneficiaries	in
exchange	for	a	service	fee.	The	Company	collects	repayments	for	these	loans	by	directly
deducting	the	owed	amount	from	a	beneficiary's	monthly	grant	before	it	is	paid	out.	The
following	quote	is	from	a	May	2014	Mail	&	Guardian	article	which	outlines	how	a	typical
loan	is	structured:


"No	interest	is	charged	on	these	loans,	just	service	fees.	But	these	can	add	up	to
50%	of	the	principal	amount	over	a	six-month	period.	On	an	R800	unsecured	loan,
with	a	repayment	period	of	six	months,	the	service	fee	is	R280	-	equivalent	to	70%
annual	interest.	A	loan	of	just	R200	will	attract	fees	of	R100	-	equivalent	to	100%
annual	interest."


Like	the	microlending	business,	the	customers	of	Umoya	Manje	are	almost	entirely	grant
beneficiaries.	The	Company	markets	Umoya	Manje	products	like	prepaid	airtime	and
prepaid	electricity	directly	to	grant	beneficiaries	via	a	cell	phone	text	message	marketing
scheme.	The	following	is	an	excerpt	from	a	December	2013	AllAfrica	article	which
describes	how	the	scheme	works:


"…they	take	all	the	cell	numbers	of	the	pensioners	that	they	have	from	Sassa's
database	and	send	them	SMSs	to	convince	them	to	buy	airtime	from	them.	The	cell
numbers'	users,	i.e.	pensioners,	have	to	follow	the	steps	provided	by	the	SMS…
they	have	their	details	like	IDs,	etc,	from	the	Sassa	database,	so	if	the	cell	number
user	accepts	everything	from	the	SMS	they	will	automatically	pick	it	up…come
month-end	they	will	deduct	it	from	the	grant."


As	I	discussed	in	previous	articles,	UEPS	has	been	accused	of	using	highly	questionable
methods	to	facilitate	the	growth	of	its	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	businesses.	From	a
moral	standpoint,	both	the	government	and	activist	groups	have	taken	issue	with	UEPS's
attempts	to	profit	from	the	accounts	of	grant	recipients	through	the	sale	of	expensive
microloans	and	prepaid	airtime.	Most	of	these	grant	recipients	are	of	limited	means	and
rely	on	their	monthly	welfare	check	for	basic	necessities.	In	addition	to	accusations	over
immoral	behavior,	UEPS	has	also	been	accused	of	acting	in	an	unlawful	manner.	Over	the
past	few	years,	there	has	been	thousands	of	complaints	over	unauthorized	deductions
from	beneficiary	accounts	for	the	payment	of	microloans,	prepaid	airtime	and	other
products.	In	addition	to	this,	many	published	media	reports	have	alleged	that	UEPS	is



http://mg.co.za/article/2014-05-22-cashing-in-on-social-grants

http://allafrica.com/stories/201312030845.html
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 4/11


illegally	sharing	confidential	beneficiary	data	with	its	subsidiaries	for	marketing	purposes.
Also,	some	government	officials	have	alleged	that	the	direct	debit	of	payments	from
beneficiary	accounts	by	UEPS	is	prohibited	by	law.


Complaints	Over	UEPS's	Activities	Have	Recently	Increased


Unfortunately,	it	appears	that	UEPS's	questionable	behavior	has	recently	gotten	worse.
According	to	a	February	2016	IOL	article,	the	number	of	reported	incidences	of	illegal
deductions	by	Cash	Paymaster	Services	("CPS")	and	other	UEPS	subsidiaries	has



http://mini.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/sassa-scam-puts-country-at-risk-1985676
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 5/11


meaningfully	increased	over	the	past	eight	months.	Provided	below	are	some	relevant
excerpts	from	this	article:


"The	Black	Sash	told	the	Cape	Argus	on	Tuesday	that	the	incidence	of	fraud	had
increased	in	the	past	eight	months…	Earlier	this	month,	Sassa	revealed	that	more
than	2000	cases	of	fraud	were	reported	to	its	16	local	offices	in	the	first	four	days	of
the	month."


"Black	Sash	national	advocacy	manager	Elroy	Paulus	said…'Sassa	should	hold	its
service	provider,	Cash	Paymaster	Service,	directly	accountable.'"


Due	to	this	increase	in	fraud,	grant	beneficiaries	have	become	more	vocal	in	their
requests	for	the	government	to	stop	these	illegal	deductions.	The	following	excerpts	are
from	the	same	February	2016	IOL	article	referenced	previously:


"Hundreds	of	Sassa	beneficiaries	have,	since	the	beginning	of	the	year,	been	crying
foul	over	illegal	deductions	with	masses	of	people	protesting	outside	the	Athlone
Civic	Centre	demanding	answers	from	officials	they	said	refused	to	address	ongoing
complaints	of	fraud."


"The	agency	(SASSA)	has	since	attended	several	public	meetings	held	in	various
areas	in	the	Cape	Flats	to	address	issues	of	fraud…A	meeting	was	also	held	in
Manenberg	last	week	where	more	than	50	irate	beneficiaries	vented	their
frustrations."


As	detailed	above,	angry	pensioners	have	recently	attended	several	public	meetings	with
SASSA	officials,	as	well	as	organized	protests	in	an	attempt	to	put	an	end	to	UEPS's
allegedly	illegal	activities.	It	is	surprising	that	the	government	has	done	very	little	up	to	this
point	to	help	beneficiaries.	Fortunately,	it	appears	that	this	recent	outcry	by	grant
recipients	has	finally	caught	the	government's	attention.	As	I	will	discuss	in	the	next
section,	the	South	African	government	is	currently	in	the	process	of	passing	legislation
which	should	go	a	long	way	towards	curbing	UEPS's	questionable	behavior.


New	Legislation	Will	Cutoff	UEPS's	Access	To	Beneficiary	Money


In	the	past,	some	government	officials	have	claimed	that	UEPS's	practice	of	deducting
payments	directly	from	beneficiary	accounts	is	against	the	law.	For	example,	in	a
September	2014	statement,	South	Africa's	Minister	of	Social	Development	had	the
following	to	say	in	regards	to	the	direct	deduction	of	payments	from	beneficiary	accounts:



http://www.dsd.gov.za/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=625&Itemid=1
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 6/11


"These	practices	are	in	contravention	of	the	Social	Assistance	Act,	Regulations	of
the	Social	Assistance	Act	and	the	SASSA	Act…The	legislation	allows	for	the	social
grants	not	be	burdened	or	ceded	and	allows	for	one	deduction	not	exceeding	10
percent	for	funeral	insurance	only."


Not	surprisingly,	UEPS	has	denied	any	wrongdoing	on	the	part	of	itself	or	its	subsidiaries.
In	a	June	2013	Business	Day	Live	article,	a	CPS	representative	had	the	following	to	say	in
defense	of	the	Company's	business	practices:


"However,	a	replying	letter	by	CPS	lawyers	Smit	Sewgoolam	Inc	on	Friday	disputed
the	claim	that	it	was	acting	unlawfully	by	making	"deductions"	as	defined	in	the
Social	Assistance	Act	for	loan	repayments.	It	said	the	repayments	were	made
when	the	grant	was	transferred	electronically	to	the	beneficiary's	bank
account,	and	not	prior	to	the	transfer,	as	prohibited.	The	letter	emphasised	the
right	of	beneficiaries	to	use	their	social	grants	as	they	deemed	fit.	The	act	did	not
preclude	third	parties	from	enforcing	the	rights	established	by	a	debit	order	signed	in
their	favour	by	making	deductions	from	grants,	it	said."


According	to	CPS	lawyers,	it	is	illegal	to	deduct	payments	from	grants	prior	to	the	grant
being	transferred	to	the	beneficiary	account.	However,	after	the	grant	is	transferred	to	the
beneficiary	account,	payments	are	allowed	to	be	directly	deducted	by	service	providers.
Since	CPS	was	deducting	payments	after	the	money	was	transferred	into	the	beneficiary
account,	CPS	claimed	to	be	in	compliance.


Based	on	the	above	discussion,	it	appears	that	the	laws	surrounding	deductions	from
beneficiary	accounts	have	been	fairly	ambiguous	till	now.	Fortunately	for	grant	recipients
(and	unfortunately	for	UEPS),	the	South	African	government	will	soon	introduce	new
legislation	which	removes	this	ambiguity.	According	to	recent	reports	in	the	South	African
media,	the	government	will	soon	pass	legislation	which	criminalizes	the	direct	debiting	of
payments	from	beneficiary	accounts	by	third	party	service	providers.	A	February	2016
EWN	article	provides	more	detail	on	the	soon	to	be	passed	legislation:


"The	South	African	Social	Security	Agency	(Sassa)	said	legislation	which
criminalises	deductions	from	social	grants	will	be	published	next	month…	Sassa's
regional	manager,	Waldie	Terblanche,	said	social	development	is	in	the	process	of
finalising	legislation	against	these	deductions.	'There're	busy	with	the	finalisation	of
the	changes	but	it	will	be	published	within	a	month…'"



https://pmg.org.za/committee-meeting/16598/

http://m.ewn.co.za/2016/02/17/Sassa-to-publish-criminalisation-of-deductions-from-grant-next-month
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 7/11


This	February	2016	article	from	the	Rosebank	Killarney	Gazette	also	discusses	the	new
legislation:


"A	process	is	currently	underway	to	introduce	legislation	that	will	make	it	difficult	for
service	providers	to	institute	debit	orders	on	social	grant	accounts."


When	this	new	legislation	is	passed	within	the	next	month,	it	will	likely	cut	off	all	of	UEPS's
direct	access	to	beneficiary	money.	Without	the	ability	to	directly	debit	payments	from
beneficiary	accounts,	the	Company's	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	businesses
simply	cannot	function.	As	a	result,	it	is	likely	that	UEPS's	earnings	will	decline
sharply	once	the	new	legislation	comes	into	effect.


After	deductions	from	beneficiary	accounts	are	outlawed,	UEPS's	microlending	business
will	likely	cease	to	be	a	viable	operation.	Due	to	extremely	low	default	rates,	the
Company's	microloan	business	generates	margins	in	excess	of	70%.	The	reason	why
default	rates	are	so	low	is	because	the	Company	is	able	to	directly	deduct	loan
repayments	from	a	given	beneficiary's	monthly	grant	payment.	Thus,	there	is	currently
little	to	no	default	risk	for	UEPS.	However,	once	the	new	legislation	takes	effect,	the
Company	will	no	longer	have	the	luxury	of	directly	deducting	loan	repayments	from
beneficiary	accounts.	If	UEPS	want	to	continue	providing	microloans,	the	Company	will
have	to	employ	a	more	traditional	microlending	business	model.	Unfortunately	for	UEPS,
the	default	rate	for	traditional	microlending	is	very	high	because	the	loans	are	not	secured
by	direct	deductions	from	monthly	grant	payments.	As	a	result,	it	will	be	very	difficult	for
the	Company	to	turn	a	profit	using	a	more	traditional	lending	model.	In	fact,	the	Company
used	to	have	a	traditional	microlending	business,	but	this	business	was	eventually	sold	in
March	2009	due	to	a	lack	of	profitability.


It	is	likely	that	UEPS's	Umoya	Manje	business	will	also	struggle	to	survive.	Like	its	lending
business,	the	Umoya	Manje	scheme	is	reliant	on	having	direct	access	to	beneficiary
accounts.	Currently,	it	is	very	easy	for	the	Umoya	Manje	business	to	generate	a	sale	and
collect	payments.	The	Company	simply	has	to	text	a	product	offer	to	a	grant	beneficiary
and	then	automatically	deduct	the	payment	for	that	product	once	the	offer	is	accepted.
However,	once	the	new	legislation	takes	effect,	the	Umoya	Manje	business	will	have	to
rely	on	more	traditional	marketing	and	payment	methods	for	its	products.	This	will
introduce	a	lot	more	friction	in	both	the	sales	and	payment	collection	process.	Thus,	it	is
doubtful	that	the	Company	will	be	able	to	sustain	this	business	in	a	profitable	manner.


UEPS's	Profits	Likely	To	Fall	By	Around	50%



http://rosebankkillarneygazette.co.za/181326/scams-target-grant-beneficiaries/
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 8/11


Due	to	the	SASSA	contract	expiration	in	March	2017,	I	previously	argued	that	the
Company	would	lose	almost	all	of	its	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	revenue	by
early	next	year.	However,	with	this	new	legislation,	it	appears	that	UEPS	will	lose
these	revenue	sources	much	sooner	than	anticipated	(i.e.	within	a	month).	In	FY
2015,	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	on	a	combined	basis	accounted	for	27%	of	UEPS's
total	revenue.	In	terms	of	profitability,	these	two	businesses	accounted	for	a	much	larger
share	of	the	Company's	total	consolidated	EPS.	Provided	below	is	my	estimate	of	the	EPS
contribution	of	the	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	businesses	in	FY	2015:


Due	in	large	part	to	the	high	operating	margins	of	the	microlending	business,	I	estimate
that	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	contributed	$1.17	of	EPS	on	a	combined	basis
in	FY	2015.	This	represents	58%	of	UEPS's	consolidated	fully	diluted	EPS	of	$2.02
in	FY	2015.	However,	as	discussed	previously,	the	Company's	microlending	and	Umoya
Manje	businesses	will	likely	struggle	to	turn	a	profit	once	deductions	from	beneficiary
accounts	are	outlawed.	Thus,	I	believe	that	UEPS's	consolidated	EPS	will	decline	by
around	50%	once	the	new	legislation	is	passed.	Such	a	large	decline	in	profitability
should	eventually	result	in	the	market	rerating	UEPS	shares	to	much	lower	prices.


The	Easypay	Everywhere	Scheme


On	multiple	occasions,	Mr.	Belamant	has	publicly	proclaimed	that	Easypay	Everywhere	is
one	of	the	pillars	of	the	Company's	future.	On	the	surface,	the	large	increase	in	EPE
account	holders	over	the	past	year	seems	to	back-up	this	claim.	During	UEPS's	Q2	2016
earnings	call,	the	Company	proudly	announced	that	it	had	opened	almost	900,000	EPE
accounts	and	was	adding	~150,000	new	accounts	per	month.	This	huge	increase	in	EPE
accounts	has	led	some	investors	to	believe	that	UEPS	is	well	on	its	way	to	transforming



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3871276-net-1-ueps-technologies-ueps-ceo-dr-serge-belamant-q2-2016-results-earnings-call-transcript
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 9/11


into	a	more	traditional	and	less	controversial	retail	banking	provider.	Unfortunately,	based
on	a	recent	report	published	last	week,	it	appears	that	the	EPE	business	is	actually	just
another	vehicle	setup	by	the	Company	to	exploit	beneficiaries.


During	the	Company's	Q3	2015	earnings	call,	Mr.	Belamant	described	the	EPE	business
as	follows:


"Starting	on	the	South	African	front,	we	have	now	completed,	tested,	and	piloted	our
EasyPay	retail	banking	account	product,	which	we	have	named	EasyPay
Everywhere…This	product	is	designed	to	address	the	banking	and	transactional
needs	of	more	South	Africans,	and	focuses	on	citizens	who	are	not	only	grant
recipients	but	who	are	under-banked…"


Based	on	the	above	description,	it	would	seem	that	EPE	is	a	fairly	traditional	retail	bank
aimed	at	serving	underbanked	individuals	in	South	Africa.	In	reality,	EPE	appears	to
have	been	created	for	the	primary	purpose	of	circumventing	the	new	legislation
banning	deductions	from	beneficiary	accounts.	A	recent	February	2016	Times	Live
article	provided	some	insight	regarding	the	true	nature	of	the	EPE	business:


"The	LRC	said	many	of	its	clients	had	unwittingly	authorised	Cash	Paymaster
Services	to	transfer	their	entire	social	grant	to	an	EasyPay	account."


"In	order	to	obtain	a	loan,	social	grant	beneficiaries	are	required	to	apply	for	an
EasyPay	account	and	authorise	the	transfer	of	their	full	social	grant	to	this	account.
The	beneficiaries	can	then	access	their	social	grants	only	by	way	of	the	EasyPay
card,	rendering	the	Sassa	card	defunct…"


"Critics	of	EasyPay	said	it	had	been	designed	to	stay	one	step	ahead	of	regulations
aimed	at	protecting	the	interests	of	grant	beneficiaries."


According	to	this	Times	Live	article,	once	a	grant	recipient	opens	an	EPE	account,	his
entire	monthly	grant	payment	is	automatically	transferred	from	his	SASSA	account	to	his
EPE	account.	The	new	legislation	banning	debits	from	beneficiary	accounts	is	applicable
to	SASSA	accounts	but	not	EPE	accounts.	Thus,	by	transferring	the	grant	to	a	separate
EPE	account,	UEPS	believes	it	will	able	to	continue	debiting	payments	for	microloans,
prepaid	airtime	and	other	products.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3163986-net-1-ueps-technologies-ueps-ceo-serge-belamant-on-q3-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single

https://www.dropbox.com/s/4mz4wajahfg81mh/SUNDAY%20TIMES%20-%20Lawyers%20flag%20loans%20made%20on%20social%20grants.pdf?dl=0
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 10/11


To	further	support	my	claim	that	EPE	is	primarily	a	vehicle	for	taking	advantage	of
beneficiaries,	I	have	included	the	following	exchange	from	the	Company's	Q2	2016
earnings	call:


"Investor:	If	I	look	at	the	EPE	growth,	what	percentage	of	the	customers	are	new	to
Net1?	They	are	not	grant	beneficiaries	but	you're	actually	getting	new	customers	in
the	door."


"Mr.	Belamant:	Right	now,	as	we	speak,	out	of	the	900,000	people,	you'll	probably
find	we	have	30,000	or	40,000	people	that	are	not	beneficiaries,	who	are	not	part
of	our	current	customer	base."


According	to	Mr.	Belamant,	approximately	30,000	to	40,000	(3.3%	to	4.4%)	of	the	900,000
EPE	subscribers	are	not	beneficiaries.	Said	another	way,	around	96%	to	97%	of	the	EPE
customers	are	grant	beneficiaries.	The	fact	that	such	a	high	percentage	of	EPE's	current
customers	are	beneficiaries	is	further	evidence	that	EPE's	primary	purpose	is	to
circumvent	government	regulations.


The	problem	with	the	EPE	business	model	is	that	it	is	likely	unsustainable.	It	is	fairly	clear
that	the	government	does	not	approve	of	UEPS's	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje
businesses.	The	new	legislation	banning	deductions	from	beneficiary	accounts	is	a
testament	to	this	fact.	However,	rather	than	try	to	build	a	more	legitimate	business,	the
Company	is	exploiting	loopholes	in	the	law	in	an	effort	to	continue	its	questionable
practices.	A	strategy	that	is	based	on	questionable	behavior	and	exploiting	legal
loopholes	will	likely	have	a	very	limited	shelf	life.	In	fact,	according	to	the	same	Times
Live	article	referenced	above,	nonprofit	groups	in	South	Africa	have	already	started	to
voice	their	concerns	about	EPE.	More	specifically,	the	Legal	Resources	Centre	("LRC")
has	asked	SASSA	to	investigate	EPE's	business	practices.	Thus,	it	is	likely	only	a	matter
of	time	before	the	government	cracks	down	on	UEPS	once	again.


Conclusion


At	this	point,	I	believe	that	the	bull	case	for	UEPS	has	been	shattered.	The	recent
revelations	about	the	CEO's	fake	PhD	confirms	that	the	Company	cannot	be	trusted	to	act
in	the	best	interest	of	shareholders.	The	new	legislation	aimed	at	stopping	UEPS's
microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	businesses	seems	to	confirm	that	the	Company	is	acting
in	a	highly	questionable	manner.	Finally,	the	true	nature	of	the	EPE	business	reveals	that
7/18/2019 Net1 UEPS Technologies: New Legislation Spells Trouble For UEPS - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps 11/11


Mr.	Belamant	and	the	Company	appear	to	have	no	intention	of	changing	their	immoral	and
allegedly	illegal	behavior.	For	these	reasons,	even	after	the	recent	decline	in	share	price,	I
continue	to	believe	that	UEPS	is	a	tremendous	short.


Disclosure:	I	am/we	are	short	UEPS.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving
compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is
mentioned	in	this	article.


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


Comments	(7)


Opportunistic	Research,	Contributor
Can	you	link	the	article	that	was	the	basis	for	your	write	up	or	any	press	release	by	the	South	African	Parliament?	I
can't	seem	to	locate	it
There	is	no	reference	to	it	here	http://bit.ly/1UvdyQS


OR


here


http://bit.ly/1UvdvVl


Any	help	would	be	appreciated


29	Feb	2016,	08:13	PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/opportunistic-research

http://bit.ly/1UvdyQS

http://bit.ly/1UvdvVl
