7/18/2019 Competition Commission Explores An Investigation Into Net1 UEPS Technologies - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3941426-competition-commission-explores-investigation-net1-ueps-technologies 1/4


Short	Ideas 	|	 Services	 	|	 South	Africa


Competition	Commission	Explores	An	Investigation	Into	Net1	UEPS
Technologies
Mar.	1,	2016	9:30	AM	ET11	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


In	an	article	dated	February	26th,	the	Democratic	Alliance	revealed	that	it	had	asked
the	South	African	Competition	Commission	to	investigate	the	questionable	business
practices	of	UEPS.


The	Competition	Commission	has	agreed	to	review	the	Democratic	Alliance’s
request	and	is	currently	exploring	an	investigation	of	UEPS.


An	investigation	by	the	Competition	Commission	could	result	in	severe	financial
penalties	and	further	restrictions	on	UEPS’s	business.


Also	concerning	for	shareholders	is	the	fact	that	UEPS	is	now	on	the	radar	of	the
Democratic	Alliance,	one	of	the	most	powerful	political	parties	in	South	Africa.


UEPS	remains	an	attractive	short	opportunity.


In	my	previous	article,	I	revealed	that	the	South	African	government	and	certain	nonprofit
groups	have	recently	stepped	up	their	efforts	to	stop	the	questionable	business	practices
of	Net1	UEPS	Technologies	("UEPS"	or	the	"Company")	(TICKER:	UEPS).	Just	a	few
days	ago,	the	South	African	media	reported	that	new	government	legislation	will	soon	be
passed	which	outlaws	the	direct	deduction	of	payments	from	beneficiary	accounts.	As	a
result	of	this	new	legislation,	it	is	likely	that	the	Company's	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje
businesses	will	cease	to	be	viable	operations.	It	was	also	recently	reported	that	the	Legal
Resources	Centre	("LRC")	had	asked	SASSA	to	investigate	the	questionable	practices	of
UEPS's	Easypay	Everywhere	("EPE")	business.	According	to	the	LRC,	UEPS	created
EPE	for	the	primary	purpose	of	getting	around	the	new	legislation	and	continuing	its
exploitation	of	grant	beneficiaries.	Given	the	questionable	nature	of	EPE,	I	believe	it	is
only	a	matter	of	time	before	the	government	also	cracks	down	on	this	business.


Unfortunately	for	UEPS	shareholders,	new	information	surfaced	this	past	Friday	which
seems	to	indicate	that	the	walls	are	closing	in	on	UEPS	even	faster	than	I	initially	thought.
On	February	26th	it	was	reported	that	the	Democratic	Alliance	("DA"),	an	influential
political	party	in	South	Africa,	had	recently	asked	the	South	African	Competition



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/services

https://seekingalpha.com/market-outlook/global-investing/analysis/South%20Africa

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3934796-net1-ueps-technologies-new-legislation-spells-trouble-ueps

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UEPS
7/18/2019 Competition Commission Explores An Investigation Into Net1 UEPS Technologies - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3941426-competition-commission-explores-investigation-net1-ueps-technologies 2/4


Commission	to	investigate	the	questionable	business	practices	of	UEPS.	In	an	article
posted	on	the	DA's	website,	the	DA	provided	more	detail	on	its	request	to	the	Competition
Commission.	I	have	provided	a	few	excerpts	from	this	article	below:


"The	Competition	Commission	has	agreed	to	assess	my	request	for	an	investigation
into	the	unfair	advantage	which	the	electronic	payments	company	Net1,	as	well	as
its	associate,	Grindrod	Bank,	and	all	their	subsidiaries,	enjoy	in	South	Africa's	social
grant	funding	structure."


"The	entities	use	their	database	of	between	16	and	19	million	social	grant
beneficiaries…	to	seriously	disadvantage	other	banks	and	companies	in	terms	of
issuing	loans	and	supplementary	services."


"There	is	no	certainty	if	any	formal	application	and	approval	was	made	to	or	granted
by	the	South	Africa	Reserve	Bank	(SARB)	or	the	Financial	Services	Board	for	these
entities	to	have	the	direct	bank	link	with	the	SASSA	system."


"CPS	has	been	issuing	"Easy	Pay"	bank	cards,	(linked	to	the	Grindrod	Bank)	to
social	grant	beneficiaries.	As	a	result	of	bank/client	confidentiality	requirements,	the
use	of	these	Easy	Pay	bank	cards	effectively	means	that	SASSA	is	no	longer	able	to
monitor	transactions	on	these	accounts	to	prevent	against	illegal	deductions."


"We	have	thus	also	submitted	parliamentary	questions	to	the	Minister	of	Social
Development,	Bathabile	Dlamini	asking	on	what	grounds	her	department	has
allowed	CPS	to	issue	Easy	Pay	bank	cards…"


As	can	be	seen	from	the	above	excerpts,	the	DA	has	taken	issue	with	a	number	of
aspects	of	UEPS's	business.	For	starters,	the	DA	alleges	that	UEPS	is	inappropriately
using	its	beneficiary	database	to	market	supplementary	services	and	gain	an	unfair
competitive	advantage.	The	DA	is	also	contesting	whether	UEPS's	third	party	banking
provider	(Grindrod	Bank)	was	ever	given	formal	permission	to	access	grant	money	by
linking	directly	to	the	SASSA	system.	According	to	the	DA,	it	is	not	clear	whether	the
South	Africa	Reserve	Bank	or	Financial	Services	Board	had	received	an	application	for
and	approved	such	a	request.	Finally,	the	DA	has	also	expressed	concern	over	the	issuing
of	EPE	cards	to	grant	beneficiaries.	By	transferring	grant	money	to	a	non-SASSA	EPE
account,	the	DA	is	concerned	that	this	will	lead	to	an	increase	in	illegal	deductions	by
UEPS	service	providers.	In	response	to	the	DA's	letter,	the	Competition	Commission	has
agreed	to	take	an	initial	look	at	the	case.



https://www.da.org.za/2016/02/da-refers-net1s-abuse-of-advantage-to-competition-commission/
7/18/2019 Competition Commission Explores An Investigation Into Net1 UEPS Technologies - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3941426-competition-commission-explores-investigation-net1-ueps-technologies 3/4


This	latest	regulatory	development	should	be	of	great	concern	to	UEPS	shareholders	for	a
few	reasons.	First,	an	investigation	by	the	Competition	Commission	could	eventually	result
in	severe	monetary	penalties	for	UEPS.	For	example,	in	2012,	the	Competition
Commission	fined	Telkom	SA	(a	telecom	services	provider	in	South	Africa)	449mm	RAND
for	exclusionary	competitive	practices.	As	another	example,	in	June	2013,	various
constructions	firms	in	South	Africa	were	fined	a	total	of	1.46Bn	RAND	for	collusive
tendering	practices.	If	UEPS	is	assessed	a	similarly	large	penalty,	this	could	severely
pressure	the	Company's	liquidity	at	a	very	inopportune	and	uncertain	time	for	the
business.


In	addition	to	potential	monetary	penalties,	the	Competition	Commission	investigation
could	result	in	the	passing	of	additional	legislation	which	further	restricts	UEPS's	business
activities.	For	example,	the	DA	has	asked	the	Competition	Commission	to	investigate
UEPS's	new	EPE	initiative.	Thus,	the	Competition	Commission	investigation	could	lead	to
new	regulations	which	severely	hinder	or	completely	disband	the	EPE	business.	Also,	the
DA	has	asked	the	Competition	Commission	to	investigate	whether	Grindrod	Bank	should
be	prohibited	from	directly	linking	to	the	SASSA	system.	Given	that	new	legislation	will
soon	be	passed	to	prohibit	direct	deductions	from	beneficiary	accounts,	such	an
investigation	by	the	Competition	Commission	may	appear	somewhat	redundant.	That
being	said,	further	action	by	the	Competition	Commission	to	ensure	that	UEPS	cannot
access	grant	money	would	still	be	a	negative	development	for	the	Company.


Finally,	the	fact	that	such	a	highly	influential	political	party	has	taken	aim	at	UEPS	is	not	a
good	sign	for	the	future	viability	of	the	Company.	Currently,	the	DA	is	the	second	largest
political	party	in	South	Africa.	Given	their	size	and	influence,	the	DA	likely	has	many
resources	at	its	disposable	to	try	and	put	an	end	to	UEPS's	questionable	practices.	Even	if
the	current	Competition	Commission	investigation	does	not	result	in	any	action	against
UEPS,	the	DA	could	likely	take	other	measures	to	curb	UEPS's	activities.	Thus,	it	appears
that	the	DA	could	be	a	huge,	ongoing	thorn	in	UEPS's	side	for	quite	some	time.


Conclusion


In	summary,	I	believe	recent	developments	strongly	indicate	that	UEPS	has	likely	reached
the	end	of	the	line	in	regards	to	its	highly	questionable	behavior.	Next	month,	new
legislation	will	take	effect	which	will	outlaw	deductions	from	beneficiary	accounts.	As	a
result,	the	Company's	microlending	and	Umoya	Manje	businesses	will	likely	cease	to	be
viable	operations.	In	addition	to	this,	the	LRC	has	recently	asked	SASSA	to	investigate
UEPS's	EPE	business.	Increasing	pressure	by	LRC	and	other	nonprofit	groups	could
eventually	lead	to	new	regulations	aimed	at	stopping	the	questionable	practices	of	EPE.



http://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=47cfdc45-5e00-4746-ba66-d5eb784902ca

http://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/heavy-fines-construction-companies
7/18/2019 Competition Commission Explores An Investigation Into Net1 UEPS Technologies - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3941426-competition-commission-explores-investigation-net1-ueps-technologies 4/4


Finally,	on	top	of	all	this,	a	ruling	by	the	Competition	Commission	in	favor	of	the	DA	could
result	in	severe	financial	penalties	and	further	restrictions	on	UEPS's	business.	Given	all
of	these	recent	negative	developments	for	the	Company,	I	continue	to	see	no	reason	to
hold	UEPS	shares	at	any	price.


Disclosure:	I	am/we	are	short	UEPS.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving
compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is
mentioned	in	this	article.


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


Comments	(11)


BienVista	Research,	Contributor
Jay	Yoon	has	been	awful	quiet	lately.	I've	told	him,	but	he	didn't	listen.


19	Apr	2016,	10:53	AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/bienvista-research
