7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Misleading Accounting And Heavy Insider Selling Are Additional Red Flags - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3454196-boingo-wireless-misleading-accounting-heavy-insider-selling-additional-red-flags 1/5


Short	Ideas 	|	 Tech	


Boingo	Wireless:	Misleading	Accounting	And	Heavy	Insider	Selling
Are	Additional	Red	Flags
Aug.	20,	2015	9:05	AM	ET11	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


Management	is	using	misleading	accounting	methods	which	severely	understate
their	ongoing	capex	needs.


Boingo	insiders	have	been	selling	an	unusually	large	amount	of	shares	over	the	past
twelve	months.


Boingo	remains	a	good	short	opportunity	at	the	current	share	price	level.


In	my	first	article	on	Boingo	Wireless	(TICKER:	WIFI)	("Boingo"	or	the	"Company"),	I
argued	that	the	Company	is	overvalued	by	~75%	due	to	their	highly	unprofitable	DAS
strategy	and	rapidly	declining	Retail	Wi-Fi	business.	In	this	article,	I	will	further	expand
upon	my	short	thesis	and	provide	additional	reasons	why	the	Company	is	grossly
overvalued	at	the	current	price	level.	In	the	first	section,	I	will	discuss	how	management
has	mislead	investors	by	understating	capital	expenditures	through	unusual	accounting
methods.	Following	this	discussion,	I	will	then	briefly	discuss	why	the	large	amounts	of
insider	selling	of	Boingo's	stock	over	the	past	12	months	should	be	another	point	of
concern	for	investors.


Capital	Expenditures	Are	Understated	Due	To	Misleading	Accounting	Tactics


Boingo	management	is	currently	using	misleading	and	creative	accounting	which	grossly
understates	their	capex	spending	needs.	In	the	first	six	months	of	FY	2015,	the	Company
reported	$33.3mm	in	capex.	However,	in	actuality,	the	Company	spent	$54.4mm	in	capex
if	deferred	capex	payments	of	$21.1mm	are	included.	In	this	section,	I	will	describe	the
accounting	gimmicks	that	management	has	used	to	make	their	capex	spending	appear	far
less	than	their	actual	capex	needs.


In	my	initial	article	on	Boingo,	I	provided	the	following	table:


As	shown	above,	in	the	first	half	of	FY	2015	the	Company	reported	a	$21.1mm	increase	in
"PP&E	costs	in	accounts	payable,	accrued	expenses	and	other	liabilities".	To	be	frank,	I
have	never	seen	a	GAAP	cash	flow	statement	which	included	such	an	adjustment.	For



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/technology

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-to-deteriorating-profitability-and-looming-liquidity-issues

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WIFI
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Misleading Accounting And Heavy Insider Selling Are Additional Red Flags - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3454196-boingo-wireless-misleading-accounting-heavy-insider-selling-additional-red-flags 2/5


some	peculiar	reason,	rather	than	include	this	PP&E	related	increase	in	current	liabilities
as	a	$21.1mm	cash	inflow	in	the	cash	flow	statement,	the	Company	chose	to	completely
exclude	it.	Instead,	the	Company	provided	the	change	in	PP&E	related	current	liabilities
as	a	supplementary	disclosure	at	the	bottom	of	their	cash	flow	statement.	Due	to	this
exclusion	of	PP&E	related	liabilities,	the	Company	had	to	make	an	offsetting	$21.1mm
reduction	to	capex	to	ensure	that	the	total	net	FCF	still	equaled	$1.5mm.	This	is	a	highly
unusual	method	of	calculating	FCF	and	capex.	In	the	table	below,	I	have	provided	a	side-
by-side	comparison	of	the	typical	method	of	calculating	FCF	vs.	Boingo's	less	traditional
method:


As	shown	in	the	left	column	of	the	above	table,	a	typical	company	would	have	included	the
$21.1mm	of	PP&E	related	liabilities	as	a	cash	inflow	in	the	operational	cash	flow
statement.	At	the	same	time,	capex	would	have	also	been	$21.1mm	higher	at	$54.4mm	to
reflect	the	actual	amount	of	PP&E	added	to	the	balance	sheet	during	1H	2015.	However,
as	shown	in	the	right	column,	Boingo	has	chosen	to	exclude	the	increase	in	PP&E	related
liabilities	and,	to	offset	this	change,	has	also	reduced	its	capex	by	$21.1mm.	As	can	be
seen,	Boingo's	changes	to	working	capital	and	capex	have	no	impact	on	net	free	cash
flow.	Net	free	cash	flow	is	the	same	at	$1.5mm	when	using	either	the	"Standard"	method
or	Boingo's	method	of	calculating	FCF.


So	why	would	Boingo	choose	to	report	PP&E	related	liabilities	and	capex	in	this	manner	if
there	is	no	net	impact	on	the	reported	net	FCF	figure?	I	believe	there	are	a	couple
reasons.	First,	as	mentioned	in	my	prior	article,	Boingo	would	have	reported	a	FCF	loss	of
$19.6mm	($1.5mm	of	FCF	minus	$21.1mm)	if	$21.1mm	of	capex	had	not	been	deferred.
However,	by	excluding	the	change	in	PP&E	related	liabilities	from	the	cash	flow	statement,
Boingo	was	able	to	better	hide	this	fact	from	investors.	In	addition	to	this,	by	using	their
current	method	of	calculating	FCF,	Boingo	is	able	to	reduce	its	reported	capex	by	almost
39%	or	$21.1mm.	Thus,	by	reporting	an	artificially	lower	capex	figure,	the	Company	does
not	appear	to	be	as	capital	intensive	as	it	actually	is.	Based	on	management's	method	of
calculating	capex,	the	Company's	annualized	capex	spend	in	1H	2015	was	$66.6mm.	By
comparison,	using	a	more	traditional	calculation	of	capex,	annualized	capex	spend	in	1H
2015	would	have	been	$108.9mm.	This	large	difference	of	$42.3mm	in	annualized	capex
illustrates	the	degree	to	which	Boingo's	accounting	gimmick	understates	their	actual	capex
needs.


The	fact	that	Boingo	is	using	such	creative	accounting	methods	should	raise	red	flags	for
investors.	In	addition	to	underreporting	capex,	the	Company	is	also	using	a	misleading
method	of	calculating	gross	margin	which	inflates	gross	margin	by	excluding	network
operations	expenses	(as	discussed	in	my	prior	article).	Well-run,	healthy	businesses
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Misleading Accounting And Heavy Insider Selling Are Additional Red Flags - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3454196-boingo-wireless-misleading-accounting-heavy-insider-selling-additional-red-flags 3/5


typically	do	not	resort	to	using	accounting	gimmicks	when	reporting	their	financials.	In	my
opinion,	when	a	company	distorts	its	financials,	it	is	because	they	are	trying	to	hide
something.	For	example,	Rosetta	Stone	(TICKER:	RST),	a	company	that	I	previously
shorted,	included	the	change	in	deferred	revenue	as	an	addition	to	EBITDA.	This	served
to	grossly	inflate	RST's	reported	EBITDA.	Eventually	investors	caught	onto	the	fact	RST's
reported	EBITDA	figure	was	misleading	and	that	the	business	had	continued	to	decline.	I
believe	that	a	similar	situation	is	occurring	at	Boingo.	In	my	opinion,	management	is
resorting	to	creative	accounting	methods	to	hide	the	fact	that	the	Company	is	highly
unprofitable	and	will	likely	run	into	severe	liquidity	issues	in	the	near	future.


Heavy	Insider	Selling	Is	Another	Red	Flag


In	addition	to	creative	accounting,	Boingo	investors	should	also	be	concerned	about	the
continuous	and	heavy	selling	of	shares	by	insiders.	Provided	below	is	a	figure	which
illustrates	the	degree	to	which	insiders	have	been	selling	their	shares:


As	shown	above,	over	the	last	12	months,	insiders	have	sold	a	net	amount	of	1.54mm
shares.	During	that	same	timeframe,	the	number	of	sell	transactions	by	insiders	has
totaled	85	while	there	has	been	only	one	buy	transaction.	The	large	amount	of	share	sales
and	lack	of	share	purchases	by	insiders	should	be	concerning	for	investors.	Usually	a
modest	amount	of	shares	sales	by	insiders	is	not	that	big	of	a	deal.	However,	in	this	case,
the	large	amount	of	sales	by	Boingo	insiders	in	the	absence	of	any	meaningful	buying	is
quite	alarming.	In	my	opinion,	this	is	a	strong	indication	that	insiders	do	not	have	much
faith	in	the	future	prospects	of	the	business.	Also,	key	members	of	management	have
been	some	of	the	largest	sellers	of	Boingo	stock.	For	example,	over	the	past	12	months,
David	Hagan	(NYSE:CEO)	and	Peter	Hovenier	(NASDAQ:CFO)	have	sold	a	combined
total	of	451K	shares	of	Boingo	stock	worth	~$3.6mm.	Such	a	large	amount	of	share	sales
by	perhaps	the	two	most	important	members	of	management	is	not	a	positive	indication.


Overall,	management	and	insiders	have	shown	little	desire	to	hold	onto	their	shares	in
Boingo	over	the	past	year.	Based	on	this	fact,	investors	must	ask	themselves	why	key
decision	makers	are	bailing	out	of	the	stock.	I	believe	the	answer	to	this	question	is	that
management	recognizes	that	the	Company	is	in	a	difficult	financial	and	competitive
position.	Thus,	I	believe	that	the	heavy	insider	selling	is	another	strong	indication	that
Boingo	shares	are	highly	overvalued	at	the	current	price	level.


An	Update	On	My	Interaction	With	Investor	Relations



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/RST

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CEO

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CFO
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Misleading Accounting And Heavy Insider Selling Are Additional Red Flags - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3454196-boingo-wireless-misleading-accounting-heavy-insider-selling-additional-red-flags 4/5


I	would	like	to	note	that	I	asked	Boingo's	investor	relations	team	to	provide	a	justification
for	their	unusual	capex	and	FCF	accounting	methods.	If	I	receive	a	meaningful	reply,	I	will
post	an	update	in	the	comments	section.


Conclusion


In	summary,	Boingo	has	understated	its	ongoing	capex	needs	through	creative	and
misleading	accounting	methods.	In	addition	to	this,	the	Company's	insiders	and	members
of	key	management	have	been	unloading	large	amounts	of	shares	over	the	past	12
months.	In	my	opinion,	the	use	of	misleading	accounting	methods	and	heavy	insider
selling	are	both	major	red	flags	for	Boingo	investors.	I	believe	these	additional	concerns
provide	further	evidence	that	Boingo	is	likely	to	run	into	financial	difficulty	in	the	near
future.	Thus,	I	continue	to	believe	that	Boingo	shares	are	highly	overvalued	at	the	current
price	level.


Disclosure:	I	am/we	are	short	WIFI.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving
compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is
mentioned	in	this	article.
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Misleading Accounting And Heavy Insider Selling Are Additional Red Flags - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3454196-boingo-wireless-misleading-accounting-heavy-insider-selling-additional-red-flags 5/5


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


Comments	(11)


Alex	Cho,	Contributor
Could	it	just	be	that	the	company	had	deferred	some	capital	expenditures	from	a	prior	fiscal	year	into	the	current	fiscal
year,	and	to	avoid	booking	the	accounts	twice	they	ended	up	negating	the	impact	of	prior	CAPEX	spend.	Generally
speaking	deferrals	refer	to	some	form	of	prepayment	of	an	expense,	and	if	they	had	prepaid	something,	and	are	now
realizing	the	impact	of	the	prepayment	wouldn't	that	reverse	the	implied	CAPEX?	I'm	not	exactly	seeing	the	correlation
of	manipulation	on	the	financial	statement	just	because	you're	having	a	more	difficult	time	reconciling	the	cash	flow
statement.	Even	if	the	reconciliation	is	different	because	they're	basically	using	a	deferral	to	decrease	CAPEX,	what	if
that	deferral	was	an	investment	made	in	prior	accounting	year,	that	no	longer	is	represented	as	CAPEX,	because
you'd	end	up	counting	the	same	cash	outflow	twice?	That's	the	expense	recognition	principle	that	seems	to	be
dividing	up	the	differing	fiscal	years.	So	I	don't	necessarily	see	where	you're	going	with	your	argument.	Deferred
CAPEX	might	not	be	added	back	in,	because	it's	a	carry	over	from	prior	FY.	But,	if	it's	carried	into	the	next	year	it
doesn't	matter,	because	they're	pre-paying	for	anticipated	CAPEX	that	will	happen	the	next	year	right?	That's	why	we
pre-pay	for	something?


21	Aug	2015,	03:17	PM


Jay	Yoon,	Contributor
Author’s	reply	» 	Alex,	I'm	not	having	trouble	reconciling	their	cash	flow	statement.	They	did	not	pre-pay
anything,	so	I'm	not	sure	what	your	point	is.	Pp&e	increased	more	than	Capex	minus	depreciation	this	year,
hence	they	deferred	payments.


22	Aug	2015,	03:12	PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alex-cho

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jay-yoon
