7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 1/10


Short	Ideas 	|	 Services	 	|	 Editors'	Picks 	|	 South	Africa


Net	1	UEPS	Technologies:	Additional	Concerns	Over	Potential
Accounting	Issues
Feb.	19,	2016	10:00	AM	ET
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


Over	the	past	few	years,	UEPS’s	non-trade	receivables	(e.g.	receivables	related	to
prepayments	to	sales	agents	&	other	receivables)	have	grown	at	an	alarmingly	high
rate.


From	FY	2011	to	FY	2015,	receivables	related	to	prepayments	to	sales	agents	in
South	Korea	has	grown	at	four	times	the	rate	of	international	revenue	growth.


This	unusually	high	rate	of	growth	in	receivables	related	to	prepayments	is	an
indication	that	UEPS	may	be	inflating	their	profitability	by	aggressively	capitalizing
expenses.


Also	concerning	is	UEPS’s	lack	of	transparency	regarding	its	large	other	receivables
balance	which	has	more	than	quadrupled	since	FY	2010.


Overall,	these	additional	concerns	over	UEPS’s	accounting	and	financial	reporting
provide	further	strong	support	for	my	short	thesis.


In	my	most	recent	article	on	Net	1	UEPS	Technologies	(UEPS)	("UEPS"	or	the
"Company"),	I	expressed	my	concerns	over	the	Company's	long	history	of	controversy.
For	the	past	17+	years,	UEPS	has	been	dogged	by	numerous	allegations	of	bribery	and
mistreatment	of	grant	beneficiaries.	In	this	article,	I	will	turn	my	attention	to	concerns	that	I
have	over	the	Company's	financial	statements.	More	specifically,	I	will	focus	on	the	highly
unusual	nature	of	UEPS's	non-trade	account	receivables.


The	Company	separates	its	non-trade	receivables	into	two	buckets:	(1)	prepayments	to
agents	in	South	Korea	and	(2)	other	receivables.	Over	the	past	few	years,	both	of	these
buckets	have	grown	at	an	accelerated	rate.	From	FY	2011	to	FY	2015,	receivables	related
to	prepayments	to	agents	in	South	Korea	has	grown	218.0%	from	$16.8mm	in	FY	2011	to
$53.4mm	in	FY	2015.	From	FY	2010	to	FY	2015,	other	receivables	has	grown	370.0%
from	$9.9mm	to	$46.4mm.	Thus,	in	just	a	few	years,	the	Company's	non-trade	receivables
have	grown	on	a	combined	basis	to	a	total	balance	of	$99.8mm.



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/services

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/editors-picks

https://seekingalpha.com/market-outlook/global-investing/analysis/South%20Africa

http://cms.seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UEPS
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 2/10


The	accelerated	growth	and	abnormally	large	size	of	the	Company's	non-trade	receivable
accounts	are	concerning.	For	reasons	which	I	will	explain,	I	believe	that	the	peculiar
nature	of	UEPS's	non-trade	receivables	calls	into	question	the	quality	of	the	Company's
earnings	and	the	integrity	of	the	Company's	financial	statements.	Given	the	additional
concerns	highlighted	in	this	article	over	the	Company's	financial	reporting,	I	feel	even
more	strongly	that	UEPS	is	an	attractive	short	at	the	current	share	price	level.


Accelerated	Growth	in	Non-Trade	Receivables	Since	KSNET	Acquisition


In	November	2010,	UEPS	acquired	KSNET,	a	payment	processing	provider	in	South
Korea.	I	have	provided	below	a	figure,	which	shows	the	Company's	accounts	receivable
balances	from	FY	2010	(Pre-KSNET)	to	FY	2015	(Post-KSNET).


Click	to	enlarge


KSNET	was	acquired	in	the	2nd	quarter	of	FY	2011	(fiscal	year	ending	June	30th).	At	the
end	of	FY	2010	(pre-KSNET	acquisition),	UEPS	categorized	its	account	receivables	in	two
separate	categories:	(1)	trade	receivables	and	(2)	other	receivables.	With	the	acquisition
of	KSNET,	the	Company	gained	an	additional	non-trade	receivable	account.	As	part	of	its
business	model,	KSNET	provides	upfront	payments	to	its	sales	agents	in	South	Korea.


The	Company	capitalizes	this	prepayment	on	its	balance	sheet	in	a	line	item	called
"prepayment	to	sales	agents	in	South	Korea"	(as	shown	in	the	table	above).	This
prepayment	is	then	amortized	as	a	marketing	expense	in	the	P&L	over	the	life	of	the
contract	with	the	sales	agent.	For	simplicity	purposes,	I	will	refer	to	"prepayment	to	sales
agents	in	South	Korea"	as	"prepayment	receivables"	for	the	rest	of	this	article.


Since	the	acquisition	of	KSNET,	UEPS's	trade	receivables	balance	has	continued	to
fluctuate	up	and	down	from	year	to	year.	However,	by	contrast,	the	Company's	non-trade
receivable	balances	have	grown	at	a	rapid	pace	since	the	acquisition.	From	FY	2011	to
FY	2015,	prepayment	receivables	increased	218.0%	from	$16.8mm	to	$53.4mm.	From	FY



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/2/17/9036121-1455760865336632_origin.png
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 3/10


2010	to	FY	2015,	other	receivables	increased	by	369.7%	from	$9.9mm	to	$46.4mm.	Thus,
whether	by	coincidence	or	not,	the	Company's	non-trade	receivables	have	ballooned	to
almost	$100mm	on	a	combined	basis	since	the	acquisition.


Potentially	Aggressive	Capitalization	of	Prepayment	Receivables


The	question	to	be	answered	now	is	whether	or	not	the	consistent	and	large	increases	in
UEPS's	non-trade	receivables	is	a	cause	for	concern.	Based	on	my	analysis	of	the
Company's	business	model	and	financial	statements,	I	believe	that	it	is.	As	mentioned
previously,	from	FY	2011	to	FY	2015,	UEPS's	prepayment	receivables	increased	218.0%.
By	comparison,	during	that	same	time	frame,	International	Transaction	Processing
revenue	increased	56%	from	$105.6mm	(assuming	full-year	of	KSNET	contribution)	to
$164.6mm.


In	other	words,	UEPS's	prepayment	receivables	is	increasing	almost	four	times	as	fast	as
International	Transaction	Processing	revenue.	Such	a	large	increase	in	working	capital
relative	to	revenue	growth	is	highly	unusual.	Typically,	the	growth	in	a	Company's	revenue
and	associated	working	capital	items	are	strongly	correlated.	Thus,	in	this	case,	the	large
difference	in	growth	between	prepayment	receivables	and	revenue	raises	red	flags.


To	be	more	specific,	the	fact	that	prepayment	receivables	is	growing	much	faster
than	International	Transaction	Processing	revenue	raises	concerns	that
management	may	be	overly	aggressive	in	capitalizing	marketing	expenses.	This
means	that	the	Company	may	not	be	fully	amortizing	an	appropriate	amount	of
prepayments	to	agents	as	a	marketing	expense	in	the	P&L.	This	lower	than	normal
amortization	of	marketing	expenses	can	inflate	profitability	and	cause	a	large	increase	in
prepayment	receivables.


My	concerns	over	the	Company's	potentially	aggressive	capitalization	of	expenses	is
based	on	a	variety	of	data	points.	In	addition	to	the	high	rate	of	growth	of	UEPS's
prepayment	receivables,	the	unusually	large	amount	of	this	receivable	relative	to	the	size
of	the	international	business	is	alarming.	Since	FY	2011,	prepayment	receivables	has
increased	substantially	and	to	a	point	where	it	now	represents	over	32%	of	annual
International	Transaction	Processing	revenue.	The	table	provided	below	illustrates	the
growth	in	prepayment	receivables	relative	to	international	revenue:
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 4/10


As	shown	above,	prepayment	receivables	as	a	%	of	revenue	more	than	doubled	from	FY
2011	to	FY	2015.	As	of	FY	2015,	the	Company's	prepayment	receivables	were	$53.4mm,
which	represented	32.4%	of	annual	International	Transaction	Processing	revenue.	I	have
never	come	across	another	business	where	capitalized	marketing	expenses	amounted	to
over	32%	of	its	annual	revenue.	This	is	simply	an	enormous	amount	of	marketing
expenses	to	capitalize	on	the	balance	sheet.	To	further	my	point,	consider	the	following
table:


As	shown	above,	at	the	end	of	FY	2015,	prepayment	receivables	as	a	%	of	operating
expenses	was	96.3%.	Although	a	breakout	of	marketing	expenses	is	not	available,	it	is
doubtful	that	marketing	expenses	account	for	anywhere	close	to	96.3%	of	International
Transaction	Processing	operating	expenses.	Instead,	it	is	more	likely	that	the	amount	of
prepayment	receivables	capitalized	on	the	balance	sheet	far	exceeds	their	annual
marketing	expenses.	Thus,	the	large	size	of	UEPS's	prepayment	receivables	relative	to
operating	expenses,	as	well	as	revenue,	further	contributes	to	my	concerns	over
aggressive	expense	capitalization.


Another	point,	which	supports	my	concerns	over	aggressive	expense	capitalization	is	the
trend	in	the	Company's	International	Transaction	Processing	margins.	Provided	below	is	a
table	comparing	the	growth	in	prepayment	receivables	to	the	International	Transaction
Processing	EBITDA	margins	from	FY	2011	to	FY	2015:
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 5/10


From	FY	2011	to	FY	2015,	prepayment	receivables	more	than	tripled	from	$16.8mm	to
$53.4mm.	Given	that	prepayments	to	sales	agents	have	increased	by	$36.6mm	in	just
four	years,	it	is	reasonable	to	expect	that	amortized	marketing	expenses	in	the	P&L
should	have	also	increased	by	a	significant	amount.	In	turn,	it	would	also	be	expected	that
margins	should	have	come	under	pressure	due	to	this	expected	increase	in	marketing
expenses.


However,	based	on	actual	historical	results,	this	is	not	what	happened.	As	shown	in	the
table	above,	despite	a	tripling	of	prepayment	receivables,	International	Transaction
Processing	EBITDA	margin	actually	increased	from	23.3%	in	FY	2011	to	27.1%	in	FY
2015.	I	view	this	significant	rise	in	EBITDA	margin	despite	such	a	large	increase	in
prepayment	receivables	with	a	great	deal	of	skepticism.	In	my	opinion,	the	Company's
ability	to	not	only	maintain	but	meaningfully	increase	margins	over	the	past	four	years	is
another	indication	of	potentially	aggressive	accounting.


In	an	email	to	UEPS	investor	relations	earlier	this	week,	I	asked	the	Company	to	provide
some	clarification	as	to	why	prepayment	receivables	has	consistently	increased	by	such	a
large	amount.	In	response	to	my	question,	I	received	the	following	response	from	the	head
of	IR:


"…prepayments	to	sales	agents	(is	related	to	sales	agents)	who	got	cash	incentives
up	front	but	then	had	to	deliver	to	contracted	volumes	or	forfeit	their	incentives.
Growth	has	been	due	to	growth	in	the	business."


As	I	explained	earlier,	prepayment	receivables	has	grown	at	a	significantly	faster	rate	than
International	Transaction	Processing	revenue.	Thus,	his	explanation	that	growth	in
prepayment	receivables	was	simply	due	to	"growth	in	the	business"	does	not	seem	to	fully
explain	the	dynamics	at	play	here.	In	my	opinion,	the	above	response	does	little	to
address	the	concerns,	which	I	have	highlighted	in	this	section.	I	believe	that	further
clarification	from	management	is	needed	on	this	matter.
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 6/10


Large	and	Mysterious	Other	Receivables	Bucket	Is	Another	Concern


Perhaps	even	more	concerning	than	the	increase	in	prepayment	receivables	has	been	the
large	and	consistent	growth	in	UEPS's	other	receivables.	I	have	provided	below	a	table,
which	shows	the	rapid	increase	in	other	receivables	over	the	past	five	years:


As	shown	above,	since	FY	2010,	other	receivables	have	grown	at	an	accelerated	rate
year	after	year.	From	FY	2010	to	FY	2015,	other	receivables	have	increased	by
$36.5mm	or	369.7%	from	$9.9mm	to	$46.4mm.	This	growth	in	other	receivables	is
alarming	for	a	few	reasons.	First,	in	its	filings,	the	Company	has	not	provided	a	definition
of	other	receivables.	Thus,	I	have	no	indication	as	to	what	the	nature	of	this	receivable	is.
This	is	highly	concerning	given	the	large	growth	in	other	receivables	over	the	years.	The
lack	of	transparency	by	the	Company	in	regards	to	such	a	large	and	growing	item	should
be	concerning	for	an	investor.


In	addition	to	concerns	over	a	lack	of	transparency,	the	fact	that	UEPS	has	such	a	large
amount	of	other	receivables	is,	by	itself,	highly	peculiar.	As	mentioned	earlier	in	this
article,	the	Company	breaks	out	its	trade	receivables	separately	from	prepayment
receivables	and	other	receivables.	Thus,	it	is	reasonable	to	conclude	that	other
receivables	is	a	non-trade	receivable.	According	to	the	website	AccountingTools.com
(here),	non-trade	receivables	are	defined	as	follows:


"Non	trade	receivables	are	amounts	due	for	payment	to	an	entity	other	than	its
normal	customer	invoices	for	merchandise	shipped	or	services	performed."


"Examples	of	non	trade	receivables	are	amounts	owed	to	a	company	by	its
employees	for	loans	or	wage	advances,	tax	refunds	owed	to	it	by	taxing	authorities,
or	insurance	claims	owed	to	it	by	an	insurance	company."


Based	on	the	above	excerpts,	as	a	non-trade	receivable,	the	Company's	other	receivables
should	be	related	to	items	due	from	entities	outside	of	their	normal	customer	base.	In
other	words,	other	receivables	should	relate	to	amounts	due	from	miscellaneous	entities
rather	than	customers.	These	amounts	due	from	miscellaneous	entities	could	be	loans	to
employees,	tax	refunds,	insurance	claims,	etc.



http://www.accountingtools.com/questions-and-answers/what-are-non-trade-receivables.html
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 7/10


Based	on	this	definition,	it	would	be	reasonable	to	assume	that	other	receivables	should
be	a	fairly	small	item	on	UEPS's	balance	sheet.	A	business	typically	should	generate	more
receivables	from	its	customers	than	from	miscellaneous	entities.	However,	as	of	the	end	of
FY	2015,	the	amount	of	UEPS's	other	receivables	($46.3mm)	was	almost	the	same	as
their	trade	receivables	($49.0mm).


The	fact	that	UEPS	has	committed	such	a	large	amount	of	working	capital	to	what
typically	is	a	minor	account	is	alarming.	It	is	especially	concerning	considering	the	lack
of	transparency	from	the	Company	regarding	the	nature	of	its	other	receivables	account.	I
believe	that	management	needs	to	provide	a	detailed	definition	of	other	receivables	in
order	to	erase	any	questions	as	to	the	nature	and	validity	of	this	account.


My	final	concern	regarding	UEPS's	other	receivables	is	the	large	amount	of	incremental
cash	that	this	account	consumes	every	year.	As	mentioned	previously,	as	of	the	end	of	FY
2015,	other	receivables	amounted	to	$46.3mm.	This	represents	almost	$1	per	share	of
incremental	cash	that	is	consumed/tied	up	in	other	receivables.	Given	the	consistently
large	increases	in	other	receivables	over	the	past	five	years,	it	is	likely	that	this	cash	drain
will	continue	to	grow.


This	is	troublesome	for	investors	given	the	upcoming	SASSA	contract	expiration.	The
Company	will	likely	need	all	the	cash	it	can	to	sustain	itself	as	it	transitions	the	business
through	this	challenging	period.	Of	course,	this	does	not	even	take	into	account	the	large
increase	in	prepayment	receivables	over	the	past	four	years.	On	a	combined	basis,	from
FY	2011	to	FY	2015,	prepayment	receivables	and	other	receivables	have	increased	by	a
total	of	$59.4mm.


As	of	today,	the	Company	has	net	cash	of	$42.8mm	on	the	balance	sheet.	Thus,	if	the
current	trend	continues,	the	entire	amount	of	UEPS's	net	cash	could	be	consumed	by
increases	in	non-trade	receivables	within	a	couple	of	years.


In	my	email	to	UEPS's	investor	relations	earlier	this	week,	I	asked	the	Company	to	provide
a	detailed	definition	of	its	other	receivables.	I	also	asked	the	Company	to	provide	an
explanation	as	to	why	this	line	item	has	increased	so	much	over	the	past	few	years.	In
response	to	my	questions,	the	head	of	IR	sent	me	the	following	response:


"(other	receivables	is)	transaction	related	given	there	is	a	lag	between	when	a
transaction	is	authorized	and	when	it	is	settled."
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 8/10


Unfortunately,	this	response	from	IR	is	fairly	generic	and	provides	little	insight	as	to	what
other	receivables	actually	is.	I	asked	IR	to	further	clarify	the	nature	of	this	expense	in	a
follow-up	email,	but	I	have	yet	to	hear	back	from	them.	If	I	receive	a	meaningful	response
on	this	matter,	I	will	provide	an	update	in	the	comments	section.


Increase	In	Receivables	Has	Accelerated	In	FY	2016


Over	the	past	six	months,	the	increase	in	the	Company's	receivables	has	only
accelerated.	Provided	below	is	a	breakdown	of	UEPS's	cash	flow	from	operations	for	the
first	six	months	of	FY	2016:


As	shown	above,	the	Company's	total	receivables	(trade	receivables	+	prepayment
receivables	+	other	receivables)	increased	by	$31.1mm	during	the	first	six	months.	A
breakout	between	UEPS's	three	receivable	buckets	was	not	provided	in	the	10-Q.	That
being	said,	given	the	large	overall	increase	in	total	receivables,	I	believe	it	is	reasonable	to
assume	that	the	Company's	non-trade	receivables	contributed	to	this	increase.


Thus,	it	appears	that	the	large	growth	in	UEPS's	non-trade	receivables	has
continued	and	may	have	even	accelerated	through	the	first	six	months	of	this	fiscal
year.	As	a	result	of	this	large	increase	in	receivables,	the	Company	only	generated
$11.5mm	of	free	cash	flow	during	the	first	six	months	of	the	year.	This	poor	free	cash	flow
generation	in	comparison	to	net	income	provides	a	good	illustration	for	why	UEPS's
rapidly	increasing	receivables	should	have	investors	concerned.


A	Few	Thoughts	On	KSNET


Another	item	that	I	would	like	to	quickly	touch	upon	is	the	overall	performance	of	the
KSNET/International	Transaction	Processing	business.	Based	on	some	of	the	issues
discussed	in	this	article,	it	appears	that	the	performance	of	this	business	has	been
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 9/10


deteriorating	over	the	past	few	years.	From	a	revenue	growth	perspective,	the	Company's
prepayments	to	sales	agents	have	increased	over	3x	from	FY	2011	to	FY	2015.


Despite	this	large	increase	in	marketing,	annual	revenue	growth	has	decelerated	from
15%	a	couple	of	years	ago	(FY	2013	vs.	FY	2012)	to	just	8%	today	(FY	2015	vs.	FY
2014).	From	an	earnings	perspective,	as	I	discussed	at	length,	it	appears	that	KSNET
margins	may	be	inflated	due	to	potentially	aggressive	capitalization	of	prepayment
receivables.	Additionally,	from	a	cash	flow	perspective,	KSNET	requires	an	unusually
large	amount	of	cash	to	sustain	its	business.


In	FY	2015,	the	Company	spent	$28.2mm	in	capex	on	its	KSNET	business.	At	the	same
time,	the	Company	had	also	funded	$53.4mm	of	prepayment	receivables	for	its	KSNET
sales	agents.	Given	the	large	and	increasing	capex	and	working	capital	requirements	of
this	business,	I	believe	it	will	be	hard	for	KSNET	to	generate	significant	cash	flow.


Finally,	in	addition	to	all	this,	Korean	regulators	have	recently	instituted	new	regulations
which	limit	the	fees	that	KSNET	can	charge	its	customers	(based	on	UEPS	management
commentary	in	the	most	recent	10-Q).	Thus,	things	are	looking	rather	challenging	for
KSNET	going	forward.	Overall,	given	this	segment's	declining	revenue	growth,
potentially	inflated	profitability	and	increasing	cash	consumption,	I	think	that	the
KSNET	business	may	be	worth	far	less	than	what	investors	believe.


Conclusion


The	rapid	increase	in	UEPS's	prepayment	receivables	and	other	receivables	should	be	a
point	of	great	concern	for	investors.	I	believe	that	the	issues	raised	in	this	article	call	into
question	the	quality	of	the	Company's	earnings	and	financial	reporting.	I	also	believe	that
the	deterioration	in	the	Company's	working	capital	position	is	an	indication	that	their
business	(particularly	KSNET)	is	not	performing	as	strongly	as	investors	may	believe.
Overall,	given	the	additional	issues	highlighted	in	this	article,	I	continue	to	believe	UEPS
shares	represent	an	attractive	short	opportunity	at	the	current	share	price	level.


Disclosure:	I	am/we	are	short	UEPS.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving
compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is
mentioned	in	this	article.


Comments	(0)
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Additional Concerns Over Potential Accounting Issues - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3907506-net-1-ueps-technologies-additional-concerns-potential-accounting-issues 10/10


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION
