Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 1 of 16 
 


 
May 1, 2013 





Bad Idea + Bad Business = Wall Street Fiction 
 


“Angie Angie … Ain’t it time we said goodbye …” 
 
Angie’s List (NASDAQ:ANGI):   On its best day, and if the company can defy all history 
and common sense, it could be worth $6 a share.  If you don’t believe Citron, take it 
from Goldman Sachs and Deutche Bank. 
 
Angie’s List is the most ridiculous, stupid, misunderstood, negligent, nonsensical, 
outdated, irresponsible business model in the new web economy.  Citron will show the 
obvious fatal flaws that Wall Street has overlooked, as the analysts cheerlead for a 
company whose only accomplishment is losing less money than they predicted.  New 
economies give rise to disruptive businesses that are commonly overvalued by the 
market due to their potential; rarely do they give us a 15-year-old business model that 
couldn’t make it past a first year business school presentation. 
 
In Part 1 of this expose, we will discuss the structural premise of Angie’s business model 
that renders it terminal, and cannot be ignored by investors.  This business model is so 
obviously flawed and inferior to their competition that we believe it is a story in itself.  
Part 2 will examine in detail the accounting shenanigans played by Angie’s List to create 
the illusion of “losing less money” than expected.  All of the metrics that support a 
growth story in Angie’s are skewed to deceive; we will prove that in part 2. 
 
Established in 1995, Angie’s List has since has accumulated a deficit of $219 million, 
while insiders have enriched themselves by selling over $135 million worth of stock 
since its 2011 IPO debut.  All of this is predicated on a business model that does not 
work, whose revenue is overly dependent on a large phone room, does not and cannot 
grow virally, and makes zero logical sense.   
 
In a bull market, it seems that analysts look at a stock price first, then reverse-engineer a 
thesis, no matter how preposterous, to explain and justify its valuation.
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 2 of 16 
 


It is the opinion of Citron that the recent runup in stock price in Angie’s List is the worst 
of Wall Street running amok on its own self-serving hype.    
 


“Angie, Angie, they can't say we never tried” 
 
The core business model operating at Angie’s has been, and will always be, a colossal 
failure.  Citron now explains why.  Let’s begin with an indicator that something is 
seriously wrong. 
 
Isn’t it amazing that a company that is in the business of monetizing online reputations 
from real people has such a horrible online reputation?  Angie’s List has one of the 
worst online reputations of any company we have ever seen.  If in fact there were an 
Angie’s List rating for Angie’s List … it would earn an “F”.  Here is just a sampling of 
reviews from real people: There are hundreds. 
http://livingstingy.blogspot.com/2010/08/Angie’s-list-what-waste.html  
http://Angie’s-list.pissedconsumer.com/angie-s-list-make-cancellation-difficult-20120721333610.html  


 
This is one of our favorites … in response to a short, favourable two-paragraph article in 
the New York Times, we read over 100 consistently negative reviews from real people: 
http://bucks.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/03/02/your-reviews-of-Angie’s-list/  


( Click on “READ MORE COMMMENTS to expand ) 


 
So if you want to develop your own investment thesis in ANGI, start with the comments 
of real people, who describe their experience using Angie’s List.   
 


  The Fatal Business Premise:  No Anonymous Reviews 
 
One of Angie’s most-advertised selling points is that its reviews are from “real 
customers”.  Yet the single most common complaint about Angie’s List from “real 
people” is that nearly all of its online reviews are “A”’s.  Of course they are.  Their entire 
business model is built around a system rigged to assemble and display only “A” 
reviews, creating an ecosystem that manipulates both members and service providers.    
What happens to those members who have problems with the services received?   
Citron explores the system of disincentives to report negative experiences, with 
evidence in the words of former customers and service providers.   What other posts 
does that leave on Angie’s except friends, relatives, or shills for the service provider?    



http://livingstingy.blogspot.com/2010/08/angies-list-what-waste.html

http://angies-list.pissedconsumer.com/angie-s-list-make-cancellation-difficult-20120721333610.html

http://bucks.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/03/02/your-reviews-of-angies-list/
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 3 of 16 
 


 
 
 
 
  Is this the Little League where every player gets a trophy?
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 4 of 16 
 


There are hundreds of former customer voices explaining Angie’s system and its 
impacts.  This one explains the business model with particular clarity:   
 


 
http://www.ripoffreport.com/r/Angie’s-list/-internet-/Angie’s-list-deceptive-business-model-internet-364982 


 
So let Citron get this straight!  A handyman, painter, or electrician comes to my house.  I 
let him in my front door and he spends a few hours in my sanctuary.  This person does a 


Angie's List is deceptive and creates a falls sense of security: 
 I have to second what already has been stated. Angie's list is not only not helpful, it lures 
customers into a false sense of security. Here are the reasons: 
 
-if you have a bad experience with a company (I am referring here to a REAL bad experience, 
one you can prove) and post a negative review, the following will most likely happen (it 
happened to me several times): the company will contact you at home and offer you some 
kind of reimbursement, apology, etc., so that you may change or delete your review. I didn't 
post the negative review because I wanted a freebee, but because I wanted to make sure 
others on Angie's list are warned. Therefore, I didn't react to their messages. I received 
SEVERAL phone messages and was annoyed by the calls. If you don't react, they will then post 
a "rebuttal", which presents you, the customer, as somebody with a "problem" and all the 
(recorded) apologies for bad service are never mentioned. However, I assume many will 
indeed delete their negative review to get their money back (as they should). 
 
-you and many others can post negative reviews for a company, yet that company can 
maintain an A in "recent" grades. Why? Because "recent" is not recent. It means 2 years. So, if 
a company had good reviews in, let's say, 2012, your negative review in 2013 (and those of 
others) will have 0 impact. This makes no sense, because I want to know about the present 
performance of a company, because this is when I plan on hiring them.  
 
-In one particular case, I made the effort and calculated the overall grades. It came out to a C, 
yet the company maintains an A. I then wrote to Angie's list to ask how that was possible and 
first received a condescending answer (it works just like in High School - mhhh, no it doesn't, 
unless your teacher is a moron), and upon a second inquiry, I was emailed a prewritten 
answer about the impartiality of their reviews without directly answering my question. 
 
-I also noticed that my negative review completely disappeared when accessing a company 
through the "Big Deal". The image of the evaluations is the same, but it only shows A reviews. 
When I asked them about that, there "explanation" was that providers can advertise on 
Angie's list. What????? 
 
I strongly, strongly advise not to use Angie's list. I just cancelled my subscription. 



http://www.ripoffreport.com/r/angies-list/-internet-/angies-list-deceptive-business-model-internet-364982
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 5 of 16 
 


poor job for whatever reason and I am dissatisfied. Now, I am supposed to pay for the 
right to go online and tell the world about the provider, someone whose background I 
know nothing about, who has already been inside my home, and has done me wrong?  
And, before I post this review, the site warns me: 
 


 
 
Here is a jaw-dropping but real story from last month:  Someone hired a plumber on 
Angie’s List -- and the plumber was a sex offender.  A week after going to the member’s 
house, he requested the customer attend his parole hearing … as a character witness!   
http://www.ign.com/boards/threads/found-out-my-plumber-is-a-sex-offender.452906950/  


 
Even when a customer submits a generally positive review, the model reveals its fatal 
flaws.  Below is a story of a customer who used a locksmith and gave generally good 
reviews, except for a single category in which he gave “B”.  The locksmith took offense 
to the “B” rating and harassed the customer. 
http://www.reiddossinger.com/post/24140900579/my-story-of-how-Angie’s-list-handed-over-my-
contact#.UXw_JKLUejM  





   From the service provider side:   
So now that Citron has shown that Angie’s List is not a good value proposition for the 
members, what do the service providers think of it?  For this we will refer to the latest 
10-Q, and reveal some simple math that speaks for itself. 
 


“We increased the number of our sales personnel 


originating new advertising contracts by 39% to 569 and 


the number of our sales personnel responsible for 


contract renewals by 64% to 154 from the end of the 


prior year period.”   


 
Further, they added a net 3,312 business provider customers during the quarter. 
 
So that’s 3,312 new customers divided by 723 sales agents.  That yields 1.14 new 
customers per month per sales agent.  So if I work at Angie’s and am given a limitless 


“Please remember that your name, address and this review 
information will be available to the service provider being rated.” 
 



http://www.ign.com/boards/threads/found-out-my-plumber-is-a-sex-offender.452906950/

http://www.reiddossinger.com/post/24140900579/my-story-of-how-angies-list-handed-over-my-contact#.UXw_JKLUejM

http://www.reiddossinger.com/post/24140900579/my-story-of-how-angies-list-handed-over-my-contact#.UXw_JKLUejM
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 6 of 16 
 


amount of leads and a book of current clients to manage, I will finish the month with 1 
additional advertiser contract?   Is this a business?  
 
Consider the world from the perspective of an experienced service provider.  Angie’s is 
equally manipulative of legitimate service providers as it is of customers.  Here is an 
insightful post from a longstanding and experienced Seattle-area plumber, a firm with 
years of former experience on Angie’s list:
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 7 of 16 
 


 
http://screenwerk.com/2012/10/15/seattle-plumber-angies-list-a-kind-of-pyramid-scheme/ 








Seattle Plumber: Angie’s List ‘a Kind of Pyramid Scheme’ 
 
 I have years of experience with Angie’s List as a local plumber in Seattle. They 
have gotten money out of me and gave nothing in return except much trouble 
from customers that tend to be pretty passive aggressive. Angie’s List get paid 
on both ends – Any contractor listing you see is only visible to you if the 
contractor is paying Angie’s List through the nose. My cost for Angie’s List “hot 
leads” was $300 each. Testing Angie’s List cost me $7000 over two years. While 
paying such high costs for leads may work for a major construction project, it 
won’t work for a service call where we charge by the 1/4 hour. …   
 
Any homeowner service using this advertising method is paying way too much to 
maintain any integrity in the service. This type of advertising creating an 
incredible amount of pressure to convert to a commission-based high profit 
business model for basic traditional services. If I pay Angies List hundreds of 
dollars just to ring your doorbell how can I treat you fairly when your plumbing 
problem requires an hours work? I can’t so I cancelled my advertising contract 
with Angie’s List. 
 
Angie’s List uses a unique money making model that actually is a kind of pyramid 
scheme. They put all the local harvested contractors into their listings but you 
only will call highly rated ones. In order to be highly rated you must pay Angie 
Thousands of dollars a year for position in order to be seen AND time in grade is 
required to accumulate favorable reviews. Only a dozen or so can be in that 
position. The homeowner only calls the ones at the top so all new advertisers 
must invest thousands on continuing annual contracts to play the game on 
Angie’s List . … 
 
Question: Why should we need out-of-state corporations to connect 
homeowners to services down the street? Surely there is a simple, inexpensive 
way for us to know our neighbors and small businesses. We all need to put a 
little thought and effort in that direction.… 
 



http://screenwerk.com/2012/10/15/seattle-plumber-angies-list-a-kind-of-pyramid-scheme/
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 8 of 16 
 


The above service provider points out that in Washington, a plumbing license (with 
8,000 hours of training) is a requirement to perform plumbing services.  Yet drain 
cleanout firms typically offer “plumbing services”, performed by untrained, unlicensed 
personnel.   Angie’s does nothing to prevent this type of service misrepresentation.    
 


  Do you know the Background of your Service Provider?   
While not reflective of the whole profession, it should be noted that plumbing, painting, 
electrical and other building trades are most commonly taught in penitentiaries.  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prison_education  
http://www.bop.gov/news/PDFs/ipaabout.pdf  


 
Independent background checks of service providers are a potential value-added service 
of online lead and listings services … but Angie’s doesn’t provide them!  Why?  This will 
be explained below when Citron analyzes the industry’s best comp to Angie’s.   


 



http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prison_education

http://www.bop.gov/news/PDFs/ipaabout.pdf
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 9 of 16 
 





  No Qualifications Necessary to Obtain Service Provider Listings  
It should be noted that in 10 minutes, Citron was able to establish Citron Plumbing on 
Angie’s List.  With no license, no background check, we are open and ready for reviews: 
 








    So how does Citron approach valuation for Angie’s? 
 
Finding a good valuation comp for Angie’s List seems to have stumped Wall Street.  It’s 
not Yelp, because yelp is a high-traffic generating “customer review site”.  It’s not Zagat, 
which Google bought, because Zagat rates restaurants, rendering it specifically relevant 
to the mobile business and mobile traffic generation.  
 
Citron has identified a really probative comp, however, which is an undeniable direct 
competitor to Angie’s.  While it’s not directly publicly traded, it’s a part of Interactive 


( Click to see more ) 



http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Citron-Plumbing-1.jpg
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 10 of 16 
 


Corp. (NASDAQ:IACI); perhaps that’s why the analysts have missed it.  Both companies 
were designed to connect members to qualified service providers.  Going to a restaurant 
for a meal is has a far lower threshold of trust than inviting a stranger into your house to 
work on your most valuable asset. 
 
The nearest competition to Angie’s List is a company called Home Advisor 
(www.homeadvisor.com ), formally Service Magic.  It is a division of internet 
conglomerate Interactive Corp.  Both companies connect consumers to service 
providers focusing in particular on home repair.  As a matter of fact, when you sign on 
the Home Advisor Website, they immediately show a comparable of the two companies. 
 


 
http://www.homeadvisor.com/compare/ 





The two firms are also compared on many consumer sites:  
http://Angie’slist.knoji.com/compare-vs/servicemagic/ 


 



http://www.homeadvisor.com/

http://www.homeadvisor.com/compare/

http://angieslist.knoji.com/compare-vs/servicemagic/
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 11 of 16 
 


We encourage readers to spend time on both sites.  From an international footprint, to 
interactive applications and cost guides, when actually comparing Home Advisor to 
Angie’s List, it is obvious that one is major league and another is a pretender. 
 
Most significantly, Home Advisor actually performs background checks on providers for 
felonies, bankruptcies, and licenses.   
 


 
 
In 2010, more than 7,000 service companies were turned down due to their failure to 
pass the general background check, according to Brooke Gabbert, director of public 
relations and social media for Service Magic.   
 
http://www.smartmarketingllc.com/2012/04/30/online-referral-services-Angie’s-list-service-magic-yelp/ 


 
How many of those providers appear on Angie’s List?  How many service providers 
would Angie’s lose if it retroactively instated background checks?   
 
When Citron research called Home Advisor to order up a profile for Citron Plumbing, we 
were properly refused, because we are not licensed plumbers.   
 
The reason why Home Advisor is profitable is because they sell leads to service 
providers, not advertising.  This qualification method translated into a bottom line that 
did $350 million in revenues in 2012 and will generate $38 million in EBIDTA in 2013. 
 
Comparative financial performance:  Angie’s List vs Home Advisor: 
 


2012 Performance Angie’s List Home Advisor 
   


Gross Revenues 155 million 350 million 


EBITDA Income (loss) (-45 million) 38 million profit 


As of December 31, 2012, HomeAdvisor's network of home 
services professionals consisted of more than 80,000 
professionals in the United States providing services in more 
than 500 categories ranging from simple home repairs to home 
remodeling projects. 
 



http://www.smartmarketingllc.com/2012/04/30/online-referral-services-angies-list-service-magic-yelp/
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 12 of 16 
 


 
Recently Goldman Sachs published a sum-of-the-parts analysis of Interactive Corp. , 
stating that at $40 mil EBIDTA, as estimated for 2013, that Home Advisors business is 
worth 7x or $280 million. Deutche Bank was more aggressive, resulting in a $320 million 
valuation for Home Advisor.   
 
So as investors, here is what we can deduce.  If in fact Angie’s List is able to hit all of the 
most optimistic analyst targets and accomplish what they have not done in 18 years --   
become genuinely profitable for a sustained period of time --  then they will hit $40 mil 
in EBIDTA in mid to late 2014. If they can sustain this through 2015 their business could 
also be worth $320 million … or $5.50 a share!   If we allowed them 10x EBITDA, then it 
could rocket all the way to … $6.88 per share!  
 
If anything, Home Advisor should charge for qualifying the providers and Angie’s should 
be free.  Running an ad based model based on paid memberships might have been a 
good thought in 1995 but today a dinosaur. 
 


  Hey Citron…isn’t there anything good about Angie’s List?   
 
Yes, we give Angie’s credit for having the credit card information for a large customer 
base that has generally forgotten they are being charged.  We then give them credit for 
having a very liberally constructed “terms of service” agreement, which allows them to 
increase customer rates significantly without consent.  Sure, this has resulted in a 
massive class action lawsuit, and has invited the ire of customers … but in the 
meantime, it works ...   (LINK to Fritzinger class action suit)  In Citron’s opinion, income 
predicated upon deceiving customers is not sustainable, and not worthy of a multiple.  
 


   Lack of Growth in New Verticals 
Clearly, one of the major constraint’s on Angie’s List growth is the relatively narrow 
wedge of home improvement service providers.  So Angie’s List is attempting to enter 
new verticals, which further exposes the complete stupidity of their business model.  
This is a link to the most recent TV commercial for Angie’s List:   



http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Fritzinger-vs-Angies-List.pdf
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 13 of 16 
 


 
(Click to Play) 


In it we see a testimonial from “Natalie Chan” that says: “Now that we’re expecting, I 
like that we can go on Angie’s List and look for pediatricians”.    
 
So let me get this straight, Natalie. You are going to find your child’s doctor by 
consulting a list of reviews from people you don’t know?  And you are going to pay for 
that?  You don’t know friends or relatives with children?  Your OBGYN or GP where your 
health insurance plan reimburses your medical care can’t recommend a pediatrician?  
You don’t have a Facebook account on which you can ask your friends if anyone can 
recommend a pediatrician?   
 
Would any Angie’s List investor use a doctor because he/she advertised on Angie’s List? 
 
Finally, just to show how preposterous this ad claim really is, consider this:  A physician 
cannot ever respond to a dissatisfied patient review due to HIPAA regulations.  Imagine 
requiring a patient’s real name to post a negative review of a physician, then Angie’s 
calling up the poster to try to “resolve” the complaint with a refund or a discount?  This 
absurdity just shows the lack of thought and proper business planning done by 
management at the core of Angie’s List business model.   One day someone had the 
bright idea “Let’s expand to other verticals, like Doctors!”  And off they went, into utter 
nonsense.  
 


  Heavy Traffic?  Not!  
 
Here’s just one comparative view of traffic generation between Yelp and Angie’s  
http://www.google.com/trends/explore#q=Angie’s%20list%2C%20yelp&date=today%2012-m&cmpt=q  
As for Home Advisors, even though the company went through a full company 
rebranding effort just four months ago, they still have more web traffic than Angie’s. 



file:///C:/Investments/Individual%20Issues/ANGI/HIPAA%20regulations

http://www.google.com/trends/explore#q=angies%20list%2C%20yelp&date=today%2012-m&cmpt=q

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6FTMiznsTE&playnext=1&list=PL26E6F9EE80AB1248&feature=results_main
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 14 of 16
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 15 of 16 
 


“Angie … Angie … when will those clouds all disappear?” 
 


  The Most Amazing CEO Quote Ever!!! 
 
Picture this:   
William Oesterle, CEO and co-founder of Angie’s List, which has been unprofitable for 15 
years, and from which he has sold out over $9 million in insider stock since its 2011 IPO, 
comes on CNBC for his very first time.   And what does he say?   
 


 
(click to play)  





We are not making this up!  We couldn’t possibly make this up.  Wow! 
 


“Angie … Angie … where will it lead us from here?” 





“Profitability is a funny metric for us.” 
  


--  William Oesterle, CEO 
Angie’s List 


 



http://video.cnbc.com/gallery/?video=3000163679
Citron Research on Angie’s List May 1, 2013 Page 16 of 16 
 





  Conclusion 
Pets.com and Etoys.com were decent ideas, just bad businesses.  Angie’s List is a stupid 
idea and a bad business.   
 
Why will anything change?  What concrete steps are management at Angie’s List 
actually executing to make this business model more viral, more relevant, more 
compelling?    
 


  Running a phone room to obtain subscribers’ credit card authorization, then billing 
them for renewals at higher rates until they notice, is not a sustainable business model.   
(Employee morale is terrible, judging from online posts.)  
 


   Increasing your accrued unvoiced liabilities for one quarter to show that you can 
lose less money than expected … is not a business model.   
 


   Whereas the bulls might point to the hope that newer markets grow to the size of 
existing markets, that might hold true if the underlying business was compelling and just 
needed exposure and scalability.  But in the case of Angie’s List, the underlying business 
is in decline, and no accounting gimmickry can turn that around. 
 
Cautious Investing to All
