5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page
Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss
Mar. 1, 2013 10:20 AM ET206 comments
by: Xuhua Zhou


Uni-Pixel (NASDAQ:UNXL) has risen over 30% since I published my bearish stance on
the stock on January 10th, 2013. Since the publication of my last article, a number of
events have occurred, and I would like to share some additional thoughts and information
I have obtained. To be clear, I remain convinced that the stock will be trading at $5 or
lower after all the hype runs out. With 13.5 million shares outstanding on a fully diluted
basis, Unipixel sports a market capitalization of $320 million; yet it did a total of $76,000 in
revenue in 2012 according to the 10K filed by the Company after its most recent earnings
release. To even remotely justify today's valuation, a giant leap of faith in the management
by investors is an absolute requirement. Is the management really credible though?


Before going into details of my latest finding, a 109-page lawsuit discussing the
circumstances of Carlco's CIT unit and Uni-Pixel's legal dispute, I would like to raise some
concerns I and many others share about the Company's most recent quarterly report and
conference call. Specifically, the Company possibly has been in violation of a number of
SEC regulations.


Williams Financial Group's research analyst Cody Acree recently initiated Uni-Pixel with a
buy rating and a price target of $30 a share on February 11th, 2013. While the initiation
report was filled with statements I would disagree in earnest, it is the earnings preview on
Uni-Pixel Cody published the morning of February 26th, 2013 that really caught my eye. In
the preview, Cody presciently predicted the following:


1. Uni-Pixel to recognize $5 million from the previously announced OEM in the first
quarter.


2. The phase one production is to have 62,000 units per month of capacity available in
April.


3. Uni-Pixel has already ordered two more printers to be delivered in June and is in
discussions with an "ecosystem partner"


Interestingly enough, at 16:30PM when Uni-Pixel released its earnings and hosted the
conference call, Reed Killion made the exact same statement in terms of
capacity/ecosystem partner and the Company guided $5 million in revenue for the first
quarter. Uni-Pixel had been keeping its contract/agreement with the unnamed OEM secret



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UNXL

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1105271-uni-pixel-bright-future-promised-by-clouding-the-gruesome-reality-for-the-less-informed

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1171012/000118518513000386/unipixel10k123112.htm

https://www.box.com/s/51avndj6bone3x3y427p

http://www.williams-financial.com/

http://www.linkedin.com/pub/cody-acree/28/798/2ab

https://www.box.com/s/lc5dvttvgxzgnh9y0eon

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/unipixel-reports-fourth-quarter-full-210500223.html

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1227671-unipixel-ceo-discusses-q4-2012-results-earnings-call-transcript
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


and never formally disclosed the amount of the contract, yet Mr.Acree magically figured
out it would be precisely $5 million Uni-Pixel would be recognizing for the first quarter? Or
the management blatantly ignored SEC regulation FD and told analyst at Williams
Financial Group what revenue number the Company will be booking in the first quarter.
SEC Regulation FD prohibits disclosure of material non-public information to certain
individuals, such as a stock analyst! For a Company that has booked practically zero
revenue for years, a guidance of $5 million revenue in one quarter should be incredibly
material. Given the severity of the situation, I believe a SEC investigation is warranted at
some point to find out how exactly Cody Acree obtained such information ahead of the
general public market.


While the management might have had a hard time resisting the urge to communicate to
its cheerleaders about the upcoming $5 million revenue, it had no trouble keeping secret
the all-important OEM contract/agreement signed in December. In the 10K filed by Uni-
Pixel after market close on Tuesday, the mysterious multi-million OEM preferred pricing
and license contract was nowhere to be found among the exhibits. Pursuant to Item
601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K, all material contracts are required to be filed as exhibits
subject to redaction. There is simply no plausible explanation for such an omission given
the market capitalization of the Company is largely supported by the existence and the
relevant terms of such contract. I expect further SEC staff comments and
correspondences with the Company upon reviewing of its 10K filing.


Given the management's practices of selective disclosure and failure to disclose material
information per SEC Regulations, I find it troubling to rely upon statements made by the
management and I find myself questioning its plan to recognize $5 million in revenue in
the first quarter. Observing the management's notable lack of respect to SEC rules and
regulations, I suggest Mr.Killion and Tomz reviewing GAAP revenue recognition rules
before reporting revenue in the first quarter.


Now I want to move onto the best part of the article and something most readers probably
haven't been made aware of. In the last article, I briefly discussed the lawsuit surrounding
CIT and Uni-Pixel. However, given CIT filed its lawsuit in the England High Court of
Justice, I was unable to obtain a copy of the complaint. The circumstances have changed
since then and I was able to obtain a copy of the lawsuit detailing the specifics of the case.
I believe the lawsuit not only severely questions the credibility of Mr.Reed Killion, but also
brings to light important information regarding the development of UniBoss technology and
who is the rightful owner of such technology if commercialization were possible.



http://www.sec.gov/answers/regfd.htm

http://www.sec.gov/interps/legal/slbcf1.txt

https://www.box.com/s/51avndj6bone3x3y427p
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


To begin with, I would like to quote Mr. Reed Killion's response when news of a CIT
lawsuit first broke on December 20th, 2012.


"These claims are based on unfounded speculation and inaccurate assumptions,
and are completely without merit," said UniPixel President & CEO Reed Killion. "We
fully expect the plaintiffs will be ordered to pay whatever legal fees our company
might incur to defend these baseless claims."


The detail of the case paints a very different picture. While the CEO was being completely
dismissive of the merits of the case, lawyers of Uni-Pixel filed a countersuit in Texas
contesting CIT violated the Non-Disclosure Agreement because CIT filed the lawsuit in the
UK instead of Texas as required by a NDA signed in 2010 which supersedes the two prior
NDA signed in 2005 and 2006 . Without addressing any of the important claims and
evidence provided in the UK lawsuit, the lawyers of Uni-Pixel are simply trying to seek
equitable and injunctive relief because CIT might have sued at an inappropriate venue as
governed by a NDA signed in 2010. The case has since been moved to United States
District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division.


Now, investors are able to independently evaluate the merits of CIT's argument instead of
relying on the opinion of Mr. Reed Killion. Upon reading the 109-page document, I find the
CEO's initial stance on the lawsuit highly troubling. Furthermore, on February 8th, 2013,
CIT filed a motion to dismiss in the U.S District Court. I believe Uni-Pixel's lawsuit against
CIT on a venue dispute will most likely be dismissed in the near future and the case will go
back to its normal proceeding in the England High Court of Justice.


CIT and Uni-Pixel signed three NDAs (Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement) in 2005, 2006
and 2010 respectively.


"The first English proceeding asserts that Uni-Pixel breached a Mutual Non-
Disclosure Agreement effective as of June 8, 2005 (the "2005 NDA") by failing to
hold in confidence information disclosed to Uni-Pixel during that agreement's term
(which concluded on June 8, 2006). That English action also asserts that Uni-Pixel
breached noncontractual duties of confidence regarding disclosures made to it both
(NYSE:I) during the term of the 2005 NDA, and (ii) after the 2005 NDA expired to
approximately March 2009".



https://www.box.com/s/semskqmb6y76m8qyxwou

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/I
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


More specifically, CIT shared with Uni-Pixel important technologies and know-hows on
metal printing which are the subject of the NDA according to page 6 and 7 of Exhibit 3 for
the purpose of developing TMOS display.


"[The Claimant] has developed a high quality patented metal printing process and
technology. This simple and flexible technology enables metals to be deposited at
high speed and low temperature. This is achieved by separating the process into a
high resolution digital deposition step followed by a metallization step. In the first
step, a UV curable catalytic template layer is inkjet printed using piezoelectric drop-
on-demand print heads and then a subsequent aqueous metallization step deposits
metal onto and into this printed layer".


In a subsequent correspondence with Mr. John Kelly at Uni-Pixel, CIT further clarified it
may be willing to license its technology for the referenced project with Xennia, which is
TMOS.


"Further to your discussions with Nick of Xennia regarding your request to possibly
utilise the background IPR of our Company. I can confirm that following your
acceptance of the above referenced Xennia proposal and a successful outcome
against the project, [the Claimant] is prepared to meet with [the Defendant] at your
request, to determine the viability of [the Claimant] granting a license to [the
Defendant], on commercial terms, of [the Claimant's] background IPR in so far as
such a license would be required to exploit and IPR generated from the above
referenced project with Xennia".


"In the premises, the Defendant owed the following equitable duties in respect of the
Disclosed CIT Technology to the Claimant: i. not to use any of the Disclosed CIT
Technology other than for the purposes of the TMOS Project; ii. to commercially
exploit TMOS Project Technology only to the extent that such use did not constitute
use of any other Disclosed CIT Technology; and not otherwise to commercially
exploit the Disclosed CIT Technology for any purpose without first obtaining the
licence of the Claimant".


CIT went on discussing in grand details how certain patents filed by Uni-Pixel and
technology discussed by the CEO and CTO in printed magazines and investor
presentations left CIT with little doubt that Uni-Pixel had taken the know-how it obtained
pursuant to NDA and developed it into UniBoss. Upon reading the entire lawsuit, I find
Mr.Killion's statement that CIT's claims are completely without merit to be laughable. It is
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Comments (206)


clear that coming into the TMOS project, Uni-Pixel had zero experience in metal printing
technology and processes, yet after selling TMOS patents to Rambus, all of a sudden,
Uni-Pixel is going to transform the touch screen market with the very same technology.
Additionally, Uni-Pixel's own management has stated in the past that it developed UniBoss
over the course of its development of TMOS. That statement now reads more ironic than
innovative. I advise all investors with a stake in Uni-Pixel to carefully review the
information brought to light by the lawsuit and make your own judgments.


The lawsuit will run its course; so will Uni-Pixel's stock. I remain convinced to stay short
Uni-Pixel for all the reasons I stated in my first article as well as two new reasons. One, I
now have severe doubt with regards to whether Uni-Pixel has rightful claim to the UniBoss
technology given the new information brought to light by the lawsuit. Two, I am skeptical of
the management's credibility given its past business practices and disclosure practices. I
wonder how comfortable the partnered OEM would be upon reading the lawsuit and
further investigating the origin of the UniBoss technology.


(Editor's Note: A quote that appeared originally has been removed per the author's
request.)


Disclosure: I am short UNXL. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


LoneStarMan
Let it go Zhou. You need to cover your short position before its too late.


01 Mar 2013, 10:43 AM


Khalid Radwan
Clearly you feel bad you missed the run in UNXL and want to bash it to enter at a low price. This company is entering
a $ 32 B market. If it doesn't hit $50-70 by end of 2013, I'll eat crow.


Khalid


01 Mar 2013, 10:43 AM


soufriere



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UNXL

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6873331

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8786061

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1836541
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Very Interesting !!! Nothing like DD !!


01 Mar 2013, 10:49 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Xuhua, I understand that you must be extremely frustrated with your short position in UniPixel. Even so, what you've
delivered above is not going to help your case. You are intentionally trying to manipulate the price of UNXL by posting
misleading information. It seems that at this point the market recognizes your game, and is not giving you the
response for which you had probably hoped.


For instance, you fully realize that UNXL doesn't have to file the PC OEM contract under Items 601(b)(10) of
Regulation S-K because the contract was entered into in the ordinary course of business. Go reread the regulation
and see for yourself. These contracts are the way in which UniPixel does business, and the company has stated as
much. There will be more of them. Your facts are simply wrong.


As far as the lawsuit goes, you and Carclo undermine your entire thesis in the details you provide. The quote you note
above states "In the first step, a UV curable catalytic template layer is inkjet printed using piezoelectric drop-on-
demand." Xuhua, UniPixel doesn't even use an inkjet process! You (and Carclo) have very little knowledge about the
UniPixel process. UniPixel simply couldn't get 5 micron lines using an inkjet process.


Last, your final quote from the engineer at Multek is painfully outdated and is laced with all kinds of bias. This came
from when UniBoss was still using two separate sheets of PET! Xuhua, the technology has changed quite a bit since
this point and you know it. Line widths have narrowed, the company prints double sided, they run plating in a roll to
roll process - it's a much different product. Multek is obviously fairly vested in the ITO process and they don't want to
see metal mesh make their investment obsolete. They're not going to have much of a choice I'm afraid. Your engineer
friend will see how much metal mesh is embedded in large format displays this coming fall and winter and will wish he
had seen this transition coming.


I will probably write more later, but I'm in a hurry now and need to sign off.


01 Mar 2013, 10:53 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  It's 109 page of legal complaint. I suggest you finish reading it before summarily dismissing
all merits of the case. To a reasonable individual, the case reads with a lot of merits.


01 Mar 2013, 11:03 AM


Brian Coleman, Contributor
Every lawsuit reads like it has a lot of merits, that's the entire point of the filing. But judgments can only be
rendered on the actual merits of the claims once the other side has responded and both arguments are
heard.


You know how you watch one of those crime documentaries on Dateline with that creepy guy Keith Morrison.
And at the half way point when the prosecutors have laid out their case and you think "this guy is guilty as
hell." But then they come back from commercial break and Keith Morrison says (in his overly-affected creepy



https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/brian-coleman
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


voice): "And it seemed like an open and shut case, but was it really?" And then they interview the defense
guys and the accused and then at the end of the second half-hour you think "I had this guy all wrong, I think
he's being framed." And then your DVR recording ends and you never find out if he was guilty or not. What
you did by only reading the complaints is the same as just watching the first half hour of the show... it has left
you with a completely distorted and biased view which is exactly the intent of the filing (and of course the first
half hour of Dateline. Sorry if you weren't familiar with their format and I ruined it for you.)


01 Mar 2013, 11:25 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
I will finish reading the legal complaint, but it will be a waste of time.


What you seem can't seem to grasp, Xuhua, is that it's impossible for a company to prove an infringement
claim when they don't understand the technology being used to do the supposed infringing. They need to
understand that technology to figure out whether their IP has been infringed. Since they can't seem to fathom
the technology, it's very unlikely that their IP was used to create it!


Carclo doesn't understand the printing method used to create UniBoss. They've assumed that it is an inkjet
methodology that would infringe on their patents, but they are mistaken. When the core assumptions in the
claim are flawed, then how can you expect the claim to have merit?


01 Mar 2013, 12:17 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
I would trust Green River Asset as he has performed extensive Due Diligence and even visited Unipixel at
their HQ in Texas. He has even seen the printing machines first hand (I believe).


I highly doubt Xuhua has done any of this.


01 Mar 2013, 01:27 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Scott, for the sake of my argument, I would like to share with you another piece of incredibly
powerful evidence that suggests Unipixel's UniBoss technology was in fact infringing upon the IP of CIT.


http://bit.ly/Y6jRcg


Attached is a paper published in the Journal of Display Technology by scientists at Unipixel. In the paper, they
admitted themselves that they developed the printing process while researching TMOS --exactly the same
time when CIT shared with UNXL the metal printing technology for the sake of that development. It detailed
the technical know-how of what they developed and my guess is the technology is the very same one shared
by CIT. This is simply too complex of a topic for us to comprehend given we do not know precisely what was
shared with Unipixel by CIT. But I'd have to tell you the smell of it stinks. Meanwhile, statement made by the
CEO claiming the lawsuit is completely without merits is probably very far from the truth.


02 Mar 2013, 09:41 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

http://bit.ly/Y6jRcg
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


ouijaman1
Zhou you admit that you don't understand the issue surrounding the suit, yet you take a side that you want to
take. You see what you want to see and you want to see bleak, black, darkness. At least you admit you don't
know and that you simply are taking the side you want to take from it.


02 Mar 2013, 10:08 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Zhou, I want to thank you for posting all the legal documents, they have been very enlightening. For example,
I learned that CIT is suing for infringement of the 2005 NDA. This same NDA expired in 2010. In 2010 there
was a new NDA which specifically superseded any and all other NDAs. Therefore, I find it odd that you can
argue that CIT has a strong case when they are suing for infringement of a NDA that, for all practical
purposes, doesn't exist.


Please explain.


02 Mar 2013, 10:43 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
And I will tell you once more, very clearly Xuhua, UniBoss does not use an inkjet printing technology. This
paper refers to their work in TMOS development which did use inkjet technology.


Yes, the company's experience developing TMOS did help inform the science behind UniBoss. However, the
UniBoss process and methodology is a significant departure from that of TMOS. What specific technology(s)
UniPixel took from TMOS to form the UniBoss product, I don't know. Clearly management of CIT doesn't
know either, because like you, they are accusing UNXL of stealing their ink and printing and surface energy
ideas, but UNXL isn't relying on these technologies in its UniBoss process. When their core arguments (inkjet
printing, palladium in solution) are completely wrong, it doesn't bode particularly well for the status of their
claim.


Without knowing much more detail about CIT's IP and UniBoss's science and production process, we can
simply not come to a conclusion. Well, I can't at least. You obviously think you've found some "powerful
evidence." But you know less about UniBoss's technology than CIT's management, so I don't see why anyone
here should trust you.


03 Mar 2013, 09:13 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  http://bit.ly/12lScfX


Look at Page 3 of Unipixel's very own brochure of UniBoss...and compare that very picture to the figures on
Page 3 of the published paper. The paper IS NOT referring to the TMOS development; IT IS ABOUT
UniBoss.


I'm not stating anything conclusive here and you are right, we cannot come to an absolute conclusion based
on publicly available information. I would just like to point out Reed's statement that the case is completely
baseless seems baseless to me...



https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

http://bit.ly/12lScfX
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


I'm not asking anybody to place trust on anybody. Investors should trust nobody but themselves. I'm merely
providing information in the original form. Investors should read the lawsuit, read the paper published and
compare that to the UniBoss Brochure. That is a world difference from merely relying on the CEO stating the
lawsuit is completely without merits..Instead of analyzing me, time's better spent thinking and analyzing the
information I provided if you have the capacity to do so.


One last thing, I can't help but notice the notable lack of independent third party information you bring to light
in all the articles you've written about Unipixel. Much of what you've written is a formatted regurgitation of
information provided by Unipixel's mgmt that I believe cannot be trusted. The mgmt's share sale is the biggest
tell-tale sign. Given the polarizing nature of the situation, the mgmt has an wealth of private information. 4.5
million dollar they pocketed on Friday should be worth 40 million dollar by your estimation by year end. If they
believe in what they said, why would they sell???


03 Mar 2013, 09:46 AM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Again... the NDA expired.... please respond to that Xuhua, I am quite curious. There is a reason why Unipixel
is now counter-suing CIT.


03 Mar 2013, 09:55 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
I would suggest that you re-read my articles, Xuhua. When you do, you will see that I provide quite a bit of
evidence from independent third parties. The same cannot be said of your analysis. You've demonstrated an
obvious selection bias in your choice of "experts." Further, you have lied and told us that your "experts" are
unbiased. Your lies are on full display for all readers to see.


As for the CIT case, it seems we are in broad agreement that neither you nor I have enough information to
know the outcome of the proceedings. I would caution you, however, that relying on UNXL's marketing
material to understand the merits of CIT's arguments is unwise. The marketing material is intentionally vague
to protect IP - so much so that most long investors don't really understand the process. You understand even
less than most long investors, so trusting your judgment on the subject seems ill-advised.


03 Mar 2013, 10:53 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  ....Read the lawsuit....


03 Mar 2013, 11:01 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I'm not just relying on the marketing materials; it's clearly an important piece of evidence
though. When pieced together with other information, including representations made by the company's
scientists during investor/industry presentation and the company's patent filings, the paper I posted above has
far-reaching implications for UniBoss. I'd also point out this is the first and only occasion I see the Company's



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


own scientists admit to developing metal printing over the course of their TMOS research. I have forwarded
the paper to CIT's patent lawyers..maybe they will make good use of that if they haven't seen the paper
already. (Published in an obscure journal and requires paid access)..


03 Mar 2013, 11:08 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Xuhua, this paper wasn't obscure at all. I've had it for awhile and it means absolutely nothing. It describes
technology used in the TMOS process. So what? That's a separate and distinct technology from UniBoss.
Yes, some of the work in TMOS informed UniBoss, but how is it that you know exactly what work was
transferred? CIT doesn't know but that hasn't prevented them from taking a stab at it. They talk about Inkjet,
they talk about surface energy, they talk about palladium and microstructures used to manipulate conductive
materials. All of that was important in TMOS. ALL of it is not part of UniBoss.


There's a reason CIT is trying to have this matter handled in England. The market there is so small it wouldn't
matter if they won, so why do it? Why when the NDA clearly states it should be in Texas? Might it be because
they realize they don't have a case and this is all just a hail mary pass to make CIT look better in the eyes of
ATML?


03 Mar 2013, 01:22 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Having the dispute handled by a local state texas court rather than the England Hight Court
of Justice seems more out of the ordinary here....If you read the motion to dismiss, I think UNXL's venue
claim is questionable...


03 Mar 2013, 02:53 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
A local state texas court was the agreed upon location. If you think that is questionable, then go yell at CIT for
agreeing to it.


03 Mar 2013, 02:54 PM


adamkbice
I find it odd that you would base an entire short thesis on one side of an undecided legal battle.


Read UNXL's side of the court documents. Oh my God, there's no infringement at all and UNXL is the best
client ever!


Sorry you lost so much money. Let it go.


14 Mar 2013, 12:38 AM


kcchris



https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5439671

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5702301
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


It is interesting that the company has one customer signed up and requesting 1 million units a month and UNXL has
stated a second will be signed in 4-6 weeks or less. These very large companies don't seem to think the lawsuit is an
issue and obviously unlike you they feel Uniboss will be of good quality. These 2 partners alone will result in earnings
per share of $10-20 a year. If the company executes the share price will be far north of today's price.


I think this is an obvious attempt to lower the price so the 3.6 million short shares can be covered prior to the next
partner signing. Good luck. You are worried. I understand if I was short I would feel desperate too.


01 Mar 2013, 10:54 AM


jameskm03
Hi Mr. Z - I was wondering how long after the CC it would take for the professional shorts to come back to SA. Two
days after the CC to let all the excitement get spread around to a new all time high and here comes the short article
on SA bright and early that third morning. Just like clockwork.


Your article has two themes: 
1) UNXL in violation of SEC regulations for doing exactly what we thought they would do based on previous PR  
2) UNXL sharing vague business contracts without naming the partner.


Talk about the pot calling the kettle black because that is exactly what your article is doing too. As for the lawsuit
those of us who understand the implications feel fairly confident that worse case scenario CIT wins a royalty off UNXL
sales. A royalty sucks but it isn't meaningful enough to break the long term thesis on this growth story.


So at the end of the day the question is do I trust UNXL's management team or you? You claim they have a shady
track record but go to their site and look through the track record of the management team and board. I think I trust
them more.


Long UNXL


01 Mar 2013, 11:02 AM


giosef
This gui is a looser;He not understand that the market is so big that a company as unipixel can gain easy 5-10 4 a
share in a short time. 
Si instead to try to gain some buck in the downplay of share price is better for him accept its loss and then gain 70-80
buck in the upper side.The compaqny is profitable only with the 15 milion $ of thewengineering activity.And can gaion
hundreds million whit the uniboss tuch screen and diamond guard.also the material is suitable for flexible application
as can be apple watch.within weeks will be announced agrrement with anoter partner.And they want to licencxe
technology to some another produces.No more diluition for shareholders and ridiculu expense. In one year unxl will
be at 100


01 Mar 2013, 11:10 AM


JTB
CHARTS DON"T LIE, PEOPLE DO!!!!!


01 Mar 2013, 11:13 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1298051

https://seekingalpha.com/user/233225

https://seekingalpha.com/user/220042
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Rockin.Barry.O
BREAKING NEWS:: Firm that backs ITO says ITO replacement Very, Very Bad.


01 Mar 2013, 11:15 AM


Ringleader
I don't like getting into a bunch of rhetoric... I'm very new to stock investing, and I came across UNXL in December
2012. I like innovative concepts and believe that this company UniPixel is doing something creative. Whether i lose or
gain from my investment does really matter to me. It's a gamble regardless! My issue is people posting there opinion
to sway others opinions and influence there reactions. If UniPixel is in the wrong, let the system judge and punish
them accordingly. But if you aren't in the court to hear the evidence personally, and you weren't in the conference
room during the conversations between CIT and UNXL... be quiet.


01 Mar 2013, 11:18 AM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
I would like to point out that both the 2005 and 2006 agreements have since expired, and are therefore meaningless.
The 2010 agreement is still in affect, and explicitly states that any dispute would be tried in Texas. This has been
supported by previous cases by the Supreme Court.


Also, as Green River Asset stated, I fully suspect that Unipixel has not infringed on any copyrighted material.


01 Mar 2013, 11:33 AM


Aristides Capital, Contributor
Whether or not it is relevant to a short thesis, or will make a difference in this company's share price a year from now,
this company's behavior raises significant questions about compliance with Reg FD. The Williams note is only the
most recent example. The (wink, wink it's Dell and here are the terms; oh we can't actually release the terms in a
press release) OEM announcement is another glaring example.


I wouldn't short a company just because management doesn't play by SEC rules consistently. This is unlikely to
receive an enforcement action. But it doesn't make me feel good about management by any stretch.


01 Mar 2013, 11:37 AM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
The $5M was well known to investors pretty much since the deal was signed. If you didn't know about it, it is
because you didn't do your DD. It has been posted on numerous occasions on IV, Stocktwits, YMB, and other
websites. The same can be said about the 'phase one production' targets.


As for the ecosystem deal, I am sure that this was just a rumor UNTIL the conference call confirmed it. Most
likely Williams Financial Group knew that Unipixel was meeting with various companies (which is easy to
prove that meetings are happening), so they made a hypothesis and were correct. Good for them for doing
their DD.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/995465

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9289511

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/aristides-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


If you go fly out to Texas and camp near Unipixel's HQ, I'm sure you'll see Dell, Lenovo, Intel, and many other
companies constantly going in and out... which might lead you to make some assumptions. Unless it can be
proven that Unipixel directly told Williams Financial Group that they had a deal with a specific company... no
compliance rules were violated.


01 Mar 2013, 11:41 AM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Sorry I just don't buy it. A legitimate company does not disclose its first quarter guidance on
IV, Stocktwits and YMB...


01 Mar 2013, 11:50 AM


Aristides Capital, Contributor
Chris: ecosystem partner is Intel.


01 Mar 2013, 12:05 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
They didn't disclose it, it was known to be. This isn't "guidance for Q1 revenues", but a FIXED engineering
licensing fee. There is nothing to estimate or predict. If you had asked management what it would be, they
would respond $5M. Many investors did this. You could have as well.


01 Mar 2013, 12:06 PM


Aristides Capital, Contributor
Your assertion that "unless it can be proven... no compliance rules were violated" is tantamount to saying that
O.J. Simpson didn't kill his wife.


01 Mar 2013, 12:08 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Chris, there's a reason you cannot just call up Larry Ellison at Oracle to ask what its first
quarter revenue and EPS would be before they publicly released it to everybody. That's the whole reason why
we have Reg FD...The management of Unipixel is obviously oblivious of Reg FD...


01 Mar 2013, 12:10 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
You clearly misunderstood my comment. Let me attempt to be more clear. The law is regarding non-public,
material information. I agree that the information is material. The argument is whether or not it is (was) non-
public.


This relies on your definition of public information. Public information is not based on what is released via PRs
only, that would be foolish. As an example... Williams Financial Group had a PUBLIC call with Unipixel 2 days
before the OEM deal was announced, on which CEO Reed Killion clearly detailed the road map for the 60k



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/aristides-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/aristides-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


units in April. Just because you didn't take the time to dial-in to the call or do your research afterwards,
doesn't mean that it wasn't public information.


The exact same can be said for the $5M engineering fee. Unipixel was very public about this information and
openly discussed with anybody who asked that the total licensing fee would be in the $10-$20 million range,
in 3-4 payments of about $5M each. I knew this well before WFG's note on the 26th and even posted it in
several comments to my articles on SA, your articles on SA, and Richard Pearson's articles on SA... all of
which you have also commented on and therefore I know you get updates on.


Again, if you take the time to do DD... you wouldn't be surprised.


WFG did not ask Unipixel what their Q1 revenues would be, and they did not know. They did know that they
would be receiving this licensing fee, just as any investor knows that Oracle will be receiving all sorts of
revenues from its various products. WFG then took this information to do some analysis and estimate
Unipixel's Q1 revenues at $5M (which it may or may not be exactly), just as all analysts do the same for
Oracle.


01 Mar 2013, 12:20 PM


Aristides Capital, Contributor
Sorry, Chris. The SEC has said even Twitter is not an acceptable form for release of material information.
Anything material that is new to be said at an investor conference should be filed in an 8-K. Compare that to
the run-up in the two days BEFORE the Dell announcement, as well as the interesting details available from
analysts after the Dell announcement. Are you really unable to see anything negative about this company?


01 Mar 2013, 12:26 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  This is one of the most blatant violations of Reg FD I've seen yet. I would be shocked if the
management doesn't get a call from the SEC in the near term or somebody is asleep at the switch. It's not
about taking the time to do due diligence. The mgmt has a fiduciary duty to equally disseminate all material
information such as a blow-out first quarter revenue guidance. It cannot be hosting "public" calls with Williams
Financial or others..If it has something to say, it needs to put out a press release and host a truly public
conference call.


01 Mar 2013, 12:56 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Xuhua, your lack of experience is on full display here. If this is one of the most blatant violations of Reg FD
that you've seen, you are truly a babe in the woods.


Let's look at each of the "violations" that you cite in your note with respect the Williams preview:


"Uni-Pixel to recognize $5 million from the previously announced OEM in the first quarter."


-There are a million ways that this analyst could have guessed this without a violation. Perhaps management
mentioned that there were triggers in the contract and then gave a list of possible triggers (none of which



https://seekingalpha.com/author/aristides-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


would be material information). Perhaps this analyst detected that many of the early triggers had been met in
the course of his due diligence in speaking with partners, suppliers, ecosystem players, or customers. The
size of the payment would be easy to guess as the company had alluded to the total size of the contract in
broker conference calls and had mentioned it being broken into 3-4 tranches.


"The phase one production is to have 62,000 units per month of capacity available in April."


- This information stated on the previous conference call.


"Uni-Pixel has already ordered two more printers to be delivered in June and is in discussions with an
"ecosystem partner""


-This isn't very hard to figure out independently, Xuhua. For instance, you can find the printer OEM and find
an employee at that company who will speak with you. As for the "ecosystem partner," the company stated on
the 3Q conference call that they were talking with multiple partners. The company has also publicly listed the
types of partners they are speaking with - ecosystem, oem, odm, manufacturing, etc.. Williams probably did
some digging, spoke to supply chain contacts who operate in the ecosystem that is considering a partnership,
and connected the dots.


Xuhua, you jump to self-serving conclusions with very little support for your arguments. You haven't done
enough due diligence to fully understand the arguments that you put forth. Time and again you have mislead
readers on SA, and they are beginning to understand your game.


You've shown little ability to comprehend SEC Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K as shown above, but I
wouldn't waste your time getting more familiar with that particular code. You're better served become
acquainted with Rule 10b-5: Employment of Manipulative and Deceptive Practices.


Xuhua, there is no doubt in my mind that you have violated Rule 10b-5 multiple times in your articles on this
site. You've lied about management presentations made in the past, you've lied about an apparent coppery
color in a product demonstration, you've lied about UniPixel's patent portfolio, you have knowingly attempted
to deceive investors into believing arguments that are intentionally misleading.


Here's some more on 10b-5 so you can chew on it a bit:


It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, by the use of any means or instrumentality of
interstate commerce, or of the mails or of any facility of any national securities exchange, 
(a) To employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, 
(b) To make any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to
make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or 
(c) To engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon any person, 
in connection with the purchase or sale of any security."


If you (or those who have paid you? are taking profits on the artificial dips you cause in the stock price I would
think that you and your cohort will be answering to the SEC in short order.


01 Mar 2013, 03:37 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Without making this too public of a debate, you may want to check on some insider trading
rules....The SEC has really been cracking down on trading non-public material information..You should make
sure you obtained that $5 million guidance by means you discussed above...And frankly, I'm not sure if you
are too dumb to realize it is a scam or you are in it to begin with. Either way, like I said, the stock will run its
course...


01 Mar 2013, 03:47 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Once again, somebody lays out a well-versed argument against Zhou's article, and Zhou can only reply with
innuendo's and implications.


All readers, I highly suggest that you read Mr. Zhou's comment again and again until you realize that he
hasn't actually said anything at all.


"...you may want to check on some insider trading rules..." Why Mr. Zhou? What do they say? Is there an
issue that we are all missing?


"...to realize it is a scam..." is it a scam? Why? Please tell us!


"...like I said, the stock will run its course..." ??!?!? This literally means nothing. EVERY stock will run its
course. up? down? sideways? what course? Why that course?


01 Mar 2013, 03:56 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Sorry my time's valuable...I've made my case. I've got other names and positions to
watch..can't be twitting unipixel all day...


01 Mar 2013, 03:58 PM


examticles
I guess without referencing your dig on Green River, would it be bold of me to suggest that you seem to have
an ingrained culture that a less bigoted person might infer as inscrutably Chinese?


02 Mar 2013, 08:25 AM


bullchin
Isn't Rule Rule 10b-5 applicable to employees of brokerage or banks associated with Finra?


22 Mar 2013, 04:14 PM


Greenfire87
you mean like TSLA does??


25 Mar 2013, 01:18 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5526811

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


kowtowcow
haha the comments on this article have a vastly different sentiment than the comments on your first hit piece on
$UNXL. #lostcredibility


01 Mar 2013, 11:41 AM


SamsaricSufferer
THANK YOU VERY VERY MUCH. I bought at 21.60 today and am happy as can be. When I saw ZZ had written this
article I went and bought more just now. THERE IS NOTHING NEW HERE !!! The first time I got into this stock was
after it tanked in December following the filling of this law suit in the UK on Dec. 20th. Here is the link:


http://reut.rs/Z6Yc5X


After seeing the UNXL's reaction I bought at $10.80:


http://yhoo.it/13u9reN


Look at where it is now. I sold at 15.75, bought again when MR. Z published his first article here. I have done
extensive DD on this company and they are for real. Mr. Z is for real as well. He will really make money only if the
stock goes down. Please do not be swayed by Mr. Z. He is a avowed short and is losing his shorts with it selling at
these prices, if he sold short when he said he did. He is trying to cover here.


If you sold today because of this article you messed up. Thank you though for you shares. I am already in the green.


01 Mar 2013, 01:24 PM


Greenfire87
GREAT ARTICLE!! although I didn't read any of it.


Keep beating the price down so I can double up!!


unxl will be 30 or 40 $ very soon, so good luck w/your short position! Say goodbye sweet $$$, unxl is going to the
moon!


01 Mar 2013, 01:25 PM


Greenfire87
OK, now I read some, 
Just because unxl came up w/their tech. while using cit's tech. means nothing. You imply unxl stole cit's tech.
but state you know nothing about the technology?? Short & distort is what I'm hearing.


Also, If we look at that scenario w/another co; let's say FB, that little prick DID steal IP & tech. & what became
of that? How long did that take to resolve?


By the time it takes to go thru litigation unxl will be in the 70$ range & royalty payments (if found guilty) would
probably not hurt stock prices much by then, considering a 200% + rise within 2013.


04 Mar 2013, 10:27 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5622491

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UNXL

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1795251

http://reut.rs/Z6Yc5X

http://yhoo.it/13u9reN

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74456
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Foosie
UNXL has 18 employees. 
The Touch Panel Transparent Conductive Film TCF market is $956 million in 2012. Markets are anticipated to reach
$4.8 billion by 2019. ITO is an entrenched technology for displays manufacturing. Indium tin oxide (ITO) has been the
transparent conductive film technology for touch screens. Newer technology will erode ITO and provide improved
functionality as lower prices. Transparent conductive film supports electronic device usability.


Competitors: 
- 3M


- Calico Coatings'


- Cambrios


- DVTI


- Hitachi


- Honeywell


- Heraeus


- Kodak


- Nitto Denko


- OIKE & Co., Ltd


- Orthogonal


- Leonhard Kurz Stiftung & Co.KG


PolyIC


- Sumitomo Metal Mining Co


- Teijin Group


- Toray


- Wisepower / Unidym


- Transparent Conductive Film University Research


01 Mar 2013, 02:23 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
This is just full of misinformation as well....


Firstly, as per their 10k, they have 27 employees. This doesn't include the recent hire of Robert Berg, so really
they have 28. (I wonder why they've increased it so much from one year ago? Maybe due to all the production
they are building out!)



https://seekingalpha.com/user/74456

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Also, it is a well researched fact that the market is MUCH larger than $1B in 2012. "Notebook and all-in-one
PCs will help drive total touch screen module revenue to nearly $16 billion in 2012, and almost double to
$31.9 billion by 2018, according to the NPD DisplaySearch 2012 Touch Panel Market Analysis."


Unipixel's focus is the notebook and all-in-one PC space.


01 Mar 2013, 02:34 PM


ouijaman1
Doesn't matter who the competition is if they have a superior tech and financial backing from partners to hit
the ground running right now.


02 Mar 2013, 08:14 AM


kcchris
can you please explaind something to me. How can you revise your story and not explain why to everyone. this
morning when I read this there was an entire section devoted to some sort of expert that was actually the competition
that said the product was not cheaper than the competition and that the lines would be seen so the product was not of
good quality.


Can you tell us what the article said originally and why did you remove it?


You tell us management isn't to be trusted and you obviously are caught in one lie and remove the text so you are not
forced to defend it.


I think if you were to remove all the errors in this article most of the information would be gone. You accomplished
your task the price is down a buck or two.


I hope you covered because next week things will change.


01 Mar 2013, 04:26 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
I also noticed this. Now there is just a quote at the end stating:


(Editor's Note: A quote that appeared originally has been removed per the author's request.)


It was quite a lengthy quote. Seems odd that you would take the time to include it and then remove it. Is it
because it was proven to be false? Perhaps by GRA:


"Last, your final quote from the engineer at Multek is painfully outdated and is laced with all kinds of bias. This
came from when UniBoss was still using two separate sheets of PET! Xuhua, the technology has changed
quite a bit since this point and you know it. Line widths have narrowed, the company prints double sided, they
run plating in a roll to roll process - it's a much different product. Multek is obviously fairly vested in the ITO
process and they don't want to see metal mesh make their investment obsolete. They're not going to have
much of a choice I'm afraid. Your engineer friend will see how much metal mesh is embedded in large format
displays this coming fall and winter and will wish he had seen this transition coming. "



https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5702301

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Seems dishonest to put up an extremely important quote from an expert who has worked with Unipixel and
then take it down suddenly.


01 Mar 2013, 04:31 PM


SoldHigh
Ton of UNXL insider sells via option exercises hitting wires a/h today...


01 Mar 2013, 06:20 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  As an update, the management team of Unipixel sold on the open market a combined 225 thousand
shares via option exercises today and filed after the close; netting them over 4.5 million USD.


It's my view that the stock will be back to being 5 dollar a share in the very near term.


01 Mar 2013, 07:27 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
As an update, 225 thousand shares is about 7% of their total position. The executives receive most of their
compensation through options, not salary (this can be seen in the 10k), and are now simply giving themselves
a nice little bonus for all their hard work.


As smart investors always say: There are a million reasons for insiders to sell, but only one reason for
insiders to buy.


Don't let this sale distract you from the facts of Unipixel's future.


01 Mar 2013, 07:49 PM


ouijaman1
It seems obvious to me based on management's concerted small sells all on the same day, and at the end of
the fiscal year, that management simply gave themselves an end of the year bonus. End of story.


04 Mar 2013, 09:02 AM


silence_twain
shgreen: To quote Churchill, "A fanatic is one who can't change his mind and won't change the topic." You need to
relax. This is not a debate that will be won on SeekingAlpha or anywhere else. It will be won when we see what UNXL
reports for earnings and revenue. I would certainly be concerned that management is selling. For the record, I think
this is a great short.


01 Mar 2013, 07:35 PM


pahrah
Mr Z,



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1101345

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/954931

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


I can set my clock to your timing. I was expecting you and here you are.


That is why I sold my shares yesterday at $24. I had set $25, but missed by 5 cents the day before. I knew you were
going to show up as soon at the stock hit a new high.


Thank you for giving me yet another chance to make even more money. This too will pass and the stock will make
another run.


In all your due diligence, did you come across a fellow named Paul Tudor Jones? Certainly you must know it was
Tudor who hired Reed Killion to begin with. Care to discredit Paul Tudor Jones while you are at it?


I have said repeatedly, that the best way to make money now, is to swing trade UNXL. This is going to happen over
and over again for the next several months.


Sometime in September, when customers can run their finger over UniBoss screens at their local store, you will
disappear once and for ever into the fog. By year's end the stock price will likely hit $100 and you will become a
laughing stock here.


However, i won't be laughing at you. You will have made lots of sandwiches with your short selling and I will buy lot
expensive toys with my swing trading.


You give me the opportunity to do many swing trade, where I can make 5 to 10 times what a long will make.


I had set my next buy order at $20.50, but after seeing this article, I will hold off.


Mr Z, you are incredulous. I was all ready to take a ZZZZZiesta, but like roaches who only come out at night, here you
are Mr Zorro with your Zword in full daylight.


I imagine longs want to hang your from the yardarms. Not me. Between Chris and you, I am in swing trade heaven. It
doesn't get better than this. I'm shooting for 1,000% profit by September. After that, the sky is the limit.


01 Mar 2013, 07:57 PM


The Stock Miner, Contributor
You should really change your disclosure just a tad to:


"Disclosure: I am short UNXL and wayyyyyy underwater"


Nice try at a desperation hit piece though.


01 Mar 2013, 11:47 PM


ouijaman1
Stock is higher now that it was *before* this hit piece came out. I guess investors have decided who to believe and
who not to believe here.


02 Mar 2013, 07:52 AM


ouijaman1



https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-stock-miner

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Should be another nice pop in price when the next partner is formally announced this month. Get it near $20 while
you can.


02 Mar 2013, 08:14 AM


dbstrading
Nice try ....but we all know that your panicking. Better cover now...next stop 48.


02 Mar 2013, 09:07 AM


SamsaricSufferer
I am long UNXL.


I do my own due diligence on a stock such as Uni-Pixel (UNXL). I do not rely on Seeking Alpha articles to provide that
DD. I use SA articles as a starting point for further investigation.


INSIDER SALES DISSECTED:


"insiders might sell their shares for any number of reasons, but they buy them for only one: they think the price will
rise."


Peter Lynch


Though previously quoted on this thread this quote is worth repeating here.


I worked for Wal-Mart in a position that was awarded stock options. The options did not vest for several years. When
they vested I did not exercise them immediately. I would have to pay tax on my gains, the difference from the strike
price and what they were worth when exercised. Later, I had to exercise them or they would expire. I exercised them
and sold only enough stock to pay the taxes due. I held the remaining shares because I thought the stock was
undervalued. I later sold at a higher price than the strike prices of the original awards and the price at which they were
exercised.


I made those decisions based on my economic self interest. My decisions were legal and more importantly ethical.
The options were part of my compensation in my role with Wal-Mart and were designed to align my personal
economic incentives with those of Wal-Mart shareholders. My small time employee stock options were materially no
different than those of the UNXL executives except for one important aspect. The options were a much smaller
portion of my income than it is for C level executives. It is common for companies to reward their senior level
executives the largest part of their compensation as stock options. Base salary is often much less than half of total
compensation and in some case is a token such as $1. Warren Buffett’s salary at Berkshire Hathaway is $100,000 a
year.


http://huff.to/Vmm1c9


Lets do the math on the insider sales from 3/1/13. All percentages are rounded to the next closest whole percentage
point.


Bruce Berkoff - Director


options awarded 3/16/2007 and 1/28/2010.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/748361

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1795251

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/unxl

http://huff.to/Vmm1c9
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


10,000 options exercised  
10,000 shares sold 
Previously held 6,000 shares which remain


56,334 options remaining.


Total shares and options 62,334 or 86% of position remain, 10,000 shares or 14% exercised.


Acquired at $7.50 strike price and sold at $21.94.


http://1.usa.gov/XNCWAO


Reed Killion - CEO


options awarded 1/21/2011


50,000 options exercised  
50,000 shares sold 
Previously held 44,667 shares which remain.


369,834 options remaining.


Total shares and options 414,501 or 89% of position remains, 10,000 shares or 11% exercised.


Acquired at $6.93 strike price and sold at $22.32.


http://1.usa.gov/Vmm08e


Ross Young - Director


Options awarded 5/20/2008 and 1/28/2010


10,000 exercised 
10,000 shares sold 
6,000 shares remain


56,334 options remaining.


Total shares and options 62,334 or 86% of position remains, 10,000 shares or 14% exercised.


Acquired at $7.50 strike price and sold at $22.30.


http://1.usa.gov/XNCWAQ


Robert Petcavich - SVP


options awarded 1/21/2011


50,000 exercised 
50,000 shares sold 
26,000 shares remain


275,001 options remain



http://1.usa.gov/XNCWAO

http://1.usa.gov/Vmm08e

http://1.usa.gov/XNCWAQ
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Total shares and options 301,001 or 86% of position remains, only 14% exercised.


Acquired at $6.93 strike price and sold at $22.33.


http://1.usa.gov/Vmm1cf


Daniel Van Ostrand - SVP


options awarded 1-21-2011


40,000 exercised 
40,000 shares sold 
61,167 shares remain


159,001 options remain


Total remaining shares and options 220,168 or 85% of position. 
only 15% exercised.


Acquired at $6.93 strike price and sold at $22.35.


http://1.usa.gov/XNCWAU


Peter Shin - COO


options awarded 9-08-2011


25,000 exercised 
25,000 shares sold 
10,000 shares remain


54,000 options remain


Total remaining shares and options 64,000 or 72% of position, 28% exercised.


Strike price $6.00 
Exercise price $22.33


Acquired at $6.00 strike price and sold at $22.33.


Jeffery Tomz - CFO


options awarded 1-21-2011


40,000 exercised 
40,000 shares sold 
21,114 shares remain


193,003 options remain


Total remaining shares and options 214,117 or 84% of position remain, only 16% exercised


Strike price $6.93 
Exercise price $22.34



http://1.usa.gov/Vmm1cf

http://1.usa.gov/XNCWAU
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Acquired at $6.93 strike price and sold at $22.34.


http://1.usa.gov/Vmm1ci


With one exception, the executives or directors sold a range of 11 to 16% of their total holdings. The only exception
was Peter Shin, COO.


Mr. Shin exercised 28% of his holdings. Peter Shin, was recruited to UNXL from Samsung in September 2011. He has
the shortest tenure of the executive team. He has earned the least amount of options as compensation as a result. On
an absolute basis, Mr. Shin exercised options in line with the other C level executives. It was higher as a relative
percentage due to the smaller earned base.


http://buswk.co/XNCWAX


Other than my personal statement, everything in this post can be verified by the links provided.


The short thesis is that executives of UNXL have increased the share price through distortion, manipulation, and theft
of intellectual property. As a result of managements nefarious activities, UNXL is priced at an unsustainable level and
is due for a fall.


My thesis is that the employees of UNXL under the direction of a capable management team, have increased the
stock price through development of disruptive intellectual property to the point of commercial utility. I believe the
resultant technology has so many advantages over existing products that management was able to attract additional
non-dilutive capital through their contract with the major PC manufacturer believed to be Dell. I believe the stock price
will continue to increase as the employees and management continue to execute. I believe that investors such as
Kevin Douglas and Wellington Management are far too savvy to have been duped by an empty shell, pump and dump
company. I believe that the shorts are not sincere in their belief that the company is a sham. I believe they see the
huge increase in share price in a pre revenue company as an opportunity to dump and then pump their short thesis of
distortions and misrepresentations.


Now judge for yourself, as I have. Are these executives selling en masse, trying to bail out of a soon to be floundering
$5 a share company? Or are these executives, acting in their own enlightened, economic self interest and availing
themselves of a portion of the profits that they have returned to other long term shareholders such as Kevin Douglas.
The sales in questions were smaller portions of their holdings, exercised at prices almost triple the strike price when
awarded.


If I have a holding that triples in value, I guarantee you I will take some of profits. I would be a fool not to.


What would you do?


02 Mar 2013, 12:04 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
SamsaricSufferer,


Excellent and well-thought out post. One further item to add to your calculations is that management also
owns a little over 1 million warrants. This further lowers the % sold from around 12% to 7%.



http://1.usa.gov/Vmm1ci

http://buswk.co/XNCWAX

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


My simple calculation is: 225k shares sold, 3.3 million warrants/options = 7% of total position sold.


I believe that this further proves your point that there is nothing suspicious going on, just some well-deserved
bonuses being paid to executives.


02 Mar 2013, 12:27 PM


The Stock Miner, Contributor
Bottom Line why Mr Zhou wrote yet another flimsy hit piece....he and his short buddies are getting crushed!!! UniPixel
has another preferred pricing deal that will be signed in the very near future and they will start shipping finished
product to the PC manufacturer by the end of April. They all bet the wrong way and they are totally screwed.


Uni-Pixel, Inc. - Common Stock


Short Interest  
02/15/2013 3,643,849  
01/31/2013 2,465,748  
01/15/2013 2,106,565  
12/31/2012 983,249  
12/14/2012 667,479


02 Mar 2013, 12:14 PM


Niente
This article is full of biased and incorrect information, like it was the former article from the same write; obviously an
attempt to manipulate the share price of UNXL to reduce losses from the short position or anyway to profit from a just
opened short position. And unfortunately SA is as guilty as the writer, since publishing misleading information.
Eventually the SEC will enforce law and secure market maipulators to justice.


02 Mar 2013, 02:43 PM


pahrah
I'm not so sure all short sellers are getting burned here. I think Mr Z may be more sophisticated than you realize.


To make my point, let me tell you about my own most recent strategy. I had a "long" position" up to the $25 threshold.
I had set my profit limit sell stop at exactly $25. Anticipating that a short seller hit piece would surface somewhere
close to the William's target, I also entered a short sell limit at $25. Unfortunate for me, I was off by a penny or two, as
neither trade picked up.


When you have a stock like this one, where you got pumpers battling short sellers, each putting out their official
sounding "press releases", you can expect exactly what we are seeing, a lot of volatility.


I think Mr Z is smart enough to do something similar to my trading strategy that I last attempted. And he has a huge
advantage over me, in that he is able to manipulate the stock price with his hit pieces. He could have easily entered
into short sell just prior to putting out his latest dribble. I set $25 for my target. Maybe he set $24.50 as his. Then he
releases his SA piece. The after hours already shows UNXL at just under $20. If I had succeeded in my first short sell
ever, I might have covered come Monday. if I covered at $20, I would have picked up $5 per share. Anyone here care



https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-stock-miner

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3556651

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


to sneeze at making a 20% profit (5/25=0.20) in a few days? But I may have decided to be really greedy, thinking Mr.
Z hit piece would result in a drop all the way back to $15. Mr Z thinks $5 is possible (20/25=0.80). I personally would
have been delighted with an easy 20% to %40 quick profit. Mr Z is thinking long term, so the higher UNXL goes, the
higher profit potential he will realize if it ever does fall back to $5 a share as he claims.


If you are Mr Z, the higher UNXL goes, the greater the incentive to keep adding to your short sells.


In reality I personally have never yet completed a short sell. Last week is as close as I have ever come. That said, I
have stated that I would consider short selling UNXL if I felt it was grossly oversold. I've modified my position since
and now realize there is profit taking potential in the shorter term swing trade realm. As long as the battle continues
between shorts and longs, I expect a lot of price volatility to continue. We all know that hedge fund managers are
good at squeezing money with small price swings (think arbitrage). Even an idiot like me can make money in the giant
back and forth seen here.


So, what do you think? I think Mr Z might even be backed by some big bucks. I wouldn't be surprised if Mr Z doubles
down the higher UNXL goes. Maybe Mr Z is working part time for a hedge fund?


02 Mar 2013, 06:30 PM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
I think he works from the US arm of RBC Securities... Canada's largest banks' brokerage arm in the US.


That's not a hedge fund. And I don't think anyone licensed to work for one firm can work for another... conflict
of interest.


But interesting idea about swing trading -- I'd just do it with a more liquid stock =)


02 Mar 2013, 11:33 PM


pahrah
skylark99,


Mr Z has a very interesting past. From the good old days, 
http://bit.ly/WzChs3


Fun projects, 
http://bit.ly/13xqdcF


One smart cookie, http://bit.ly/WzF0lg 
Xuhua Zhou joined the doctoral program in finance in 2010 to learn the necessary methodology to conduct
proper empirical research in finance. His interests span liquidity-driven market inefficiencies to fundamental
equity research.


So what has Mr Z been up to lately, 
Xuhua Zhou is associated with Clairmont Capital Management, LLC with the role of Manager. 
http://bit.ly/15qyLQP


03 Mar 2013, 12:48 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

http://bit.ly/WzChs3

http://bit.ly/13xqdcF

http://bit.ly/WzF0lg

http://bit.ly/15qyLQP
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Transcend Asset, Contributor
That's assuming all the links above are going to the same Mr. Z though... and none of us knows that is so
unless it's confirmed =/


03 Mar 2013, 03:25 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Pahrah: No idea how big Clairmont Capital Mgmt is though... it's not Claremont (different spelling) sooooo...
this could mean anything or nothing. No website?


Also, all kinds of hedge fund managers can be wrong or right. Best way to decide is based on your
knowledge. Anything you can't internalize and make sense of means you're gambling.


This stock is still an unknown. I am not on either side.


The stock moves up and down 40 to 50 cents at a time. That's great for an up-trending stock. But horrible
when it's dropping. The next person willing to "catch" the falling knife is so far away. And recently, the bid
sizes have been very small compared to the asks.


03 Mar 2013, 03:43 AM


pahrah
skylark99,


Interesting you ask. Clairmont Capital Management, LLC lists a physical address of 3501 Lake Hollow Way,
Plano Texas. Zillow shows it as a single family home. I can't quite pin down whether Clairmont Capital
presently has two or three employees. Some information indicates the group consists of Chen Eden, Pawan
Melgiri and Mr Z. Pawan Melgiri and Chen Eden are listed as having once worked together for Lightmark
Capital LLC in LA. Not that it means anything, but Plano Texas is about a 7 hour drive to the Woodlands
where UniPixel is headquartered. It seems that they went to at least one or two schools together.


It is interesting as Mr Z seems to be going for his PHd at Anderson School of Management at UCLA. If the
information is correct, I'm curious as to whether Mr Z goes to school in LA and works for Clairmont Capital
Management, LLC (which has a physical address that is single family residence in Plano Texas). I'd be
interested in knowing how that works.


One should also be aware that Mr Z appears to subscribe to Muddy Water Research, who seems to
specialize in all things, short selling.


Normally I wouldn't take much interest in any particular individual, but in order to do proper due diligence on
UniPixel, one must do research on Mr Z, as he has demonstrated twice now, that he is fully capable of
manipulating UNXL stock price.


I hope that others who are investing in UniPixel will help in this due diligence effort to connect the dots and
cross the T.s of the major mover and shakers, just as they would do with Reed Killion and others.


I really haven't verified much of anything, other than do some basic Internet searches. I don't even know if I've
scratched the surface, and further research might uncover some interesting connections. Mr Z appears to



https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


have an interesting and varied past. Next I want to learn about any connections to Shanghai that might play a
part.


I've never done this before, so if you are interested as I am, then let's all do are own due diligence.


03 Mar 2013, 09:34 AM


Greenfire87
Mr.Zhou is quite a sneaky little guy,


Should be noted that he has been assuming a secret identity (ECD Fan) & continuing his misleading short
info. on other unxl articles. Not until we hit his "spaz" button did this get revealed.


Purposeful misinformation indeed Mr.Zhou/ or should we call you "mini-me".


25 Mar 2013, 11:47 AM


pahrah
skylark99, Mr Z shared with me a while back a snapshot from what looked to be an Interactive Brokerage account
involving millions of dollars in different trades. I think he was trying to impress with me the huge amount of money he
was in control of.


I noted above I would consider short selling if I felt UNXL was grossly oversold. I meant to say grossly overbought.


You'd be amazed at just how liquid UNXL trades. I usually trade to within a penny, so I don't think that should hold you
back. Of course, I'm not trying to unload 40,000 shares, so I guess liquidity could be an issue if you trade the really
big bucks. Why not make a tiny wager and see for yourself? UNXL could very well drop into the teens on Monday (or,
who knows, maybe just the opposite). Why not watch it and buy back as soon as it shows signs of recovery. I don't
know how much you can afford, but for $2,000 you probably can buy more than a 100 shares on Monday. Then sit
back and relax. If it drops another 10 to 20%, consider buying another 100 shares. Sit back and relax. Consider
putting in a $10 stop loss limit just in case Mr Z manages to totally tank the stock (highly unlikely).


If you aren't too greedy, consider putting in a sell order at something around $25, maybe a little higher. Take your
profits and wait for the next round.


What may also happen is that one of Mr Z proteges may soon put out a follow up hit piece to see if they can shake
out any more longs and tank the stock.


I was surprised last week to find that I am able to short sell UNXL with my Vanguard account. I had heard short selling
UNXL was difficult if not impossible.


I think I will likely attempt to short sell UNXL the next time when and if it reaches $28, assuming there haven't been
any official company press releases that would cause the stock to soar. I think the nonsense will come to an end once
customers can actually purchase products made with UniBoss. That should be sometime around September of this
year.


03 Mar 2013, 12:16 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Thanks - while everyone is agonizing over UNXL and placing bets both ways, I've been having a good time
with DELL, HP, BBRY, and ODP.... things that I got in at a deep value.


I have no interest in getting on to something that has unresolved lawsuits *and* unconfirmed sources of
profits.


There's also a lot of money to be made in biotech.


03 Mar 2013, 03:19 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Pahrah: I think UNXL is supposed to release an earnings report soon. Probably in the next week? unless that
conference call was supposed to cover for it.


I have no idea where the stock is going... and as I vaguely remember... Buffett says to find a short pole to step
over and not a 10 foot pole.


I've got other possibilities to tackle. And I never want to hold more than 20 items so.... UNXL will just have to
wait or be passed up =)


03 Mar 2013, 03:24 AM


pahrah
I got a surprise this morning. Last night I had put in a short sell order at $28. It seemed to have accepted it.
However, just now I see that Vanguard rejected my order telling me that UNXL isn't available to short sell. If i
could have entered a short sell position, it would have only been a short term swing trade, a week or two at
the very most.


So now my question becomes, for those of you here that have sold UNXL short, what platform do you use? I
have set my buy order in at $16 this morning. I may move that up towards $19. This highest I will go is $20.
Anything above $18 is strictly a day trade.


When and if the stock reaches $28, I'd really like to short it, but I need the name of a platform that allows it.


04 Mar 2013, 08:58 AM


Greenfire87
Parah,


Why don't just sell on the spike & buy back in on the dip. I've done this twice now & made thousands.
Although now I'll just keep adding at this point, don't want to miss the coming action!


25 Mar 2013, 11:54 AM


pahrah
 
Hi Greenfire87,



https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


As a swing trader on many stocks, I have done this with UNXL many times now. I have done quite well with
UNXL. I really don't want to exchange actual numbers, as I have been criticized heavily about discussing my
"huge" successes trading UNXL. Apparently, it sounded like I was bragging to some. You would have to go to
the SA "Best" UNXL article to understand why I don't want to discuss actual numbers and my trading
strategies. I finally decided the best thing to do was to vote myself off the island. If I hadn't, the tribe was
about to. I don't even read the "Best" article anymore, let alone post there. Just suffice it to say, UNXL has
been extremely kind to me. I originally bought xxxx shares below $5. I was seriously considering helping my
son buy a home with the proceeds.


25 Mar 2013, 12:38 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Just speak in % as opposed to $s. For example, if you bought 10k shares at $5 and it now trades at $30 (for
easy math), instead of saying that you made $250k, just say that you made 500% :)


Personally, I don't really care about $ values. But I know that some people think that announcing "wealth"
implies some sort of superiority, while announcing "poorness" implies a lack of sincerity (e.g. Buy the dips, I
bought 2 more shares today!)


25 Mar 2013, 12:52 PM


Greenfire87
Pahrah,


I neither wish to know your #'s. Just saying to sell & buy seemed to be relatively safe, w/good action. Glad to
hear your also doing well!  
See you in the winners circle! Oh, wait, we're already there!


25 Mar 2013, 01:26 PM


Greenfire87
I didn't want to do the math, when I say "thousands" is just to show profitability, no actual #'s. I do agree. It
irks me a bit when I hear #'s & not %. The #'s can/are totally misleading.


25 Mar 2013, 01:32 PM


ouijaman1
Funny parah, in January you say you first bought UNXL in the "low five's". Now its below 5. Get your story
straight.


25 Mar 2013, 02:51 PM


Greenfire87
Pahrah,



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/S

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Now that I re-read this post, you may want to go back & re-read some posts yourself. April is a target date, a
big one, & only ONE week away. Any shorting even close to this critical date could blow-up in your face. Use
caution


25 Mar 2013, 04:39 PM


pahrah
Anyone is welcome to read, but ouija man1 is the one making the allegation.


First, in order to follow the special guidelines, I'll do my best to avoid using actual dollar amounts and
quantities. Let's use the per unit system instead. To make it easy, let's make 5 the basis. The per unit system
is common to engineers, but should be easy for you to follow. It is specifically designed to simplify and to
avoid dealing with big numbers.


I first bought a position after a big decline in early August 2011 at close to 1.05 per unit. Shortly, thereafter in
early August 2011, I doubled down with buy close to 0.96 per unit. These purchases in early August 2011
formed my core position. What I refer to as a core position, others might think of as a long position.


As time passed, there were a number of days when I increased my overall position. To keep it simple, let's
just say, that all these trades often exceeded 1.2 or more per unit. The ultimate size of position should be
unimportant to this discussion. The first time UNXL had a major breakout, I sold most of my shares at close to
3.84 per unit. Since then I've held a much smaller core position and have been swing trading at opportune
times. My last trade was close to 6.2 per unit.


I did my best to address ouijaman1's allegations.


Glad to be of service.


25 Mar 2013, 07:50 PM


ARNA54
@author Xuhua. 
Great article. You're right


03 Mar 2013, 01:18 AM


pahrah
Mr Z,


Medaline copyright infringement. That is against the law!


http://bit.ly/1606uC7


http://bit.ly/13xtxVd


03 Mar 2013, 01:41 AM


pahrah
ARNA54, thanks for the tip. Is it better to buy the product or the stock?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3996881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

http://bit.ly/1606uC7

http://bit.ly/13xtxVd

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Did you know they are going to shut down the Yahoo message board?


http://bit.ly/XitgSB


03 Mar 2013, 01:54 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Hmm... MJNA is OTC? Pahrah appears to be an average investor. I am not sure this is a suitable investment
for someone retired.


If cashflow and income is a concern, you should consider some decent income producing stocks and not
going around chasing a bunch of OTCs. Even if the company files with SEC, the fact that it has yet to make it
to a large exchange such as NYSE or NASDAQ means there is significant risk. Trades are not transparent.
You are given a bid/ ask and you take it. Nobody might be on the other side.


Just a word of caution for Pahrah and others.


03 Mar 2013, 03:15 AM


pahrah
skylark99' 
You missed my not so subtle attempt at humor. I asked if was better to buy a baggie of weed. In my case, with
the severe chronic pain I suffer, the weed might have at least some value. But thanks for looking out for me.
Very kind hearted indeed.


As far as OTC, I bought some MRIC a couple of weeks ago. I don't plan at looking at it really for a few years.
Pure speculation. Willing to lose it all, or make a ten bagger, only time will tell. I sometimes place small bets
on OTC with no intention of trading. I call them hold them and hope trades.


I'm extremely spread out owning up to several hundred positions at any given time. I could send you my list
and you could analyze?


03 Mar 2013, 04:52 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Pahrah --


Umm... not sure I have that kind of time -_-" It's tempting but I think that's like a few days worth of analysis to
really reach any conclusion LOL.


One thing immediately comes to mind: you're soooo overdiversified, no matter what you gain, your losses
balance you out so much, I wonder if you can even do 20% - 30% returns a year??


Adequate diversification has been written about and mostly pegged at between 12 to 20 stocks in various
industries/ sectors.


04 Mar 2013, 02:19 AM



http://bit.ly/XitgSB

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


pahrah
Well, I made 25% last year with a couple dozen stocks at any one time. Thousands of trades, but never too
many stocks at any one time. This year, I'm ahead but not by that much. So, you are probably onto
something. It's just that I've become addicted to stocks. Who needs weed when you got stocks to get high.


Here is my dilemma. I've given myself about $500k of play money. I want to double or triple it so I can put the
grandkids through college. The bulk of my money is held in very conservative investments. And we have
enough pensions and annuities to take care of us into old age. I found out the hard way, how painful it is when
I have, say $30k or more in one stock, and it get's cut in half after earnings. I decided that I should spread it
out, which means lots and lots of positions. The last week or two, I thought maybe I should keep 1/2 on the
sideline and make really big day trades. However, because I have a large margin account, I can already make
really big day trades.


Problems, problems. I did better when the market was trading sideways that it is now when it has been up.
However, I sat in front of my computer all day long. Now, I just trade for an hour or two a day at most.


04 Mar 2013, 02:38 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Nice problems to have -- anyways, I have written to you on SA's email feature. Hope you are able to receive
=)


04 Mar 2013, 01:59 PM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Pahrah: when you notice the stocks that are down a lot starting to come back, it's probably due to an
upcoming earnings report. You can decide if you want to get out of your stock before the report hits (because
you don't believe it will be good) or you can place stops and ride it through. Hope that helps =)


04 Mar 2013, 03:07 PM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Pahrah, there's an article on weed today on SA. HAHAHAHA!


http://seekingalpha.co...


05 Mar 2013, 09:22 AM


ARNA54
@pahrah. Thanks for the link. 
My opinion: Buy the stock MJNA (or any other marijuana stock that you like 
Go to THCBIZ.com to see others) 
MJNA filed with SEC/OTC and this is good 
Go to MJNA's website to find more info. Don't take my word for it.


Go to Yahoo finance, key in MJNA to find more.


03 Mar 2013, 02:35 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/a/qq5t

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3996881
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


SamsaricSufferer
@ARNA54


When I saw your quote,


"@author Xuhua. 
Great article. You're right"


I thought "what is he smoking?" Then I saw your profile.


"I am a medical marijuana stock investor"


Smoking weed and spamming other stock threads. Nothing wrong with smoking rope, the spamming is what
is obnoxious.


03 Mar 2013, 02:36 PM


pahrah
Call it coincidence, but I just received this in my email box,


 
"Getting High on Your Own Supply


Two years ago, I predicted America's War on Drugs would end.


Most people are against it, as the costs in people and treasury are too high. The U.S. incarcerates 743 people
out of 100,000 — the most in the world, and well above places like Canada, with rates of 117 per 100,000.


In the 25 years since the passage of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act, the United States penal population rose from
around 300,000 to more than two million.


The Drug War has been a spectacular failure. Our rights as citizens have been drastically eroded, our wallets
have been raped, small town cops have been transmogrified into paramilitary toll thugs, and drugs have
never been more abundant.


It is no wonder that, after many years, the tide has started to turn...


There are now 18 states that allow some form of legal medical marijuana. In two states, it is now legal to
smoke pot for recreation. Even New York City has declared it will no longer arrest people for possession of
marijuana if they don't have any outstanding warrants. And my home state of Maryland has bills moving
through the capital that will decriminalize the chronic.


New Fed Bill


Just this week, a bipartisan group of 13 U.S. House members introduced the States’ Medical Marijuana
Patients Protection Act allowing medical marijuana patients and businesses to access and distribute cannabis
without federal interference in states that have voted to legalize pot.


The Feds are using tax codes and other shenanigans to overrun the state laws and go after all levels of the
cannabis business. House members from legal pot states want to end this meddling from the Feds; they want



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1795251

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


to tax weed producers as they do tobacco and alcohol — but first, they need successful companies.


The bill aims to close the gaps between federal and state laws. This particular bill is unlikely to pass, but the
wind of change is blowing... and the momentum is on the side of legalizing marijuana.


We are at the start of a booming new industry.


Businessweek predicts the pot industry will explode into a hundred-billion-dollar bonanza when the federal
government overturns existing laws that criminalize the cultivation, distribution, and possession of the plant or
any THC-infused product.


This rings true.


Money to be Made


There are plenty of new companies springing up and waiting to cash in. Most of them are penny stocks; none
are making money and many won't be around in a few years.


That said, the share prices are flying — which opens the door for profitable speculation...


GrowLife Inc. (OTCBB: PHOT)  
Growlife, Inc. manufactures and markets horticulture and lifestyle products through its subsidiaries in the
United States and internationally. It offers LED lights for indoor growing; wireless monitoring and control
equipment to operate grow room functions; and plant growing systems and accessories, including nutrients,
media, timers, controls, and automated water accessories.


Share price: $0.07 
Market cap: $23 million 
Revenue growth of 120.70% to $991k 
PE: N/A


HEMP Inc. (OTCBB: HEMP)  
Hemp, Inc. focuses on supplying services, products, and information related to the medical marijuana
industry, or to those who have an affinity for the medical marijuana industry. The company is designing a
website to offer news, issues, entertainment, and education on medical cannabis issues, as well as
developing proprietary software for transaction processing, MIS, a loyalty program, and social network
management.


Share price: $0.75 
Market cap: $58 million 
$28k in revenue  
Revenue growth: N/A 
Earnings: zip


Hemp doesn't seem like a winner...


The Best Free Investment You'll Ever Make


Stay on top of the hottest investment ideas before they hit Wall Street. Sign up for the Wealth Daily newsletter
below. You'll also get our free report, Wealth Daily's 2013 Gold Outlook.
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Medical Marijuana Inc. (OTCBB: MJNA) 
MJNA is a bigger fish in the guppy pond. Medical Marijuana Inc. operates in the medical marijuana and
industrial hemp markets. Its products range from patented- and proprietary-based cannabinoid products to
whole plant or isolated high-value extracts specifically manufactured and formulated for the pharmaceutical,
nutraceutical, and cosmeceutical industries.


The company also offers services — including development of cannabinoid-based health and wellness
products and medical-grade compounds, as well as licensing of its proprietary testing, genetics, labeling,
packaging, tracking, production, and standardization methods for the medicinal herb industry.


Share price: $0.29 
Market cap: $218 million 
Quarterly revenue was up 1,369% year over year 
Earnings: zilch 
Price-to-book ratio: 25


 
MedBox Inc. (OTCQB: MDBX), the pot vending machine 
Medbox, Inc., through its subsidiary Prescription Vending Machines, Inc., engages in developing a patented
machine that dispenses medication to individuals based on biometric identification. Its flagship product,
MedBox, is an automated medicine dispensing machine that utilizes biometrics to identify users before
dispensing and electronics to verify the physician s' recommendation remains active.


The company's MedBox allows pharmacies, hospitals, doctors' offices, and alternative medicine clinics to
manage employee possession of sensitive drugs.


MedBox has a market cap of $385 million, a $35 share price, no earnings, falling revenue, and not much
cash.


Story Stocks


The great thing about stocks without earnings is that they aren't easily quantified. Speculators don't have to
worry about pesky things like earnings.


That means they move on news and all sorts of future projections that are created on the backs of napkins. In
other words, the sky's the limit...


I've seen sector estimates vary from $10 billion to $120 billion. These estimates are based on user numbers,
cost per joint, taxes, and so on.


To look at it another way, the tobacco and alcohol industries run about $280 billion a year. Pot use is much
less than that, maybe by as much as one-tenth. Still, the total market capitalization of the top five public
companies is under $600 million.


There is plenty of speculative upside.


If you are going to take a flyer, be sure you buy on the dips and take profits fast.
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


That said, if the Feds legalize pot, stop enforcing the current laws, or rerate its legal status in some way, these
stocks could launch.


All the best,


 
Christian DeHaemer


@TheDailyHammer on Twitter


Since 1995, Christian DeHaemer has specialized in frontier market opportunities. He has traveled extensively
and invested in places as varied as Cuba, Mongolia, and Kenya. Chris believes the best way to make money
is to get there first with the most. Christian is the founder of Crisis & Opportunity and Managing Director of
Wealth Daily. He is also a contributor for Energy & Capital. For more on Christian, see his editor's page."


I totally agree with SamsaricSufferer, this is not the place to be spamming hemp.


The views above are not my own and be advised that investing involves risk.


04 Mar 2013, 02:04 AM


SamsaricSufferer
UNXL's short interest increased almost 47.8% from 1/31 to 2/15. Shares sold short increased by 1.2M shares to 3.6M
shares or 42.3% of the float. It would take approximately 5 days to cover at an average volume of 685K. 
http://on.barrons.com/... 
The share price closed at 19.65, a new 52 week and all time high, on 2/15. UNXL has not closed below 18.58 since
then. UNXL has not traded below 18.40 intraday since then. UNXL closed last Thursday 2/28/13, at a new all time
high of 23.60. Intraday it traded at a HOD of 25.00. 
http://bit.ly/XD78AL 
Anyone who has shorted the stock is losing money. 
(Please note that everything above are facts that can be verified by the links provided. Below is my opinion) 
Statement of biases: 
I am long UNXL. I find nothing unethical about selling a stock short. I am holding several short positions at this time. 
IMO, anyone who has shorted the stock has seen the potential for much greater losses to come. The chart and the
momentum in the stock has been nothing but bullish. The only thing a short can do now is buy to cover their position
and book their losses OR seek to drive the price down long enough to cover their position and perhaps even make a
profit. This is going to be more or less difficult depending on the size of your position. If you only shorted a few
hundred to few thousand shares you should be able to cover. You can cover on an intraday dip and not take too much
of a pounding. 
However, if you are holding a large short position, say 50K shares, then you have a problem due to the low float and
relatively low trading volumes. You can not buy a 50K block without bidding the price considerably higher as your
order sucks up the available shares. Use the second link above to verify this. It is to UNXL's chart on
stockcharts.com. Set the chart attributes period to 3 or 5 minutes to get a feel for the "minute to minute" trading. 
I think Mr. Zhou is trying desperately to drive the price down by using tactics like this SA article. Firms such as Citron
Research, Muddy Waters Research, TheStreetSweeper.org do a very good business focusing strictly on short
positions. A vital part of their strategy is publishing and broadly disseminating their research by PR’s in order to



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1795251

http://on.barrons.com/101M37h

http://bit.ly/XD78AL
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


produce a drop in the share price and a profit for them. All of their websites include a legal disclaimer in which some
form of disclosure of their short positions is made. They have to do this or they are breaking the law. I posted the
disclaimer from TheStreetSweepers.org because it states their motivations and biases clearly. The emphasis via caps
is theirs not mine.


“THE STREET SWEEPER'S OWNERS DO HOLD STOCKS IN COMPANIES THAT ARE REVIEWED ON THIS
WEBSITE and may take long or short positions in the securities of any publicly traded company at any time before or
after the company is the subject of, or otherwise discussed or referred to in articles or other writing on our website.
THESE POSITIONS WILL AFFECT OUR OBJECTIVITY” Legal Disclaimer -TheStreetSweepers.org


I am long UNXL. While I try to think objectively about my ownership of UNXL, I understand that subconsciously that
ownership could potentially cloud my judgement. Unlike Mr. Zhou, I constantly entertain the bear thesis and it’s
possibilities. Nobody like to lose money. Not me, Not Mr. Zhou.


Mr. Zhou has made his short position clear. I think Mr. Zhou has advised others to sell short. I think Mr. Zhou is
strongly advocating his position on SA for personal and more importantly for him, for professional reasons. He has to
influence the stock price in any legal way possible to redeem himself. I think his posts show clear bias with his
emphasis on taking a few documented facts, like the existence of the CIT lawsuit, and seeking to color and distort
their significance far beyond reality. He also makes many statements that he has not offered any evidence for. He has
no clue how the Williams analyst came by his projections. Despite that he states it as a fact that is was an illegal
disclosure of material information. His stating it as fact does not make it so.


03 Mar 2013, 11:02 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Very well put, another great comment.


03 Mar 2013, 11:08 PM


ouijaman1
I'd like to add that Mr. Zhou's timing could not have been better because the price was going to retreat for a
couple days anyway on profit taking following the sharp gains last week. A test of the gap and possibly even a
close of that gap to $20 was possible even without Mr. Zhou's poorly supported article. So he gets to take
some professional credit for success even though the technicals should actually be getting the credit. Anyone
familiar with technical analysis would agree.


04 Mar 2013, 08:38 AM


SamsaricSufferer
I agree on the technical setup. Gaps are more often filled than not. Some indicators like MFI and Full Stoch
indicate short term overbought. A healthy consolidation is in order. I agree that any retrace would be due to
the technicals and correlation with Mr. Z's article would be casual and not causal.


04 Mar 2013, 09:02 AM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1795251

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


For those who didn't see, my new SA article was published this morning. It refutes some of the points in Zhou's article
as well as offering up a full perspective of the opportunity and the risks within UNXL.


I am long.


http://seekingalpha.co...


04 Mar 2013, 12:20 PM


jsIRA, Marketplace Contributor
Latest News:


UNXL is working with FujiFilm for next generation of cheap touch screen.


link (in Chinese):


http://bit.ly/YqMHo5?I5F9tMCP+dLpAxZ6tPwWU...


UNXL may see $100 by year end.


12 Mar 2013, 10:52 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
retry link?


12 Mar 2013, 11:00 PM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
James, can you repost the link? It's not parsed correctly by SA.


12 Mar 2013, 11:04 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Bogus news....


13 Mar 2013, 12:14 AM


jsIRA, Marketplace Contributor
It is not bogus. The news is reported by World Daily today, which is the number one Chinese Newspaper in the US.


I will try to make the link workable. But it is in Chinese.


13 Mar 2013, 01:49 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
I'll look at the Chinese =)


I am suspecting it's just a translation of the Bloomberg article about alternative technologies... alternates to
ITOs. But lets have a look when you get the link working or show us how to get there =)



https://seekingalpha.com/a/qmz3

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jsira

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=jsira&source=comment_author_tag

http://bit.ly/YqMHo5

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jsira

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=jsira&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


13 Mar 2013, 02:05 AM


jsIRA, Marketplace Contributor
Go to my instablog by clicking the link.


UNXL - Another Partnership may be in the working:


http://seekingalpha.co...


13 Mar 2013, 02:01 AM


jsIRA, Marketplace Contributor
If you can read Chinese, then go to worldjournal.com for March 12 e-paper edition and go to D6 page.


13 Mar 2013, 02:09 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Ok, I randomly picked an edition and the San Fran D6 does not have the article. Which city are you in? Funny
you should even be looking in a Chinese paper haha!


From your screenshot it said that Atmel was working in partnership with Unipixel. Is that even true? Fujifilm
was mentioned earlier as also working on the same alternative cheaper material.


I am so far inclined to conclude this news is incorrectly translated from English. But let me know which city or
I'll be awhile digging through all kinds of D6s.


13 Mar 2013, 02:20 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
James,


I have now looked at the e-Paper edition. I would not rely on the Chinese edition. It is attempting to translate
the Bloomberg article found here: http://bloom.bg/WXlXMw


While the Bloomberg says in paragraph 3 that all sorts of companies are working on new approaches, the
Chinese edition says they are working TOGETHER.


I think it's a matter of misreading the English. Unless you believe the English to be a translation of the
Chinese and a mistranslation of the Chinese.


Personally, I am inclined to believe the Bloomberg came first. My parents tend to garble up the news on tv as
they attempt to process/ translate the English into Chinese to understand it. My sister and I usually just shake
our head and run away.... I think this is one of those instances. Bogus news as Xuhua says!


13 Mar 2013, 02:33 AM


jsIRA, Marketplace Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/jsira

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=jsira&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/p/z8yj

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jsira

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=jsira&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

http://bloom.bg/WXlXMw

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jsira

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=jsira&source=comment_author_tag
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


it is Los Angeles edition, March 12. This is only used for your reference. Chart is quite bullish though. It did
not pull back as it has previously.


13 Mar 2013, 11:10 AM


Transcend Asset, Contributor
Yeah, everyone is waiting for that do or die moment, March 19....


Lack of action speaks volumes LOL


13 Mar 2013, 12:39 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  .......Good luck holding Unipixel if you think it's collaborating with fujifilm and ATML.....


13 Mar 2013, 12:30 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Thanks Xuhua. I'm feeling quite confident in my position given that I am way in the money. How does it feel to
be underwater by at least 25% since your article?


13 Mar 2013, 12:32 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
I don't think its collaborating with fujifilm or ATML. I think those are competitors, but the pie is plenty big for all
3 + others. I also think that EPS will be > $1 in 2013 and > $20 in 2014


13 Mar 2013, 12:41 PM


pahrah
Chris,


You are doing options and not buying the underlying? Isn't that showing some lack of conviction? Either that,
or you can't afford the underlying? I really have to set up my option account in the next day or two.


I am probably hanging my butt out by buying the underlying.


13 Mar 2013, 04:15 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
I have both options and underlying. Many of my options are deep in the money, others are out of the money. I
use options for leverage, not to limit downside.


13 Mar 2013, 04:18 PM


pahrah



https://seekingalpha.com/author/transcend-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


How are you able to figure what percentage Mr Z is underwater? I'd like to be able to track those kind of stats
myself.


22 Mar 2013, 05:33 PM


pahrah
Chris,


Do you know if any of your underlying shares are being used to enable shorts?


I received a letter a while back from Vanguard telling me that they could use my shares in my margin account
and that I would receive interest if they did. I assume they were referring to both options and short selling.
The same happened with my son's Schwab margin account.


If we want to continue to own UNXL in our margin accounts, how do we prevent our brokers from utilizing
them in short sells? It makes zero sense why anyone would want their shares to work against themselves.


23 Mar 2013, 10:45 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Hi pahrah,


I called up my broker and specifically requested them not to loan out my shares. Anybody can do this if you
want to.


23 Mar 2013, 11:14 PM


pahrah
I will call Vanguard Monday. I wonder if it will impact my margin account? I'll find out when I call. thanks


23 Mar 2013, 11:21 PM


bullchin
When you trade on margin you are letting them use your stock to loan out for shorts so in effect if you don't
want to loan then you have to remove your margin status by coming up with more money or sell stock to pay
your broker back. This will reduce your gain for sure.  
Depending on your % on margin, a 10% drop in price could trigger a margin call on your account. In this case,
it would be about 3 dollars drop.  
I believe the loan and margin is called hypotheication and it is within your margin agreement. Hope this helps.


24 Mar 2013, 06:56 AM


ouijaman1
That's exactly what I did, declined margin on the account so they couldn't loan my shares out.


24 Mar 2013, 10:38 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Greenfire87
cuncurr


25 Mar 2013, 12:03 PM


Greenfire87
Just to note,


Even if your broker loans out your stock to shorts, it will have no negative affect on your holdings specifically,
just the stock price in general, allowing short squeeze to increase, thus potentially increasing longs future
gains to increase, once contracts are announced. I personally welcome shorts to keep adding, I for one could
the extra $$.


Also, I think we have enough credible info. to make a sound judgment. There should be NO question of
weather unxl is going to the moon, just when. Sometime early April. There should be no fight atml against
unxl, safe to say both WILL be profitable. The only question you should be asking yourselves is who is
capable of the MOST profit. Step back & look at the big picture here. Seems pretty simple to me.


25 Mar 2013, 12:40 PM


Greenfire87
Touching on the lawsuit,


Any semi-experienced investor should know that this lawsuit will NOT have such a dramatic effect on the
price, as Zhou implies. Are you afraid you will only make 187% by years end, instead of 210%?? Again, lets
look at the bigger picture here folks, this is a tremendous opportunity here, don't squander it on misleading
info.


25 Mar 2013, 12:53 PM


Xuhua Zhou, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Well make no mistake, it's a frustrating short and the scam went from being pretty stupid to really
stupid. I remain 100% convinced its a scam and it's going to 5..I'm very curious as to how Mr.Killion is going to spin
the story at Roth without getting himself in jail after the scam unravels. Delicate balance to strike as I'm sure his
counsel has advised him on...Also he probably wants to spend the cool million buck he just cashed with unipixel
stocks..


13 Mar 2013, 12:46 PM


bullchin
Great in depth research.


22 Mar 2013, 04:09 PM


pahrah
Andrew Left has commented on UNXL. If there is any funny business going on; and if any one can get to the bottom
of it; he is the dude. He picked up on some foul fish scent - hopefully it's his own foul smell. That said, his record



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/xuhua-zhou

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


speaks for itself. I wouldn't want to be a target of his.


So gentlemen, Andrew Left might answer your ongoing dispute for you. If the stock drops 30% or more like a rock, the
first place to check, is Citron's website. Likely he just thinks UNXL is over-hyped and not much more. He will likely
scrutinize Mr Hoffman, if he hasn't already. He won't care about Mr Z I would assume, as Andrew is a notorious short
seller himself. Make no bones about it, Citron has the will and resources to go after any scent it picks up.


If there were only one reason to be cautious about UNXL, it would be the worry that Andrew Left's nostril's are filled
with a pungent fishy smell. Left, right, both sides of his nostrils, I don't know. I do believe I have warned in the past
that Citron might pick up the scent, and now it has. If I was personally in Andrew Left's nose sights, I'd be checking to
see if I was in any way vulnerable for liability of any sorts. At a minimum, I would become a student of all things
Citron. The more you know about your enemy, the better.


Glenn Beck thinks George Soros is a "spooky dude". Well, I think that in the realm of investments, Andrew Left is an
even spookier dude than Soros.


And Andrew, if you are out there reading this......well, like yeah, I'd said it -- so fish breath, what are you going to do
about it? Go ahead and eat me. Don't forget to add a little lemon and tartar sauce.


I think Monday I'm going to sell my shares and see if Citron's issues anything more on UNXL. I don't need a Citron
induced headache at this late stage of my life.


22 Mar 2013, 05:29 PM


bullchin
Good point.


23 Mar 2013, 05:40 PM


clifk
Hi Xuhua,


The posts of the lawsuit and the TMOS article are a good find, irrespective of interpretations and the legalities around
the subject. 
Firstly, there is no question that the processes used by CIT and Unipixel in creating the grid differ - CIT use inkjet
printers and photolithography, whereas Unipixel use embossing. The core issue behind the lawsuit lies in the
metallization phase and the use of UV curable catalytic inks to attract the copper in additive fashion. I'd refer you to
the Ivan Jimenez article and comments for a reasonably balanced discussion comparing the two...


http://seekingalpha.co...


Some other factual points of interest with respect to the lawsuit are ... 
The 2010 NDA came into effect on 21st April 2010, purportedly in support of the TMOS project. 
Unipixel announce Uniboss on 18th May 2010.


http://mwne.ws/16LUGDL


I guess a further legal question may relate to when Unipixel may have been deemed by 
Carclo to have committed the breach.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/a/nksp

http://mwne.ws/16LUGDL
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


My situation is that I have no direct position in Unipixel, but am long in Carclo (CIT) and share the view that the
market is big enough for both, better still if Carclo are earning royalties from Unipixel as well were that to be the
eventual result.


23 Mar 2013, 03:15 AM


bullchin
clifk.  
Given what you wrote, would there be a possible that an injunction placed on UNXL from producing? even
with JV?


23 Mar 2013, 05:43 PM


pahrah
Hi bullchin,


Here are some excerpts from a recent online discussion on discussthemarket.com that might provide a
different sentiment. Note that Chip's isn't certain about SA's credibility: "CIT claim against Unipixel Good stuff.
Seeking Alpha is a goldmine, although not sure how credible."


I'm cautiously long UNXL, but I admit, the Citron comment has me worried.


http://bit.ly/16QwQqr


 
Chip_Scashti... 
19 Mar 
Re: CIT claim against Unipixel Good stuff. Seeking Alpha is a goldmine, although not sure how credible. But if
you liked that you will love this:[link]-3-tech-sto...


tasagil 
19 Mar 
Could this be related to CIT technology? [link]-working-wristwa...


clifk 
19 Mar 
Re: CIT claim against Unipixel Indeed, the seeking alpha article from which the link originated also includes a
reference to a paper written by Unipixel employees describing the TMOS project that CIT and Unipixel were
jointly working on (buried deep in the comments section by the article's author where he stands as a fairly
lone voice amongst the Unipixel fans)), and suggests similarities with the Uniboss marketing inormation.
Having now read the lawsuit information, I have come to the following conclusions, although please DYOR
and make your own..1) Unipixel use an embossing process to create their grid, whilst CIT uses a
photolithographicfilm in their equivalent part of the process. Unipixel make great play of their process being
the only true additive process. CIT's additive process is where it counts most - namely in the application of the
copper to the substrate where the real costs are incurred. There is also a trade-off in accuracy in favour of
CIT, against what may be a minor decrease in cost for Unipixel.The more balanced seeking alpha article



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/cit

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

http://bit.ly/16QwQqr
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


below researches the supporting detail..[link]-touch-s... The 2010 NDA eclipses the prior ones, so the most
probable outcome is that the base case will need to be tried in Texas. The Unipixel team have counterclaimed
for injunctive relief because the case was lodged in the UK. Given that the original TMOS project was canned
in 2010, I have a big question mark over the basis for the 2010 NDA with the inclusion of the change of venue
clause!3) Whilst the Unipixel fans focus on the 2010 NDA and that the TMOS project was based on inkjet
printing, I believe the real issue relates to the use of UV catalytic inks based on COT's IP in the electroless
plating phase to apply the copper in an additive way. All of the NDAs were specific to the use of the CIT IP in
the context of the TMOS project and excluded Unipixel from adoption for the purposes of competition with
CIT.IMHO and on the basis of the above, there is a strong case in favour of CIT, although there could be
several twists and turns over the legalities - I was previously on the fence over therelative merits of the two
companies. The Unipixel fans believe that in the event of a finding against them, penalties will amount
principally to payment of royalties to CIT. Nevertheless, ATMEL/CIT remain in the vanguard with ASUS and a
further unnamed client in the bag with other prospects in tow and a few months lead over Unipixel, whose
tally is an unnamed client with a September product market release date, and a further prospect close to
closure. Interesting times, and my bet is very much on Carclo.


23 Mar 2013, 10:07 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
pahrah, I know you are simply pasting somebody else's comments, so my comment isn't exactly guided
toward you, but just to the board in general:


I have an issue with this statement: "There is also a trade-off in accuracy in favour of CIT, against what may
be a minor decrease in cost for Unipixel"


From what I have been able to research, UniBoss is significantly cheaper than Carclo/CIT-Atmel's xSense.
On top of that, it is well known that Carclo/CIT was having some yield issues (look up the delay of the $10M
payment to Carclo/CIT), while UniBoss's plating process has near-perfect yields (as per the Williams call on
Friday).


Be careful when reading things on the internet, many people don't have their facts straight but still know "just
enough" to be dangerously convincing.


23 Mar 2013, 10:21 PM


pahrah
Chris,


Thank you for clearing that up. As you know, many of us small retail investors, don't have the resources to do
real due diligence, so we rely heavily on trying to sort out the conflicting information we find on the Internet. I
try to use the research Vanguard provides me, but to be honest, there isn't anything that useful, other than
what is public information. My son, with his Schwab account (research) is in the same boat. Both sides offer
compelling reasons why to take one side over the other. As an average investor, I'm really at a disadvantage
and can be easily swayed. I either have to rely on what I find on the Internet or just give up on investing
altogether.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


I'm sure you can see why I'm constantly challenging both sides of the UNXL argument. I'm trying to reveal a
weakness on either side. I'll be honest, I am strongly leaning toward your camp. Right now, it's only the fear of
an unknown surprise, like Andrew Left taking on Unipixel because it smells fishy, is primarily why I'm not all in
at the moment. I don't have to get every stock I pick right to make money. So if I miss out on some upside,
well, all I can say, is that I did my best.


You can understand why many of us are confused and conflicted.


To be clear to all who sometimes think my heart is in the wrong place, I want to take a moment to publicly
thank you for all the good information you have provided. Your information has helped me make some really
good money.


Sorry to be long winded, but I really do appreciate all your hard work and effort. There are many here who
follow you, who have also been greatly rewarded by your bull dog diligence


Sincerely, 
Steve


P.S. I voted myself off the island regarding your "Best" article as the tribe was getting restless. One should
never wear out their welcome and I did. Sorry for that.


23 Mar 2013, 11:09 PM


pahrah
Chris,


Along the lines of getting facts, can you help me understand how ecosystem partner(s) fit into the equation?
For starters, what functions do ecosystem partners typically perform? The first time I heard ecosystem
partner, I was thinking more along the lines of "green" tech.


Regarding Unipixel's bottom line, will Unipixel derive license fees, royalties, revenues, payments, etc from
future ecosystem partners? 


24 Mar 2013, 10:57 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
I've often thought about the ecosystem partner and what it would mean and here are my basic thoughts:


An ecosystem partner will be a major company that essentially wouldn't require product for itself, but would
for its ecosystem. Think Google with Android. Microsoft with Surface/Win8. Intel with Haswell chips, etc.


Therefore, an ecosystem partner will not directly bring in sales, but will do two very important things:


1. It is a huge huge huge company validating Unipixel's technology. 
2. It is a huge huge huge company throwing their support behind Unipixel and most likely helping it with
regards to marketing and "networking" (working through supply chains) for various direct customers.


There may be more to it than this, especially since some ecosystems also create some products (Surface,
iProducts, Nexus, etc.).



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


I hope this helps.


24 Mar 2013, 11:26 PM


pahrah
It does help. I have spent what seems like hours trying to get a handle. What I wrote is about as much as I
was able to grasp, and I wasn't sure any of what I said made sense. It seems to be a relatively new way to
describe what appears to be a symbiotic business model. When I found ecosystem and Ford together, I
started to get a basic sense.


I totally agree that validation will be the key outcome.


25 Mar 2013, 12:50 AM


clifk
Bullchin,


Whilst it is my opinion that Carclo woud seek injunctive relief against Unipixel, I have little insight into what the
outcome of the case might be in terms of what the courts may award if they found in favour of Carclo for the
base case beyond what I get out of John 
Grisham novels! I know that GRA believes that the paying of royalties rather than the granting of an injunction
might be the outcome in this scenario. I take it your reference to the JV relates to the association with Unipixel
over the TMOS project - I believe the ownership of IP within that project is clearly defined.


25 Mar 2013, 02:52 AM


ouijaman1
My take on "ecosystem" is that UniBoss would be approved for use in all of the compatible system's
hardware. Such that if the ecosystem were Microsoft Windows 8, then ANY products that Windows 8 runs
would be approved for use with UniBoss. Does that sound right to you, Chris?


25 Mar 2013, 03:23 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Essentially. Doesn't mean they will use UniBoss, but it has Microsoft/Intel/other's approval and support.


25 Mar 2013, 03:26 PM


ouijaman1
I believe that "Dell" likely required the company to get the Win8 stamp of approval as part of their OEM deal
back in December. It should be huge since it will give all other Win8 compatible device makers the green light
to use UniBoss. Most of them will want to get the same cost savings so they can all reap the benefits enjoyed
by "Dell".


25 Mar 2013, 03:35 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Even more importantly, many of them probably use the same supply-chain companies, which will now already
be outfitted for use with UniBoss.


25 Mar 2013, 03:37 PM


ouijaman1
This is why I'm looking more toward 2014. This year is the year of the first OEM, and a bunch of deals that will
start producing by early 2014. Once the Win8 rubber stamp happens, device makers will start to make plans
in earnest for inclusion of UniBoss in their 2014 product lineups. Major deals will be made prior to summer.


25 Mar 2013, 03:50 PM


clifk
Hi Chris,


It was my post, and I'd respond as follows. The delay in the $10m 
payment to CIT was caused by issues around lamination from a third party, resolved in February, and now
being paid, and not to yield issues from CIT.


We ascertained on the Ivan Jimenez article that embossing as a mechanism for creating the grid is more
often used for prototyping 
as per the independent referenced harvard research article I found and not as accurate as photolithography.
Ivan describes and compares the CIT and Unipixel processes for achieving the grid on the substrate, and
whilst it is strictly correct that CIT uses a film to transpose the ink onto the substrate which then has to be
removed, 
the film is not a major cost in the equation. The term additive is most usually applied to the addition of the
metal because that is where the major cost is incurred, and the additive metallization process for both is
strikingly similar. My contention is that there is a minor cost difference between the two in favour of Unipixel,
with advantages in accuracy and thickness in favour of CIT.


Ivan's article and the reference to the Harvard article within can be found at


http://seekingalpha.co...


27 Mar 2013, 06:05 PM


pahrah
clifk, thanks for clarifying that the cost differential of the metallization process is minimal. Would you think this
might affect Chris's modeling results to any degree? Would you please expand some on your comment about
accuracy and thickness favoring CIT?


27 Mar 2013, 06:51 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Clifk, I am glad to hear that the XSense issue was resolved. In addition to lamination, I had heard that there
may have been adhesion issues with the XSense circuits. There were rumors that the etching or ablation had



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/a/nksp

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


a tendency to undercut the fine lines and make them susceptible to adhesion difficulties. It might be that this
is related to the lamination process - I don't know. If you can shed any light on this, it would be appreciated.


I agree that UniBoss has a cost advantage. I think we're all unsure of the magnitude of that advantage
because we know little about the XSense cost function. I have heard anecdotally that the ceo of atml is
incredibly pleased with his margin structure relative to the core controller business - which is a decent margin
business in and of itself.


I gather that the XSense seed ink is very expensive relative to UniBoss's. That said, I don't think this ink is
going to be a big cost percentage-wise to either company. It's the respective processes that will make up the
biggest differential in the cost equations. XSense will entail a relatively slow, multi-step, batch process, that is
fairly capital intensive. Remember that the more steps in the process, the more opportunities for yield issues,
and there's a compounding type of effect which can add quite a bit of cost.


I'm not 100% certain about your point regarding accuracy and thickness. You seem to still assume that
UniBoss relies on an embossing process, and this is not the case. You may be right about the end product, I
don't have the facts, but if this embossing is the base assumption, you may need to rethink.


I hope that both products are successful. There's certainly a lot of opportunity for both. Thx


27 Mar 2013, 07:26 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
clifk, if you can shed any light on the cost of CIT's films, I would greatly appreciate it. I would honestly be
shocked if they were less than $25 per square foot (compared to Unipixel's $20 per square foot).


27 Mar 2013, 07:37 PM


clifk
Hi Chris and GRA


My understanding of Uniboss employing embossing techniques is based on the Ivan Jimenez' article, which I
viewed as pretty unbiased. Can you elucidate on what the Uniboss process for etching the grid onto the
substrate is if not embossing?


Ref CIT, the prepayment from Atmel was based on successful invoicing to Asus rather than simple volume
production, which suggests the rumours are unfounded. The Harvard article also supports lithography as the
most accurate technique.


Atmel/CIT haven't released any pricing information, so it would be speculative of me to suggest specific costs.
However the articles in the public domain conclude that the true cost advantages for metal mesh technologies
over ITO lie in the additive application of the copper as much as it being currently less expensive and more
freely available than ITO, a feature that is common to both Uniboss and CIT. I do understand that an
embossing process, were that to be the mechanism for Uniboss, would lead to a reduced process as there is
no need to use and subtract the outer film.


I do agree the market is plenty big enough for both, and all the better from my perspective if Carclo earns
royalties from Unipixel as well. The fact that Atmel have won, based on publicly reported statements, at least



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


2 additional design wins does suggest to me that the pricing differences between the two are sufficiently
close, 
hence my guess, and it is only that, of less than 10% based on my 
own commercial experiences.


27 Mar 2013, 08:49 PM


clifk
Pahrah,


I'd recommend you read the Ivan Jimenez article and comments I referenced which covers your question in
much detail.


Whilst I favour Carclo, the market is big enough for both and if you are concerned why not consider taking a
position in each?


27 Mar 2013, 08:58 PM


clifk
Sorry GRA, omitted to cover the point on accuracy and thickness. If as you suggest the premise that Uniboss
uses embossing techniques is wrong, then it is back to the drawing board - Unipixel's rejection of
photolithography and emphasis on being truly additive does require a direct mechanism to etch the grid on
the substrate and there would seem to be limited ways to achieve this given the fine lines needed. On the
Ivan Jimenez article the conclusion was that Uniboss produces plates that are used to emboss the substrate
though.


In truth, one of the Unipixel video clips I saw suggested that 'thinner 
was better' and we established on the Ivan Jimenez thread that accolade would go to CIT, albeit that both are
an improvement on the status quo - I agree with Chris that it is a moot point. The comment on accuracy is
potentially much more significant though in terms of yield.


As Atmel/CIT have found, production readiness to the point of a usable component to the PC manufacturer is
not a gimme, and just now Atmel/CIT have finally reached this milestone, with Unipixel whilst in hot pursuit
still needing to prove their capability.


27 Mar 2013, 09:32 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
I agree that xSense is marginally thinner, which is marginally better. But Unipixel has great yields (not sure
how they compare to CIT). >85% printing, 100% plating. That is very high so I don't expect any issues down
the road. Unipixel is in fact production ready, as is evident by the receipt of the $5M from "Dell".


27 Mar 2013, 11:08 PM


pahrah
clifk,



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


I apparently overlooked the Ivan Jimenez article. More homework!


I thought of investing in both before, but how would I invest in CIT, as my broker only connects with U.S.
exchanges? Isn't CIT London exchange only?


I like that CIT is further along. I like that UNXL has had an exceptionally high reward factor (at least, so far
anyway).


I'm an electrical engineer, although touch screens certainly aren't my specialty. I'm surprised we don't have
many (any?) electrical or material engineers helping out in the comparisons.


28 Mar 2013, 02:29 AM


clifk
Fair points Chris, I had read that the product coming to market 
incorporating Uniboss was due to hit the streets in September, so assume the $5m is more in the nature of a
downpayment in contrast to the Carclo payment - early shipments there started in October.


28 Mar 2013, 05:15 AM


clifk
Hi Pahrah,


Indeed Carclo, for which CIT is a subsidiary, ( code is CAR ), is quoted on the London Stock Exchange. My
broker allows me to execute trades in stocks quoted on other exchanges.


28 Mar 2013, 05:19 AM


Greenfire87
Clifk,


Thanks for all your input, much appreciated!


28 Mar 2013, 09:00 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Thanks, Clifk. Appreciate it.


UniBoss uses a micro contact printing process which doesn't etch or emboss. Instead, it prints in relief. That
is, a raised layer of seed ink is deposited on the substrate.


You can see why people who are familiar with the actual UniBoss process are somewhat amused at the idea
that Ivan Jimenez is an expert in anything having to do with the technology. He doesn't understand the most
basic principles behind the technnology. It's as if his "work" was limited to a reading of the company's
marketing material. Has this expert visited the plating line? Has he visited the printing line? Has he even
spoken with the technology's chief architect?


It sounds like we're in broad agreement otherwise.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Were you able to confirm that adhesion was not an issue for XSesne?


Thx


28 Mar 2013, 11:10 AM


clifk
Hii GRA,


Response, out of reply sequence, below.


28 Mar 2013, 06:40 PM


pahrah
http://bit.ly/ZdVY6n


What Is an Emergency Injunction?


An emergency injunction is a temporary directive from a court ordering someone to cease or continue a specific
behavior, depending on the nature of the case. Emergency injunctions are used in cases where people can
demonstrate that an injunction is needed to prevent serious harm or damages beyond financial damages in the
immediate future. The person who initially requested it will need to provide supporting evidence to get a permanent
injunction. It can be a stopgap measure to address an immediate situation while preparing for more long-term legal
action.


Emergency injunctions can be used in a wide variety of settings including abuse cases, patent infringement cases,
and child custody cases. To grant an emergency injunction, a judge must be shown that serious harm will occur
unless the injunction is put in place. For example, in a divorce involving abuse, the abused partner might request an
emergency injunction to order the other partner to stay away, on the grounds of personal safety concerns. If the
abused partner has documentation like a history of police calls to the residence to address domestic violence
complaints, the judge can grant the injunction.


Under normal circumstances, judges like to hear from all parties before granting an injunction, to make sure that
people do not abuse the legal system. A company disliking the actions of a competitor, for instance, can't file an
injunction randomly to stop the competitor from doing something. If a company can argue that a competitor is
infringing on patents or committing other wrongs, it can bring suit to request a permanent injunction and recover
damages. It may use a request for an emergency injunction to stop the competitor during the course of developing the
trial and hearing it in court if it can show how the competitor's actions are causing direct harms like loss of reputation
due to counterfeit products.


In an emergency injunction, the judge clearly outlines the activity covered by the injunction and sets well-defined
boundaries on the scope of activity. Judges balance the needs of avoiding unreasonable restriction of liberty with
addressing the concerns outlined in the injunction request. These documents are sometimes used as evidence in
cases, and for this reason, judges are careful to outline the arguments presented during the injunction hearing.


Typically, emergency injunctions expire within a set period of time. People can apply to renew them or allow them to
lapse. If a legal matter is decided before the injunction expires, the outcome of the case can result in a lift of the
injunction, or the drafting of a permanent injunction.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

http://bit.ly/ZdVY6n
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


23 Mar 2013, 07:00 PM


ouijaman1
Please post more definitions since we can't find those ourselves all over the internet.


23 Mar 2013, 08:18 PM


bullchin
After reading Pahrah and Chris comments, it would seem likely that Carcolo and Uniboss are similar products
therefore risk of injunction could exist plus Carcolo could be used by the same OEM? Help me out here?


24 Mar 2013, 06:49 AM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
bullchin, I'm really not sure how you came to that conclusion given that all of my comments have stated that
the two processes and finished products are quite different. Also, injunctions are extremely rare.


24 Mar 2013, 09:17 AM


fbert
here is some information about companies that lose in court. Recall rim now called blackberry by the time they lost
their patent lawsuit and paid $600 million in damages they went on to capture close to 56% of the smart phone
market. Losing in court doesn't necessarily mean the end of the company.


24 Mar 2013, 07:47 PM


bullchin
Good point. Thanks


24 Mar 2013, 11:06 PM


pahrah
Someone made a comment on another site (I can't find it again) about Dell being bought out and something about
whether Dell would be obligated to purchase Uniboss.


So it might happen as Michael Dell seems like he might lose his company to Blackstone and Carl Icahn.


http://bloom.bg/ZNvOr1


The terms of the Preferred Price and Capacity License Agreement are confidential, so we don't know what is in the
agreement and whether there is any binding language to Dell.


What is known is Dell is in financial distress. Should Blackstone and Carl Icahn become the new owners, their first
mission should be to cut costs. The question is whether Uniboss would be on the chopping block. The cost of
implementing a new display technology might be considered too much of a risk. No one really knows what new
owners might decide with regard to Uniboss.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/272656

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

http://bloom.bg/ZNvOr1
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


It certainly would be a setback if Unipixel were to lose Dell.


I really don't know what is going to happen. Yes, I'm a worrier. I'm just saying, us longs, might want to pay attention to
the potential takeover of Dell, as it could have a large near term impact on UNXL's share price.


24 Mar 2013, 08:59 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Pahrah, you make some valid points, but remember: If Dell is focused on cutting costs, then wouldn't
transitioning to a new, high-end, 50% cheaper technology be a GOOD thing? By your same logic, couldn't it
also be the case that Dell suddenly transitions into Unipixel even faster?


Also, given that shipping begins in April, I would assume that most of the supply-chain implementation is
already complete.


Obviously anything can happen and there are always risks, but it is important to invest based on probability,
and I believe that keeping UniBoss is in Dell's best interest regardless of management.


24 Mar 2013, 09:39 PM


bullchin
Doubt Dell will lose his company. Carl may bleed him instead.


24 Mar 2013, 11:07 PM


ouijaman1
Not only what you said, Chris, but a new Dell owner wouldn't get into micromanaging every component
decision being made. The competitive bids have been offered in order to get Dell shareholders more value in
a sale. Dell is sitting on a mountain of cash, so their problem isn't an issue of cost control, it's an issue of
diversification out of desktops and laptops, which Micheal Dell already knows to do.


25 Mar 2013, 03:01 PM


pahrah
The shipping begins in April is a very strong reason for me not to be overly worried about potential new owners. Good
Point.


24 Mar 2013, 09:50 PM


bullchin
Green and Chris. Sorry about being pessmistic. MDB capital research report was a good read however they caution
that technology partner may change rapidly to due to new technology in future. Having said this we know nothing last
forever. It could be quick sales then declining rapidly. What confidence do you have that UNXL can sustain further
development to make it with the big boys with small staff currently?


25 Mar 2013, 10:50 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
Obviously this is an excellent question and very hard to answer since technology can change rapidly. What
helps me remain confident though is the fact that Unipixel is NOT marginally better than current technology, it
is SIGNIFICANTLY better. xSense, Cambrios, FujiFilm, etc. are other examples of new technology, but they
are only marginally better than ITO. It will probably be a few years until a new technology comes out that is
significantly better than UniBoss (my guess is it will be based on Graphene or something beyond 'touch'
altogether).


Furthermore, UniBoss is so cheap to produce that even if a newer, cheaper technology comes along, Unipixel
can always lower prices to make it more competitive. Margins are currently expected to be in the 75%-95%
range based on $20 per unit.


25 Mar 2013, 10:54 AM


bullchin
Chris. Do you know if OEM test screen such as dropping, scratch, etc..... 
Would there be such a thing as recalled on screen in the past?  
Sony was huge at one point and number one and never imagine they fall behind was my bad experience.  
I hope OEM is not off the shelf Pandigtal making cheap tablets. What do you think??


25 Mar 2013, 01:38 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
I'm going to be honest with you bullchin... I'm not exactly sure what you're asking. What I can say is that
Unipixel has stated that they are very serious about QC, performing a multitude of tests. Also the 'OEM' is
highly rumored to be Dell, not any tiny company.


25 Mar 2013, 02:14 PM


jsIRA, Marketplace Contributor
UNXL - so far this month, this stock is up 71.70% with one trading session left. It is number 11 gainer among all
stocks we tracked.


28 Mar 2013, 10:44 AM


Greenfire87
James Shaw,


Greetings James,  
I was wondering if you could tell us a little more about "synthetic shorts" Mr.Zhou was talking about. I found an
exerpt, but would like to know just how this effects the price specifically.


"A synthetic short addresses both sides of risk.  
If the underlying (stock price) rises, the 100 shares are called away @ strike, creating option profit, dividend
income & capital gains. 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jsira

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=jsira&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5149961
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


If the underlying declines, the put grows in intrinsic value, point for point w/the decline. You can sell puts for a
profit to offset losses, OR exercise it so that the 100 shares can be sold @ the higher strike. "


It seems to me like a synthetic short may not affect the price as much as we assume?  
Also maybe the reason for such a high short ratio.  
Also a lack of current price movement.


Are the options exercised AFTER HOURS?? Meaning we would have to put in an extended hours (pm) sell
bid to take advantage of the "spike" when shorts need to buy to cover??


Anyone w/knowledge is welcome to answer, thank you!


28 Mar 2013, 08:37 PM


clifk
Hi GRA,


Let me say to start with that I only comment on public domain statements from recognised sources, and whilst my
conclusions are my own, I aim to always refer to the base documents underlying these.


Firstly, no one will comment on rumours, so I'd turn to the chronology and public domain information to look for clues,
which for Atmel/CIT is as follows, all in the public domain...


October 2012 CIT supply early shipments of their FLT for client validation. 
December 2012 CIT start volume production and satisfy the requirement to trigger the payment from Atmel, who are
the project lead. The payment though is actually due on successful invoicing to Asus. 
February 2013 delay announced due to downstream lamination issues under Atmel project control based on
differences to ITO, then fixed with production recommencing Feb 10th, the Chinese New Year. 
March 2013 Atmel pays CIT the $10m. 
The rumours surfaced in February I understand - the chronology says to me they are unfounded.


Putting aside Ivan's analysis - he doesn't claim to be an engineer - I have decided to look up the patents referenced in
the lawsuit to try to add to your comments on the micro contact printing in relief. Here is the URL for the first (the 055
application) patent mentioned....


http://bit.ly/10hVJVN


Whilst this validates the comment on the seed layer, it best describes the metallization process, so sheds no light on
the micro contact printing.


The second patent referred to in the case (the 882 application) however does refer to the micro contact printing
phase. To quote from it....


(EN)A method comprises forming a first pattern on a first flat surface and forming an inverse of the pattern on a
second flat surface. The method further comprises attaching the second flat surface to a roller to produce an
embossing tool and applying pressure between the embossing tool and a substrate thereby forming a second pattern
in the substrate. The substrate is coated with a radiation curable resin material. The method also comprises
transferring ink to the substrate, the ink containing a catalyst, and coating the substrate with the second pattern in an



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

http://bit.ly/10hVJVN

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/en
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


electroless plating bath. The first pattern alternatively may be formed on a sleeve which is then attached to a
drum/roller.


http://bit.ly/YirqS0


So it would seem that Uniboss does use embossing technology at least in part, unless this patent also relates to the
TMOS project.


28 Mar 2013, 06:32 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
You are correct again. Each of these patents refer to TMOS.


28 Mar 2013, 06:37 PM


clifk
Sorry GRA, but I really don't buy that. They are Unipixel's latest patents, and if they don't apply to Uniboss
then Unipixel have no patent protection at all despite their claims, and which would put the whole company at
great risk.


28 Mar 2013, 08:11 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
check your facts, clifk.


29 Mar 2013, 06:52 AM


clifk
Care to expand GRA? I only base my comments on published material from recognised sources, which has
led me to some different conclusions than your own in the detail where we have agreed to differ.


If your reference is to patents, I can only find reference to those issued through the patent office. If it is to
TMOS, then I can assure you I have read the supporting documentation.


To emphasise, these differences don't detract greatly from the price competitiveness of the two companies v
ITO, but rather try to inform the debate between the two. As before, the market can easily support both. 


30 Mar 2013, 06:04 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Clifk, I'm sorry, but this is getting difficult to follow, and I'm not sure to what I'm supposed to respond.


The patents to which you refer belong to work done around TMOS. 055 plainly states in its title that it relies on
surface energy modification. This was applicable to TMOS. This is not applicable to UniBoss. 882 clearly
describes an embossing process. TMOS used an embossing process. UniBoss doesn't use embossing. I'm
not sure how to make this any clearer.



http://bit.ly/YirqS0

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


30 Mar 2013, 11:36 AM


clifk
Hi GRA,


The significance of the actual technology used is that it informs the 
debate over likely cost differences between the two. I haven't been able to find any documents other than the
patents in question that could relate to the Uniboss front-end process - it would be helpful to lay this element
to rest if you have access to a document describing the current process you mention that you could share. If it
were physical embossing it is relatively obvious that it is likely to be less expensive than photolithography,
less so though if not the case.


30 Mar 2013, 03:07 PM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Hi Clifk, I wish that there were some docs to share. The company considers it critical IP, so they are only
willing to give out the bare minimum info to investors. They are still in the process of getting much of it
patented.


The company and their partners are convinced that it is a very low-cost technology at scale. From what I've
heard, Carclo/ATML will also have a low-cost solution. I'm not sure it will matter which of these two
technologies enjoys greater scale economies for some time. Both should experience a good ride.


30 Mar 2013, 04:27 PM


clifk
OK GRA, I'll look out for the issuing of the 73 filed patents as and when this might happen. I think we are in
agreement that there is 
therefore little price difference between the two, which explains Atmel's continuing design wins alongside the
additional one in process mentioned for Unipixel.


31 Mar 2013, 02:28 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Yes, Clifk. I don't think there's a lot of price differential at this point. It's my opinion, however, that UniBoss's
process is less costly than XSense, and this will likely give it an edge in winning market share. Also, because
UNXL is a neutral supplier in the market, they are at an advantage relative to ATML. For instance, Synaptics
is not likely to bring XSense into a lot of touch sensor designs as they are engaged in a death match with
ATML on the controller side of the business.


31 Mar 2013, 11:30 AM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
clifk, from the 10-k:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


" The patent pending UniBoss™ process"...."The Company has 3 patents issued and 71patent applications filed
protecting its Performance Engineered Film™ development and manufacturing platforms."


The 3 that you have access to will most likely all pertain to TMOS. Some of the 71 filed will relate to the UniBoss
process.


28 Mar 2013, 08:24 PM


clifk
Chris,


The first of the 2 patents I referenced refers to the metallization 
process, which I agree is common to both TMOS and Uniboss, as much as it is for CIT.


The second describes elements, including the double sided patterning of the substrate, and the use of an embossing
tool which are not part of the TMOS project.


Relevant chronology is that Unipixel abandoned the TMOS project and sold off to Rambus in May 2010. The first
patent was filed in 
October 2010 and issued in June 2011, and the second filed in April 2011 and issued in November 2011.


Do you still think they don't relate to Uniboss? Irrespective of the Carclo lawsuit, I think it would be better that they do,
but perhaps 
a Unipixel spokesman could definitively settle the matter.


28 Mar 2013, 09:41 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
It is obviously difficult to say whether they refer to TMOS, UniBoss, both, or neither. Even further, who knows
if it is necessarily the same technology that UniBoss uses. All I know is that UniBoss is still considered to be
patent pending and that the vast majority of the patents have not yet been issued, and that UniPixel's most
pertinent IP will be contained in these unissued patents.


28 Mar 2013, 09:49 PM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
clifk,


I spent some time going through many Carclo presentations to learn more about the CIT tehcnology. What
struck me the most is that only one of them mentioned anything about costs! The rest just stressed optical
and flexible improvements vs. ITO. The one that did mention costs stated the following: "...and in the case of
larger screens, savings on component cost due  
to our greater electrical performance".


"In the case of larger screens". to me, this implies that CIT is not any cheaper than ITO except with larger
screens (due to linear pricing as opposed to exponential pricing). This is completely different from UniBoss,
which is significantly cheaper for ALL screen sizes, particularly larger screens.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


This is what I have been trying to stress all the time. Yes, CIT might be a slightly superior product to UniBoss,
but only marginally so. On the other hand, UniBoss is significantly cheaper, which is the most important factor
for any of these companies. The fact that UniBoss is BETTER than ITO and CHEAPER than ITO is huge,
where as CIT is "only" better (but not significantly cheaper).


Do you have any thoughts about this or am is my understanding correct? This would provide an excellent
reason for Carclo to sue Unipixel because they realize the huge threat. It also shows that Unipixel is clearly
using a different technology, otherwise they wouldn't be able to have such a massive cost differential.


29 Mar 2013, 05:48 PM


pahrah
Chris,


I am wondering if you have read this report (see link)? There might be something that can bolster your
arguments, except I don't know since I can't afford $4,000 to find out. They make like metal-oxide TFT might
be the wave of the future.


http://bit.ly/1666JbM


29 Mar 2013, 09:51 PM


ouijaman1
The backplane of a display is the circuitry that turns pixels on and off . Unipixel touchscreen goes on top and
should work in concert with any backplane technology, whatever develops. The TMOS technology the
company had was a backplane tech.


30 Mar 2013, 01:00 AM


clifk
Hi Chris,


You're right, there is no mention of pricing for competitive reasons from either Atmel or 
Carclo. Hence my guess that it is less than 10% based on the continuing Tier 1 design wins for Atmel/CIT
XSense, largely predicated on the use of physical embossing by Uniboss which is now being questioned.
Why else, on a cost basis alone, would these particular ones be signing up for Atmel with Uniboss around the
corner? As before, my assumption includes no cost advantage in what is arguably an identical backend
process in the metallization phase where the majority of the costs lie.


The closest I've seen to a clue on pricing is this extract from the q&a following the 4Q Atmel earnings
review....


http://seekingalpha.co...


John Vinh - Pacific Crest Securities, Inc., Research Division 
Great. And then my last question is on pricing. You guys have talked about kind of a significant step-up in the



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

http://bit.ly/1666JbM

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/a/oxa9
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


opportunity for XSense pricing. Can you help us and give us some boundaries on how do we think about
pricing for content in a 7-inch tablet for XSense plus the touch controller?


Steven A. Laub - Chief Executive Officer, President and Executive Director 
I'd love to share that because first of all, it is -- I would say as vis-à-vis the touch controller, the sensor is
multiples from a standpoint -- from a pricing standpoint. But I don't want to give out the specific pricing
because of competitive reasons again, because the alternative for all of these customers is ITO and
obviously, what our guys attempt to do is to sell not directly saying, hey, I can undercut you. But frankly,
there's a lot of value that the XSense products brings or what brings as well. But I can tell you that it is -- as
the size of the screen gets larger, the differential of the pricing vis-a-vis the controller also gets larger. And so
you'll see that the vast majority of our designs and our design wins will be on tablets, Ultrabooks and those
types of things because that's where the differential, the actual price and content is significantly higher and
the differential vis-a-vis the alternative such as ITO also provides us greater opportunity for differentiation as
well. I will share with you that the pricing, as you get a above say, 10 inches, it does get into the area of above
$10. So it's a very considerable impact of opportunity for us.


I believe the comment you found on larger screens refers to a contrast with smartphones, where CIT had its
first win. I interpret that again on costs alone, excluding the additional benefits of FLT over ITO, the cost
equation is neutralised here by setup costs to change from ITO to FLT for a relatively small footprint and that
the price of ITO is also lower now.


Success for both companies, particularly if Carclo win the lawsuit 
and the court award is for royalty payments, would still in my position as a Carclo shareholder be the best
possible outcome. The market is plenty big enough.


30 Mar 2013, 05:44 AM


Chris Hofmann, Contributor
clifk,


If I am interpreting that Q&A quote correctly, it seems to me that XSense is NOT significantly cheaper than
ITO for smaller screen sizes, and for larger screen sizes it is about $10 cheaper. This is a drastic difference
from UniBoss which saves $20-50 at the larger form factor.


This is a major difference and to completely ignore it is bad investing.


30 Mar 2013, 07:57 AM


pahrah
Aside from the typical galvanic concerns involving copper and other metals, "it is best to start with a product
that has properties close to those required in the end application and to select touch-screen attributes that will
not interfere with any required enhancements."


http://bit.ly/105m4J8


02 Apr 2013, 08:22 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chris-hofmann

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1116427

http://bit.ly/105m4J8

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


clifk
Chris,


Have another read of it, it doesn't say anything of the sort. 
My reading is that a 10 inch screen costs in the region of $10+.  
Whilst it would also apply in proportion for small screens, the effective benefit is lower and neutralised by the setup
costs. Are you saying Uniboss is going for the smartphone market?


I appreciate that this is not consistent with your cost analysis, but 
as stated previously my conclusions are formed only from documents in the public domain from recognised sources
which at every turn I can/have referenced and which I believe to be correct. In my experience it helps to differentiate
the vapour-ware from the reality.


On your last point, I am more than happy with my investment in Carclo, though appreciate you haven't done too badly
out of Unipixel to date.


30 Mar 2013, 10:38 AM


Bullmarketcall
If Zohu has written a indefendable article, why has there been stated that latest movements in te stock are caused by
this article?  
This Zohu guy is an independentbroker with some financial studies, with only 3 published articles in SA. This must be
stated as under experienced and overchatter. Even more adding to lack of experience is his young age.


Had there been a possible financial explanation for the 5$ price this guy is "seeing in the future" ? NOthing, at all, no
fundamentals, no how a possible negative outcome from this complaint would outcome for UPixel; how much would it
cost to pay CIT for example, or how would it affect business. NOTHING> If I were a boss at a financial company and
found this I would make a Long triple Manu ginobili Style to a Waste busket.


If this complaint would take place, how long from this point would it take to get a final veredict? 3 years? 5? Justice is
slow.


On the other hand, this company seems to be fast in developing new technology. Or maybe stealing it. Is there
anything new with that? How did S Jobs stole from Xerox PARC the Windows tech, and later Microsoft from Apple,
and even Samsung from Apple?  
Had there been any of them Punished by justice? NO, not one. This is because business is not about doing a perfect
complaint, but in doing a Decent, or even mediocre product, and get to Sell it, even with a 5% share of a 35 000 000
000 000 market.  
This is why secrecy is important in Unipixel.


Even more, there would be 2 outcomes: Either Unipixel is not unfairly punished by court, or it is unfairly punished and
has to Pay some millons to CIT when the compnay would be worth 4-5 billion.  
They could even buy it.


02 Apr 2013, 05:17 PM


patt2374



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5872651

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9508261
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


UNXL - it has electrolytes so we will not even need water in the future.


(i.e.- borrowed from Mike Judge)


09 Apr 2013, 09:36 AM


Bullmarketcall
Why is it this product selling at 20 $ when it costs only 2 $ to make it? Why would anybody, any company pay such
margins to UNXL, if they know the product is only worth 2 bucks. The company could buy UNXL, instead, Dell could
make a Hostile Buy and save the hardwork.  
So why didnt Dell buy UNXL? They could have paayed a premium price compensation. Or learn how to make the
godmnt touchscreens.


If they are really in business with such compnay and margin is as high as they say, there has to be undisclosed
information.


11 Apr 2013, 11:30 AM


Green River Asset, Contributor
Why does coffee sell fo $12/lb when it cost $0.14/lb to make? Large companies have made volume
commitments to purchase UniBoss from UniPixel because it makes good economic sense to do so. The
alternative is paying $40-$90 for an ITO sensor.


I'm certain there is much undisclosed information with respect to UniPixel and the company's products. I don't
think I've ever come across a technology company that disclosed everything to everyone all the time.


Best of luck.


11 Apr 2013, 12:21 PM


ouijaman1
What price do you put on several years of R&D to develop the technology that enables then to produce better
touch screens?


11 Apr 2013, 03:37 PM


bullchin
only to find new technology will be old with something better on the way. Caution stated on MBD capital


11 Apr 2013, 07:59 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5872651

https://seekingalpha.com/author/green-river-asset

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7351441

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3694571
