5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 1/67


EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue
Apr. 30, 2014 1:16 PM ET189 comments
by: Gravity Research


Summary


CMS will reimburse EXAS 70-80% less for Cologuard than EXAS has told investors.
This will leave EXAS with negative gross margins-- making Cologuard unsellable.


EXAS' projected ~$500 reimbursement rate relies on CMS using a crosswalk
analysis that calculates reimbursement based on cost of the components of the test.


Instead, CMS will use a gap-fill process relying on cost-effectiveness data. Our
model shows reimbursement of $100-$150/test, and CMS publications show that a
test dominating Cologuard was cost-effective at $179-$247/test.


Visit gravityresearchgroup.com/reports to download a PDF version of the full report and
accompanying appendix


Exact Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) is an extremely timely and compelling
short, with an imminent catalyst that we believe will cause shares to plummet as much as
75% in the near future. EXAS has one product in its pipeline, Cologuard, which is a non-
invasive test for colorectal cancer that requires patients to deposit fecal matter into a jar,
administer a preservative to the feces, and ship the jar to EXAS' laboratory, where EXAS
evaluates the feces and diagnoses for colorectal cancer ("CRC"). Cologuard combines an
existing non-invasive test, the fecal immunochemical test ("FIT"), with additional tests for
DNA markers to increase sensitivity  to cancer and large polyps at the cost of specificity .
In our discussions with investors, we have found that the consensus is that the current
bear thesis for EXAS is predicated on a failure for EXAS in marketing Cologuard (similar
to its predecessors, PreGen-Plus and ColoSure), while bulls believe Cologuard will
achieve substantial market penetration. While we are very skeptical of Cologuard's
marketability, we view that as immaterial to our thesis and already well-covered by others,
and we will refrain from making it a focal point of this report. We have no doubt that
Cologuard will be approved by the FDA. However, we also believe that investors will soon
find that FDA approval is a meaningless victory.


Soon after the FDA decision (potentially even the same day), the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") will announce its preliminary National
Coverage Determination ("NCD") for Cologuard. We believe the eventual CMS


1 2



http://gravityresearchgroup.com/reports

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EXAS
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 2/67


national reimbursement limit for Cologuard will be below EXAS' gross cost per test
- effectively making Cologuard unsellable for EXAS. Based on extensive diligence and
consultations with industry experts (including a former senior CMS employee), we are
confident that CMS and its Medicare Administrative Contractors ("MACs") will establish a
reimbursement rate for Cologuard that is at least 70-80% lower than the ~$500 rate EXAS
has projected to investors due to CMS using a gap-fill process to price the test, rather than
the crosswalk analysis EXAS has repeatedly claimed will be used. We spoke with EXAS
Management and IR regarding this. We also think there is a meaningful probability that
CMS may simply decide to issue a negative NCD and refuse to cover Cologuard, as CMS
did in 2009 with the CT colonography ("CTC") when it became clear that while CT
colonographies were capable of diagnosing cancer and allowing physicians to detect
polyps, they were far from being cost-effective at the reimbursement prices required to
make the test economical for practitioners.


There are two methods for CMS to determine reimbursement rates for diagnostic
laboratory tests: crosswalk analysis and gap-fill. A crosswalk analysis is a cost-stacking
approach where CMS adds up the reimbursements for the various components of a
procedure/test to arrive at a reimbursement rate for the procedure/test. Crosswalk
analyses are intended for procedures/tests that represent logical combinations of pre-
approved procedures/tests that are already in use. The gap-fill process involves assigning
a new test code and allowing MACs to establish carrier-specific reimbursement rates for
the first year of coverage. Gap-fill reimbursement rates depend heavily on cost-
effectiveness data, when it is available, and FITs serve as an excellent and relevant
precedent for Cologuard.


In 2003, CMS evaluated FITs after Enterix (a pioneer in the FIT space) requested
reimbursement from CMS of $28 per FIT. CMS priced FITs using the gap-fill process, and
commissioned a cost-effectiveness study from the Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality ("AHRQ", an HHS subsidiary), yielding a range of cost-effective prices (-$4.22 to
$29.02) based on a range of inputted assumptions. The assumptions used to produce the
prices at the very top and bottom of that cost-effective range were overly optimistic and
pessimistic, respectively, and included sensitivity and specificity figures outside the range
of appropriately-powered published results. Ultimately, CMS issued a national
reimbursement limit for the test of approximately $22, which reflected the top of the cost-
effective range for published results.
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 3/67


To justify its ~$500 price target, EXAS requires CMS to price Cologuard's reimbursement
using a crosswalk analysis. That is, EXAS added up CMS reimbursements for the
separate test components within Cologuard, and arrived at a total sum of approximately
$500. Analysts have inputted reimbursements ranging from approximately $300 to $500
into their models, and used those assumptions to churn out valuations in the $15/share to
$25/share range for EXAS.  This analysis is completely flawed, and we are confident that
CMS will base its reimbursement rate off of a cost-effectiveness analysis instead. As we
confirmed with a former senior CMS employee with more than a decade of
experience working on CMS reimbursements and policies, the assumption that
CMS will use a crosswalk analysis is fundamentally wrong for two reasons:


1) The DNA tests contained within Cologuard, which account for over 95% of the value in
EXAS' hypothetical crosswalk analysis, were explicitly banned by the Department of
Health and Human Services ("HHS", parent bureau of CMS) in 2012 from being
reimbursed as diagnostic tests (as they would be used in Cologuard). See below for
relevant text from the HHS memorandum (emphasis added):


"The Social Security Act provides that no Medicare payment may be made for
expenses incurred for items or services that are not reasonable and necessary for
the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury or to improve the functioning of a
malformed body member. Consistent with this, Medicare does not pay for preventive
screening tests except for those specifically authorized by statute (e.g., prostate-
specific antigen test). Since CMS considers predictive tests to be screening
tests, genetic tests for this purpose are not covered by Medicare."


While certain DNA tests for cancerous markers are covered by CMS, due to the
expensive nature of such tests, they are almost exclusively used as "companion
diagnostics" for patients who have already been diagnosed with cancer in order to
determine proper treatments - they are NOT approved to diagnose cancer itself in
normal, asymptomatic patients, and it is well-known that they are not cost-effective
for such purposes. For instance, the most expensive component of Cologuard is the
KRAS test (currently sold as therascreen KRAS PCR Kit). This test is being reimbursed by
Medicare, but only for patients who are already known to have colorectal cancer, in order
to determine whether or not EGFR inhibitors (such as cetuximab and panitumumab) would
be appropriate treatments.  It is NOT reimbursed as a diagnostic tool for patients without
symptoms to determine whether or not they should be referred for a colonoscopy. We
encourage investors to visit the MolDX website to review further information regarding
caveats for genetic test reimbursements.


3


4


5


6



https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-07-11-00011.pdf
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 4/67


The genetic tests EXAS uses within Cologuard (KRAS, NDRG4, and BMP3) are not new
or novel, and CMS is not permitted to reimburse for any of those tests individually as
screens for colorectal cancer. It makes no sense for HHS to contradict itself by suddenly
electing to make an exception for Cologuard, and this would open the gates for companies
to push for the dozens of existing genetic tests to be independently approved for
screening for various cancers.


2) Calculating the reimbursement rate via crosswalk analysis has no relation at all to the
true value of Cologuard. Crosswalks are only used in cases where the test components
are used together in practice, and combining them represents a logical, cost-effective
combination. That is not the case for the DNA tests within Cologuard - none of which are
currently being reimbursed as screening tests for CRC. Again, the DNA tests within
Cologuard that EXAS is seeking reimbursements for are only used in practice to check for
specific mutations within patients who are already known to have cancer, in order to
determine proper courses of treatment.


Given that Cologuard is a screening test for CRC, it is especially ridiculous to assume that
CMS will price Cologuard via crosswalk as opposed to using gap-fill (cost-effectiveness).
First, there are numerous alternative tests spanning a wide range of
sensitivities/specificities available to screen for CRC which allow for an easy cost-
effectiveness analysis. Second, CMS has consistently relied on established cost-
effectiveness models in order to determine appropriate reimbursement rates for CRC
screening tests. CMS has commissioned a cost-effectiveness report for every single CRC
diagnostic test it has reviewed in the past decade. Finally, pricing Cologuard using a
crosswalk would open the floodgates for biotech companies to stack on as many
expensive DNA tests as possible without regard to practicality or efficiency.


Imagine if a competitor created a new test that combined a dozen random DNA tests for
markers linked to different types of cancer, and then asked for a $5,000/test
reimbursement from CMS based on a crosswalk analysis of those tests. Would this new
test be able to detect (to an extent) different types of cancer without harming patients?
Sure, but only to a very limited extent - most cases of cancer would be missed, since
specific DNA markers are typically found in a relatively small portion of total patients with
any given type of cancer. Would the new test be a cost-effective use of healthcare dollars?
Not at all. Cologuard can be boiled down to a combination of FIT (a CRC test with a CMS
national reimbursement limit of $21.70) with additional DNA marker tests (KRAS, NDRG4,
and BMP3). As we will show in this paper, the incremental value of those additional DNA
tests does not even come close to justifying EXAS' asking price. Breaking out the
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 5/67


sensitivity of the FIT by itself based on the DeeP-C results, we find that at least 80% of the
total sensitivity to cancer provided by Cologuard can be directly attributed to Cologuard's
embedded FIT (which carries a national reimbursement limit of $21.70). To put it
simplistically, 80% of Cologuard's cancer detection ability is already available for $21.70
per test. EXAS is claiming that it will be reimbursed an additional $450+ per test for the
20% of the cancer sensitivity provided by the DNA tests, simply because those DNA tests
are ordinarily billed that much, despite that fact that those prices are associated with
completely different uses that affect a much smaller patient population.


We believe that CMS will price Cologuard using the gap-fill process instead of crosswalk,
meaning that MACs will calculate reimbursement rates largely based on a cost-
effectiveness analysis commissioned by CMS. A prior cost-effectiveness report
published by CMS shows that a theoretical test dominating Cologuard in every
single aspect of sensitivity and specificity, many of them by a wide margin,
warranted a reimbursement rate of $179 - $247/test.  Therefore, Cologuard cannot
possibly achieve a reimbursement higher than $247/test. We have constructed an
internal cost-effectiveness model based on thorough assessment of published
colorectal cancer ("CRC") detection cost-effectiveness modeling, and our model
shows that the most likely cost-effective reimbursement price will be between $100
and $150 per Cologuard test: approximately 70-80% less than EXAS' proposed rate.
However, a complex model is not even necessary to see that this is the case - it is clear
from published CMS data that we will discuss in this paper that even a $150/test
reimbursement rate for Cologuard is a major stretch. We also find it very telling that EXAS
has been unable to find any partners for Cologuard and has not published its own cost-
effectiveness study for Cologuard, despite purportedly "working" on one since 2011.


Cologuard is EXAS' second attempt at getting CMS approval for a CRC test. CMS
previously reviewed Cologuard's predecessor, PreGen-Plus, which was a different fecal
test for CRC that also relied on DNA markers. CMS rejected it due to lack of FDA approval
- but not before commissioning a cost-effectiveness analysis showing that the cost-
effective price for PreGen-Plus would be $34 to $60 per test - well below the $300/test
that EXAS was asking for. Let's assume that $300 was representative of the
reimbursements for the DNA test components of PreGen-Plus. While CMS technically did
not use gap-fill to price PreGen-Plus because it was rejected, ask yourself this: do you
think CMS would have been willing to reimburse $300/test, when cost-effectiveness
showed that the test was only worth $34-$60/test? Do you think CMS will reimburse at
$500/test for Cologuard, when cost-effectiveness modeling shows that the test is only


7
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 6/67


worth $100-$150? Exactly. Using a crosswalk analysis in the case of Cologuard is
especially inappropriate given the huge discrepancy between the cost-effective
price for Cologuard and the price calculated using a crosswalk.


Due to the high gross costs associated with its Cologuard test (estimated by sell-side
analysts to be between $150-$250 per test, and implied to be $165+/test, based on EXAS
executives' comments during earnings calls and EXAS' 2013 Investor Fact Sheet ), EXAS
needs to achieve reimbursements in excess of $150 to even turn a profit. To put it
bluntly, we believe that following FDA approval, EXAS will be unable to sell its
Cologuard test at a gross profit. Barring any new radical developments in its
pipeline, this leaves EXAS worth little more than the cash on its balance sheet (a
little over $3/share).


Again, the two problems with a crosswalk analysis are that 1) such a reimbursement rate
has no relation at all to the true value of the EXAS DNA test and 2) the DNA tests
contained within Cologuard are explicitly banned from being reimbursed as diagnostic
tests for patients with no symptoms (as they would be used in Cologuard). A crosswalk
analysis ignores the actual cancer detection rate or prevalence of type 1/type 2 errors
(sensitivity and specificity) and completely ignores the other currently available methods
for colorectal cancer detection. Crosswalk pricing is only applicable in cases where
the proposed test/procedure represents a logical combination of other
reimbursable tests/procedures that would be used in conjunction with each other
during the ordinary course of care, which is not the case for Cologuard's DNA
marker tests. While genetic tests could technically be used to detect cancer, using them
for such a purpose is not cost-effective. The reimbursement rates for KRAS, NDRG4, and
BMP3 (the DNA marker components of Cologuard) were set by MACs for detecting
mutations in patients already known to have cancer, in order to determine the proper
treatments. EXAS' proposed crosswalk analysis takes the reimbursement rates for the
DNA tests contained within Cologuard completely out of the context of established
reimbursement rates. In addition, performing cost-effectiveness analyses to
determine coverage/reimbursement rates for colorectal cancer screening tests has
been CMS policy for the past decade. Every single innovation within colorectal cancer
screening that came up for CMS review regarding National Coverage Determination has
been subject to an extensive cost-review paper ordered by CMS - this includes a report on
Fecal Immunochemical Tests commissioned in 2003, a report on Cologuard's predecessor
PreGen-Plus commissioned in 2007, and a report on CT colonographies commissioned in
2009. We strongly encourage investors to review the relevant papers, which we have
posted in the Appendix to this report.


8
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 7/67


On top of all this, EXAS has misrepresented the relative benefit of Cologuard. EXAS'
pivotal DeeP-C trial results are extremely misleading when comparing Cologuard with
FITs, because EXAS used a high cut-off level (100 ng/mL) for hemoglobin levels in the
FITs it was comparing Cologuard to, which made the FITs seem less capable of
diagnosing cancer/large polyps than they really are. FITs work by measuring levels of
human hemoglobin in a fecal sample provided by the patient and comparing them to a
predetermined "cut-off level" to determine whether or not a patient should be referred for a
colonoscopy. The presence of human hemoglobin in feces indicates bleeding in the
colorectal passage, which could be caused by polyps and/or cancer. The higher the cut-off
level, the more likely the FIT will miss cases of advanced adenomas or cancer, and the
less likely the FIT will show false positives. The lower the cut-off level, the more likely the
FIT will catch advanced adenomas or cancer, but the more likely the FIT will also show
false positives for patients who do not have CRC or advanced adenomas. In this report,
we show that a well-powered 2012 trial using the exact same brand of FIT as EXAS
used in the DeeP-C trial showed that adjusting the cut-off point for that FIT down to
50 ng/mL as opposed to the 100 ng/mL level EXAS used in DeeP-C accounted for
nearly all of the difference in sensitivity between the FIT and Cologuard observed in
DeeP-C, while maintaining superior specificity. Because EXAS took so long to develop
and get Cologuard approved, technological advancements in the machines responsible for
interpreting FITs have allowed FITs to achieve comparable results to Cologuard.


Finally, we think the addressable market for Cologuard is approximately 70% smaller than
EXAS claims, and is in decline. A paper published on March 17, 2014 shows that the
majority of patients (approximately 70%) using FITs/FOBTs are also concurrently having
colonoscopies every 10 years, and used the non-invasive tests as a secondary detection
test for CRC. The author explicitly stated that "dramatic declines in incidence in recent
years have been largely attributed to the uptick in colonoscopy, because it is the only test
for which use increased from 2000 to 2010; use of fecal immunochemical testing and
sigmoidoscopy declined during that time period." Given the price point EXAS is
targeting, no payer would be willing to cover their test in tandem with colonoscopies,
unless the colonoscopy were medically necessary based on the results of a Cologuard
test. As a result, we believe the true addressable market would be those patients who are
exclusively using FITs/FOBTs: approximately 2.7mm patients. Assuming 30% market
share (as EXAS Management has), we arrive at 810,000 patients. Assuming uniform
discrete distribution over three years, this comes out to 270,000 patients per year. Even if
EXAS were to achieve its theoretical reimbursement of $500/test (which we view as
impossible), peak revenue would only be $135mm/year (compared to the billion dollar
market that bulls and analysts are predicting).



http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3322/caac.21220/full
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 8/67


We believe that the unfavorable CMS reimbursement decision will be followed by EXAS
unsuccessfully attempting to convince private insurers to pay a price above its gross
costs. While we, like many others, also believe that adoption by patients would be low
regardless of reimbursement and that both patient compliance/acceptance and total
market size for Cologuard are grossly overestimated,  these issue are ultimately
irrelevant. These issues are secondary to the much larger problem: a failure to achieve a
reimbursement price in excess of the gross cost of each Cologuard test. We believe this
will prevent the test (regardless of how many patients want to use it) from ever generating
a profit.


CMS CRC Screening Precedents, and How CMS Will Get to $100-$150/Test


First, it is helpful to review how EXAS arrives at its proposed reimbursement price. EXAS
claims that CMS will use a crosswalk analysis summing the reimbursements of the
different elements of Cologuard in order to calculate Cologuard's reimbursement price.
Below is a reproduction of a table from a recent EXAS investor presentation (included in
the Appendix to this report) showing how EXAS arrived at a theoretical price of ~$500/test
for Cologuard:


This analysis is completely irrational - by claiming that CMS will calculate reimbursement
based on a crosswalk analysis, EXAS/analysts are effectively claiming that the
reimbursement rate for the test is merely a sum-of-the-parts calculation and has no
relation at all to the actual cancer/polyps detection rate or sensitivity/specificity
(prevalence of type 1/type 2 errors). That type of policy would encourage EXAS and other
companies to bundle as many DNA tests as possible to drive up the cost, regardless of
end benefit to patients. It makes no sense, and this is not how CMS calculates
reimbursements for colorectal cancer diagnostic tests! As we highlighted in the
Summary section, the US Department of Health and Human Services (parent agency to
CMS) has explicitly stated that Medicare will not cover genetic tests as a screening test
for patients without signs or symptoms (emphasis added):


9


10
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 9/67


"The Social Security Act provides that no Medicare payment may be made for
expenses incurred for items or services that are not reasonable and necessary for
the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury or to improve the functioning of a
malformed body member. Consistent with this, Medicare does not pay for preventive
screening tests except for those specifically authorized by statute (e.g., prostate-
specific antigen test). Since CMS considers predictive tests to be screening
tests, genetic tests for this purpose are not covered by Medicare. However,
genetic tests used to diagnose or determine treatment in the presence of signs and
symptoms of disease can be covered by Medicare."


The CEO of EXAS, Kevin Conroy, would have investors believe he is doing CMS a huge
favor by asking for reimbursement based on a crosswalk analysis (emphasis added):


"Our test is so…fortunately, a very straightforward test with a limited number of
biomarkers in it. And we, unlike other new molecular tests, are not looking to be
reimbursed based upon the value of an algorithm, rather we are looking to be
reimbursed for these specific codes, which have been fortunately listed in these
Tier 1 and Tier 2 codes that have been created. So I think that is part of thought
process on the part of CMS."


-EXAS CEO Kevin Conroy, Q3 2013 Earnings Call


Unfortunately for Kevin, the CMS process for reimbursing CRC diagnostic tests is much
more sophisticated than merely adding up component prices, and value plays a major role
in CMS decisions when it can be accurately determined.


Every time CMS has been approached to make a National Coverage Determination
("NCD") for a new CRC detection test in the past decade, it has commissioned a report
from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality ("AHRQ", a Department of Health
and Human Services subsidiary). The AHRQ reports evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the
proposed test, and determine the appropriate price for the test, such that the test would lie
on the efficient frontier of available tests.  Tests evaluated by AHRQ include the FIT, a
prior iteration of EXAS' DNA stool-based test (PreGen-Plus), and CT colonographies. We
have provided all of the relevant reports in our Appendix to this report posted on
gravityresearchgroup.com.


1. Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT): CMS commissioned a cost-effectiveness report
from AHRQ in 2003 to determine the appropriate reimbursement rate for FIT tests. The
original creator of FIT tests, Enterix, proposed a price of $28/test. At the time, the


11



http://gravityresearchgroup.com/
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 10/67


sensitivity and specificity of FITs were significantly better than the sensitivity and
specificity of FOBTs (the primary non-colonoscopy alternative). In its request, CMS
explicitly asked AHRQ to 1) compare FIT to FOBT in terms of cancers detected,
cancer deaths averted, and costs, 2) Assess cost-effectiveness, and 3) estimate
reimbursement levels of FIT at which cost-effectiveness would be equal to FOBT at
current Medicare reimbursement. The AHRQ report showed that the appropriate
reimbursement rate (threshold price where the cost-effectiveness of FIT would be
equal to the cost-effectiveness of FOBT) for FIT was between -$4.22 and $29.02,
depending on assumptions/modeling. The assumptions used to produce the prices at
the top and bottom of that cost-effective range were overly optimistic and pessimistic,
respectively, and included sensitivity and specificity figures outside the range of
appropriately-powered published results. Based on the cost-effectiveness study, local
CMS carriers set a median reimbursement of approximately $22 (which ultimately
became the national limit): well below the reimbursement rate Enterix was asking for,
but within the range presented in the AHRQ report.


2. PreGen-Plus: CMS commissioned a cost-effectiveness report from AHRQ in 2007 to
determine the appropriate reimbursement rate for PreGen-Plus, for which EXAS was
requesting $300/test. AHRQ modeled out that the cost-effective price for PreGen-Plus
would be $34 to $60 per test - well below what EXAS was asking for. Ultimately, CMS
elected not to cover the test due to lack of FDA approval. However, because one of the
aims of this paper was to determine the cost-effective price for ColoSure (PreGen-
Plus' successor) even though the performance of ColoSure was unknown at the time,
the paper also included an analysis for a wide range of potential sensitivities and
specificities - including theoretical diagnostic tests that completely dominate
Cologuard.


3. CT Colonography: CMS commissioned a cost-effectiveness report from AHRQ in
2009 to determine the appropriate reimbursement rate for CT colonographies. The
study showed that CT colonographies could be cost-effective at per-test cost of $108
to $205 per scan (well below the $488 average cost per test cited in the study).
Ultimately, CMS decided not to cover CT colonographies due to "lack of sufficient
clinical evidence". However, at the time, two separate large-scale studies confirming
CT colonographies as an effective method of diagnosing CRC had been completed:
the Department of Defense study (which enrolled 1,233 subjects) and the National CT
Colonography Trial (which enrolled approximately 2,600 subjects). As we confirmed
in discussions with a former senior CMS employee, it is clear that CMS' real
reason for rejecting CT colonographies almost certainly stemmed from the fact
that the cost-effectiveness of CT colonographies had been shown in the cost-
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 11/67


effectiveness paper commissioned by CMS to be significantly below the average
cost per CT colonography test. As a result, we believe there is a meaningful
probability that Cologuard will suffer the same fate as CTCs.


There are already numerous tests (FIT, FOBT, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, etc.) available
to test for colorectal cancer and precancerous polyps. The availability of these tests
makes it possible to produce reliable cost-effectiveness analyses that focus on
comparative cost-effectiveness with other solutions, rather than being forced to attempt to
quantify the value of extra years of human life. In cost-effectiveness analyses, these
existing diagnostic tests for CRC make up the cost-efficient frontier, which is quantified as
the tests which provide the highest life-years gained for equivalent total cost. The cost-
effectiveness analysis is performed using three well-established models (the MISCAN-
Colon, SimCRC, and CRC-SPIN models) that are used for calculating cost-benefit of the
CRC detection test. Below is a graphical depiction of the cost-efficient frontier used in
AHRQ papers for colorectal cancer detection tests. Note that actual placement of different
tests/combinations of tests will vary depending on the model used:


The graph above shows the cost-effectiveness of each test/combination of tests. Each
point in the graph represents a different diagnostic test/procedure or combination of
diagnostic tests/procedures, and the cost-effectiveness of each test is measured as the
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 12/67


life-years gained in exchange for total additional costs. "No screening" yields zero benefit
in life years (hence the Y-coordinate is zero) and carries significant cost due to the costs
associated with treating colon cancer.


Within the efficient frontier graph, the (x,y) coordinates for each test are determined by the
test's benefit in terms of life-years (that is, how many life-years patients using the test gain
on average) and the total costs of the tests (including costs subsequent to the test). The
total costs include not only the cost of the test, but also the cost of resulting
procedures/events (including for Type 1 and Type 2 errors), such as colonoscopies, polyp
removals, potential complications, and treatments for colon cancer. In the case of a Type 1
error (a false positive), the test incorrectly determines that the patient has colorectal
cancer, and requires a colonoscopy to find and remove the malignant polyp and assess
what further treatment may be required. The rate of Type 1 errors is calculated as: 100% -
(specificity). For instance, the specificity of the FITs used in EXAS' DeeP-C trial was 95%,
while the specificity of Cologuard in the same trial was 87%. The rate of Type 1 errors is
therefore 5% in FITs and 13% in Cologuard, based on the DeeP-C trial results. Lower
specificity means increased probability of unnecessary colonoscopies, increasing the
effective cost of the test. Cologuard's low specificity (high rate of Type 1 errors)
relative to all other testing options is the key reason that, despite having high
cancer/polyp sensitivity (low rate of Type 2 errors) relative to existing non-invasive
tests, it is not cost-effective for CMS to pay anything near the premium EXAS is
claiming the test deserves.


In the AHRQ studies we reviewed, the top right point of the efficient frontier (maximum life-
years gained) was either colonoscopies or flexible sigmoidoscopies every five years,
combined with FOBTs every year, while the bottom left point of the efficient frontier is
FOBTs once each year. A separate cost-effectiveness graph is produced for each of the
three accepted models: MISCAN-Colon, SimCRC, and CRC-SPIN. The models each have
slight nuances that affect the discounted costs per life-year, including 1) the value of
detecting pre-cancerous polyps and 2) the "dwell time" estimates (that is, how long it takes
for pre-cancerous adenomas to evolve into cancer). It is impossible to know how fast the
progression from precancerous adenomas to cancer actually occurs, because reaching
such a conclusion would require identifying such polyps 10+ years in advance of them
turning cancerous and monitoring those specific polyps in a large population for decades,
which is impractical and unethical in real life. Higher dwell time, lack of polyp bifurcation
(keeping it such that every polyp is capable of becoming cancerous, rather than only
certain polyps being capable of becoming cancerous), and continuous modeling of
adenomas (compared to discrete modeling) all increase the life-years per dollar gained
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 13/67


through CRC diagnostic tests, but lower the incremental benefit of increased screening
frequency. Below are comparative summaries of the three models used for calculating
cost-effectiveness of CRC screening methods:


1. MISCAN-Colon: This model assumes that there are two types of adenomas:
progressive adenomas (which can progress to cancer) and non-progressive adenomas
(which can never progress to cancer). In this model, the dwell time is estimated to be
approximately 10 years, on average, before clinical diagnosis (significantly shorter
than in the other two models). MISCAN assumes a distribution of adenomas
throughout the colorectal passage that is the same as the distribution of colorectal
cancer cases, which causes an increased percent of adenomas (approximately 30%)
to be located in the rectal passage, compared to the 8-10% suggested by data from
autopsy studies. This causes MISCAN-Colon to estimate higher cost-effectiveness for
testing strategies involving sigmoidoscopy when compared to SimCRC and CRC-
SPIN, due to a modeling a larger proportion of adenomas being within the reach of the
sigmoidscope.


2. SimCRC: This model assumes that all adenomas have the ability to progress to
cancer, though most will not during the lifespan of an individual. In this model, the
dwell time is estimated to be approximately 22 years, on average, before clinical
diagnosis (close to the CRC-SPIN estimate, and significantly longer than in the
MISCAN model). Contrary to the MISCAN model, SimCRC assumes that
approximately 8-10% of adenomas are located within the rectum, decreasing the cost-
effectiveness of testing strategies involving sigmoidoscopies.


3. CRC-SPIN: This model assumes that all adenomas have the ability to progress to
cancer, though most will not during the lifespan of an individual. CRC-SPIN also
models continuous size of adenomas, rather than discrete stages of adenoma size that
are used in the MISCAN and SimCRC models. In this model, the dwell time is
estimated to be approximately 25 years, on average, before clinical diagnosis (close to
the SIM-CRC estimate, and significantly longer than in the MISCAN model). Contrary
to the MISCAN model, CRC-SPIN assumes that approximately 8-10% of adenomas
are located within the rectum, decreasing the cost-effectiveness of testing strategies
involving sigmoidoscopies.


For each of the three models, there are three major inputs: sensitivity (probability of
detecting cancer/adenoma among patients who have cancer/adenoma) to different sizes
of pre-cancerous polyps, sensitivity to colorectal cancer, and specificity (probability of
positive reading being correct, rather than a false positive). Sensitivity to pre-cancerous
polyps can be sub-divided into sensitivity to polyps less than 5 mm, sensitivity to polyps
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 14/67


between 5 mm & 10 mm, and sensitivity to polyps greater than 10 mm. When EXAS was
seeking CMS coverage for the first iteration of its test (PreGen-Plus), AHRQ published a
cost-effectiveness paper for CMS that modeled the maximum cost-effective prices for
numerous ranges of sensitivity and specificity for precancerous polyps and CRC, since, at
the time, it was not clear what the actual sensitivity and specificity for PreGen-Plus and its
successor (ColoSure) were. That paper, along with other similar cost-effectiveness papers
written by authors of that paper, provides a maximum cost-effective price of $247 for a test
that completely dominates Cologuard in every respect (and by a wide margin in most of
them). See below for a table summarizing the cost-effective prices collected from
published papers commissioned by CMS regarding potential new diagnostic tests for CRC
(the dominant test is Test E, although Test F is also a dominant test):


The stool-based DNA test ("sDNA") figures from the above table can be verified through
the tables on pages 28 and 37 of the file labeled CMS Cost-Effectiveness Report - sDNA
in the Appendix to this report. Again, this was a cost-effectiveness study requested by
CMS in order to determine proper pricing. As it states in the report, the sensitivity and
specificity figures provided in the table above are the only independent inputs for
each test when computing cost-effectiveness. There are no other confounding
variables impacting cost effectiveness that we are leaving out that would obscure the data.
As such, even without building an independent model, one can review the table and gain a
very good sense of the range of reimbursements Cologuard can realistically expect.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_2.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 15/67


The fact that the maximum reimbursement price for Test E, as determined by AHRQ, is
$247/test implies that the maximum reimbursement price for Cologuard will be lower,
since Test E is equal to or superior to Cologuard in every single measure. How much
lower will Cologuard's reimbursement be? Take a look at Test G: sDNA (v2.0) has much
more similar characteristics to Cologuard, with lower sensitivity for small adenomas,
higher sensitivity for large adenomas, and slightly lower sensitivity for colorectal cancer,
and slightly lower specificity, yet has a maximum reimbursement of $41! We can say
with certainty that the reimbursement rate for Cologuard will be below $247/test.
Given that the sDNA (v2.0) test is much closer to having similar
sensitivity/specificity figures than Test E, we believe that Cologuard's
reimbursement rate will be closer to $41 than to $247-based on our internal model;
we believe that the ultimate reimbursement will be, at best, between $100 and $150.
However, compared with the data provided by precedent CMS publications in the above
table, even our estimates appear very optimistic. Bulls may argue that some of the data
used in the cost-efficient price modeling is old, and that inputs have changed. This is
correct, but the changes in inputs all adversely affect the cost-effective reimbursement for
Cologuard! The maximum reimbursement will be even lower using current data than using
the data previously used in the AHRQ models, because 1) CMS reimbursement rates
have declined since the AHRQ paper was published, 2) the sensitivity and specificity of
FIT was shown to be higher in every single measure through the DeeP-C trial than the
authors of prior cost-effectiveness papers assumed it to be, and 3) advances in the ability
of FIT processing machines to reliably detect lower levels of hemoglobin make them
nearly as effective as Cologuard, with a CMS reimbursement rate of $21.70 (see next
section for more on this). See below:


As a result, the cost-effective pricing for Cologuard today is even lower than it would have
been when the AHRQ papers were written. Again, the published papers show
definitively that the cost-effective price for Cologuard is between $17 and $247, and
our internal modeling produces a likely reimbursement price between $100 and
$150 per test, which is generous when compared to the published figures for tests
with comparable specificity and sensitivity figures.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_3.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 16/67


We have found in the course of our research that many investors appear to have a gross
misperception of CMS reimbursement rates for alternatives to Cologuard (other CRC
screening tests). For instance, a short-seller estimated the cost of colonoscopies at
$2,777, based on commercially available data in a Seeking Alpha article.  However, this
is way too high. In reality, colonoscopies and sigmoidoscopies, which offer the highest
available sensitivity and specificity to cancer and large adenomas (well in excess of
Cologuard on all measures), are only reimbursed $100-$700 by CMS. EXAS is proposing
a reimbursement rate within this range for an inferior test that would require a colonoscopy
to verify positive test results. See below for 2014 CMS reimbursements of variations of the
two procedures:


Why Cologuard is Not as Remarkable as Investors May Think


Cologuard is merely combining a currently-available non-invasive test (NYSE:FIT) with
extra tests for DNA markers. However, the DNA markers provide only marginal
incremental benefit, and, in fact, sabotage the specificity of the test. See below for a


12



https://seekingalpha.com/article/1571592-exact-sciences-flushing-down-the-drain-2-of-5

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FIT

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_4.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 17/67


performance and price breakdown of the FIT and the supplemental tests included in
Cologuard, based on the results of the DeeP-C trial:


Cologuard's Biggest Contribution: Cost


The above chart shows what percentage of sensitivity, specificity, and cost can be
allocated to the FIT within Cologuard versus Cologuard's supplemental DNA markers, and
is scaled to 100% (that is, the total sensitivity/specificity of Cologuard are not actually
100%, but the chart shows the percent contribution of FIT and EXAS' supplemental
markers). The figures used are based on EXAS' proposed cost for Cologuard and the
results of its DeeP-C trial. It is true that Cologuard nearly doubles the sensitivity to
precancerous polyps, but precancerous polyps are a secondary characteristic of
diagnostic tests - the most important factor (obviously) is the test's ability to detect
colorectal cancer.


Cologuard's DNA tests have a very limited impact on sensitivity to cancer (the more
important sensitivity measure), and actually negatively impact the specificity by roughly
8%. Further, this graph plainly shows that the proposed increase in cost far outweighs the
increased benefit. EXAS is estimating reimbursement for Cologuard at $476.83 in a recent
investor presentation. EXAS is asking for a 2,000%+ premium to FIT, while providing
much lower relative increases in terms of sensitivity and a negative impact on specificity.


Returning to the point we discussed in the Summary, we believe that even the
above breakdown graph is egregiously overestimating Cologuard's relative value
over available FITs, because EXAS chose an artificially high cut-off rate (100 ng/mL)
for positive FIT readings in its pivotal trial. A trial published in the American Journal of
Gastroenterology (Wijkerslooth et al) showed that lowering the cut-off rate from 100 ng/mL
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 18/67


(which EXAS used in its trial) to 50 ng/mL would have reproduced nearly the entire
difference between Cologuard and the comparator FIT EXAS used in its trial. Compare
the sensitivities and specificities for the 50 ng/mL FIT with Cologuard in the table below
(see outlined sections):


As the above table shows, Wijkerslooth et al produced very similar results to the reference
FIT in EXAS' DeeP-C trial results using a cut-off for positive results of 100 ng/mL, with all
figures within 1% of each other, except for sensitivity to advanced adenomas (which
showed a 5% difference). Reducing the cut-off level for the FIT from 100 ng/mL of
hemoglobin to 50 ng/mL, we find that the sensitivities and specificities for the FIT are
within spitting distance of Cologuard. Adjusting the contribution chart from the prior page
to reflect the Wijkerslooth et al results for a 50 ng/mL cut-off for positive results, we find
that the FIT is capable of producing 83% of the sensitivity to large polyps and 95% of the
sensitivity to colorectal cancer when compared to Cologuard:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_6.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 19/67


The link between the reduction in hemoglobin cut-off levels and increased
sensitivity/decreased specificity should be obvious, and makes perfect sense: as the FIT
cut-off declines, the test becomes more sensitive to hemoglobin in stool samples.
However, hemoglobin is not necessarily attributable to cancer or advanced adenomas
(though most of the time, it is), and as a result, the specificity decreases when the cut-off
level is reduced. We further confirmed the link and the ability to improve sensitivity using
FIT beyond the levels achieved in DeeP-C through other published studies. Below is a
table taken from a meta-analysis published in February 2014 that compiled completed
trials to provide a more complete picture of the relationship between cut-off values for FITs
and sensitivity and specificity:


Source: Ann Intern Med. 2014; 160(3):171-181 (Link)


As the outlined section in the table above shows, comparing the sensitivities and
specificities for different cut-off ranges (from >50 µg/g to <20 µg/g) showed increases in
sensitivity and decreases in specificity at each step, with sensitivity increasing by nearly
1/3 when comparing the highest cut-off range with the lowest cut-off range. This is
consistent with the results from Wijkerslooth et al. When reviewing the table above, please
note that the units were all converted to µg/g, and the exact conversion rates will differ
depending on the exact brand of FIT used, some of which use varying amounts of buffer
solution. Below is a breakout of the different trials included in the meta-analysis results
outlined above:



http://annals.org/article.aspx?articleid=1819122

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_8.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 20/67


Based on our review of available literature, the trials used in this meta-analysis represent
a comprehensive summary of significant trials evaluating FIT to date. Note that the OC-
Light (outlined above) used the lowest cut-off values. We produced a table showing that,
based off of significant cumulative studies with a more than double the patient pool of the
DeeP-C trial, OC-Light appears to achieve sensitivity to CRC that is nearly as high as
Cologuard with superior sensitivity. OC-Light's superior sensitivity performance in the
trials is clearly attributable to the fact that it used the lowest cut-off values:


Bull Counterpoints and Our Preemptive Rebuttals



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_9.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 21/67


Bull Counterpoint #1: But Cologuard Will Drive Increased Compliance, Which Will
Drive Higher Cost-Effectiveness!


In order to help justify its ridiculous reimbursement target, EXAS has also pushed the
notion that compliance with its stool-based test will be greater than existing non-invasive
solutions, owing to a "compliance engine" that it intends to build out involving mailings and
calls to patients who have received stool kits to increase the rate at which those patients
return stool samples. It is virtually certain that, when (or if) EXAS publishes the cost-
effectiveness analysis it claims to have produced, the analysis will rely heavily on
Cologuard having significantly higher compliance than alternatives in order to justify high
reimbursement rates. However, there are three reasons we believe this will not help drive
higher reimbursements from anyone:


1) EXAS' benchmark DeeP-C trial results completely betray the "higher compliance"
conviction - if anything, everyone should be assuming that compliance with
Cologuard will be LOWER than compliance with existing FITs. This is plainly shown in
the article discussing the DeeP-C results published recently in the New England Journal of
Medicine. On page 4 of the article, Figure 1 shows a breakdown of the enrollment and
outcomes from the trial. Within the chart, you can see that of the 11,016 eligible
participants enrolled in the trial, 687 Cologuard samples provided by patients were
excluded because of leakages in shipping, failure to receive specimens from participants,
or due to technical failure. Of the 11,016 participants, 34 had FITs excluded from the
results due to insufficient hemoglobin sample. To put it together, this means that within the
DeeP-C trial, patients using Cologuard were 20x more likely to fail to return the test
or have an unsuccessful test than patients using FIT. See below for the relevant
diagram from the NEJM article:
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 22/67


On top of that, multiple authors responsible for modeling out the cost-effective prices of
colorectal cancer detection methods in prior cost-effectiveness paper commissioned by
CMS stated in a 2010 paper that they believe adherence to stool DNA tests (Cologuard)
was unlikely to be greater than adherence to existing tests due to the fact that both tests
are non-invasive.  We agree, and though the authors did not comment on this, we
believe that the "ick" factor increases exponentially with a test such as Cologuard, where
patients are forced to handle/ship a meaningful amount of feces, as opposed to trace
amounts of feces that can be brushed onto a sheet. This is likely to adversely impact
compliance rates.


2) The 70% compliance rate at Kaiser Permanente that EXAS claims to investors it
can replicate is completely implausible, because the primary driver of the increased
compliance at Kaiser Permanente that EXAS cites was the fact that the insurance
company was preemptively sending out test kits to at-risk patients - NOT additional
calling/mailing after patients received the test kits. EXAS' claims that it will be able to


13



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_11.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 23/67


achieve increased compliance rates due to its "compliance engine" from the national
average of 59.1%  to 70% by pointing to the success experienced by Kaiser
Permanente's success are extremely misleading. The increased compliance was largely
driven by the fact that patients were mailed initial tests, which is something EXAS would
have no power to do. In order to participate in such a system (which would involve mailing
out tests to all customers), payers would have to have financial incentive - but there would
be none if the price of Cologuard already reflects the benefit of higher compliance and
EXAS is pocketing the incremental benefit!


3) Historical precedents show that CMS refuses to reimburse for non-lab
procedures (including a compliance engine) under its clinical diagnostic laboratory
fee schedule; therefore, any actual benefit derived from the "compliance engine"
will not be reflected in reimbursement prices. For instance, there are numerous multi-
analyte assays that require algorithmic analyses - meaning that after the assays are
completed, algorithms are run to analyze the results and to reach the appropriate
conclusion. Despite the fact that algorithm analyses are required to yield actionable
results, CMS declined to reimburse for the algorithmic analyses, because "Medicare does
not recognize a calculated or algorithmically derived rate or result as a clinical laboratory
test". Similarly, EXAS' proposed "compliance engine" is not going to be acknowledged as
a clinical laboratory test. Below is CMS' commentary from its preliminary decision for
Multi-Analyte Assays with Algorithmic Analyses ("MAAAs"). Emphasis added:


"CMS Preliminary Payment Decision


CMS uses other codes for payment of the underlying clinical laboratory tests on
which the MAAA is done and does not recommend separately pricing the MAAAs
codes.


Rationale


A MAAA is a numeric score(s) or a probability (i.e., "p-score") based on the results of
laboratory tests and, in some cases, patient information. Medicare does not
recognize a calculated or algorithmically derived rate or result as a clinical
laboratory test since the calculated or algorithmically derived rate or result alone
does not indicate the presence or absence of a substance or organism in the body.
Medicare uses other codes for payment of the underlying clinical laboratory tests on
which the MAAA is done and we continue to recommend not separately pricing the
MAAAs codes."


14


15
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 24/67


Bull Counterpoint #2: But Given Imaging is getting reimbursed ~$1,000/test for
PillCam Colon 2! Therefore, $500/test for Cologuard is not unreasonable.


PillCam Colon 2 ("PillCam") is completely different from Cologuard. PillCam is only
reimbursed for patients who are unable to have conclusive colonoscopies, and is in
fact, only indicated for such patients by the FDA.  For such patients, there is no other
currently-available method backed by significant clinical results that is capable of locating
adenomas/polyps throughout patients' entire colons. Colonoscopies are the gold standard
for locating and removing polyps, and there are no generally accepted alternatives with
clear prices for patients who were unable to receive complete colonoscopies. As a result,
using an efficient market pricing model to determine the fair price based on alternatives
does not work. On the other hand, Cologuard is one of several methods of merely
diagnosing patients with colorectal cancer and precancerous polyps. Cologuard does not
identify polyp locations, while PillCam does.


Second, the reimbursement decision for Cologuard must come via a national coverage
determination ("NCD") from CMS, where CMS sets a national limit for reimbursements for
Cologuard. This is the case for all clinical diagnostic laboratory procedures. PillCam is not
a clinical diagnostic laboratory procedure, and is reimbursed on a local coverage
determination basis, with no NCD from CMS.


Bull Counterpoint #3: But the CRC Detection Market is Large, and Some Payers Will
Pay $500/Test Regardless of the CMS Decision!


Even ignoring the "ick" factor of Cologuard and the difficulties EXAS will run into marketing
the test due to its impracticality compared with alternatives, the addressable market for
Cologuard is approximately 70% smaller than EXAS claims and is in decline. A paper
published on March 17, 2014 shows that the vast majority of patients (approximately 70%)
using FOBTs/FITs are also concurrently having colonoscopies every 10 years and used
the non-invasive test as a secondary diagnostic test for CRC. See below for the relevant
table:


16



http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3322/caac.21220/pdf
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 25/67


The author of the paper stated that "dramatic declines in incidence in recent years have
been largely attributed to the uptick in colonoscopy because it is the only test for which
use increased from 2000 to 2010; use of fecal immunochemical testing and
sigmoidoscopy declined during that time period." Given the price point EXAS is
targeting, no payer would be willing to cover their test in tandem with colonoscopies. As a
result, we believe the true addressable market would be approximately 2.7mm patients.
Assuming EXAS can achieve its proposed 30% market share among those patients, we
arrive at 810,000 patients. Assuming uniform discrete distribution over three years, we
arrive at 270,000 patients per year. Even if EXAS were to achieve its theoretical
reimbursement of $500/test (which is highly improbable), peak revenue would only be
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 26/67


$135mm/year. At a more realistic estimate of $150/test, that figure falls to total peak
revenue of only $40.5mm/year. This is a somewhat pointless exercise, though, because
$150/test would represent a negative gross margin for EXAS.


EXAS' Gross Margins


Below are two quotations from 2013 earnings calls discussing expected pricing and
margins (emphasis added):


Q2 2013 Earnings Call:


"Yes, Brian, that's very, very consistent with how you should think about it and how
we've thought about it. What we've always said is we expect gross margins 65% or
better at launch -- not at launch, excuse me, but at a run rate. And so you could
expect over time us to get to that -- so let's say, by year 3, us to be able to
attain that 65% -- with some modest inefficiencies as we approach that. So as
we get closer to launch, we'll be discussing that in more detail. But the best way to
think about it is still consistent with what we've said about that 65% gross margin
once it is penetrated into year 3, and approaching that, it would be modest
inefficiencies, but not far from that."


-EXAS CFO


Q3 2013 Earnings Call:


"At the end of September, CMS released 2014 National Limitation Amounts or NLAs
for Tier 1 molecular pathology codes. It has yet to issue final payment rates for Tier 2
codes. Cologuard contains components in both tiers. CMS issued a rate for KRAS
testing at $199. It had previously issued its rate for FIT testing at $22. Together,
these 2 codes amount to $221. In addition, we believe that the agency will eventually
issue rates for the detection of methylated DNA. Presently, Cahaba, a regional
Medicare administrative contractor, has priced single-methylated variant detection at
$140. Cologuard has 2 methylation markers: NDRG4, and BMP3. Assuming CMS
sets the National Limitation Amount for a single-methylated variant at $140,
the total reimbursed value of Cologuard would be $501. The final payment level
will be determined by HAPG."


-EXAS CEO
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 27/67


Combining the two comments, we get to a peak run-rate gross cost per test of
approximately $175. Using a lower target reimbursement price ($476.83) from a January
2014 investor presentation (see below), we arrive at a peak-efficiency gross cost of
$166.89 per test:


Conclusion


As we discussed in the Summary, the root of the mispricing of EXAS equity is the
misconception by analysts and shareholders that Cologuard will be reimbursed based on
the cost of its DNA test components as opposed to the cost-effectiveness of Cologuard.
Despite Management's insistence that CMS will use a crosswalk analysis to price
Cologuard, we believe that EXAS has been well-aware for a long time that the
reimbursement rates for Cologuard will depend heavily on cost-effectiveness studies.
EXAS has previously acknowledged that cost-effectiveness was critical to achieving its
target reimbursements: see below for an excerpt from EXAS' 2010 Letter to Shareholders:


"Among the most important marketing activities during 2011 will be the initiation of
studies that will measure Cologuard's cost effectiveness. These studies are
important to our efforts to achieve the desired reimbursement level for the test. If we
can demonstrate a significant economic influence on the prevention, diagnosis and
care of colorectal cancer, the reimbursement rate for the test should reflect that
contribution."


In the same letter, EXAS assigned a $500 price target to Cologuard:


17
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 28/67


"Our market analysis also has helped us value the market opportunity we're
pursuing. There are at least 80 million Americans who are at average risk of colon
cancer and eligible for screening today. Assuming a 30 percent penetration rate and
current reimbursement rates, we estimate the market for our screening test to be
$1.2 billion."


Multiplying 80 million by 30%, we get 24 million patients. Dividing $1.2 billion by 24 million,
we get an average price of $500 per test. It seems that Management believed, at the time,
that Cologuard would perform well enough in the DeeP-C trial to elicit a $500/test
reimbursement.


Unfortunately, EXAS reported its unfavorable top line results in April 2013, and after
reporting the data, EXAS stock dropped approximately 20% over the next few trading
days. The primary endpoint targets were 85% cancer sensitivity, 50% pre-cancerous
polyps sensitivity, and 90% specificity. The reported Deep-C results show that Cologuard
achieved 92% cancer sensitivity, 42% detection of pre-cancerous polyps, and 87%
specificity - effectively missing two out of three primary endpoints. However, we do not
think this will preclude Cologuard from being approved by the FDA. We do, on the other
hand, believe that it will make it impossible for Cologuard to achieve the reimbursement
rate investors are expecting.


Prior articles published on EXAS have scratched the surface regarding EXAS' problems,
but have largely ignored or incorrectly addressed the elephant in the room: reimbursement
rates. For instance, the article published by Reed Research values EXAS at $8-9, based
on the assumption of a price of $300/test, which the author got from a prior CMS paper.
It is likely that the author was referring to the following excerpt when stating that the study
"gave a range of between $200 to $300 for a 3-year interval test":


"The threshold costs of the DNA stool test version 1.1 at 3-yearly intervals were…
$237-$302 if the DNA stool test had perfect test parameters."


However, the $237-$302 range is for tests with perfect test parameters! That is, the
test would have 100% sensitivity to cancer and all large adenomas, and 100% specificity.
Cologuard is far from perfect, and the $237-$302 range represents a cap on how much
EXAS could get reimbursed if it were perfect - not a range of likely reimbursement prices!
While we commend the author for his work, the article overestimates the potential range of
prices for Cologuard.


18


19


20



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2134693-exact-sciences-is-a-near-term-short-due-to-risks-and-assumptions-about-its-future-business
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 29/67


Because Cologuard is a non-invasive diagnostic test that provides useful metrics and
poses no potential threat to patients, there is no reason for the FDA not to approve
Cologuard - determining practicality and cost-effectiveness is not within the FDA's
wheelhouse. However, we also think that Cologuard is as close as you can get to a
guaranteed flop, with reimbursements at least 70-80% lower than EXAS has
communicated to investors, and little doctor or patient interest in selecting this test over
other non-invasive alternatives due to the cost and the "ick" factor. The conventional fecal
immunochemical test (FIT) requires patients to use a brush to scrape fecal samples onto a
card that is then mailed back and processed by a lab. Cologuard requires patients to
return a minimum of 8 grams of fecal matter in a container, as well as a separate fecal
sample for hemoglobin sampling, and offers sensitivity and specificity that are comparable
to existing FITs. We doubt any patients will be rushing to try to get test kits.


Marketability aside, we believe that following imminent FDA approval, it is very likely that
EXAS will be unable to sell its Cologuard test at a profit on a gross basis. We think it is
very telling that EXAS has been unable to find any partners and has not published a cost-
effectiveness study for Cologuard, despite purportedly "working" on one since 2011.
Barring any new radical developments in its pipeline, we believe EXAS is worth nothing
more than the cash on its balance sheet (a little more than $3/share). We rate the stock a
"Strong Sell", and we are short. EXAS shareholders are encouraged to reach out to us
at info@gravityresearchgroup.com with any questions you may have regarding
EXAS or the content of this report.


1 Sensitivity is the rate of correct positive readings; if sensitivity is 90%, then, on
average, 90% of the positive cases would be correctly interpreted as positive, while
10% of positive cases would be incorrectly interpreted as negative.


2 Specificity is the inverse rate of false positive readings; if specificity is 90%, then,
on average, 10% of the negative cases would be incorrectly interpreted as positive.


3 The exception is Maxim Capital, which was rightfully suspicious regarding EXAS'
prospects, and has issued a Sell rating on EXAS with a current price target of $8.


4 Link


5 Link


6 Link


7 See CMS CRC Screening Precedents, and How CMS Will Get to $100-$150/Test



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FIT

https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-07-11-00011.pdf

http://www.palmettogba.com/palmetto/MolDX.nsf/DocsCat/MolDx%20Website~MolDx~Browse%20By%20Topic~Covered%20Tests~978QP82338?open&navmenu=Browse%5eBy%5eTopic%7c%7c%7c%7c

http://www.palmettogba.com/palmetto/MolDX.nsf/DocsCatHome/MolDx
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 30/67


Comments (189)


8 Link


9 Link


10 Link


11 Links to all reports can also be found here: Link


12 Link


13 Ann Intern Med. 2010 September 21; 153(6): 368-377


14 CA Cancer J. Clin. 2014;64:104-117


15 Link


16 Link


17 Link


18 Id.


19 Link


20 Id. (see bottom of p. 6 of the link above)


Disclosure: I am short EXAS. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


PSalerno, Contributor
Heheh... I was sure the reimbursement would be lower, and even wrote that many times in my comments contesting
the bulls' arguments. The test is only slightly superior to competitors.


30 Apr 2014, 01:29 PM 


User 24503613
"The test is only slightly superior to competitors." - Due diligence on SA at its finest.


30 Apr 2014, 03:24 PM 



http://www.exactsciences.com/investor/ESC%2013726%20Fact%20Sheet%5b12%5d.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1567942-exact-sciences-the-rotten-sniff-test-1-of-5

https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-07-11-00011.pdf

http://cisnet.cancer.gov/colorectal/highlights/cms_report.html

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1571592-exact-sciences-flushing-down-the-drain-2-of-5

http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-Service-Payment/ClinicalLabFeeSched/Downloads/CLFS-CY2013-Preliminary-Payment-Determinations.pdf

http://www.givenimaging.com/en-us/Innovative-Solutions/Capsule-Endoscopy/pillcam-colon/Pages/COLON-Press-release.aspx

http://investor.exactsciences.com/2010AR/shareholder_letter/index.html

https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Coverage/DeterminationProcess/downloads/id52TA.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24503613
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 31/67


PSalerno, Contributor
Slightly superior, not enough to justify the $500 reimbursement.  
What is your problem ? Were you long ?


30 Apr 2014, 03:28 PM 


Ulysses Benjamin Dover
PSalerno, I know your ID is a cover used to do comments on articles, but please spare us the silliness. Go
back to scaring people into buying gold or something.


01 May 2014, 12:54 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
WOW ! You know my ID better than myself ! I will ask you some information in the future !


01 May 2014, 01:48 AM 


Energy-Trader
The stock has rallied from $11.96 to OVER $21.00 since this article was published by SA. They (and you)
have clearly been WRONG!


25 Aug 2014, 12:53 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I did not short the stock at 11.96, I did from above 17 to 15. The goal is to make money, I am wrong if I lose
money, if I make money I am right.


25 Aug 2014, 02:50 PM 


Energy-Trader
Your reading comprehension is terribly poor.


26 Aug 2014, 02:19 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
My goal is to generate returns, not reading what you think about a company


26 Aug 2014, 03:54 PM 


Energy-Trader
You've clearly MISSED THE ENTIRE MOVE IN EXAS since May. 
+108%


27 Aug 2014, 04:29 PM 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/70107

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 32/67


PSalerno, Contributor
There are so many moves in the market, no need to take huge risk with a stock like Exas which is trading on
hopes, without any earnings.


27 Aug 2014, 06:01 PM 


Energy-Trader
Like I said, you obviously are "new" to how the Biotech sector works. 
I suggest that you stick to paper-trading or if you have investment capital.... Mutual Funds where
professionals manage money.


Your comments about EXAS over the last 10-11 months have been incredibly naïve and ignorant.


27 Aug 2014, 07:49 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I did not ask you any suggestion. I do not need, because, as I said, MYGN did better than EXAS (112.5%
versus 100%) did it faster (3 months time versus 4) and did it carrying less risk because of lower valuation
and actual earnings. Why should I be invested in EXAS having done better with MYGN ? EXAS is trading om
emotion, everything about the product and the company was known 1-2 years ago ( the approval of
Cologuard was predictable for those with medical knowledge), but nevertheless the stock was quite volatile
trading from 11 to 22. If the general market sentiment, now positive, will change to negative the stock could
shrink back again. This is why I traded this stock from a short side after the recent new high and after 1 year
of underperformance compared to the SP index or NDX.


28 Aug 2014, 01:45 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Additionally, there is still a lot of uncertainty about the reimbursement entity for CG, and about the sales
volume. These things will be decided by other people, not by us, we have our forecast, but they can be both
wrong. With MYGN I had more confidence about my forecast as it was supported by more elements. As a
professional trader doing this for living, I place my bets where I see more probability of success, not less. 
Finally, in my previous comments few months ago I predicted a very large trading range for EXAS from $2-to
$25 with 1 year time frame and we are still at 22 inside my range, so my prediction was correct. This stock is
volatile and this year had also a downtrend from 14.7 to 10.7


28 Aug 2014, 01:53 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Another reason why I do not invest in EXAS is that compared to MYGN EXAS shows less volume, and I need
more liquid stock to go in and out because I invest large amount of money, not few thousands dollars as you
think, but I will not tell you how much. So your comments are useless, (you did not even advice to take profit
before the recent 70% correction) but I have to reply because I have 72 followers.


28 Aug 2014, 02:23 AM 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 33/67


Energy-Trader
You've never shorted the stock of EXAS.


28 Aug 2014, 10:23 AM 


Energy-Trader
You are not a professional trader.


28 Aug 2014, 10:23 AM 


Energy-Trader


EXAS trades several million shares a day. 
Large enough for some of the biggest Fund managers in the world like Chase Coleman of the Tiger Global
Fund . . . which has $8 BILLION under management.


28 Aug 2014, 10:25 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
You cannot know what I do, but you see I correctly called 2 times the entry and exit point to short the stock.
You never did it because you lack any skill in stock trading.


28 Aug 2014, 04:29 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Trading is the only thing i do for living, so I actually AM a prof trader.


28 Aug 2014, 04:29 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Wrong- Not enough for me especially options. The long term average volume is just around 1 million shares a
day, not as you say several million, very rarely the volume reaches 2 million, around 30 days in the last 356
days. So clearly you don't know what you are talking about, averybody can see you are wrong just looking the
chart.


28 Aug 2014, 04:38 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I did not care fund managers, I care about me. FOR ME an average of 1 million shares is not enough,
especially from a short point of view, because I need to go in and out very quickly. I consider Exas a short
term trading, not a long term holding.


29 Aug 2014, 11:26 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 34/67


You can talk what you want, but when I told EXAS was not liquid enough for me, I was talking about OPTION
volume, because, as I told many times, I ALWAYS used options to short this stock. 
So your comment about stock volume was inappropriate and not properly correlated to my argument.  
I was the one rising the issue about liquidity, and you did not understand limiting the issue to the stock volume
and avoiding what was the most relevant factor, the option volume.  
So may be you need to take an English as a First Language course.


29 Aug 2014, 11:35 AM 


Energy-Trader
You are too FUNNY!


For some reason, there is enough liquidity in EXAS for the $8 Billion Dollar Tiger Global Fund run by Chase
Coleman to buy 2 million shares. But not enough liquidity for our clown from Hungary.


30 Aug 2014, 03:12 PM 


Energy-Trader
You should really stop posting about EXAS. 
You've missed a 108% move in the stock since May, have NEVER owned a single share.... and no absolutely
NOTHING about the Company!


30 Aug 2014, 03:14 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Yes, for the reason I have explained above. If you do not understand that using options for short term trading
is different and needs more liquidity, it is not my problem. There are seminars where these things are
explained more extensively, I suggest you to participate.


30 Aug 2014, 04:45 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
You do not tell me what I have to do. I will keep posting about this stock as it is one of my favourite trading
vehicles. I prefer to trade this stock from the short side.


30 Aug 2014, 04:53 PM 


Joe Cor
what about the fact that the Affordable Care Actis predicated on wellness and prevention to alleviate the future osts of
catastrophic illness ?


A Colonoscopy costs twice as much and is fully covered for patients over 50 years of age.


30 Apr 2014, 01:48 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/575798

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 35/67


Colonscopy has more limited indication and compliance. So it is normal that it is reimbursed even if more expensive.
The article is well done.


30 Apr 2014, 02:01 PM 


defiance
Colonoscopy has more limited indication? It is used, and reimbursed as a CRC screening test, as is FIT.


Since Colonoscopy is used less it warrants higher reimbursement? The point of the article is cost effective
screening. Is colonoscopy cost effective at $1500 - $2000 per test?


30 Apr 2014, 02:28 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Yes it is cost effective as I told above because pf more limited indications and compliance. Additionally it is
often associated with surgery. It is a totally different thing.


30 Apr 2014, 02:35 PM 


defiance
With regards to indication, colonoscopy is used as a screening test, so for this use, the indication is over 50
years old, same as any other CRC screen. The reason screening tests have any cost effectiveness is
because they can detect disease before it becomes very expensive to treat. Cost effectiveness of a screening
test is independent of the compliance. Fewer screened, fewer cancers found, less savings.


30 Apr 2014, 02:45 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Colonscopy is not a first choice screening, it is a second step after FIT, FOBT or DNA test.  
If Cologuard is positive, you have to performe a colonscopy as well.  
During colonscopy the surgeon can make a biopsy, can remove a polyp. Colonscopy is part of the therapy,
not just a screening.


30 Apr 2014, 02:51 PM 


defiance
Colonoscopy is frequently used as a front-line screen, ie. not as a referral from a positive FOBT/FIT screen.
As such, it is no cheaper as a screen than it is as a treatment. Most of those colonoscopies treat nothing.


30 Apr 2014, 03:20 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Defiance - Try again you are on improving path. May be you will get the point that doctors are trying to reduce
colonscopy as first choice screening and this is why there are other tests (fecal test). These tests must cost a
lot less than colonscopy because colonscopy must be done anyway if fecal tests are positive.  
BOTTOM LINE is : Fecal test WILL NEVER BE A SUBSTITUTE of colonscopy.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/796049

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/796049

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/796049

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 36/67


01 May 2014, 01:53 AM 


defiance
"1) The DNA tests contained within Cologuard, which account for over 95% of the value in EXAS' hypothetical
crosswalk analysis, were explicitly banned by the Department of Health and Human Services"


and


"Since CMS considers predictive tests to be screening tests, genetic tests for this purpose are not covered by
Medicare."


These comments refer to genetic screening for predictive markers. Cologuard does not use these, instead it looks for
mutated and methylated DNA contained in diseased cells shed from the lining of the colon. It does not predict a
genetic predisposition to CRC, it finds CRC and polyps that are soon to become CRC.


30 Apr 2014, 02:10 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
This comment is correct, in the article the term "predictive" is misleading, but the conclusion is pretty much
the same.


30 Apr 2014, 02:14 PM 


User 24503613
An SA article against EXAS is telling me to short. I'm going to buy. Sweet. I saved you guys a few thousand
characters of writing!


30 Apr 2014, 03:23 PM 


Energy-Trader
More brilliant "twisted" rubbish from PSalerno. 
Shocker!


30 Apr 2014, 05:09 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I know you are a frustrated long, so I will not shot on the red-cross.  
I told in the past EXAS was not a good investment, but you had to learn it in the hard way.


01 May 2014, 01:55 AM 


Energy-Trader
You are WRONG again PSalerno!


EXAS just received their National Coverage Determination for Cologuard and $502 reimbursement pricing
yesterday!



https://seekingalpha.com/user/796049

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24503613

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 37/67


Stock is +26% in pre-market. 
You and your "short" friends are in a world of hurt! 
New Highs!


10 Oct 2014, 07:21 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
The reimbursement was higher than I thought, but I did not make any bet on this outcome. The time to short
and to cover were when I declared it in my previous comments.


10 Oct 2014, 09:43 AM 


Whitney Tilson, Contributor
Great analysis -- kudos! I love shorts like this one, in which there are many ways to win.


30 Apr 2014, 03:08 PM 


Energy-Trader
Mr. Tilson....


For full-disclosure purposes, have you had a short position in the last 5 trading days in EXAS?


30 Apr 2014, 05:12 PM 


Energy-Trader
No response from Mr. Tilson about having a short position in EXAS before this article was published. Just
crickets....


01 May 2014, 11:07 AM 


yogabagaba
Mr. Tilson, why have you avoided the question in regards to whether you have an established short position in
EXAS?


Also, would you care to elaborate on the numerous ways in which "there are many ways to win" shorting
Exact Sciences? I am all ears on your plethora of pathways!


01 May 2014, 09:09 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
The question did not deserve an answer, not every question deserves an answer. People must be able to
read and use their brain before making those questions.


02 May 2014, 03:03 AM 


Energy-Trader



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/whitney-tilson

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 38/67


Why is there a double-standard here.... where SEC broker-dealers are bound by Regulation Full Disclosure,
and blogs like this don't have to disclose anything?


Mr. Tilson was asked whether or not he had a short position in EXAS. 
It's a simple question and easily answered.


The FACT that he has remained silent speaks volumes.


02 May 2014, 10:11 AM 


Keubiko, Contributor
>>Mr. Tilson was asked whether or not he had a short position in EXAS. 
It's a simple question and easily answered.<<


What makes you think he has a duty to disclose his fund's positioning to anonymous people on the internet?
Just because he posted a comment?


You have posted a comment so please forward your trading statements to keubiko@yahoo.com. If not, the
silence will speak volumes.


I'm sure if you invest in his fund he'd be happy to talk to you about the current positioning.


02 May 2014, 11:27 AM 


yogabagaba
more like you're going to lose big! devalued investor


16 Aug 2014, 06:06 PM 


Energy-Trader
In late July, Whitney Tilson told various financial media wire-services that he is even more confident in his
large short position in HerbaLife. Sure seems to me that Mr. Tilson could easily answer my question. Or does
he simply use the media to his advantage only when he wants to?


Kind of like when Travis Cocke of Southpaw Partners posted a 5-Part Series as "Alpha Exposure" explaining
why EXAS was such a great short last Summer (July 2013) and only had a value of "...less than $3 per share"
because it would not receive FDA or CMS approval.


The stock is 50% higher now and as we all know, and Cologuard has in fact achieved FDA and CMS
approval.


20 Aug 2014, 10:11 AM 


Energy-Trader
Mr. Tilson..... how are you doing in shares of EXAS today? 
The stock is +80% since you commented about how you "love shorts like this one."


25 Aug 2014, 12:52 PM 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 39/67


morlockx15
EXAS is a dead man walking. $500 a test? Streamlining the colonoscopy process should bring the cost of each
procedure down to $2,000 or less. In Mexico, one can be had for $700.


30 Apr 2014, 03:15 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Nevertheless the stock could go higher short term to around 14.


30 Apr 2014, 03:23 PM 


NB MD
Colonoscopy is first line screening test for CRC. I could see the USPTFS come out and say that Cologuard could be
considered first line in the coming years once it proves itself.


Everyone is concerned about the CMS value but the point is screening starts at age 50. That leaves 15 years of
screening prior to the 65 year age when Medicare will start. CRC screening is recommended to age 75 so the majority
of screening occurs before patients become Medicare eligible. I know private insurers use CMS as a guide but don't
anticipate the reimbursement value will be the same for the private insurers.


30 Apr 2014, 05:34 PM 


defiance
"Cologuard ... offers sensitivity and specificity that are comparable to existing FITs."


Untrue. Cologuard's cancer sensitivity is comparable to colonoscopy. Cologuard's pre-cancer sensitivity is vastly
superior to FIT.


30 Apr 2014, 05:47 PM 


defiance
"Due to the high gross costs associated with its Cologuard test (estimated by sell-side analysts to be between
$150-$250 per test, and implied to be $165+/test, based on EXAS executives' comments during earnings calls and
EXAS' 2013 Investor Fact Sheet8)"


EXAS executives have quoted test cost at $100 per. 
The EXAS' 2013 Investor Fact Sheet (reference 8) does not give any information about test cost.


30 Apr 2014, 05:58 PM 


Energy-Trader
True.


Gravity Research Group conveniently took the 65% gross margin figure out of context by applying it to the
$476 crosswalk pricing that the CEO has pointed out in recent conference calls. The fact of the matter is that
no analyst on the Street is modeling for anything above the $300 price point that the Company has guided to
for years.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/14373022

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18666962

https://seekingalpha.com/user/796049

https://seekingalpha.com/user/796049

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 40/67


65% of $300 is $195. 
Thus, the costs for Cologuard (at peak sales) are roughly $105 per test and not the $165 that the author has
mistakenly claimed. If you can actually find an analyst on the Street that covers the Company and is modeling
for $476 pricing, you have found a Unicorn.


There are none. 
Period.


30 Apr 2014, 11:57 PM 


Really..
You are completely wrong. The 65% gross margin was provided by Management in calls and they were
obviously referring to their own forecasted price for Cologuard, not some random analyst prices. Plus you are
wrong about the analyst projections, Ladenburg, Wedbush, and Canaccord are all projecting Cologuard
prices in the $400-$500 range. If you actually had access to sell-side research, you would know this.


01 May 2014, 05:21 PM 


Energy-Trader
You are completely wrong. 
If you look at the spreadsheets of Baird, Jefferies, Benchmark, Mizuho, William Blair, etc. they all use $300 in
their modeling.


01 May 2014, 06:33 PM 


Biotech Vet, Contributor
Almost every assumption and conclusion here can be strongly questioned. Kudos for a well-researched article, It's
nice to see a well argued thesis. Since to rebut every point would take as long as the original, I’ll start by responding
to a few.


When CMS decided to not reimburse CTC, they did it based on price, as you suggest, but it was never explicitly
stated. The real reason, which I heard from someone on the panel, was that it cost almost as much as a screening
colonoscopy and since a positive would lead to a referral for a optical colo anyway, it was deemed cost ineffective.
Had the price been significantly cheaper it would likely have been approved. Cologuard is significantly cheaper.


You quoted CMS as stating "The Social Security Act provides that no Medicare payment may be made for expenses
incurred for items or services that are not reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury
or to improve the functioning of a malformed body member. Consistent with this, Medicare does not pay for preventive
screening tests except for those specifically authorized by statute (e.g., prostate-specific antigen test).” What you
conveniently neglected to point out is that, like a PSA test, colorectal cancer screening is specifically authorized by
statute for approved tests like colonoscopy fecal blood and sigmoidoscopy. So, the only way your conclusion is valid
is if you think CMS will not endorse reimbursement of Cologuard like it did for CTC.


The calculation of cost-effectiveness is very tricky and relies upon numerous assumptions. The previously
commissioned CMS study you reference is old (2007). One problem that bedevils all the comparisons to FIT, and
indeed even to colonoscopy, is that Cologuard has a truly ground-breaking strength in its sensitivity to sessile serrated



https://seekingalpha.com/user/6013951

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/biotech-vet
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 41/67


adenomas. These adenomas have only recently been shown to be the source for 30-35% of all CRCs. FIT doesn’t
detect these. In fact, recent data show that there is a huge variance between the rates at which colonoscopists detect
these with detection rates for some approaching 0%. This changes how one performs simulations of the efficient
frontiers and cost-effectiveness. Indeed, it is one reason I think this test is a huge improvement over FIT. Similar
arguments can be made for the equal sensitivity of Cologuard, but not FIT and not colonoscopy to proximal and distal
lesions.


To say that the “perfect” sDNA test would only garner a reimbursement of around $237 (in 2007 mind you), and
therefore Cologuard could never be reimbursed higher is a preposterous argument because the imperfect
colonoscopies and especially sigmoidoscopies already cost significantly more than that. These are complicated
arguments, and also were performed at a time when the importance of sessile serrated adenomas were not
appreciated.


I’ll stop here, but it is almost pointless arguing further since we’ll have the real answer very soon.


30 Apr 2014, 06:13 PM 


Gravity Research, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Hi Biotech Vet,


Thank you for your thoughtful response. We appreciated hearing what you had to say, although we
vehemently disagree with your statement that “Almost every assumption and conclusion here can be strongly
questioned.” :) See below for our response to the points you have raised:


Regarding the CTC, it seems you may have misinterpreted our point. We completely agree with your point
regarding the “real reason” why CTC was rejected—it is exactly what we are saying in our report! CTC was
rejected because it was deemed cost ineffective. You followed up with “Had the price been significantly
cheaper it would likely have been approved. Cologuard is significantly cheaper.” While we agree that the CTC
would have been approved at a lower price, Cologuard is not cheaper. See the CMS CTC Cost-Effectiveness
Report: http://go.cms.gov/1hUX5m7. Here is the relevant text:


“We assumed a per-test CMS payment of $488 for CT colonography (the national average CMS payment for
an abdominal CT, a pelvic CT, and image processing) and assumed that the test would be performed every
five years with individuals with a lesion 6mm or larger referred for colonoscopy.” –p. 6


EXAS is asking for a comparable price, and this is why we think there is a very meaningful probability that
Cologuard will be rejected just as the CT colonography was. Also note that EXAS is requesting that
Cologuard be covered for use once every 3 years, which effectively makes the long-term base cost of
screening 67% higher than CTCs once every five years.


Your second point regarding the HHS memorandum is also correct, but you are missing our point. We
included the memo to show that genetic tests are not permitted for preventive screening. We strongly believe
that this effectively precludes CMS from using a crosswalk to price Cologuard. It is HHS policy to explicitly not
allow genetic tests to be used for screening among asymptomatic patients—so why would they simply sum
up the costs to calculate reimbursement for Cologuard? Doing this without basing the reimbursement on cost-
effectiveness makes no sense and essentially defies the HHS policy. Our core points are that 1) there is going
to be a cost-effectiveness paper published and 2) the results will not be favorable for EXAS because cost-



https://seekingalpha.com/author/gravity-research

http://go.cms.gov/1hUX5m7
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 42/67


effectiveness data shows that the reimbursement is going to be much lower the $500 rate Management is
looking for.


Your comment regarding sessile serrated polyps shows that you have done serious research on colorectal
cancer screening. We like that. However, we respectfully disagree with you on whether or not it will impact on
the cost-effectiveness calculations from CMS. We spent an inordinate amount of time working with cost-
effectiveness models, and none of them incorporate sessile serrated polyps! As a refresher, there are three
accepted cost-effectiveness models for CRC testing: MiSCAN, SIM-CRC, and CRC-SPiN. We provided
descriptions of the assumptions and differences between the three in the report. You can also read up on
them here (http://1.usa.gov/1hUX5m9) and in the prior CMS cost-effectiveness reports.


You are correct in stating that sessile serrated adenomas are a relatively new development in the CRC
screening space. Unfortunately, this is the reason why it will not impact the CMS cost-effectiveness
calculations for Cologuard. While it is true that some studies have shown 20-30% of cancer is caused by
sessile serrated polyps, the unknown factor is what percent of sessile serrated polyps evolve into cancer,
which is required to determine the value of detecting sessile serrated polyps. We believe SSAs are certainly
something that deserves further research, but they are not at the point where there is sufficient clinical
evidence to use them as an input when calculating the cost-effective prices of CRC screening tests.


Regarding your point about the “perfect” sDNA test, we think you’re again misinterpreting our main point,
which is that this should serve as a guideline for where investors can expect the CMS cost-effective prices for
Cologuard to wind up. Based on cost-effectiveness modeling and the published CMS papers we referenced,
we think $150/test is really the top of the range for Cologuard on a cost-effectiveness basis. We think we have
provided a fairly compelling argument for why this is the case. It is true that the precedent CMS papers are
several years old now, but the cost-effectiveness models have stayed the same, and the inputs have become
worse for Cologuard—for instance, the sensitivity of FITs has improved significantly through the use of lower
Hg cut-off levels, and Medicare reimbursements for existing CRC screening tests have declined.


The CMS decision could come any day now, and we are looking forward to it. Best of luck to you, and feel
free to reach out to us at info@gravityresearchgr... if you have any further comments or questions.


30 Apr 2014, 11:21 PM 


Energy-Trader
Too funny!


One-third of all sessile serrated polyps turn into full blown cancer. 
Yet, you completely dismiss such a FACT from any kind of cost-effectiveness modeling. How convenient.


30 Apr 2014, 11:50 PM 


Biotech Vet, Contributor
I really appreciate you backing up your arguments with facts and links rather than the vituperative comments
that don't engender discussion.



http://1.usa.gov/1hUX5m9

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/biotech-vet
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 43/67


You can't possibly compare the price of CTC to Cologuard. The calculations CMS performed were based
upon the assumption (i.e. $488 ) that CTC would cost as much as colonoscopy (which at the time was
reimbursed as $500 and $650 with polypectomy). With co-pays that price is significantly higher. The problem
with CTC was the recommended screening interval was too short (5 years) to be non-dominated. The real
question for Exact is what will the total reimbursement be. Don't forget that as pointed out by another
commentator, there is a 15 year period between 50-65 before Medicare payments kick in. There are also
issues of non-medical costs (i.e. lost work, ability to work day of procedure etc.) that can significantly impact
overall costs. Numerous papers discuss these issues. All of this however is irrelevant on some level to the
main question. Since CMS decided to not cover CTC, and you claim this is equally costly, then the only
conclusion one can draw from your argument is that CMS will like-wise not cover Cologuard. Do you really
think this will be the case? You claim that is a probable outcome, but you are saying this on the basis of
almost zero information since the arguments for CTC cost were based upon well-established CT procedures
with long reimbursement histories. This is a completely new product. Therefore, the only important question is
what will the overall reimbursement be.


As far as modeling SSA's maybe you have worked with these models, however you maybe haven't read the
models in details. There are a huge number of assumptions in these models involved in the natural history of
the progressions. All the models you reference include assumptions about all CRCs arising from adenomas. It
is a simple thing to modify the assumptions to include data on SSAs and rerun the model. As a matter of fact,
the models are updated regularly. For instance, the SimCRC model model allows for heterogeneity in growth
and progression rates across multiple adenomas within an individual. This is an easy parameter to tweak for
incorporation of SSAs and the sensitivities to SSAs for FIT and Cologuard. Unfortunately, there is probably
not enough good data on the lack of detection of SSAs in many colonoscopies to include this, but certainly it
could also be included as an adjustable parameter. It is true that sDNA was well past the efficient frontier of
FIT as studied in the most recent paper (but before the data from Cologuard) http://1.usa.gov/1rJTtVe 
However, adjusting the adherence rates and overall performance showed that with improvements, many of
which Cologuard and Exact may make, this test can be pushed onto the efficient frontier as shown by
simulations in the paper. Further, that paper also makes some unrealistic assumptions about adherence to
fecal blood testing.  
In short, you make a weak argument from this perspective that these models can't incorporate SSA data.


Lots of DNA screening tests are now covered by Medicaid including all the pre-natal tests from Sequenom
and Verinata and Ariosa for aneuploidy. Therefore your blanket statement that "It is HHS policy to explicitly
not allow genetic tests to be used for screening among asymptomatic patients" is simply not true. On today's
cc the CEO claimed he was quite confident that there would be a cross-walk approach used. So an investor
has to believe your biased (large short position) opinion versus that of the biased CEO (long) who has quite a
few more legal ramifications to what he says on a conference call than you do on a web site. This is not to
say you might not be right. But, certainly, Conroy has way more information vis a vis the CMS thinking and
discussions than you do. Therefore, when he says this publicly on a CC I think this has weight.


01 May 2014, 03:39 PM 


Seeking Bull



http://1.usa.gov/1rJTtVe

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8761771
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 44/67


Very well articulated biotech vet. Thank you. The article is no doubt well researched and well written and exhaustive in
its length. Perhaps the authors believe that adding volume adds credibility to their arguments? In any event, thank you
again. The test will be recognized as a very valuable tool in both effectiveness and cost containment moving forward
by the FDA, CMS and doctors. It may take a while, but the long term prognosis is not in doubt here.


30 Apr 2014, 08:05 PM 


colonyt
I am a colon rectal surgeon. Your analysis is rubbish,you have no clinical in this field.all your analysis is paper based.
The average pateint refuses to have colonoscopy unless there a long lecture about the risk of colon cancer.The price
of colonoscopy based on reimbusement of cms is not sustainable for any endoscopy practice.it is subsidied by private
insurance to a major extent.Colonoscopy is test performed by at least 10000 endoscopist ,at least half are not skilled
to perform it.We conscious physician are looking for an alternative test acceptable to average person,reliable with no
risk for the average pateint


30 Apr 2014, 08:55 PM 


morlockx15
How many people who would otherwise get a colonoscopy now choose the Cologuard instead? That has to
be a negative in the long run.


30 Apr 2014, 10:02 PM 


User 23168173
How many baseball players would play in the minors if they could play in the majors? None! If everyone that
should have a colonoscopy had one, this product would not exist. This product is solely for people who do not
have a colonoscopy. Once they take this test and find a potential crc then they will also have a colonoscopy.
Cologuard is here to increase the number of people who have colonoscoies.


30 Apr 2014, 11:39 PM 


enigma_mttrrnd
While I do not have a bone in this fight, other SA users please note that this ID has one comment, newly
created and given the elementary communication skills, I highly doubt the credentials of colonyt. Furthermore,
I find it highly unlikely any self-respecting surgeon would use accusatory language. Good luck to all investors.


01 May 2014, 08:05 AM 


Seeking Bull
My advice to you is to be careful when judging a book by its cover. While his/her English is rough, the
comments made are spot on. And remember, there are many foreign doctors practicing in america - I know a
great many of them. The arguments made about patients refusing colonoscopy and CMS reimbursement are
accurate. If I had to rely solely on CMS reimbursement, I would not be able to practice.


01 May 2014, 08:29 AM 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/13733992

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14373022

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23168173

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5385531

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8761771
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 45/67


enigma_mttrrnd
For sure - however it is the tone of the entire body and the relatively new account created just to comment on
this. Keep in mind, comments are not visible to guests, only to members. Therefore, this means that there is a
HIGH CHANCE a member could have created this account. I can easily retort that I am a Medical Director
and agree with the author (I am not, and I neither agree or disagree with the author because I do not have a
background in valuations).


Overall, to me this type of commenting pattern is more fitting for Yahoo Message Boards. If the alleged doctor
provided citable data refuting any points of this article, I would have given it more credence. I find your
comments very detailed and informative, as you have substantial retorts and a quick glance at your profile
further solidifies your integrity in my view.


The purpose of the warning was to advice anyone skimming through the comments to take extra care. I like
reading highly commented articles, as I find I learn a lot from them in a relatively short period - hence why I
was going through the comments here.


01 May 2014, 08:39 AM 


enigma_mttrrnd
also I would like to add that the science behind EXAS is sound (I do have a background in Science :)) - and
its test is no doubt intriguing. The valuations and financials which are a key facet of any product are another
dimension that I am learning on.  
Good Luck


01 May 2014, 08:41 AM 


morlockx15
But it might have the opposite effect. I know of one person who is putting off a colonoscopy because he wants
to wait for the cologuard test. People who absolutely refuse colonoscopy despite the pleas from doctors to get
one are unlikely to agree to a cologuard test with its large "ick" factor.


01 May 2014, 09:38 AM 


Energy-Trader
I must say that I find it kind of ironic that your "reply" above questions a poster with a Profile that shows only a
single comment . . . meanwhile, you have no problem with the "author" of this article (Gravity Research
Group) not having to disclose who they are. Have you even visited the website for Gravity Research Group?
It's about as anonymous as you can be. No names. No address. No contact info. Zero!


Let's face facts.


The "anonymous" author policy of Seeking Alpha and the lack of full-disclosure that it facilitates is a complete
joke. These articles are like the Tabloid rags that I see when I am standing in the check-out line at my local
grocery store. But the real interesting thing, is how SA has absolutely no problem doing business this way.


Gee, why do you think that is???



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5385531

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5385531

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14373022

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 46/67


01 May 2014, 06:44 PM 


Energy-Trader
A negative for who??? 
More positive tests for ColoGuard will generate more need for Colonoscopy.


13 May 2014, 09:31 AM 


Ulysses Benjamin Dover
you can stop reading at "only one product in the pipeline." That is not true, see upcoming seminar with various
presentations for proximate cancers.


Also, FDA has already indicated crosswalk approach which is why Conroy is saying it. Expect a price around $400 a
test.


These hit pieces are becoming tiresome and desperate. Company has made slow steady progression for five years
without hyping. Institutional hands are very strong, including recent demand for shares by Goldman Sachs, Baird and
William Blair A-list clients.


When the short-squeeze begins it will be up sharply. The shorts are trying to bail themselves out and/or get shares
cheaper because they know the company's bright future.


This manipulation is shameful, possibly criminal and SA ought to reconsider its editorial standards, as Barron's
pointed out a few week ago.


01 May 2014, 12:27 AM 


Ulysses Benjamin Dover
2) "Calculating the reimbursement rate via crosswalk analysis has no relation at all to the true value of Cologuard."


That's actually true. Cologuard is worth far more to CMS than even $500 per test as it will literally save BILLIONS of
dollars in cancer treatments over the first decade.


Funny use of charts by the way. Apparently you are relying on some people's mediocre math skills to not know you
are analyzing your charts wrong. Good thing the FDA panel that voted 10-0 to approve understands stats.


Also a point. CMS agreed, eagerly, to review in parallel Cologuard with FDA. That is a rarity. Only a few percent of
products get that. I wonder why? You should cover now instead of waiting, it'll help you cut your losses.


One last thing, do you really think you're smarter than Baird, Goldman Sachs and William Blair??? If so, you're nuts.
Go sell something, that's where your skill ends.


01 May 2014, 12:52 AM 


Seeking Bull
Well stated UBD


01 May 2014, 08:29 AM 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/70107

https://seekingalpha.com/user/70107

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8761771
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 47/67


NB MD
I am a physician at a large academic center here in the US and have conversations about colon cancer screening on
a daily basis with patients. With that background, I do know that most patient would want to defer a colonoscopy for
Cologuard any day for the cost and the inconvenience of a colonoscopy which causes people to miss a day a work,
find a ride to and from the hospital/clinic, do the prep the night before (Which is what every patient hates and this is
why they don't want to do the procedure).


There is already a large amount of buzz in the medical community pertaining to this test and medical professionals
will be ordering this on a daily basis based on patient and provider preference. There are complications associated
with invasive tests and medicine is moving towards noninvasive studies. This is another one on the list that will have a
significant role in CRC screening.


01 May 2014, 08:57 AM 


morlockx15
Doctor- in your opinion , are these patients who would otherwise undergo the colonoscopy procedure if the
Cologuard was NOT an option? That is a key question. The EXAS assumption is that the test would draw
patients out of the pool of those who absolutely refuse colonoscopy. But I think the test will mainly draw
patients out of the pool who would get one- but reluctantly. And that is a big pool. If so, the test will NOT be
embraced by HMOs.


01 May 2014, 03:46 PM 


NB MD
This will draw from the new crowd, who has never had a colonoscopy and are turning 50 soon and do not
wish to have one so will use the every 3 year cologuard screen. This will also draw from the crowd that is a bit
older and higher risk to undergo colonoscopy as well as patients who were undergoing routine screening with
FIT. As you can see, this will be a very successful test.


01 May 2014, 04:44 PM 


morlockx15
I disagree absolutely. You are being disingenuous, or hold a long position. The efficacy numbers do not
support its replacing colonoscopy, and will delay the detection of cancers. In the aggregate it will wind up
costing HMO's more money.


02 May 2014, 10:00 AM 


Energy-Trader
You are operating from a poor knowledge base. 
ColoGuard was never designed to replace colonoscopy.


It was designed to replace FIT and those that are unable to undergo colonoscopy, or Irritable Bowel
Syndrome sufferers where optical colonoscopy is virtually worthless in its effectiveness because the colon is
so inflamed.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/18666962

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14373022

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18666962

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14373022

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 48/67


02 May 2014, 10:14 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
NB has some point, as Cologuard will be succesful, because colonscopy for screening in low risk people is
problematic, and FIT is less sensitive, but problem is price.


02 May 2014, 10:19 AM 


Energy-Trader
ColoGuard outperformed FIT in the detection of Stage 1 and Stage 2 cancers by 94% to 70%.


This significant performance difference for curable stage cancer, highlights the superiority of ColoGuard over
the FIT test.


02 May 2014, 11:28 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Last study published on March 19th showed 92% versus 73.8%. If FIT is performed every 2 years this
outperformance becomes less relevant.


02 May 2014, 12:22 PM 


morlockx15
The only way it will succeed is if it DOES replace a significant number of colonoscopies. If you think it will be
successful as a screening test at 7-8 times the cost of FIT, you are delusional.


02 May 2014, 02:25 PM 


Energy-Trader
You obviously do not even begin to understand how vastly SUPERIOR ColoGuard is to FIT. Just checking the
AUC and ROC curves will tell you that. But my guess is that you don't even know what those are.


08 May 2014, 07:19 PM 


Energy-Trader
Wrong again Salerno.


08 May 2014, 07:19 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Energy- If you read the link you provided, you will understand that I am correct.


09 May 2014, 01:26 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14373022

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 49/67


The problem is not Cologuard versus colonscopy, but Cologuard versus FIT. Cologuard is more sensitive (92% versus
73.8%) but not enough to justify $4-500 payment compared to $23. If you perform FIT every 2 year you can even
improve the result. There is no saving as if Cologuard is positive you have to perform a colonscopy in any case. Many
do not go to colonscopy just for screening for the problems outlined, so where is the saving ?


01 May 2014, 09:09 AM 


defiance
"if Cologuard is positive you have to perform a colonscopy"


If Cologuard is negative, you do not have to perform a colonoscopy.


01 May 2014, 12:03 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
You do not have to perform a colonscopy if you are not at risk and Cologuard's priced at 4-500 is too much
compared to 23 price of FIT. Not enough the few more cx detected to justify the expense, at least for the
insurers. Individuals can do differently, but there is a limit to what insurers can pay. They pay PSA because it
is cheap, not because it is useful.


01 May 2014, 12:45 PM 


allday
One very important issue that NB MD alludes to -- colonoscopy has an appreciable mortality rate, and this is an
extremely influential parameter in any decision analytic model that might be the basis for a cost-effectiveness
analysis. (i.e. if you choose the low end of estimates you get very different incremental cost effectiveness ratios
associated with your intervention). The estimates range from 0.003% to 0.02%. These are not "cheap" deaths either --
they are often from sepsis after perforations, usually with preceding complicated surgical procedures. Cologuard itself,
I suspect, has a direct attributable mortality rate approaching zero, except for the very rare "death via extremely large
bowel movement."


01 May 2014, 09:40 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Again: the error everybody is making is to compare Cologuard with colonscopy. 
Cologuard must be compared with other fecal tests even for cost-effectiveness.


01 May 2014, 09:50 AM 


morlockx15
I disagree somewhat. The only reason to embrace the cologuard test if it can reduce the number of
colonocopies performed, or catch cancers early enough to have a net positive effect on costs. There is every
indication that it won't.


02 May 2014, 10:03 AM 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/796049

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6024811

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14373022
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 50/67


PSalerno, Contributor
Colonscopies can be reduced even with FIT alone, but not much because people do not undergo to
colonscopy easily if they have not problem. They will go to colonscopy only AFTER another less invasive test
identified some problem. Now Cologuard is better than FIT for sensitivity, the problem is price. 4-500 dollars
versus 23. And people should repeat the screaning test every 3 years (2 for FIT). Colonscopy for screening is
suggested every 5-10 years, even one time in entire life, it depends on specific situations.


02 May 2014, 10:15 AM 


Energy-Trader
You sound like you are completely oblivious to the fact that ColoGuard detects 69% of high-grade dysplasia,
something that FIT is terribly poor at. Do you even know what HGD is?


Are you aware that colonoscopy has great difficulty detecting sessile serrated polyps on the descending
portion of the colon? Do you even know why that is?


02 May 2014, 10:16 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Dysplasia and polyps are not cancer and do not require an urgent intervention, so people can repeat the FIT
every 2 years and get results almost identical to cologuard performed every 3 years with a cost of $23 every 2
years which is well below than 4-500 every 3 years. I do not think it is better, just that insurer will not pay that
amount of money. Personally, as individual, I will pay something more to get cologuard, but the insurers think
differently.


02 May 2014, 10:26 AM 


Energy-Trader
Sorry Mr. Salerno but you do not have very good command of the facts regarding colon cancer.


High Grade Dysplasia is a pre-cancer that is on the cusp of turning into full blown cancer. ColoGuard totally
outperforms FIT in this category. The sensitivity by ColoGuard in the FDA clinical trial detecting HGD was
69.2% while FIT was only 46.2%


You might want to familiarize yourself with the facts here:


http://1.usa.gov/1iLslzK


02 May 2014, 11:36 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
You confirmed what I said, that dysplasia is not cancer but pre-cancer.


02 May 2014, 12:24 PM 


Energy-Trader



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

http://1.usa.gov/1iLslzK

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 51/67


Wrong. 
You have no idea what you are talking about when it comes to HGD.


You also have no idea what you are talking about when it comes to private payers. The insurers will be
MANDATED to PAY for ColoGuard under the USPSTF.


12 May 2014, 12:34 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I Know very well, as I was a surgeon and had to address that problem on a daily basis. 
As for the reimbursement there is no indication that they will be mandated to pay $500. EXAS will be lucky to
get $200.


12 May 2014, 12:49 PM 


Energy-Trader
Again.... you have no idea what you are talking about.


12 May 2014, 06:09 PM 


Energy-Trader
EXAS trading at $12.10 and Green. 
Gravity Research and Whitney Tilson in epic fail mode again.


01 May 2014, 11:06 AM 


NB MD
FIT is not in the picture no more now that cologuard is an option. I have never used FIT as a screening tool as the
sensitivity is horrible for a screening tool, you will miss 1/4 of patients with CRC and you are catching cases too late.
Cologuard improves in both these points in leaps and bounds and because of this, FIT will likely no longer be used or
recommended.


01 May 2014, 11:07 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
NB- Recently FIT has improved and if made every 2 years instead of 3 it can miss significantly less than 1/4
CRC. The price is important here: 23 versus 500. This is why the author is guessing a reimbursement of 100-
150, in line with what I wrote in my comments months ago.


01 May 2014, 11:21 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
In my above comment I called for a short term upside to 14 (may be just 13), but long term I see a possible price
below $2, may be $1.5. It depends on reimbursement. EXAS will be lucky to get $200-250. The company is burning
cash 35-52M every year and always issuing new shares making their number double every 4 years. I invest in



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18666962

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 52/67


company rising free cash and buying back their shares, the exact contrary. Long should ask themselves why the
company sold new shares BEFORE the reimbursement's amount was public.


01 May 2014, 11:13 AM 


Energy-Trader
Why are you even here posting about a Company you have no interest in Salerno? Are you short?


Name a single life science or biotech company that is in the pre-FDA approval phase that is generating free
cash flow and buying back their own stock?


You can't. 
Because there is NONE.


Which then begs the question, why are you even here commenting on a Company with your 157th post . . .
that doesn't meet your investment parameters?


01 May 2014, 12:30 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Currently I am not short, but probably will be pretty soon. Having time I could write an article about EXAS like
I did with Amarin explaining their mistakes to the bull and why the stock crashed. It is easier to do after the
stock crashed, but in the meantime I post comments on it like I did with Amarin.


01 May 2014, 12:50 PM 


vireo
Why did EXAS sell new shares before the CMS decision? Because it's expensive to get a new blockbuster
test on the market. Their plan to be ready for the launch requires significant investment in people and
equipment. That they've increased their sales force is telling in its confidence, but that would have increased
their burn rate into the red. Hence they issued now. 
Let's see: 140 sales people visiting 6 doctors offices a day, for three months, and most offices are multi-doctor
practices. That nets them exposure to north of 55k doctors, all of whom have already been identified,
quantified, and now targeted. 
Plus ads.


01 May 2014, 01:21 PM 


Energy-Trader
You are wasting your time. 
It's pretty clear that you haven't listened to a single quarterly conference call or investor conference
presentation by the CEO. You have no idea what it requires to commercially launch a cancer screening test.


01 May 2014, 01:23 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24027453

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 53/67


They have 133 M cash, so could have waited a little bit if they were confident about the reimbursement.
Reality is they sold now to have a better price.


01 May 2014, 02:20 PM 


Energy-Trader
The Reality is that you are wrong again kid. 
For some reason, you can't even get the basics right.


The company ended Q1 with $116 million and they raised $137.7 million on April 9th in a secondary offering.
That adds up to $253.7 million.


01 May 2014, 06:37 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
No I am not wrong, I was speaking about the Q4 because that was the last data when the public offering was
decided. At that time the compay had 133M cash, so it was not so urgent to get another 137.7 M.  
The company decided to anticipate the sale because after the reimbursement they will get a worse price.. 
I am already been here and I know how things work. May be other need more time to understand, like with
Amarin.


02 May 2014, 02:38 AM 


Energy-Trader
Wrong.


In your earlier post, you indicated that EXAS had $133 million in cash. 
You said nothing about that being a end of Q4 number. 
Face it, you do not have a very good command of 
basic fundamental facts.


They have 253.7 million in cash. 
Period.


02 May 2014, 10:19 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I was talking BEFORE the new share issuance. Q1 results were released few days ago, so your
understanding is very limited. My point was that EXAS issued new share BEFORE the decision related to
reimbursement, because of fear the share could plummet, as it happened. At that time the cash was 133M. I
DO NOT CARE WHAT THE CASH IS NOW: IT IS IRRELEVANT TO MY POINT.


09 May 2014, 01:30 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 54/67


With $133M cash they could have postponed the share offering until the reimbursement entity was declared,
because 133M cash was more than enough for current expenditure. Instead they offered new shares before,
fearing the stock could move down, like it did in fact. I hope now it is clear enough.


09 May 2014, 01:55 AM 


Energy-Trader
Interestingly enough, the stock closed at $12.56 today after the quarterly conference call. +4.63%


And for some strange reason, the stock was being "pushed down" to $10.80 and -$1.20 from the previous day's close
. . . fifteen minutes before the Conference Call even STARTED.


Gee, I wonder who did all of that selling? 
Was it the "shorts" who were trying to "paint the tape" and make things look bad? 
The stock immediately turned during the conference call and climbed all the way back up to as high as $12.79


Another great "short" idea from Whitney Tilson and his friends? 
What a joke these clowns are.


01 May 2014, 06:48 PM 


Energy-Trader
Anyone interested in who Gravity Research is???


Gravity Research has directly accused at least two major companies that they "cover" of wrongdoing. Avanir was
accused of illegal off-label marketing of one of it's drugs. Montage Technology Group Ltd. was accused of grossly
overstating it's revenue and using a shell company to fabricate financial results.


Both accusations caused big temporary drops in each of the company's share price, but in neither case was the
supposed "wrongdoing" ever established or even seriously pursued, in court or out.


This caused one editor (Leo Sun at Investor Guide) to offer the following opinion of Gravity's analysis in a article
entitled: "Are Investors Overreacting to Market Rumor about Avanir?"


"But first, I urge investors to take this charge with a grain of salt. Gravity Research is an organization led by a former
analyst at Muddy Waters, a firm best known for shorting Chinese companies and Silicon Valley startups. Both Gravity
Research and Muddy Waters are not registered investment organizations — they are research firms which also hold
short positions in the stocks that they cover. They often use investment blogging networks to spread their opinions
across the Internet.


Many analysts voiced their support of Avanir after Gravity Research’s article. Wedbush’s Greg Wade, who maintains
his $8 price target on the stock, calls the article an obvious attempt at profiting from an already established short
position."


01 May 2014, 08:01 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
May be you should focus more on the fact that the stock is down. We were correct and you were wrong.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 55/67


09 May 2014, 01:31 AM 


Energy-Trader
The stock was trading around $1.50 when the new management team came on board in April of 2009. They
have executed their business plan with tremendous acumen. You have no idea what is in the "pipeline" with
EXAS. Zero clue.


12 May 2014, 12:36 PM 


Energy-Trader
This article is full of erroneous claims and outright lies.


For example, anyone that has read the Deep C clinical trial data knows full well that the embedded FIT test in
ColoGuard DID NOT ACCOUNT FOR 80% of the assays sensitivity performance. That is a flat out lie.


12 May 2014, 12:39 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Unfortunately for you, you did not recommend the stock at 1.5, you recommended the stock above 14, and it went
down !


12 May 2014, 12:41 PM 


Energy-Trader
For anyone that is interested in an intellectually HONEST research article on EXAS, they should check-out today's
Seeking Alpha article on EXAS by a gentleman named "Biotech Maven".


He refutes the lies that Gravity Research published about EXAS on SA recently. 
Step by step.


12 May 2014, 07:57 PM 


frank paxman
Every colonoscopy carries risk. For significant portions of the population with pre-existing conditions, the risks are
higher and, in some cases, difficult to overcome. A test that may provide reasonably accurate indications should be a
welcome event.


12 Aug 2014, 08:03 PM 


Energy-Trader
The false positive rate for Stage 1 and Stage 2 cancers is only about 6% with ColoGuard. Quite comparable to
Colonoscopy.


12 Aug 2014, 08:32 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6508861

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 56/67


But the false positive rate in total is 13%, quite high. This will led to unnecessaries colonscopies and costs.


13 Aug 2014, 01:24 AM 


Energy-Trader
You are very ignorant. 
Many of the false-positives were due to Colonoscopy missing pre-cancers.


13 Aug 2014, 10:12 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
These are not false positives. The false positives are when Cologuard detect a non existent lesion. This is an
illation, not a scientific argument supported by fact.


13 Aug 2014, 10:49 AM 


Energy-Trader
The false positives in ColoGuard were from other "cancers" in the GI tract. This is a scientific FACT.


13 Aug 2014, 04:11 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
You are somewhat confused. The false positives were 13%. This means an equal amount of unnecessary
colonscopies. The insurers will pay for Cologuard and then ALSO for colonscopy without any necessity. A
waste of money only slightly compensated by some sving in therapies, because this people will die anyway if
not for colon cancer for other cancers or will face other costly illnesses like Alzheimer few years later. The
spending will be delayed but the system will spend more, not less.


13 Aug 2014, 04:22 PM 


Energy-Trader
You obviously have been far too LAZY to read the FDA Clinical Trial "Deep C", which clearly stated that False
Positives of those people who had "clean" colons was 10%.


Again, Medicare spends over $14 BILLION annually on people that are dying of colon cancer. 50,000 people
are still DYING every year even with colonoscopy as a screening diagnostic.


Why are they still dying??? 
Why is CMS spending over $14 Billion annually on colon cancer victims?


13 Aug 2014, 04:42 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Deep C or clean colons patients is just one condition, but it is not always the case. What matters here is the
total and the total is 13%. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 57/67


Additionally these 50,000 people will not become immortals with cologuard, they will get another illness later,
so medicare will spend more. To save money you should make the people die as sooner as possible.


14 Aug 2014, 02:23 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
It is ironical, but true, as the analysis and therapies cost money. Also assuming Cologuard will cost $500,
imagin that you should spend similar amount of money every 3 years for testing other frequent pathologies:
There are at least 5-6 as frequent. This will cost $7-800 every year per person. Then you have to pay for
therapies. I don't think it is possible.


14 Aug 2014, 11:04 AM 


Energy-Trader
When you see SA allow a comment such as the one above to stand (specifically the last sentence) even after
it has been "flagged" for being offensive.... that's really all that you need to know about SA.


15 Aug 2014, 10:17 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
It is not offensive, it is a paradox, but the concept is that healthcare costs money, and the money is limited so
it should be deployed with wisdom. The goal is not to save money, but to improve the health with a budget
that is not infinite.


15 Aug 2014, 12:35 PM 


Energy-Trader
Like I have consistently maintained, you ignore the $14 Billion annually that CMS spends on colon cancer
patients. And that data is from 2011. Without any increased screening, that number will surely climb towards
$20 Billion within a couple of years.... given the aging population of the US and the fact that 4 million
Americans turn 50 every year for the next 15 years.


You obviously have a very poor command of how much this terrible disease impacts CMS. It is without a
doubt, the easiest cancer to treat and prevent. Yet, the least screened.


The current screening tests obviously aren't working. 
If they were, CMS wouldn't be spending over $14 BILLION PER YEAR!


16 Aug 2014, 02:00 PM 


yogabagaba
Reading your posts is painful. Ironical?


the ironic thing is that myopic individuals such as yourself don't comprehend that the all-in cost of treating GI
cancers is much more expensive that a screening test, and as this test becomes more and more effective and
finds more and more cancer and especially precancer, the ever increasing cost of cancer on this country will



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 58/67


be reduced as a result. you make the opposite argument of what facts and logic lead me to conclude. last
response to you and I look forward to seeing you fade to black.


16 Aug 2014, 06:17 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I keep my opinion that any supposed saving is delusional because, even if the CRC will fade, the patients will
have other kinds of tumors or illnesses. CMS will spend more money for CRC prevention and as results for
other therapies. People will keep dying, they will not become immortal because of Cologuard.


18 Aug 2014, 01:18 AM 


Energy-Trader
Being from a small Eastern European country where the healthcare system is terribly poor, you obviously
have great difficulty in understanding the American Healthcare System here in the USA.


CMS spends well over $14 BILLION ANNUALLY treating colon cancer.


Cologuard will help cut that expense by getting more people screened, when Stage 1 and Stage 2 cancers
can be easily identified via Cologuard and eradicated via colonoscopy. This will undoubtedly save CMS the
average $300,000 that a typical Stage 4 patient winds up costing them.


20 Aug 2014, 10:23 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I do not know the healthcare system in eastern Europe, I know better the healthcare system in Italy and in
USA. None system is perfect, even in USA there are many mistakes. I keep my opinion that there will be no
saving because for every deadly CRC avoided there will be another additional deadly illness which would not
materialize if the patient had died for CRC. There is also the additional cost of the tests. May be the US
system will pay more, but the insurers will need to ask additional money to cover the patient and the salaries
for the low to middle income people will not allow such costs.


20 Aug 2014, 12:36 PM 


Energy-Trader
My guess is that the clowns that you have named aren't even short EXAS anymore. They are long gone after their
"hit" piece of last year.


12 Aug 2014, 08:33 PM 


Energy-Trader
Looks like Gravity Research and all of their erroneous claims and flat-out LIES were wrong, given that CMS issued a
National Coverage Determination for Cologuard yesterday. These clowns should be sued for libel and misleading
"noob" investors.


http://bit.ly/1r7IqKW



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

http://bit.ly/1r7IqKW
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 59/67


12 Aug 2014, 08:41 PM 


Keubiko, Contributor
>>Looks like Gravity Research and all of their erroneous claims and flat-out LIES were wrong, given that
CMS issued a National Coverage Determination for Cologuard yesterday. These clowns should be sued for
libel and misleading "noob" investors.<<


You should actually read the article. Gravity predicted the CMS determination.


The core issue is around the reimbursement rate. That is TBD, no?


13 Aug 2014, 10:34 AM 


Energy-Trader
Your reading comprehension is poor. 
You need to re-read their article. They explicitly stated on Page #2 of their report that:


"The genetic tests EXAS uses within Cologuard (KRAS, NDRG4, and BMP3) are not new or novel, and CMS
is not permitted to reimburse for any of those tests individually as screens for colorectal cancer."


13 Aug 2014, 04:17 PM 


Keubiko, Contributor
>>Your reading comprehension is poor.<<


Perhaps, but yours is even poorer, apparently.


The issue is setting the reimbursement rate for Cologuard.


Gravity's argument is that the DNA testing portion of Cologuard is not reimbursable, but the Fecal
Immunochemical Test (FIT) is. Hence CMS will reimburse but not for the genetic screening portion, which
makes up the bulk of the pricing.


How it shakes out is TBD but you are dead wrong in your comprehension.


13 Aug 2014, 04:42 PM 


yogabagaba
If you listened to today's call, you would know how dead wrong you and MicroGravity are.


13 Aug 2014, 08:58 PM 


yogabagaba
In fact, if you think through what you just said logically, it is incredibly asinine. It absolutely defies logic.


If the 25 million shares & 30% of the float sold short have based their thesis on this baffling idea, I feel bad for
their clients to have entrusted their money to such incompetent managers.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/fit

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 60/67


To think that the FDA & CMS invited this company to participate in a new pilot parallel review program, just
released a presser lauding the program's success, improving the verbiage of the label over what the company
presented to the advisory commitee, and expanding the appropriate screening age to beyond what is
recommended for colonoscopy (85 for Cologuard versus 80 for scope), only to then bankrupt the company by
reimbursing at a level that makes the test unprofitable, in the face of 
mounting evidence that this fledgling molecular diagnostics platform may one day screen and typify cancers
and precancers throughout the GI tract..... is truly incredible.


Good luck to you with that sort of due diligence.


13 Aug 2014, 10:47 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I disagree here with Gravity, as genetic screening portion is reimbursable, but not to the extent EXAS is
looking for. 100-150 is too low, I am forecasting more than 200, but less than 300 USD. Of course it is just my
assumption and can be wrong, because it is not up to me to make a decision.


14 Aug 2014, 02:32 AM 


Energy-Trader
You just don't get why Gravity Researchs' claims are bogus. 
Their knowledge base in regards to CMS is terribly poor.


You seem to be totally oblivious to the CMS "Clinical Lab Fee Schedule" Meeting in early July in which 16
companies presented their CROSS-WALK methodology that was the basis for their pricing requests.


You also seem to be totally unaware of the FACT that CMS has already issued new test codes for CY-2015
on June 9th of this year.


http://bit.ly/1pPsBVl


Feel free to scroll down to the end of the document. 
There, you will clearly see that there is a "G" code already assigned to ColoGuard . . . AND INCLUDES the 2
DNA methylation markers, NDRG4 and BMP3.


Gravity Research has no idea what they are talking about. 
It's funny to see someone like yourself defend them. 
:)


14 Aug 2014, 10:04 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Actually you have some problem with english language. I do not defend GR in this point. I wrote I disagree
with GR and my forecast is also higher for a reimbursement of up to $300. But of course the payers can
decide for higher reimbursement, it is just my forecast.


14 Aug 2014, 11:09 AM 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

http://bit.ly/1pPsBVl

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 61/67


Energy-Trader
I couldn't care less what you think.


wasn't replying to you. 
I was replying to "Keubiko"


14 Aug 2014, 11:24 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
If you don't care why are you arguing with me in so many comments ?  
Most of your comments are directed to me.


15 Aug 2014, 12:54 AM 


Energy-Trader
What is it about a CMS National Coverage Determination being made on Cologuard on August 11th that you
don't understand???


The entire assay of Cologuard is being covered by Medicare (NYSE:CMS). 
Do you actually think that CMS would invite EXAS into a pilot program of parallel review with the FDA and
NOT reimbursing for BMP3 and NDRG4?


Really ???


30 Aug 2014, 03:18 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I have no doubt that CMS will reimburse the test, problem is how much.


30 Aug 2014, 04:55 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
Yogabagaba - The timing of this article was bad, but EXAS went from 15.50in March to 10.70 in May, losing 50% of
value. I shorted 2 times with profit since July 8th. The stock is trading on expectation, not on results, so anything is
possible. There are many points in this article that are weak or even wrong, but my short thesis is based simply on an
overstatement of TAM and understatement of risks by the bulls. Yesterday was another good entry point for shorts,
but this time I missed as I was waiting for an higher price.


13 Aug 2014, 01:22 AM 


yogabagaba
Do what you want buddy, I could care less. If you think you're clever timing the short side in a stock that has
gained 4000% in 5 years, who am I to argue with such a genius.


But management has delivered as expected on every point all down the line. I will be holding for years, and
Exact Sciences will become the king of molecular diagnostics cancer screening. Mark my words.


13 Aug 2014, 07:58 AM 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/cms

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 62/67


PSalerno, Contributor
The stock fell from 18 level in the 5 years before gaining again the 19 level, so yes you can make money from
the long side and from the short side as well. The important thing is timing, where I am quite succesful.  
Now the stock went up without any revenue. They have still to sell the only product they have. The stock is
vulnerable even if the product is good and promising. This stock is for trading not a long term holding.


13 Aug 2014, 08:24 AM 


Energy-Trader
99% of your posts about EXAS have been totally wrong. 
The stock rallied from $11 in May to over $19 yesterday for a +70% move and all you have done over the last
several months is "bash" the Company.


Congrats.


13 Aug 2014, 10:10 AM 


Energy-Trader
You should stop commenting about the Molecular Diagnostics sector. 
You have proven that you know absolutely NOTHING about these companies.


13 Aug 2014, 10:11 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I WAS 100% CORRECT.  
I understand and trade MOSTLY the molecular diagnostic sector as you can see from my articles about
MYGN and my comments about biotech stocks. 
The stock was a nice short above 15 in March with a target below 12, hit in May and again above 17 in June
with a target around 15 hit in July. It is a tactical short for the reason I have explained many times.  
Shorting is all about timing as there is a cost associated and this stock is volatile.


13 Aug 2014, 10:43 AM 


Energy-Trader
Yawn.


13 Aug 2014, 04:18 PM 


yogabagaba
Well MicroGravity Research petitioned for my post to be deleted, so I will say it in a more friendly manner acceptable
to the highly discerning editors of Seeking Alpha.


Let the record show, that these analysts have a terrible track record, and are frankly undeserving of that title. They are
ignorant, to say the least.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 63/67


Their opening topical thesis of their report was so ignorant as to be laughable. They stated that Medicare Could Not
reimburse for this test by law. Clearly, they were wrong. Pathetically so.


Within a month, the rest of their analysis will be blown to smithereens and by all rights they will be the laughing stock
of the anonymous analyst 'community'


Lets take a look at the rest of their Stellar Research:


Raptor Pharmaceuticals: Recommended short in Aug 2013 @ 12.72, target less than $4. Stock promptly went to
$17.75, before some disappointment in March 2014 caused a sell off to $7.25, now on the upswing over raised
guidance of their drug procysbi. Traded $11.25 today.


Avanir Pharmaceuticals: Recommended short in Sept 2013 @ $5.53. This report can likely be held solely responsible
for a steep and prolonged sell off of this stock. However, the stock has fully recovered and closed today at $5.65.
Oops.


Montage Technologies: Recommended short in February @ $21.21. Completely responsible for a massive sell off of
this China based company, which are obviously highly susceptible to short FUD as there are many scammy
companies. Stock has completely came back and closed at $21.37, with a buyout of $22.60 in the works.


And finally Exact Sciences. Short at $11.96. Topical thesis, that medicare cannot cover the test by law. $17.55 last.


Have you no shame in your anonymous game?


13 Aug 2014, 08:40 PM 


Energy-Trader
These Clowns at "Gravity Cavity" recommended shorting EXAS at $11.96


EXAS traded at $19.85 today.


20 Aug 2014, 03:32 PM 


Energy-Trader
ALL TRUE!


Gravity Research has a terrible track record. 
If you are in the business of losing money, follow their recommendations.


14 Aug 2014, 09:55 AM 


yogabagaba
If Microgravity were a publically traded company, Alfred Little would short them. :)


15 Aug 2014, 08:10 AM 


Energy-Trader
It's downright mind-boggling that anyone (Gravity Cavity) would claim that CMS would NOT reimburse EXAS for DNA
methylation markers after inviting EXAS to participate in a parallel-review pilot program for simultaneous FDA/CMS



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 64/67


approval.


Mind-boggling.


15 Aug 2014, 10:05 AM 


Energy-Trader
This has got to be one of the worst research pieces ever written and published about EXAS. The stock traded as high
as $21.45 earlier this morning and is nearly +80% since Gravity Research posted this article back in April.


I hope that unsuspecting "noobs" didn't get burned by such "research".


25 Aug 2014, 12:51 PM 


Msg212
Gravity -


I would just like to know if you guys are shorting more or covered given the near doubling of the stock since your
article came out? And if any of the material presented to investors and the medical community over the last few
months has changed your minds regarding your short thesis. Thanks.


Disclosure: I am long EXAS.


27 Aug 2014, 01:46 PM 


Energy-Trader
The stock closed at $22.20 today 
New Highs and +108% since the May low at 10.69


27 Aug 2014, 07:50 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
You are a permabull and did not recommend to take profit before the last 70% correction. You will miss again
the next correction, so your comments are useless.


28 Aug 2014, 02:06 AM 


Energy-Trader
You are NOT a professional trader.


That is quite obvious . . . given that you spent every single day on Seeking Alpha posting negative comments
about EXAS while it rallied +108% since May.


LMAO!


28 Aug 2014, 10:28 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/165654

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 65/67


My negative comments were not addressed to the stock price, but to the potential revenue, and the proof is
that I did not say I was short, I said to have covered last time at 15, because the stock could move higher.
Probably I will short again later.


28 Aug 2014, 04:42 PM 


Energy-Trader
FACT: You have never shorted the shares of EXAS.


29 Aug 2014, 10:04 AM 


Keubiko, Contributor
"Energy-Trader",


With all due respect your posts on this matter are repetitive and add absolutely nothing to the discussion. I
suggest if you insist on badgering someone on irrelevant matters that you do so via private messages.
Nobody cares about this drivel.


29 Aug 2014, 05:52 PM 


Energy-Trader
Speaking of drivel....You, Salerno, and Gravity Research have proven to be totally WRONG.


Try posting something factual about the Company, instead of operating from a poor knowledge base about
what CMS does, and doesn't cover.


30 Aug 2014, 03:15 PM 


Energy-Trader
Right.


Irrelevant matters such as the FACT that CMS authorized a "G" code for the Cologuard assay on June 9th of
this year:


http://go.cms.gov/1pPsBVl


And approved Cologuard for a National Coverage Determination on August 11th:


http://go.cms.gov/1r7IqKW


You aren't very good with the FACTS or reading comprehension, are you?


30 Aug 2014, 03:46 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
On the contrary, I am very very glad that my take on this stock was correct, as I covered my short position 2
times with profit, predicting that the stock could go higher, above 20.


30 Aug 2014, 04:59 PM 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

http://go.cms.gov/1pPsBVl

http://go.cms.gov/1r7IqKW

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 66/67


PSalerno, Contributor
Do not understand what are you trying to say, things came out as predicted, this is why I covered my short
position on July the 8th.


30 Aug 2014, 05:02 PM 


PSalerno, Contributor
108% in 4 months is less than 112.5% in 3 months I booked with MYGN.


28 Aug 2014, 01:46 AM 


PSalerno, Contributor
I did even better than you said. My entry point was below the low at 20.02, and my exit point was above the high
at42.50


28 Aug 2014, 04:44 PM 


Upbeat
When the speculation ends and reality arrives...in this case in the form of the Medicare/Medicaid decision, I like to
look back to see "who said what" and factor them into my credibility quotient. When someone uses the name "Gravity
Research" it suggests they lean to stocks going down...a bias. 
So in future, when I see a call by "Gravity Research" I will know that I need to filter in that bias to the downside.


10 Oct 2014, 12:50 PM 


Energy-Trader
Let's face it.....Gravity Research posted all sort of completely erroneous claims and bogus information. They
were 100% WRONG about every point that they were trying to make in their short recommendation on
EXAS.... from claiming that CMS could not cover Cologuard, to claiming that a reimbursement price would not
be anything over $200.


The stock is +100% since they recommended going short back in April.


10 Oct 2014, 03:10 PM 


FastEdMich
And what about that whole series of drivel posted on SA last year that caused the stock to go down? Wonder if SEC
got involved in that BS.


11 Oct 2014, 07:45 AM 


FastEdMich
Alpha exposure...


11 Oct 2014, 07:48 AM 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/456901

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3635131

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3635131
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 67/67


yogabagaba
Hey Micro Gravity "Research" isn't it time to pack up the bags? So wrong... so terribly wrong.


11 Oct 2014, 04:04 PM 


yogabagaba
I still like to come back to this article when I need a good laugh.


So I laugh, but then I feel kind of sad for all the suckers this guy probably sucked in with his pseudo-knowledge and
presentation. Don't look behind the anonymous curtain folks... keep your eye on the shiny title..


28 Oct 2014, 09:18 PM 


Energy-Trader
EXAS closed at a new All-Time high today of $28.16 
Gravity Research was totally wrong.


05 Dec 2014, 06:07 PM 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11245961

https://seekingalpha.com/user/331727
