5/23/2018 An Open Letter To The Board And Management Of K12 - K12 Inc. (NYSE:LRN) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800262-an-open-letter-to-the-board-and-management-of-k12 1/7


An Open Letter To The Board And Management Of K12
Nov. 4, 2013 7:00 AM ET13 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


To the board and management of K12 (NYSE:LRN):


Since I went public with my presentation and article detailing the many reasons for my
short position in K12's stock, I've had the pleasure of both meeting and speaking
extensively with CEO Ron Packard and also having a call with Executive Chairman Nate
Davis. It's very unusual for senior management of a company to speak with a short seller
(full disclosure: I continue to have a short position in the stock, as I discuss in this article),
so the fact that they were willing to do so is a credit to K12.


I found Packard and Davis to be refreshingly candid about K12's challenges and what the
company is doing to address them, and believe that both of them are genuinely sincere in
wanting to do right by the students who enroll at the company's schools. As I discuss
below, however, I think their words are inconsistent with many things K12 is doing. In
particular, I don't think they fully appreciate the tension and trade-offs between their desire
to maximize growth, profitability, and the share price vs. doing their best to ensure that
every one of K12's nearly 130,000 students is engaged and learning.


But before I discuss our areas of disagreement, I'd like to highlight the many things we
agree on:


K12 is an innovative, pioneering company with a well-regarded curriculum.
A 100% online school is an excellent option for some students - but a terrible option for
others.
In its early days, K12 served mostly middle- and upper-class kids with strong parent
coaches.
In recent years K12 has seen a large influx of at-risk students - typically poor and
minority youth who are behind academically and often lack a strong parent coach at
home.
Such at-risk students are often stuck in failing bricks-and-mortar schools and thus
have a great need for an alternative educational option - and even a mediocre
alternative might be better than what they have now.
These students have distinct, very challenging needs, which K12 is endeavoring to
meet.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LRN

http://www.tilsonfunds.com/K12-Tilson-9-17-13.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1707192-an-analysis-of-k12-and-why-it-is-my-largest-short-position

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1738982-why-im-not-covering-my-k12-short
5/23/2018 An Open Letter To The Board And Management Of K12 - K12 Inc. (NYSE:LRN) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800262-an-open-letter-to-the-board-and-management-of-k12 2/7


However, K12 faces the problem that these students are less likely to have the
motivation, self-discipline and parental support to consistently engage and succeed in
an online school.
Students who don't engage aren't likely to learn much and fall behind academically, so
they would probably be better off if they quickly returned to a traditional school.
Nevertheless, any student, regardless of background, can succeed in an online school
if they engage - and it is impossible to predict with 100% accuracy up front which
students will engage.
K12 only wants students who will engage and succeed at its schools, so it seeks to
fully inform parents and students what is required for success at an online school.
Even though students who don't engage might be profitable for the company because
they require little teacher time and attention, K12 does not want such students to enroll
and, if they do, would prefer that, once it's clear that they are not engaging, leave K12
and re-enroll at a regular school.
However, if a student is determined to enroll/stay enrolled, K12's hands are tied
because, according to most states' charter laws, the company cannot be selective in
enrollment, nor can it kick any student out.


Though we agree on a great deal, there are a few areas in which we don't. Most
importantly, when I spoke with Davis, he argued that even if only 10% of at-risk students
succeeded, that was better than none - because surely no student was worse off. I
vehemently disagree. To attend a K12 school, a student must stop attending a traditional
bricks-and-mortar school. While I suppose one could argue that some such schools are so
bad that a student is better off not going to school at all, I think that's a rare exception.
Even at the worst schools, some learning is going on - and you never know when a
student might encounter a special teacher who inspires him and puts his life on a better
trajectory.


Thus, if a student enrolls at a K12 school but fails to log in regularly, interact with teachers,
complete assignments, etc., then real harm is being done. The student is learning little or
nothing, falling further behind academically, and is at even greater risk of permanently
dropping out, which is a sure route to a broken, ruined life. For these students, K12 is
likely an educational catastrophe.


Thus, I would argue strongly that K12 has an educational - and, I'd argue, moral - duty to
do its very best to only serve students who are benefiting from its program.
5/23/2018 An Open Letter To The Board And Management Of K12 - K12 Inc. (NYSE:LRN) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800262-an-open-letter-to-the-board-and-management-of-k12 3/7


I don't think K12 today is anywhere close to fulfilling its duty. Based on numerous
interviews with former employees and others familiar with the company, I believe that K12
is focused primarily on growth, marketing to and enrolling pretty much anyone, which
leads to large numbers of unengaged and failing students, as reflected in the sky-high
dropout rates and terrible state test scores. (I know that we disagree on the validity of the
state tests vs. your internally administered Scantron tests, but surely we can agree that if
a student isn't even showing up for school - whether online or bricks-and-mortar - he isn't
likely to be learning much.)


I won’t accept the argument that I’ve heard implicitly made: “Hey, don’t blame us – we’re
not allowed to turn students away or kick them out.” Or: “If students would only engage,
our program would really work for them.” K12 can – and must – do two things:


1) Do a better job up front, during the enrollment process, of screening out students who
are highly likely to fail in an online school. Though K12, by law, can't refuse admittance, it
can adjust its marketing, require in-person meetings with all new students, identify those
who have little chance of succeeding, and give parents that unvarnished information.


The Colorado Virtual Academy implemented all of these things during recruiting for the
current school year and the result was that the number of approved new students fell from
more than 3,000 to about 900. Not surprisingly, the school is now performing much better,
as evidenced by the fact that 93% of students are actively engaged on a daily basis vs.
less than 70% last year. This is what needs to happen at every K12 school.


2) I agree, however, that upfront screening can only do so much, which is why taking
action shortly after the school year begins is so important. Once it's clear a student isn't
engaging, which I estimate is the case with 20-50% of K12's students (depending on how
one defines "engaging"), the company should be doing everything in its power to get the
student back into a traditional school.


K12 needs to track all of its students, carefully measure their engagement, and then act
aggressively to deal with the ones who aren't engaging. Within a week or two of new
students enrolling, K12 can begin to measure whether they are logging in daily,
completing assignments, etc. If attempts to engage them fail after, say, a month, they are
probably never going to engage, so K12 needs to try its best to persuade them to return to
a traditional school.


What is not acceptable is what's happening too often today: students linger for six months
or a year and then re-enroll at their local school, far behind.
5/23/2018 An Open Letter To The Board And Management Of K12 - K12 Inc. (NYSE:LRN) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800262-an-open-letter-to-the-board-and-management-of-k12 4/7


Comments (13)


I've been on the board of KIPP charter schools in New York City for more than a decade
and I can tell you what would happen if the head of KIPP NYC showed up at our next
board meeting and told us that 20-50% of our students weren't showing up for school
every day: there would be a five-alarm fire drill. KIPP's team would immediately start
texting, emailing and calling every student - and every parent of every student - who
wasn't showing up. If that didn't work, they would go visit every home. The message would
be clear:


Whatever problems you're having, we'll help you, but it's absolutely unacceptable for
any student to enroll at our school and then not attend. While we can't force you to
do all of the homework we assign, at a bare minimum, you have to show up. If you
don't, we will report you to the truancy authorities and get you out of our school.


Of course a virtual school vs. a bricks-and-mortar one isn't a perfect comparison, but I
think the principle - and K12's duty - is the same.


If K12 is serious about addressing this issue, it needs to publicly disclose, for each of its
schools, the daily attendance rate and the student turnover/dropout statistics. The fact that
K12 doesn't do so, despite two letters from the SEC demanding that the company disclose
its student turnover, makes me question Packard and Davis's sincerity when they say they
don't want disengaged students in K12's schools.


The question boils down to this: are you willing to do the courageous and right thing,
irrespective of the short-term financial consequences, or will you continue on your current
course, maybe with a few superficial tweaks, helping many kids to be sure, but also doing
great educational harm to tens of thousands?


Sincerely yours,


Whitney Tilson


 Like this article


platonicbomb
Thank you for the follow-up article. No doubt K12 has to do a better job of preventing students from prolonged failure
in their schools.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/16501762
5/23/2018 An Open Letter To The Board And Management Of K12 - K12 Inc. (NYSE:LRN) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800262-an-open-letter-to-the-board-and-management-of-k12 5/7


You have continued to stay short. Can you provide us with any numbers to explain your short position? "The Colorado
Virtual Academy implemented all of these things during recruiting for the current school year and the result was that
the number of approved new students fell from more than 3,000 to about 900." That's interesting information. How
can we translate that into future revenues/earnings and other data that will inform investment decisions?


Personally I'm interested in the timing as well... how much "future failure" is priced into the stock at this point. Your last
short piece helped me do very well buying puts against LRN (thank you) and I would certainly like to repeat that
success.


04 Nov 2013, 07:38 AM


RyanJoe555
Perhaps rather than make money on this stock by shorting, you should work directly with them as you have a
dialogue with them? I can not stand these investors who claim they are shedding light on a subject for the greater
good meanwhile looking to profit off such a drop in a company that looks to improve the quality of life for others (ie Bill
Ackman). Take off your short, work directly with the company, solve the problems.


04 Nov 2013, 08:12 AM


Karl Glazier, Contributor
The stock is mispriced. Shorters are pushing it closer to where it should be. 
He is already telling the company in detail what they need to do, what more can he do?


04 Nov 2013, 08:52 AM


Lakeaffect
Ryan, I agree. For a short to come out and try to tell management what they have to do to make their
company better doesn't even come close to being credible.


On a more specific note - Tilson makes a big deal about how it's better for a kid to attend school even if he's
not learning anything. He totally overlooks that some kids are so disruptive in school that the simple presence
of that student is severely damaging 99% of his classmates ability to learn. Better to let the troublesome kid
stay at home and play video games than to show up at school and disrupt the learning experience for all the
other students.


Even better, let the trouble makers attend the brick and mortar schools and let those students that are serious
about learning go to the virtual schools.





07 Nov 2013, 07:53 PM


platonicbomb
It is not his job to solve another company's problems. It's not as if they are paying him. And a short position acts as a
critique of the state of the company; it is a valid position ESPECIALLY for someone who is discussing with the
company how to improve its product or performance.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/663422

https://seekingalpha.com/author/karl-glazier

https://seekingalpha.com/user/346771

https://seekingalpha.com/user/16501762
5/23/2018 An Open Letter To The Board And Management Of K12 - K12 Inc. (NYSE:LRN) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800262-an-open-letter-to-the-board-and-management-of-k12 6/7


As for what you can and can't stand, that's not anyone else's problem.


04 Nov 2013, 08:44 AM


RyanJoe555
It's pretty tough to see what side your on. If somebody makes a claim that a company has a 'moral obligation'
to improve its standards so kids can get quality education and meanwhile profits off the claim, I see huge
irony in this with the money going into his pocket. If you don't see this, then I guess greed is blind.


04 Nov 2013, 08:56 AM


platonicbomb
A hedge fund manager has a fiduciary obligation to his clients to increase the value of their shares. If shorting
a stock accomplishes this, he's doing his duty. If he goes beyond the call of duty and helps a company he is
shorting become more successful, you might say he is being especially moral, but it is not out of any
particular professional obligation.


04 Nov 2013, 09:06 AM


platonicbomb
And Ryan, it's important to distinguish between shorting a stock and wanting a company to fail. As Mr Tilson
makes clear, he believes the company will better succeed at its mission if enrollment declines, and the stock
along with it. Shorting a stock is a way of expressing your view of its value, just as is buying long. Morality
doesn't really come into play, unless you're doing underhanded things to drive the stock down. Eventually a
stock finds its value like water finds its level. Most short sellers are just trying to anticipate what that value
should and will be.


05 Nov 2013, 01:31 AM


Whitney Tilson, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Platonicbomb: I detail why I haven't covered my short here: http://seekingalpha.co...


RyanJoe555: I have indeed engaged in a long dialogue with the company -- mostly CEO Ron Packard -- about how it
can better serve students. My views are reflected in this open letter.


I think K12 is serving tens of thousands of students who aren't engaging, learning, or succeeding in any way, and
therefore the company needs to shrink its enrollment by at least 30% to get back on track (based on the example I
cited of the Colorado Virtual Academy; for more details, see page 105 of my presentation, posted at:
http://bit.ly/1fezR7b).


An enrollment decline would likely cause the stock to fall further, so it's a win-win as far as I'm concerned.


The fact that I'm still short the stock does indeed present an obvious conflict, which is why I disclose my position up
front in anything I write or say about K12. But I'd argue that my conflict is less than Packard and Davis's conflict in
growing at any cost -- they have FAR more at stake financially and reputationally in K12's stock going up than I have



https://seekingalpha.com/user/663422

https://seekingalpha.com/user/16501762

https://seekingalpha.com/user/16501762

https://seekingalpha.com/author/whitney-tilson

https://seekingalpha.com/a/119t2

http://bit.ly/1fezR7b
5/23/2018 An Open Letter To The Board And Management Of K12 - K12 Inc. (NYSE:LRN) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800262-an-open-letter-to-the-board-and-management-of-k12 7/7


in it going down (it's a mere 1.8% position for me currently). I discuss my views on my conflict of interest further here:
http://bit.ly/1fezSbk


Rest assured that my advice to the company would be exactly the same even if I had covered my short.


04 Nov 2013, 10:34 AM


J Mintzmyer, Marketplace Contributor
Thank you for your reply-comment. I have gained a tremendous amount of respect for you based on your
recent two articles (China trip and this one), and especially now for replying the the community. Too many
contributors neglect to engage with their audience and/or defend their thesis.


In regards to the short position based upon the poor business model and likely decline in enrollment, what is
your current 'fair value' target price for K12? I'd assume it must be $10 or less considering the risks inherent
in shorting such a volatile name, but I'd really like to know what your 'FV' is. Of course I understand, you'd
likely cover far above this target.


Thanks again for the well thought out submissions. The private-sector (and public!) education market is
extremely interesting to both my investments and my studies in Public Policy.


04 Nov 2013, 05:52 PM


Whitney Tilson, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I think K12 will follow a similar trajectory as the for-profit colleges -- which all fell 60-80% peak to
trough.


04 Nov 2013, 09:34 PM


J Mintzmyer, Marketplace Contributor
With that in mind, Strayer (STRA) looks to be deep value, dedicated management, and offers good value to
students. Strayer's graduation rates, tuition prices, and cohort default rates are all far above peers.


Do you see any value in this niche, or are you against the for-profit education sector as a whole (both policy
and investment-wise)?


08 Nov 2013, 12:05 PM


carmell.rattay@live.com
Focusing on the engaged student is beneficial for the company long-term, as well as returning to K12's roots as a
very high-quality provider of education. It does not need to "better serve" disengaged students and conform, it needs
to return to its original mission. Both students and company will benefit.


13 Sep 2014, 05:51 AM



http://bit.ly/1fezSbk

https://seekingalpha.com/author/j-mintzmyer

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=j-mintzmyer&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/author/whitney-tilson

https://seekingalpha.com/author/j-mintzmyer

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=j-mintzmyer&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/stra

https://seekingalpha.com/user/31566305
