5/22/2018 Lawsuit Against Keyw Alleges Security Breaches, Data Removal, Violations Of Security Policy - KEYW Holding (NASDAQ:KEYW) | Seek…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2217493-lawsuit-against-keyw-alleges-security-breaches-data-removal-violations-of-security-policy 1/7


Lawsuit Against Keyw Alleges Security Breaches, Data Removal,
Violations Of Security Policy
May 14, 2014 11:44 AM ET9 comments
by: The Pump Stopper


Summary


This lawsuit indicates KEYW is coming apart at the seams internally with credibility
and ethical standards called into question.


Allegations against KEYW include Unlawful security breaches, Data Removal,
Violations of Security Policy and more. These allegations are the worst possible
behavior I can imagine for a security company.


The lifeblood of any security company is it's integrity. With KEYW's reputation
damaged in a close-knit defense community I wonder: who will want to hire KEYW?


KEYW had to settle this suit for $4.8m and, since KEYW apparently couldn't afford
any other option, had to pay the settlement in installments.


The final settlement payment will further stress KEYW's leveraged balance sheet
this next quarter.


Lawsuit Against Keyw Corp (NASDAQ:KEYW) Alleges Unlawful, Security Breaches, Data
Removal, Violations of Security Policy: Is KEYW Co. Riskier Than the Threats It Claims to
Stop?


In this Part 2 of my 3 part report (Part 1 is here) I show not only is KEYW facing imminent
bankruptcy risk but this lawsuit also clearly demonstrates to me KEYW is coming apart at
the seams internally as both their credibility and ethical standards are called into question.
Both are the lifeblood of any security company and the risks here cannot be overstated.


KEYW: Could This Company Collapse into Bankruptcy?


This shocking lawsuit (full lawsuit document shared in full below) was filed by military
powerhouse Exelis (NYSE:XLS) against KEYW and named individuals. This lawsuit reads
like a James Bond 007 movie given the high profile nature of working with government
and military customers. Keep in mind the context of government or military security work
as you read.


This document alleges KEYW unlawfully conspired with internal employees at Exelis to:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KEYW

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2217303-keyw-corp-looming-covenant-violations-and-high-probability-bankruptcy-minus-65-to-minus-100-percent-downside

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/XLS
5/22/2018 Lawsuit Against Keyw Alleges Security Breaches, Data Removal, Violations Of Security Policy - KEYW Holding (NASDAQ:KEYW) | Seek…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2217493-lawsuit-against-keyw-alleges-security-breaches-data-removal-violations-of-security-policy 2/7


Attempted to cripple the microelectronics work provided to a government customer of
Exelis
Took confidential and proprietary information on hard drives, including design files and
work instructions from Exelis and customer
Shared an Exelis customer's internal proprietary information with another different
customer without authorization
Took computers with internal information
Shared internal and proprietary customer information using unsecure personal Gmail
accounts
Attempted to delete usernames and data files
Violated security policies
"...misuse and misappropriation of confidential, proprietary and trade secret
information; breach of fiduciary duty; deceit and deception" - a direct quote from the
lawsuit
While also attempting to transfer a contract/customer away from their employer at the
time to KEYW
KEYW had to settle this lawsuit for $4.8m plus KEYW apparently couldn't even afford
to pay it, instead having to pay the settlement in installments. Both very telling…


How can a defense company be trusted if it allegedly takes secret information from
its clients and sabotages customer projects? There are precious few government
offices for a company like KEYW to work with. What happens if KEYW's reputation is
ruined with these customers or the government and military community? These egregious
allegations are the worst possible behaviors I can imagine for a security company.


As already demonstrated, KEYW is NOT a software or tech company. KEYW is primarily a
government subcontractor whose useful assets are the credibility and quality of its
employees - a fact management has highlighted many times in the past. Therefore, I am
shocked no KEYW shareholders seem to be discussing this incriminating lawsuit filed
against KEYW and named current KEYW employees Herschel Johnson, John Moses,
Wayne Thayer, Kevin Rose, Erik Hampson and Bryan Charboneau.


FULL LAWSUIT SHARED IN FULL HERE FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD.


A few particularly shocking direct quotes from this lawsuit (emphasis mine):


1. "The introduction of the Transition Plan brazenly asks and answers a series of
questions, which form a "game plan" to cripple the microelectronics work the Individual
Defendants provided to government customers while at EVI and Exelis"



http://www.mediafire.com/view/3dpwsriccerkj2t/1_complaint.pdf
5/22/2018 Lawsuit Against Keyw Alleges Security Breaches, Data Removal, Violations Of Security Policy - KEYW Holding (NASDAQ:KEYW) | Seek…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2217493-lawsuit-against-keyw-alleges-security-breaches-data-removal-violations-of-security-policy 3/7


a. My interpretation of the lawsuit is these current KEYW employees allegedly conspired
to deliberately cripple the customer's project with Exelis. According to the lawsuit, this was
part of a bigger plan for KEYW and named individuals to then take this, now failing project,
from Exelis and move that business to KEYW.


b. What kind of employees of a military and US government contractor deliberately
conspire to ensure the failure of their customer?! Would YOU want these employees
working with the US government or military?


2. "...on his last day of employment, January 9, 2013, Rose (named as currently KEYW
employee) prepared and attempted to transfer 259 GB of proprietary data related to two
HH-K1 programs to an employee of the Maryland Customer on an external hard drive..."


a. "The external hard drive included proprietary information…"


b. If this is a government customer, I think it is completely unacceptable that some KEYW
employee thought it was "ok" to remove, without authorization, 259GB of proprietary
government information and then just walk around with it.


3. "Upon information and belief, Charboneau {a named KEYW employee} downloaded
Exelis confidential and proprietary information and/or trade secrets… [M]any of the files
accessed by Charboneau were then overwritten and/or deleted. Moreover, an apparent
attempt was made to delete user profiles of Charboneaus's laptop computer."


4. "[O]n his last day of employment, January 4, 2013, Thayer [a named KEYW employee]
removed two laptop ("SCIF Laptops") computers containing unclassified but confidential
and proprietary information from EVI's SCIF without authorization…"


5. "Exelis has also learned that on or about January 3, 2013, Rose delivered CP-K2
hardware and data (that belonged to Virginia Customer) to Employee Z of the Maryland
customer. This delivery was made without proper request from Virginia Customer's … and
in direct violation of security policies and procedures"


a. Allegedly delivering hardware and data directly from one customer to an employee of
another customer? = WOW! Even the worst computer viruses can't lift your software AND
hardware from you!


6. "Moses forwarded Exelis proprietary information from his Exelis email account to his
personal email address jfmoses7@Gmail.com" "Defendants utilized their personal email
accounts to further their conspiracy"
5/22/2018 Lawsuit Against Keyw Alleges Security Breaches, Data Removal, Violations Of Security Policy - KEYW Holding (NASDAQ:KEYW) | Seek…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2217493-lawsuit-against-keyw-alleges-security-breaches-data-removal-violations-of-security-policy 4/7


a. How can that possibly be considered secure? Was private information put at risk?


b. "..contained sensitive and proprietary Exelis proposal data, including both technical and
costing information"


7. "The USB drive also included proprietary information belonging to Exelis and additional,
sensitive DS-T4 data..."


a. "data disseminated… includes internal EVI engineering design documents…"


b. "these compact disks contained information and data that belonged to Exelis and that
was of a confidential and proprietary nature."


c. "Additionally, the USB drive contained… design files for circuit boards, and full user
directories (in other words, every document generated) for six users on an EVI project."


d. "processing information concerning how Exelis builds microelectronics components,
and no less than 30 sets of work instructions"


8. "[C]ausing breaches and terminations of those contracts, using improper methods
including, but not limited to: misuse and misappropriation of confidential, proprietary
and trade secret information; breach of fiduciary duty; deceit and deception..."


What kind of government office is going to allow KEYW and employees like this deep into
their confidential and proprietary information? With this in mind, is it a surprise KEYW now
faces declining revenue with a leveraged balance sheet?


How much of KEYW's 19% decline in government business in the most recent quarter is
attributable to customers pulling away from the company as a result of this egregious
lawsuit?


If KEYW, with Herschel L. Johnson, John F. Moses, Wayne S. Thayer, Kevin A. Rose, Erik
Hampson and Bryan C. Charboneau, were involved in allegations like this how can they
ever be trusted with anything? Let alone confidential and proprietary government
customer information? I highly recommend you read this whole lawsuit.


I find it ironic that a self-proclaimed "security expert" like KEYW is allegedly complicit in
creating a security breach with people who allegedly took confidential and proprietary
information while using their unsecure personal Gmail accounts. KEYW investors who do
not read and understand this lawsuit do so at their own risk. KEYW investors are clearly
missing both the explosive bankruptcy risk and internal collapse risk due to weak
5/22/2018 Lawsuit Against Keyw Alleges Security Breaches, Data Removal, Violations Of Security Policy - KEYW Holding (NASDAQ:KEYW) | Seek…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2217493-lawsuit-against-keyw-alleges-security-breaches-data-removal-violations-of-security-policy 5/7


Comments (9)


KEYW corporate culture staring shareholders in the face. I believe this lawsuit may result
in continued revenue loss for KEYW as it circulates more widely among the defense
community.


KEYW Management Response:


I reached out to KEYW management multiple times to discuss my concerns and received
no response. I view it as a negative when management of publicly traded companies do
not respond to investor inquiries.


I reiterate my opinion and my 9.1/10 rating on THE PUMP SCALE for KEYW with my call
for an immediate flushing of the entire KEYW management team as my preferred outcome
for shareholders and the good ol' U S of A.


Disclosure: I am short KEYW. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


The Pump Stopper, Contributor
Author’s reply »  see my other article about KEYW's looming covenant violations and bankruptcy risks


14 May 2014, 11:50 AM


ManiakTT
HArd to short the stock know following already a bug cutoff in price.


14 May 2014, 12:17 PM


The Pump Stopper, Contributor
Author’s reply »  In my experience companies with leveraged balance sheets can be better shorts than
before, even with the stock down. Often times the fundamentals can deteriorate a lot more rapidly than the
stock price declines. Bankruptcy and equity raise can be hard catalysts as well.


"what do you call a stock that is -90%? a stock that fell -80% and then got cut in half"


14 May 2014, 12:24 PM


ManiakTT



https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-pump-stopper

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5594581

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-pump-stopper

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5594581
5/22/2018 Lawsuit Against Keyw Alleges Security Breaches, Data Removal, Violations Of Security Policy - KEYW Holding (NASDAQ:KEYW) | Seek…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2217493-lawsuit-against-keyw-alleges-security-breaches-data-removal-violations-of-security-policy 6/7


I took a short, we will see, I liked your article about UNIS. ;) 
But right now I am seeing a nice bounce!


14 May 2014, 12:30 PM


The Pump Stopper, Contributor
Author’s reply »  thanks for the compliment! this one could take a little while to play out but the stock looks very
vulnerable and overvalued to me.


14 May 2014, 12:49 PM


dtrain1234
They are not even being valued on their government business anymore...they are seen as a commercial products
company!!! Way to do your homework.


14 May 2014, 01:42 PM


The Pump Stopper, Contributor
Author’s reply »  did you read the articles? It clearly shows that the vast majority of KEYW's revenue is NOT
from the commercial side.


Can you show me, with math, where you are seeing that most of KEYW's sales are from commercial
products?


14 May 2014, 02:27 PM


dtrain1234
Math...how about 1+1? How many products companies have revenue from their product until it is sold and spend
extreme amounts on research and development to get there? If you heard their investor call they have multiple pilots
out and are awaiting orders for the active network defense system. If the market is forward looking than they do not
have all of the information on KEYWs product line. Management has recognized the shift from government services
and that side of the house is now just a hobby.


14 May 2014, 03:20 PM


The Pump Stopper, Contributor
Author’s reply »  this is not math relating to KEYW. Did you read the KEYW call or listen in? the Hexis and
"cyber" revenue was down a lot from the last quarter. It seems clear to me that this business is not ramping....


Even if you are right that does not address what appear to me to be a coming leverage issue that will require
equity (if possible) or bankruptcy (if not possible).


Just to lay the numbers out for you clearly:


last quarter total revenue was $63.8m. Of that only $2.5m was commerical and that was down -$1m from last
quarter. KEYW is not really a cyber security software business. Please re-read the report for more details.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-pump-stopper

https://seekingalpha.com/user/27012583

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-pump-stopper

https://seekingalpha.com/user/27012583

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-pump-stopper
5/22/2018 Lawsuit Against Keyw Alleges Security Breaches, Data Removal, Violations Of Security Policy - KEYW Holding (NASDAQ:KEYW) | Seek…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2217493-lawsuit-against-keyw-alleges-security-breaches-data-removal-violations-of-security-policy 7/7


That government "hobby" business is >96% of KEYW revenue...


14 May 2014, 04:20 PM
