On April 24, 2014, we published our investment opinion on ASIA PLASTIC RECYCLING HOLDING 


LIMITED (“APR” or the “Company”), a People‟s Republic of China (“PRC”) based producer of EVA 


(foam rubber) products.  On April 27, 2014, APR issued a written response to our report (the “APR 


Response”).   





We believe that in this case, APR‟s response is completely unsatisfactory and fails to address the publicly 


available, independent evidence indicating that APR has made material misrepresentations to Taiwanese 


regulators and investors about the scale and profitability of its business.  





I. OVERSTATED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 
 


1) Fujian Land Purchase 
 


APR claims to have spent RMB 126 million in 2011 to acquire 137 mu of additional land for the 


expansion of the Fujian facility (RMB 919,700 per mu).  However, in our report, we presented publicly 


available land records posted on soudi.cn, which showed that APR purchased this land at auction from the 


Land and Resources Bureau of Jinjiang for only RMB 31 million, which is 75% less than the RMB 


126mm in acquisition cost reported to Taiwan investors and regulators. 





In the APR Response, the Company agreed with Glaucus that the cost of the land for the Fujian 


Expansion Project was only RMB 31 million (RMB 226,000 per mu), but argues that the government 


records do not reflect the full purchase price of the land because it fails to include payments made by the 


Company to farmers and infrastructure fees paid to the local government.
2 


 
Source: Company response, p.1 





APR states that it paid an additional RMB ~20 million (RMB 145,985 per mu) in „infrastructure fees‟ to 


the Jinjiang government.  But this explanation is not consistent with the official guidelines on 


infrastructure fees published by the Jinjiang Government:  





 
Source: http://www.jinjiang.gov.cn/htm/2014-03-12/59849.html 





According to the Jinjiang official pricing guidelines, the maximum infrastructure fee for an industrial 


project is RMB 35 per square meter, or RMB 23,334 per mu, which is 84% less than the infrastructure 


fee of RMB 150,000 per mu that the Company claims to have paid in the APR response.   


 



http://www.jinjiang.gov.cn/htm/2014-03-12/59849.html
3 


 
Source: http://www.jinjiang.gov.cn/htm/2014-03-12/59849.html 





The Jinjiang government infrastructure fee guidelines state that in connection with the Fujian land 


acquisition, APR‟s infrastructure fees would not be more than RMB 23,334 per mu.  This directly 


contradicts APR‟s explanation to Taiwanese regulators and investors that it paid RMB 145,985 per mu. 


 



http://www.jinjiang.gov.cn/htm/2014-03-12/59849.html
4 


In addition to the cost of the land, APR states that it spent an additional RMB 61 million (RMB 450,000 


per mu) to buy the land from farmers.  APR wants investors to believe that it paid RMB 61 million to 


purchase the land from farmers, and then paid an additional RMB 31 million to buy the same land 


from the government.   





But APR‟s Response directly contradicts the official records of the Land and Resources Bureau of 


Jinjiang, which clearly states that the Company did not buy the additional Fujian land from farmers, 


but purchased the land, in an auction, from the government: 





 
Source: click on this link. 





The above records, available to any investor online, clearly state that the seller was not a group of 


farmers, but the Land and Resources Bureau of Jinjiang!  APR now claims that it paid both the farmers 


and the government, but the government records directly contradict this assertion.   





In our view, the evidence clearly shows that APR bought the Fujian land for RMB 31mm from the 


government (not farmers), at a cost which was 75% less than the figure reported to Taiwanese investors 


and regulators.  



http://www.soudi.cn/zpg/td_72940_grd.html
5 


 
2) Jiangsu Land Purchase 





In 2012, APR reportedly acquired 150 mu of land for RMB 57.9mm (average of RMB 386,000 per mu) 


for the expansion of facility in the city of Jurong in Jiangsu province.  But according to records from the 


Department of Land and Resources of Jiangsu Province, which are available to any investor online (by 


clicking here), APR only paid an average of RMB 163,000 per mu (a total of RMB 23.6mm) for the land 


purchase, meaning that APR spent 59% less than the amount reported to Taiwan investors and 


regulators. 





In the APR Response, the Company stated that the government records of the land purchase did not 


include infrastructure fees, which APR claims were RMB 223,000 per mu.   





 
Source: Company response, p.2 





Again, this response is completely unsatisfactory.  The Jurong City Land and Resources Bureau publishes 


the purchase price of land in the Jurong Economic Development Zone (the same district in which APR 


purchased property for its facility).  These purchase prices include infrastructure fees.   





 
Source: http://www.jrmlr.gov.cn/tdsc/tdjg/3733.html 





The list price of the two properties highlighted above, which includes six types of infrastructure fees, is 


RMB 195-290 per square meter, or RMB 130,000-193,000 per mu.  This is much lower than the RMB 


386,000 per mu that APR claims to have spent on the acquisition.  It also suggests, in our opinion, that 


APR explanation that it paid RMB 223,000 per mu in infrastructure fees is false! 


 



http://mail.landjs.com/web/gdxm_list.aspx?xmlx=ht&xzq=32&BH=&TD_ZL=&TD_YT=&srr=%E4%B8%89%E6%96%AF%E8%BE%BE&minqdrq=&maxqdrq=

http://www.jrmlr.gov.cn/tdsc/tdjg/3733.html

http://www.jrmlr.gov.cn/tdsc/tdjg/3733.html
6 





II. TAXES 
 


The Jinjiang city (Fujian province) government publishes an annual list, available to any investor online, 


which ranks the top taxpaying businesses operating in Chendai county, Jinjiang city.  APR, whose 


headquarters, production base and only meaningful PRC operating subsidiary are based in Chendai, 


reported to Taiwanese investors and regulators that it paid RMB 381mm in PRC income taxes and (we 


estimate) RMB 302mm in VAT from 2010 through 2013.  Yet according to the Jinjiang government, 


APR only paid between RMB 28mm and RMB 80 mm in total taxes from 2010 through 2013, which is 


only 4% to 12% of the amount reported to Taiwanese investors and regulators during that period.  


This suggests that APR has vastly exaggerated the scale and profitability of its business. 





In its first press conference on April 25, 2014, responding to our report, APR stated that the Company 


reported a lower level of tax payments to the Jinjiang government because it did not want to „advertise‟ 


the profitability of its business to its rivals. 





This explanation is ludicrous, because APR is a publicly listed company and its financial statements 


(including its profitability and revenue figures) are available online at the TWSE website!  Any 


competitor can review APR financial statements, making the Company‟s explanation that it wanted to 


conceal its profitability by reporting lower taxes simply absurd.   





APR then changed its story again a few days later.  In the APR Response, the Company claims that the 


data on the official government website of Jinjiang City government is not accurate, because it comes 


from Communist Party members who work at these companies, and not every Communist Party member 


knows the actual amount of taxes paid.  





 
Source: Company response, p.5 





This explanation is likewise poor.  Why would the Jinjiang government publish tax rankings that are 


inaccurate? Why would a Communist Party member, who works at APR and is therefore most likely 


familiar with the earnings of the Company, report an incorrect amount? APR‟s explanation might be more 


credible if its ranking on the Jinjiang government tax lists were only slightly different from its reported 


taxes paid, or if a company employee reported an incorrect number in one or two years.       





But, as we showed in our initial report, Sansd Fujian (APR‟s only major tax paying subsidiary) is ranked 


far lower than it should be every year.  It does not even appear on the 2013 rankings.  In blue we have 


highlighted the tier in which Sansd Fujian should appear based on the income taxes it reported paying in 


its public filings and its estimated VAT payments.  In red, we have highlighted the tier in which Sansd 


Fujian actually appears on the government‟s tax lists.   


 



http://app.jinjiang.gov.cn/gkxxw/dwgk/newstext.asp?id=33846
7 


 
Jinjiang City Tax List Links: 2010; 2011; 2012; 2013. 





APR‟s explanation that they underreported their taxes by telling the Jinjiang government that they paid 


“more than RMB 10mm” is not credible, because the Jinjiang government tax rankings divide companies 


into multiple tiers or buckets.  From 2010 to 2013, there are multiple tax buckets between where APR 


actually appears and where it should appear if its Taiwanese financials are accurate.     





The government tax records indicate that, contrary to the income statements in its Prospectus and 


subsequent annual reports, that APR's net income was actually between 4% and 12% of the figures 


reported to Taiwanese investors between 2010 and 2013.   
 


























 



http://app.jinjiang.gov.cn/gkxxw/dwgk/newstext.asp?id=8749

http://app.jinjiang.gov.cn/gkxxw/dwgk/newstext.asp?id=17548

http://app.jinjiang.gov.cn/gkxxw/dwgk/newstext.asp?id=33846

http://www.jinjiang.gov.cn/zfshow.aspx?Id=22674
8 


III. CONCLUSION 
 


Ultimately, we believe that the APR Response fails in any meaningful way to address the independent 


and publicly available evidence raised by our report.  APR has changed its story, in some cases between 


the time it held an initial press conference and issued the APR Response, in an attempt to explain away 


clear, irrefutable, publicly available evidence presented in our report.      





In an effort to distract the market, the Company has falsely accused us of acting mischievously and 


recklessly without due regard for the accuracy of our statements. The Company has also falsely accused 


us of seeking to cause panic and impose maximum damage on the price of the Company‟s stock. We 


reject all of these libelous accusations.  





As the Company acknowledges, we are entitled to voice our opinions regarding the published results and 


performance of the Company. Our opinions of what we believe to be the true value of the Company‟s 


shares are based upon our analysis and due diligence. Our opinions regarding the Company are a matter 


of public interest, and publication of our opinions is justified due to the fact that investors and the capital 


markets are connected in a common interest in determining the true value of the Company and its stock 


price.  





We have disclosed the fact that we have a short interest in the securities of the Company and stand to 


realize gain in the event that the price of the securities falls – however, that does not undermine our good 


faith belief in our opinions.  Investors must decide for themselves if what they believe to be the true value 


of APR‟s shares.  





Based on the preponderance of the available information, we continue to believe that the most plausible 


interpretation of the evidence available in the public domain is that the Company is a fraction of its 


reported size and profitability and that it has made materially false and misleading statements to 


Taiwanese investors and regulators.
9 


DISCLAIMER  





We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is APR. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If 


you are invested (either long or short) in APR, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like 


everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum.  We believe that the 


publication of our opinions and the underlying facts about the public companies we research is in the public interest. 





You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of APR stock declines. This report and 


all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of fact.  Our 


opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available facts and evidence collected and analyzed, all of 


which we set out in our research report to support our opinions.  We conducted research and analysis based on public 


information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so.  You can publicly access any 


piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own 


homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law. 





As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) 


(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 


investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands 


to realize significant gains in the event that the price of APR’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s 


research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with 


respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be 


construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind. 





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, 


short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to 


buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be 


unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 


accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not 


insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality 


to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to 


ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate.  We strive for accuracy and completeness to 


support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented "as is," 


without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, 


LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high 


value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international 


organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO. 





Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 


completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or 


supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and 


independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by 


the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive 


jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or 


applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in 


California; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 


use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 


barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer 


shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent 


jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as 


reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 


this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
