5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging
Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors
Jun. 17, 2014 9:30 AM ET19 comments
by: Kerrisdale Capital Management


Summary


FIVE's current valuation of $2.0 billion is far too high for a retailer that generated only
$76m of adjusted LTM EBITDA.


Specialty retail is rife with historical examples of emerging concepts that have
disappointed investors time and again. We discuss Francesca's, Denninghouse,
Potbelly's and other brands whose valuations were overly optimistic.


Many overhyped emerging retailers see dramatic multiple contractions as initial
success ultimately succumbs to the brutally competitive nature of retail.


Obstacles include copycat competitors, execution issues related to rapid expansion
off of a larger store base, merchandising misses, price undercutting by lower cost
incumbents, etc.


As we described in our last article, Five Below (NASDAQ:FIVE) trades at too high of a
valuation for a discount retailer with mediocre same-store sales growth, average margins,
and an insufficiently differentiated business model. The company's current valuation of
$2.0 billion is far too high for a retailer that generated only $76m of adjusted EBITDA over
the last twelve months. We think it's highly improbable that FIVE can meet the very lofty
expectations that are built into the company's sky-high 50x LTM P/E multiple.


The retail landscape is littered with the bodies of overhyped emerging concepts whose
expansions failed to meet the market's expectations, and who've seen dramatic multiple
contractions as initial success ultimately succumbed to the brutally competitive nature of
retail. For every Chipotle, there are dozens of Potbelly's (NASDAQ:PBPB) and Body
Centrals (OTCQB:BODY), concepts that fell short of the generous expectations cast upon
them during their initial years of rapid store expansion. In early years, emerging retailers
can post promising financial metrics, driven by a large proportion of new stores as a
percentage of their overall store base. Same-store sales growth can be rapid, as many
stores are still in ramp-up mode and are handily lapping prior year revenue figures.
Margins are steadily rising, boosted by increased SG&A leverage as fixed costs like
corporate overhead are spread across a larger revenue base, as well as by increased



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2265303-five-below-inc-50x-p-e-too-rich-for-xmas-driven-discount-retailer

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FIVE

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PBPB

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BODY-OLD
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


profit per store as a large number of young stores mature. For FIVE, for instance, we saw
12% same store sales growth in 2009 and 16% in 2009, but that figure dropped to 4% last
fiscal year and is projected to only be 4% in FYE 2014 (FY ending 1/31/2015). FIVE's
EBITDA margin expanded from 8% in FY 2009 to 14% in FY 2013, but now sits at levels
higher than most other dollar stores.


As concepts mature, cracks begin to show in emerging retailers' abilities to maintain
healthy margins and same-store sales growth while simultaneously increasing unit growth
by 20%+. Expanding a store base from 100 to 125 is far easier than expanding from 400
to 500. Obstacles that emerging retailers face as they enter the intermediate stages of
their growth trajectories include:


Success in Specialty Retail Invites Competition - FIVE is Easy to Copy. Five
Below does not have a patent on the concept of a dollar store catering to a teenage
demographic, and copycats can pop up next door in each of FIVE's strip malls to
provide the same sorts of products and target the same customer demographics. This
risk can be particularly pronounced for retailers that don't sell proprietary products,
because competitors can source cheap knickknacks from the same Chinese
manufacturers as FIVE while arranging them in a colorful fashion in aisles labeled
"NOW". FIVE may have been the first mover to coin the NOW aisle heading, but the
pre-teen of 2017 won't differentiate much between the trinkets at Five Below and
copycat competitors.


Trends Change - FIVE will Invariably Experience Merchandising Misses. As
discussed in our prior article, we believe merchandising plays a greater role at Five
Below than at other dollar stores. FIVE caters to teens and pre-teens, which is one of
the most fickle demographics. Tastes change on a quarterly basis, and FIVE is prone
to missing a merchandising trend periodically. Should stores focus on Candy Crush-
themed water bottles this summer or Angry Birds? Below-the-knees swimming trunks,
above-the-knees or mid-thigh? Because FIVE sells "trend" merchandise to a fickle
market (teens and pre-teens), inventory that goes unsold is likely to be rendered
obsolete, unlike the inventory at discount retailing peers which make more of their
money selling non-perishable household consumables (such as batteries and toilet
paper).


Compounding Growth Creates Execution Challenges - FIVE Has to Open a LOT
of Stores. In its initial years, FIVE could focus its expansion plans on a smaller
number of units per year. For instance, when FIVE had 100 stores, to grow units by
25% management only needed to focus on building out 25 new stores. At a 400 store
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


count, 25% unit growth translates to 100 new stores. Negotiating a new lease, building
out a store interior, hiring new store staff, arranging a new distribution route, and
sourcing additional merchandise on an average of once every three and half calendar
days becomes too daunting, and store growth decelerates.


As Specialty Retailers Grow, They Enter Less Attractive Markets - New FIVE
Stores Will Likely be Less Profitable Than Original Stores. As specialty retailers
expand, investors consistently overestimate the incremental profits from expansion. In
the initial years of a specialty retailer's growth trajectory, it expands into its most
attractive markets first. It is during this period that investors tend to reward retailers
with high valuation premiums, assuming future growth will be as profitable as past
growth, generally extrapolating past revenue per store, sales per foot and margins well
into the future. However, after a time, the best markets have been utilized and retailers
are forced to enter 2nd and 3rd tier locations which are naturally less profitable.


Sales Per Square Foot Reach Peak Levels Across a Higher Proportion of the
Store Base, Resulting in Stagnant or Declining Overall Growth Given that Unit
Growth is Falling. In the intermediate phase of a retailer's growth trajectory, a large
proportion of the store base may be reaching peak sales per square foot levels, as
growth begins to plateau in a store's second, third or fourth year of operation. The
combination of slowing unit growth and peak-level store metrics can result in growth
rates that are too low to justify the emerging retailer's sky-high valuation multiples.
Retailers are not software companies that can massively scale a fixed cost base, and
use technology to rapidly expand their customer bases. Rather, to justify 50x LTM P/E
multiples, brick-and-mortar retailers must expand units at a torrid pace and do so with
flawless execution. As we'll see with FRAN later in this article, this goal is often too
daunting.


In this article, we will explore from several different perspectives how difficult it is for a
discount retailer to grow into a 3.4x LTM sales and 50x LTM P/E multiple. First, we'll
present two case studies. The first is Francesca's (NASDAQ:FRAN), a recent high-flyer
that has seen its stock price decline approximately 45% since its 2011 IPO (inclusive of
the first-day IPO "pop") and its valuation multiples cut nearly by half after the company
failed to match its historical same-store sales growth metrics. The second is
Denninghouse, a Canadian dollar store retailer that experienced a rapid growth phase
marked by high same-store sales growth, expanding margins and rapid unit growth only to
ultimately go bankrupt in the mid-2000s. In addition to showing how once-promising



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FRAN
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


financial metrics can dramatically reverse course for a retailer within a matter of years, the
Denninghouse example also demonstrates how fragile the discount retailer business
model really is.


Then we'll review a long list of growth-oriented retailer IPOs over the past five years that
have failed to meet market expectations, showing just how common it is for emerging
retailers to see operating metrics fall back to earth as they enter the intermediate stages of
their growth trajectories. As these metrics return to normalcy, so too do valuation
multiples, and we routinely see 3x+ revenue multiples contract to 1x-2x, and P/E multiples
fall from 50x to 15x-25x.


Case Study: Francesca's


Francesca's is an instructive example of a specialized retailer that witnessed a dramatic
decline in overall sales growth, same-store sales growth (SSSG) and valuation in the
years subsequent to its IPO. Francesca's offers fashion apparel, jewelry and accessories
for women between the ages of 18 and 35. FRAN went public in 2011 at an eye-popping
EV/Sales and EV/EBITDA valuation of 8x and 31x, respectively (inclusive of the
customary IPO "pop" after first-day trading).


FRAN: Stock Price Performance Since 2013



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029587466260178-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


At the time of its IPO, FRAN's story had numerous parallels with how sell-side analysts
currently describe FIVE.


Sell-side Analysts on FRAN at IPO (2011) Sell-side Analysts on FIVE (Current)


"We believe FRAN possesses one of the most


compelling growth stories in softlines with only 249


boutiques and long-term potential of reaching ~900


stores nationwide. Moreover, the company's boutique,


"treasure-hunt" feel continues to drive comps with


+6.6% projected for F11, after +15.2% in F10 and


+9.8% in F09" - Wedbush, 8/25/2011


"FRAN is a fast fashion women's retailer positioned to


capitalize on today's value conscious consumer.


Francesca's currently operates 249 stores in 38 states


within the U.S., and has the potential to reach 900


stores in the next 7-10 years. Square footage is


growing at ~25% annually and we expect ongoing


infrastructure investments and benefits of scale to yield


25-30% annual earnings growth in the long-term." -


Jefferies 8/31/2011


"The shares are not inexpensive, but we believe they


offer an entry into the early stages of a long and visible


growth story. Plans call for 75 new stores annually


for the next several years, fueling expected square


footage growth upwards of 20% (36% in 2011) and


bringing the store base to about 900 locations." - RBC


8/31/2011


"Strong store economics are only half the


story. Even more exciting is the long


term square footage growth story.


FIVE currently has 304 stores, and this


concept warrants 2000+ stores


nationwide." - Janney Capital Markets


2/5/2014


"While the shares are likely to respond


well to this release, we think the stock still


has a favorable long-term outlook. It has


a significant growth opportunity and an


unmatched offering, in our view. We


project these factors should enable it


to generate 25% plus earnings growth


for an extended period of time." - UBS


3/25/2014


"Five Below is in an elite class of high


growth retailers, with a differentiated


value oriented concept, exceptional and


consistent new store economics, and a


huge store growth opportunity that


can continue at the current pace for


20+ years" - Wells Fargo 6/14/2014


While analysts were correct that FRAN would quickly expand its geographic footprint,
FRAN's same store sales growth declined significantly over that time. Interestingly, FIVE's
revenue growth and SSSG trend is strikingly similar.


FRAN vs. FIVE: Revenue Growth and Same-Store Sales Growth Decline
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Similar to FIVE, FRAN has witnessed a sharp SSSG growth deceleration since 2012. On
the Q1'13 earnings call, FRAN's management attributed the 2.0% SSSG to inclement
weather, much like FIVE's management did for the Q4 2013 slowdown.


This decrease was driven by lower than expected transaction volume as a reflection
of the unseasonal -- unseasonable weather conditions that persisted throughout the
quarter. We've heard many retailers call out the negative impact of unseasonably
cold weather on store traffic, and we were not immune to this trend. - Mark J.
Vendetti, FRAN CFO on Q1'13 Earnings Call on 06/05/2013


Yet SSSG still hasn't adequately recovered and has continued on its downward trajectory.
Interestingly, SSSG for the following quarter was -1.0% (management previously guided
towards a 1-2% increase); however, management could not blame the weather again for
the decline. The same-store sales decline was purely attributable to a decline of
transaction volume.


Comparable sales decreased 1%, including direct-to-consumer. This compares to a
21% increase in comparable sales in the same period last year, which has been
restated to include direct-to-consumer sales. As Neill highlighted in his comments,
this decrease was driven by a 4% decrease in comparable transaction volume,
which we believe was representative of lower consumer traffic overall. - Mark J.
Vendetti, FRAN CFO on Q2'13 Earnings Call on 09/04/2013


FRAN: SSSG Trends Since 2010



https://seekingalpha.com/article/1483741-francescas-holdings-management-discusses-q1-2013-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1672832-francescas-holdings-management-discusses-q2-2013-results-earnings-call-transcript
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Unfortunately for FRAN, the deteriorating operating performance has translated directly to
a declining stock price and valuation. Since its IPO, after accounting for the customary
pop that occurred on the day of the IPO, FRAN's stock price has since declined by 47%.
Also, FRAN's EV/Revenue and EV/EBITDA multiples have tumbled to 1.8x and 7.5x,
respectively, a far cry from the 8x EV / revenue and 31x EV / EBITDA valuation the day
after its IPO.


FRAN: Valuation Decline Since IPO


On its latest earnings call, FRAN's management described the difficult retail environment
as well as the challenges related to keeping ahead of trends for its targeted customer
demographic.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029609747359896-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029609989099603-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Overall, the retail environment has been challenging since the beginning of the
calendar year, with soft traffic trends and competitively aggressive promotions.
The cumulative effect of these trends has limited the effectiveness of our
merchandise clearance strategies, and has created bottlenecks in inventory flow for
newness.


Our customer demographic trends respond best to well-edited assortments,
newness, and lower price point items with a higher perceived value. Although
motivated, she is not heavily interested in clearance. Even with our short lead times,
we struggled to effectively clear during extended periods of slow traffic, and have
limited space to maneuver from an inventory perspective. - Neill Davis, FRAN
President and CEO on Q1'14 Earnings Call


This commentary highlights the difficulty of managing merchandise for a fickle
demographic. While FIVE has been fairly successful with its concept thus far, the
company is still in the early innings of a long and difficult road to national expansion. We
believe that FIVE is prone to missing a merchandising trend periodically and that a severe
miss has the potential to trigger a significant valuation correction, particularly if FIVE
mismanages a holiday quarter.


Overall, we feel that FRAN's trends and history offer investors valuable lessons in what
could go wrong with a fast-growing retailer. Like FIVE, FRAN also benefited from high
SSSG, high revenue growth and sell-side analyst optimism during its early part of the
growth phase. As FRAN is now in the intermediate stage of its expansion plan, it is having
a challenging time managing a significantly larger store base. New competition, the
challenge of managing exponential growth, combined with being forced to enter 2nd and
3rd tier markets, has led to the declining revenue and SSSG growth trend that have
severely impacted FRAN's valuation. Interestingly, FRAN continues to rapidly expand
store count (25% increase in FY 2013), but that has not masked other fundamental issues
that we've outlined. We believe that FIVE's recent trends imply a similar trajectory and that
it's only a matter of time before investors are less optimistic about FIVE's overhyped
potential.


Case Study: Denninghouse


Next, we'll examine Denninghouse, a concept that operated in the same segment as
FIVE: discount retail. Just like FIVE is now a darling among sellside analysts who cover
dollar stores, Denninghouse was once Canada's hottest discount retail growth brand.
Despite growing its store count and revenue nearly 1,000% over a 10-year period and



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2261573-francescas-holdings-fran-ceo-neill-davis-on-q1-2014-results-earnings-call-transcript
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


achieving record financial results nearly every year, Denninghouse's competitive position
was quickly ravaged by competition, resulting in the company's bankruptcy in 2004, only 2
years after it achieved its most profitable year in existence. The Denninghouse story offers
instructive lessons for investors in easy-to-copy specialty retail formats.


Denninghouse: Stock Price Performance from 2001 - 2005



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-1402961031810784-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


(Source: Denninghouse annual report)


Denninghouse was a Canadian discount specialty retailer that operated the "Buck or Two"
stores - a line of small-format retail stores, averaging ~3,000 square feet, that sold a
variety of seasonal and everyday items below a C$2.00 price point. Denninghouse started
with a single store in 1987, and grew modestly until its management decided to pursue an
aggressive franchising strategy in 1992.


(Source: Denninghouse public filings)



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/559143_14029574614882_rId19.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029610753292017-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Over the next decade, Denninghouse's growth exploded. Within only six years,
Denninghouse become the largest discount retailer in Canada, with over 200 stores
across Canada and system-wide sales of nearly C$130 million. As Denninghouse grew,
shareholders benefited from its attractive unit-level economics. Denninghouse operated
with a very small store format - approximately 3,000 square feet - and thus it posted
strong sales per square foot of ~C$240.00. Given the minimal costs to open a store,
Denninghouse was able to attract hundreds of franchisees, more than doubling its unit
count again between 1998 and 2002, peaking at 328 stores in 2002.


During its growth years, Denninghouse had many stark similarities with FIVE today:


Denninghouse was a Canadian discount retailer that went through a rapid growth
phase, going from only a handful of stores in 1987 to 328 stores by 2003 (given the
Canadian market is approximately 1/10th the US market, that is equivalent to a
penetration of about 3,200 stores in the US. To further put that in context, FDO, DG
and DLTR currently have approximately 8,000, 11,000 and 5,000 stores in the United
States, respectively)


Denninghouse also focused largely on selling seasonal items and close-out
merchandise, rather than consumables and household items which correspond to a
more recurring revenue stream.


Denninghouse also sold its products at a relatively higher gross margin than its
competitors (Denninghouse gross margins were in the high-30%'s, versus low-20%'s
for Wal-Mart).


Denninghouse also had attractive unit-level economics, with a small-format store
(~3,000 square feet) and sales per square foot in line with industry levels at the time
(C$240/foot).


Despite putting up incredible growth and record profits year-after-year, Denninghouse
blindsided investors with an incredibly rapid deterioration in profits. Denninghouse went
from hitting record profits in calendar 2002 to being bankrupt by 2004! So how did
Canada's leading national discount retailer go from setting record profits, to going
bankrupt, in only 2 years?
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


(Source: Denninghouse public filings)


Seasoned investors could see troubling signs that the company's strategic position was
under attack from competition many years before its eventual bankruptcy in 2004.


As Denninghouse grew its store base, it faced the same challenge every high-growth
specialty retailer faces: finding attractive locations. Initially, Denninghouse capitalized on
its most attractive markets with the best customer demographics and the least
competition. However, as the company was faced with the challenge of maintaining its
compounding growth, Denninghouse was forced to enter 2nd and 3rd tier markets. These
markets were not as attractive as its initial stores, and thus did not have the same store-
efficiency. As these stores matured, Denninghouse's growth in same store sales began to
show a troubling and precipitous decline several years before its bankruptcy in 2004.


(Source: Denninghouse public filings)


Second, Denninghouse faced the inevitable risk that investors consistently ignore: new
competition. Though Denninghouse had a unique specialty retail concept, the company
had no sustainable competitive advantages. Its cost basis was not lower than that of its
competitors' (including the rapidly growing Dollarama, which was later acquired by KKR).



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029616670006516-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029612369685347-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


It sold products at a higher margin than did competitors like Wal-Mart and Costco, which
left Denninghouse vulnerable to price undercutting by rivals. Its merchandising concept
could be easily replicated and the company did not have a brand name or other type of
loyalty that could retain foot traffic.


Like FIVE, Denninghouse merely provided a niche merchandise offering which was
successful while it was a small, nimble retailer. But once Denninghouse became large
enough and competitors took notice, Denninghouse's strategy was quickly copied and the
company's sales and profits were decimated. When explaining how Denninghouse went
from achieving its peak profitability in fiscal year 2003 to a record reversal only a year
later, the MD&A explained:


The Company attributes these declines to increased competition as the number of
stores operating within this retail sector continues to increase and other retail
formats including supermarkets are testing or adding "dollar sections" within some of
their stores. - Denninghouse MD&A, FY2004


FIVE will Not Go Bankrupt, but the Denninghouse Example Demonstrates Why It
Shouldn't Be Trading at 50x P/E


Over the coming years, FIVE will face all of the challenges that Denninghouse faced
during its torrid expansion, and eventual implosion, several years ago. However, given
FIVE's current valuation at 50x PE, investors have given themselves little margin of safety
for any operational missteps or competitive pressures.


Perhaps most significantly, FIVE is set to face a torrent of new competition from copy-cats.
Like FIVE, Denninghouse was a leading discount retailer with phenomenal growth, great
unit economics and a niche strategy. However, Denninghouse, like FIVE, had minimal
sustainable competitive advantages. Once it became large enough that competitors took
notice, Denninghouse and its shareholders were caught blindsided by the competitive
attacks from copy-cat retailers and established incumbents. Denninghouse went from its
most profitable year to bankruptcy in only 2 years! Investors could have seen troubling
signs in Denninghouse's same-store-sales years before its eventual bankruptcy.


As we referenced extensively in our prior article, FIVE shareholders should be particularly
concerned given that Wal-Mart's small-format stores, which are arguably the biggest
competitive threat for the retailer, are expected to make significant inroads into the
discount retailing market next year. Dollar General has already indicated a plan to attack



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2265303-five-below-inc-50x-p-e-too-rich-for-xmas-driven-discount-retailer
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


FIVE's market aggressively. Despite these incredibly hostile competitive threats, investors
appear to be valuing FIVE as if its growth was almost certain - we think this is a terrible
risk/reward.


Second, FIVE must continue to call the trends amongst its fickle teenage clients correctly.
Given that FIVE is a heavily seasonal retailer and generates almost all of its operating
profit during the holiday (Q4) quarter, competitors like Dollar General and Wal-Mart can
make very targeted attacks on the company through national, regional and online
advertising campaigns in order to draw foot traffic and steal customers during the key
holiday season. It will be very difficult for FIVE to differentiate itself going forward.


Third, FIVE's management will have to overcome the challenge of executing and
managing exponential growth - it is much tougher to grow unit count 20% off a 300-store
base than it is a 100-store base. FIVE's management must now execute a new store
expansion every few days, rather than every few weeks, and this could place tremendous
pressure on IT systems, logistics, managerial talent, not to mention sourcing greater
volumes of inventory over an ever-expanding store-base.


Finally, FIVE will have to find new locations with attractive economics. Like Denninghouse,
FIVE is already showing signs of having difficulty in finding new attractive stores, given
falling same-store-sales growth and plateauing margins. Below we show charts
demonstrating how same-store sales growth has been declining over the past three years,
and how margins have flattened at their current level.


Same Store Sales Growth (Quarterly)



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-140296133517957-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


EBITDA and EBIT Margins Flat Since 2011


Specialty retailers have few lasting sustainable advantages. We believe that over the
coming quarters, FIVE will face incredibly difficult competitive and operational challenges,
and think that investors have fundamentally overestimated FIVE's strategic position in the
marketplace.


Recent Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors: Is FIVE next?


To further illustrate how investors often overestimate profits and growth rates in the
specialty retail sector, we examined a screen of retail IPOs since 2010. Below we show a
lengthy list of companies that have IPO'd over the past five years that featured rapid unit
growth and / or lofty valuation multiples at the time of IPO. These once overhyped IPOs
offer investors a valuable lesson: seemingly fast-growing concepts at inflated valuations
can quickly lose momentum and fail to live up to expectations. Potbelly's, Sprouts Farmers
Market, Tilly's and Francesca's, all highlighted below, illustrate how that can happen.


Select Retail IPOs Since 2010



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029614364731662-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Tilly's is a good example of a specialized retailer that has drastically failed to live up to
expectations. Tilly's offers casual clothing, footwear and accessories, and, similar to FIVE,
its products are targeted for the teen and young adult demographic. Also similar to FIVE,
Tilly's had high growth expectations due to its significant "white space" opportunity to
expand into other states. At IPO, Tilly's operated 140 stores and was expected to expand
that to ~500. When Tilly's launched its IPO, both sell-side analysts and investors were
overly optimistic. A quote from Stifel's research analyst summarizes the bull case at the
time.


The outlook for the company is favorable, in our opinion, given its business model of
offering a fast-turning assortment of men's and women's apparel, shoes and
accessories that is comprised of trend-right California inspired fashion brands. Tilly's
square footage expansion of +15% is likely for the foreseeable future, as it grows
from a California-centric 145 location store into a national retail chain of over 500
stores. We anticipate comp store sales gains as new stores ramp-up with the
potential for operating leverage. - Stifel Nicolaus, 5/29/2012


Unfortunately for Tilly's investors, the company has since underperformed and the stock
price has declined by over 50% since IPO. Same-store sales growth (SSSG), which
seemed to be on an upward trajectory, has reversed. Valuations have come down
significantly. After its IPO, Tilly's was valued at EV/Sales and EV/EBITDA of 1.3x and 10x,
respectively; in contrast, Tilly's EV/Sales and EV/EBITDA multiples today are 0.4x and
3.6x.


Below is Tilly's same-store sales growth over the past five years:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029614767122335-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Tilly's Same-Store Sales Growth Since FY 2010


Potbelly's, Sprouts Farmers Market and Francesca's are also examples of other recent
retail IPOs that have failed to live up to expectations. Both Potbelly's and Sprouts were hot
IPOs that saw their respective stock prices increase by 120% and 122%, respectively, on
the day of IPO pricing. Since those highs however, the stocks have come crashing down
in light of tempered expectations, and both Potbelly's and Sprouts' stock prices have
declined by 49% and 24%, respectively. Valuation expectations have also been tempered.
Potbelly's and Sprouts were valued at 31x and 49x EBITDA following their IPOs, but those
multiples have contracted to 13x and 27x.


Potbelly's and Sprouts' Declining Multiples
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


A Closer Look at Potbelly's


Potbelly's is yet another good example of a recent IPO that has seen its stock price
dwindle amid tempered optimism. Potbelly's successful IPO was fueled by investors
hoping to witness another fast food chain growth darling similar to that of Buffalo Wild
Wings (BWLD) and Chipotle (NYSE:CMG). Similar to FIVE, Potbelly's is expected to have
a fairly large geographic expansion opportunity with ~300 shops across 22 states. The
optimism around Potbelly's during its IPO sounds all too familiar - much of the hype was
around how many thousand stores Potbelly's could eventually grow to. Quotes from
analysts at the time of IPO highlight some of the bullish views then.


It is at roughly 300 units today, out of a potential for several thousand, and new
unit builds have historically generated 30-40% cash on cash returns. - Goldman
Sachs 10/29/2013


Our saturation analysis suggests the potential for at least 1,000 locations, from
about 295 domestic locations today, based on one-half of the penetration Potbelly
has already achieved in its home market of Chicago. - William Blair 10/29/2013


We are initiating coverage on PBPB shares with an Overweight rating and $34 price
target, which is 94x our FY14 earnings estimate. We believe this multiple is
warranted given the scarcity value due to very few restaurant growth options from a
public company perspective, a proven strategy to continue market share gains, and
the pipeline value of future development. - Piper Jaffray 10/29/2013


Unfortunately for Potbelly's IPO investors, the market has unmasked a weak SSSG trend
that investors seemed to have ignored at IPO.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BWLD

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CMG

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-14029644058254983-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Potbelly's Same-Store Sales Growth Since FY 2009


The Container Store: Disappointing Growth Drags Down Share Price


The Container Store (NYSE:TCS) is a retailer of storage and organization products that
went public in late 2013. At IPO, investors were enamored with this retailer with "hard to
contain competitive advantages", resulting in shares closing 96% above its IPO price. At
IPO, TCS was similar to FIVE (and to Potbelly's) as it was expected to have significant
white space opportunity with a base of only 63 stores. Sell-side analysts, not surprisingly,
had high expectations for this specialty retailer to expand rapidly.


Significant long-term growth opportunity with impressive sustainability and duration
of growth. We see potential for 300-350 stores nationally, above management's
300-store guidance (5x-6x the current store base). - Stifel 11/11/2013


Given its small size, just 63 stores and the potential for over 300 U.S. locations, we
believe that positions TCS as one of the best growth names in our coverage. - Credit
Suisse 11/26/2013


Since its IPO, TCS' fundamentals have deteriorated and as a result, the share price has
declined 39% from an all-time high of $47.07 in late 2013, and is down 20% since its IPO.
SSSG, revenue growth and EBITDA margins have all since declined since the IPO.


The Container Store: Five-Year Historical Snapshot



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TCS
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


TCS' mediocre results have translated to an underperforming share price; in 2014 alone,
TCS has declined 39%.


The Container Store: One-Year Share Price Performance



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/16/559143-1402964892144352-Kerrisdale-Capital-Management_origin.png
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


These examples all paint a similar picture: inflated expectations around overhyped
retailers with seemingly unlimited geographic expansion potential often lead to
disappointment. Time and time again, emerging retailer investors have ignored the
fundamentals and have been burned on hard-to-attain promises. There are few retailers
who are able to successfully achieve national scale rapidly enough to justify the types of
overly optimistic valuation multiples that FIVE is trading at.


Conclusion


As we have illustrated in this article, the specialty retail sector is rife with historical
examples of emerging concepts that have let down investors time and time again. We
believe investors consistently forget about the natural "pop and drop" of the specialty retail
sector. Specifically, the market often forgets that specialty retailers generally lack one of
the most important factors that justify high valuation multiples: sustainable competitive
advantages.


FIVE has limited competitive advantages. FIVE has no cost advantages relative to its
larger competitors, nor does it have any merchandising advantages given its lack of
proprietary products. While the idea of tailoring a discount retailer to a teenage
demographic has allowed FIVE to make some inroads, it's a concept that can easily be
replicated by competitors. Accelerating competition within the discount retail sector, in
terms of current dollar stores both expanding units and also introducing higher-priced
products to compete with FIVE's five-dollar threshold, as well as the expansion of Wal-
Mart's small-format stores, will present serious competitive threats to FIVE as it enters the
intermediate stage of its growth trajectory. We wouldn't be surprised if future concepts
such as Five Under, Five'N'Less, Less Than Five, Five's Too High, Thrive-Under-Five,
Trinkets-For-Teens and other copycats also restrict FIVE's long-term growth and undercut
its margins.


Given the pressures ahead, we think that FIVE's 50x P/E and 3.4x EV / revenue multiples
are wildly inflated. Analysts are pricing in continued rapid store expansion over the next 5+
years combined with healthy same-store sales growth and sector-leading margins. Even if
FIVE executes flawlessly, it will have trouble growing into its $2bn valuation in a
reasonable period of time. If, however, there are hiccups along the way, we think that the
downside for shareholders could be substantial. Investors paying 50x LTM P/E, 26x LTM
EV / EBITDA and 3.4x EV / LTM revenue for FIVE are likely to be as disappointed as
those in Francesca's, Denninghouse, Tilly's, Potbelly's and the many other overhyped
specialty retailers we have discussed in this article.
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


Comments (19)


Disclosure: The author is short FIVE. The author wrote this article themselves, and it
expresses their own opinions. The author is not receiving compensation for it. The author
has no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: Read our full disclaimer at kerrisdalecap.com/legal-disclaimer-3.
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell securities. We may transact in securities of
FIVE subsequent to publication. The author is also short TCS.


Editor's Note: This article covers one or more stocks trading at less than $1 per share
and/or with less than a $100 million market cap. Please be aware of the risks associated
with these stocks.


 Like this article


haoleboy1967
Thanks for the article. I follow FIVE just to see how crazy it is at any given moment.  
I have owned an operated some very small businesses that catered to the teenage and under crowd - small fad type
fair and festival businesses. They can be very good because girls have disposable income (birthday money - babysit
etc) and they dont blow it right away like boys will. So if you have a product that they like they can and will buy it. The
trick is never invest too much into overhead and get in and get out with your profit.  
Another company you might have included is Build a Bear.


17 Jun 2014, 09:57 AM


borisb
I wonder why the "effective star" CEO of Walmart.com with $13 billion in sales, jumped ship to move to Five Below
last week? To through his life away taking care of a lemon?


17 Jun 2014, 10:54 AM


apacheman15
It's "throw"


18 Jun 2014, 10:45 PM


Volte-Face Investments, Contributor
We are very interested in this sector from this perspective as we have found other mid size retails that trade at wild
multiples and forward valuations given their various circumstances (TUES and IRG to name two).



http://kerrisdalecap.com/legal-disclaimer-3

https://seekingalpha.com/user/604907

https://seekingalpha.com/user/324

https://seekingalpha.com/user/741055

https://seekingalpha.com/author/volte-face-investments
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


We like this article and argument, and have started really watching this stock. We agree that treating this stock as
have a wide moat is pretty ridiculous. Now that we've looked at it, we certainly wouldn't want to be long it here.


17 Jun 2014, 11:05 AM


James Sands, Contributor
Another article quite quickly. FIVE is actually displaying a reversal trend to what is written in this article.


And again, I would disagree with the stretches of examples against FIVE. Restaurants and grocery store chains
should never be compared to apparel, specialty retail.


And one thing that is not mentioned is that FIVE has scaled to a level more quickly and much more successfully than
your comparisons. FIVE is approaching $700 million in revenue this fiscal year with improving margins despite claims
that they will decrease.


Revenue growth picked up in Q1 above 30% and profit margin improved by 80 basis points Y/Y. If anything, FIVE's
claim of poor weather during Q4 has been justified with Q1's performance.


The company is overvalued at today's level, I don't disagree on that point. But it is not to the extreme level of this
follow-up article. Much of the analysis is based on weaker companies with the claim that FIVE will become weaker as
time goes by. Too simplistic of an approach. We can all find weak companies and compare them to a company as a
personal derived catalyst to profit from.


Too many holes to be taken seriously.


Thanks, 
James


17 Jun 2014, 11:09 AM


me39
Great article. A bigger takeaway from this than FIVE being overvalued is to be wary of valuations built on expectations
of a huge market opportunity without much thought given to competitive advantage or execution. It's amazing how the
sell-side can keep telling the same story despite being wrong so many times. I don't think catching the next SBUX,
CMG or WFM in the early stage makes up for all of the failures.


17 Jun 2014, 11:29 AM


jtmm17
Clearly it’s not appropriate to compare a women’s upscale soflines mall based apparel retailer to a general
merchandise strip center discount retailer. That would be like trying to draw correlations between Walmart and Coach.
And I can’t begin to express how ridiculous it is to compare a franchise based retailer in another country from 15
years ago to this company. You’re really stretching on that point.


I’d agree that maybe FIVE is a little overvalued based on FY2014 numbers, but if they hit their guidance of .89EPS for
2014 it puts them squarely in the 40/1 forward PE which isn’t unreasonable for an aggressive growth retailer. I would
argue that ULTA cosmetics is a better comparison than Fransisca’s, and as of today they trade at a 30/1 multiple, but



https://seekingalpha.com/author/james-sands

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4942221

https://seekingalpha.com/user/27463763
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


are much further along in their growth. ULTA can expand to maybe double it’s store base from today where as FIVE
can at least triple to 900+ stores before it starts to cannibalize it’s existing locations. That would mean a 40/1 forward
PE is reasonable for a company growing by 30% which it has done for the last 8 quarters. Remember they are only in
21 states as of March.


The wonderful thing about equity analysis is that time is what separates the heroes from the goats. I’ll follow up with
you sometime in March 2017, the day after they report FY 2016. Assuming a conservative 40%yoy eps growth and a
40/1 forward PE that would put their price somewhere around $70 in March 2017. We’ll see by then who’s right and
who’s wrong.


17 Jun 2014, 12:00 PM


apacheman15
Jtmm17, am I misunderstanding you? You think that in 3 years, FIVE will announce 40% EPS growth over the
year prior as a CONSERVATIVE estimate? Im a shareholder, but I think that is a huuuuuge stretch as a
CONSERVATIVE estimate. That's kind of like me saying that as a conservative estimate, I think the Steelers
will go 15-1 in 2017.


18 Jun 2014, 10:54 PM


Eric Kuehn
Certainly agree that the writer's comparisons are quite a stretch! And with this article being the second such article by
this writer in a week, one wonders what the writer's motivation truly is.


Five Below is a very unique retail concept and comparing it directly with dollar stores or fashion stores is a mistake.


17 Jun 2014, 01:25 PM


firsttracks
Kind of an silly statement...author is short the equity hence his motivation is obvious. He believes the stock is
overvalued and has presented his case. All are welcome to disagree, but the intent is clear. Hard to see how
25x EBITDA is a justifiable valuation for and brick and mortar retailer--no matter how high they pitch the "store
count opportunity". The problem with shorting this is the lack of catalyst-- valuation is bananas and has been
for some time. Like TSLA its a bubble stock and you could get your face ripped off for an indeterminate
period.


17 Jun 2014, 04:52 PM


Long-Short Value, Contributor
Good Article. I shorted FIVE around $55 but took off my short once it plunged. Might add it back if it gets into the mid
$40s.


My valuation analysis suggests its worth about $17-$20. If SSS fall off, it could be worth a lot less.


18 Jun 2014, 04:37 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/741055

https://seekingalpha.com/user/20717831

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6767221

https://seekingalpha.com/author/long-short-value

https://seekingalpha.com/user/741055
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


apacheman15
Long-Short, can you please explain your valuation analysis to get to $17-$20. My analysis has it at
$120-$125. If SSS take off, it could be worth a lot more.


18 Jun 2014, 10:59 PM


Long-Short Value, Contributor
Can you explain your Valuation? What cost of capital and growth rate are you using?


Here are my assumptions for a two stage model: 
10% Long Run EBIT Margin (Very comparable to other Dollar store comps) 
31% Revenue Growth on avg for next 5 years. 
37% Effective Tax Rate 
Initial Cost of Capital 10%, Terminal Cost of Capital 8%


I also assumed they would need to raise Capital in 2014 as they are running out of cash.


23 Jun 2014, 12:57 PM


M dub
This is a pretty comprehensive analysis, but the one sidedness does rear its head. Very true FIVE is entering the point
in the growth cycle where things start to get much more difficult. When I see "Potbelly's and Sprouts' Declining
Multiples" - their multiples are supposed to decline as the company increases EBITDA and grows into its valuation!
That is the investment thesis after all, and showing charts that "go down" to elect an emotional response only serves
to undermine credibility.


A crowded / saturated market is definitely a concern, questions as to WM as well as existing behemoths expansion.
They will get better with FIVE around, and growth is always a reversion to the mean in retail.


FIVE's strengths are its weaknesses (fashion, misses etc), that can be said about many retailers - but in the long term
it absolutely can be replicated and buying talent can walk away. Its true. Is the valuation high? Well it was when FIVE
stock price peaked. To get back there we will need to be on a higher EBITDA base and proof that they are not going
to get swallowed by the growth. However, as the other successful dollar stores proven, you can roll these things out
pretty easily - which is good for FIVE but bad for the industry overall. Where there are two dollar stores within close
proximity a lot tend to go to both stores. Eventually when they are three or more in near proximity, shoppers will drop
one or two off their "go-to" list. I don't think FIVE will be one of those for quite a while.


Finally, I think FIVE is sandbagging their proj. comp store sales. 4Q last year was abysmal and many retailers are
getting set up for beats this year. Most importantly insider selling has been too large and too relentless for the average
investor to be happy with.


19 Jun 2014, 11:06 AM


Nick Mulcahy, Contributor
Thanks for the excellent article. It's really useful to have some history.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/741055

https://seekingalpha.com/author/long-short-value

https://seekingalpha.com/user/300934

https://seekingalpha.com/author/nick-mulcahy
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


The immediate problem for FIVE is cash and liquidity. During the last quarter, the company burned $4.1 million in
operations and used a further $10.2 million in capex for a net 19 new stores. Another quarter like that and the cash
balance will be approaching zero: the company had less than $18 million in cash.


The additional credit facility that the company refers to can only be a short-term solution to the liquidity problem. On
page 61 of the most recent annual report, this is disclosed:


"The Revolving Credit Facility includes a covenant which requires the Company to maintain minimum excess
collateral availability of no less than the greater of (i) 10% of the then effective maximum credit and (ii) $3.0 million."


At the very least, this means FIVE will have to build fewer stores, which will lead to a re-rating of the market's view of
the company's growth prospects.


01 Jul 2014, 10:39 AM


M dub
Nick Mulcahy: The revolver can be increased to $50 million, and furthermore they could take another term
loan or high yield bond as before. It would be much more prudent however to just do a secondary equity
offering from time to time to fund new store openings given the rich valuation. Of course thats hard to do
when management is unloading the bonkers out of their stock holdings.


Note that cash flow from operations will be negative as it includes stocking new store inventory so you can't
really see "same store cash flow" on the financial statements. Of course it would be nice if new store
inventory were broken out on the cash flow statement so all you see is a "disaster". This is rather common for
a growth retailer but it does make the analysis difficult unless management breaks these kinds of things out.
Part of the deal so to speak.


At this valuation plus no debt the company will not be scaling back store openings due to lack of capital, i
assure you.


31 Jul 2014, 09:32 PM


Nick Mulcahy, Contributor
That's a fair point on the effect of incremental inventory (although 1Q doesn't compare so simply with the pcp,
so there is something strange there) but I try to think about what I would do if I were managing the business.
Why scale up so quickly when it requires burning significant cash and exposing the company to funding risks?
As you say, there are other sources of capital but they can't keep looking for it indefinitely. Every quarter of
negative cash makes bankers more nervous and the incremental dollar of external capital more expensive.


FIVE is not a venture- or PE-backed business subject to the urgency of a closed-end fund. It's not a
pharmaceutical business with a patent that is going to expire. It doesn't even have any particular advantage in
retail (same merchandise and pricing strategies as just about everyone else but with slower inventory turns).
So the only reason for the rush to grow can be the rating effect. There's just no value here for the external
investor at 58x earnings.


05 Aug 2014, 02:31 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/300934

https://seekingalpha.com/author/nick-mulcahy

https://seekingalpha.com/user/300934
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


M dub
sorry for not replying to this comment earlier, i must have overlooked it. you said


"Why scale up so quickly when it requires burning significant cash and exposing the company to funding
risks?"


its about how the bread is buttered. You go fast and cash out high, make your money by the time a hangover
remedy is required. In general, generating investor appetite to go public in such a tough industry requires an
impressive growth / investment thesis, but also the private equity fund (Advent) needs high growth to exit at
high a valuation as high as possible. (in fact they wouldn't have invested in the first place if this weren't the
course of action)


In this deal the founders believe that they know how much growth is too much (Zainy Brainy), so they strike a
balance by pushing the envelope as close to the sun without melting. It would be tough to generate investor
interest in a small company growing at a 10% clip in traditional retail. You won't get anyone trading your stock
and you won't get a good valuation and you would have a tiny float. In such a tough industry (retail) it wouldn't
even be worth it to be a public company. You would be a geography constrained regional with no scale. Who
wants to go public just to be an orphan stock?


Advent still has two on the board of directors, so you say it is not a private equity company per se but you
should rethink how / why certain decisions were made. They had 5 directors when they were going public and
the growth plan was set in stone.


So fast forward to today, now that you are trading at a sky high multiple, lowering your store growth plans will
result in the stock getting pounded into oblivion. Again, Advent and the Founders cashed out significant
holdings before this even creeps into (the ever optimistic) investors' minds. When sentiment turns there isn't
an opportunity to exit.


You are correct to wonder why you should get in at such a high multiple this late in the game, with everyone
having taken their money off the table, each year increasing the risk that the young but huge store base has a
lot of potential surprises. In fact I took my position off at $40. When a real stumble will happen is much too
hard to determine for a retail investor, even analysts very close to the company can't keep track of all these
new stores (they probably aren't given such granular info anyway). I think curently FIVE stock has way too
much downside risk vs upside potential, but when people make money they never think about how much risk
they took. And if someone thinks FIVE is a good risk, they should ask themselves why so much insider stock
was sold.


FIVE business model is not that difficult, it is scalable, but they are making a heck of a lot of new location
decisions. IMO these IPO's you need to get in early and get out within a couple years at the most, because
many of us have been burned so badly there is no hair left on our bodies. I hope FIVE is the exception, but of
course i am not risking my money at these multiples; it was a great trade since it went public and i am out like
most of the insiders.


01 Dec 2014, 07:14 PM


Upbeat



https://seekingalpha.com/user/300934

https://seekingalpha.com/user/456901
5/23/2018 Five Below, Inc.: The Many Parallels With Other Overhyped Emerging Retailers That Have Disappointed Investors - Five Below (NASDA…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2271983-five-below-inc-the-many-parallels-with-other-overhyped-emerging-retailers-that-have-disappointed-investors


I was interested in FIVE awhile back, but after going into our local FIVE about five times, all on weekends, I couldn't
figure out how they were still in business. Not a teen in the store, just a few moms with toddlers, there was nothing
unusual or appealing about how the stock was displayed, and much of it was the same in the fifth visit as I saw in the
first. Other than things like mobile phone cases and a few other items, most of it was not oriented towards teens. And
it was no different from what you can see in other stores. 
On the other hand, they are still in business, so perhaps their stores are different in more populous markets...I
certainly hope so.


02 Jul 2014, 09:14 PM
