Muddy Waters, LLC 
June 13, 2011 


 
Important disclaimer on back page 


 
Reaction to TRE Q1 Earnings Call 


 
The selloff in TRE shares following this morning’s call illustrates our overall feelings 
about management’s responses to questions.  The highlights are: 
 


• Ernst & Young has been unable to complete its review of TRE’s Q1 numbers. 
 


• Chairman / CEO Allen Chan personally guarantees that TRE has disclosed all 
related party transactions.  However at no time did management address TRE’s 
relationship with Lei Guangyu, the only disclosed AI.  Mr. Chan stated that Mr. 
Lei is a major AI. 


 
• TRE’s suppliers (agents) and buyers (AIs) are two different parties.  As shown by 


our analysis of five suppliers, none of which were capable of selling nearly the 
volume of timber TRE claims, TRE had made this point clearly before. 
 


• TRE added an odd twist to its disclosed business model.  AIs now apparently do 
not pay TRE directly (see our discussion of the various problems in doing so).  
Rather they pay TRE indirectly by paying TRE’s “designated purchasing agents”, 
which then purchase more parcels.  As we wrote in our initial report, a consistent 
theme of TRE’s stated business practices is that they are unnecessary, overly 
complicated, and risky for a legitimate business. 
 
Is the designated purchasing agent an AI-squared?  We look forward to more 
detail on this new facet so that we can analyze the legal and practical issues. 
 


• Mr. Chan explained that the AI model came into being because TRE could not 
form WFOEs in the 1990s to conduct this business.  As we pointed out in our 
report, after TRE’s EJV with the Leizhou Forestry Bureau terminated (due to 
TRE’s failure to contribute its capital), TRE had a WFOE that had a business 
scope that permitted it to do business directly.  Aside from that point, 
management did not explain why it continues to use an AI model today.  Thus the 
AI model makes no more sense now than it did before this explanation. 


 
• TRE still refuses to disclose its AIs’ identities for “competitive reasons.”  It cited 


an example from the 1990s when an AI’s identity was disclosed, and then smaller 
competitors undercut TRE’s prices and won business.  This explanation strikes us 
once again as TRE relying on everybody in the chain (e.g., the farmers) being 
ignorant.
We do not dispute that TRE’s AIs are overpaying TRE (allowing TRE a 55% 
gross margin on standing timber).  However, TRE’s AIs would be among the 
largest buyers of timber in China – we do not understand how revealing their 
identities could subject them to any greater information about the extent of this 
overpayment than they are currently in a position to receive. 


 
• It will apparently take PWC two to three months to complete its investigation.  In 


our experience with much smaller frauds / companies, this is an aggressive 
timeline.   
 


• CFO David Horsley stated that TRE can not confirm whether the AIs actually 
make TRE’s tax payments.  He said they “just don’t know” whether the payments 
are made.  Again, the AI model is unnecessary, overly complicated, and risky for 
a legitimate business.  


 
• Allen Chan did not answer a question about how much replanting TRE did in the 


quarter, other than to say that TRE is progressing with the program.  He later 
responded to a question about whether TRE is in compliance with PRC replanting 
regulations by stating that TRE would have heard from the authorities if it were 
not. 


 
We believe that investors underappreciate the replanting metric (or lack thereof).  
China has in the past experienced devastating floods due to harvesting without 
sufficient replanting.  If TRE were not fulfilling its obligations to replant, this 
would complicate the ability of either TRE or its AIs to obtain harvesting permits 
for the standing timber. 


 
• Management stated something to the effect that it could remit its cash out of 


China by closing or selling the BVI entities, and then remitting the cash.  This 
was not a confident or clear explanation, and it raises more questions than it 
answers.  Along those lines, when TRE was asked to clarify this statement during 
the Q&A, nobody answered and the questioner was mysteriously dropped. 


 
• TRE had some notable blocks / drops of other awkward questions.  TRE cut off 


the Nomura analyst Anissa Lee rather than answering her question asking for 
more details on where the cash balances are kept.   


 
Management also failed to attempt to answer a question about whether its banks 
are uncomfortable with extending credit.  Instead of answering, there was a death 
ray type of sound toward the end of the question, and the questioner was no 
longer there.  In true memory hole fashion, management moved onto the next 
questioner without making any statement in response to the question. 


 
• William Ardell stated that PWC is going to check balances in every PRC bank 


account at the branch level.  As LFT, CCME, and other frauds show us, such
confirmation should also take place at the central level of the banks – branches are 
easily corrupted. 


 
• Regarding the dearth of information in the data room, Allen Chan said that he 


would have to check with “our people” about putting more information online.  
We advise investors to take note of this delay. 


 
Use of Muddy Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk.  You should do your own 
research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to 
securities covered herein.  You should assume that as of the publication date of any 
report, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or through our members, 
partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 
investors has a short position in the stock (and/or options of the stock) covered 
herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of 
stock declines.  Following publication of any report, we intend to continue 
transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral 
at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.   This is not an offer 
to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be 
offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be 
unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Muddy Waters, LLC is not 
registered as an investment advisor. To the best of our ability and belief, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 
public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any 
fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer.   However, such information is 
presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  
Muddy Waters, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the 
accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the 
results to be obtained from its use.  All expressions of opinion are subject to change 
without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or 
supplement this report or any of the information contained herein.
