5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 1/19


China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud
Jun. 16, 2010 5:47 AM ET31 comments
by: Chinese Company Analyst


Throughout my past few posts on China Marine Food Group (NYSEMKT:CMFO) (see
here and here), I have implied that the small size and unknown reputation of CMFO’s
auditor, ZYCPA Company Ltd., should give investors pause.


This article takes a far more concerned stance. According to a lawsuit filed in Hong Kong
last year, ZYCPA (or, more accurately, its predecessor firm) and its majority shareholder
were active participants in a series of frauds committed against a foreign investor.
According to the allegations, ZYCPA and the shareholder, Johnny Tang, were not mere
bystanders in the fraud. Rather, Tang was allegedly an active co-conspirator who helped a
Chinese businessman steal HK$108mm from the foreign investor.


My prior post on CMFO’s Xianghe acquisition, as well as Chimin Sang's, provides
compelling evidence that China Marine Food is defrauding investors. Specifically, I believe
that the company is much smaller than its SEC filings indicate. Previously, I simply thought
that the company was able to falsify its financial statements because it was receiving
negligible oversight from its auditors. But if the lawsuit’s allegations are true, the actual
circumstances may be far more sinister.


Primary Documents


There are several primary documents worth reading.


First, here is the Statement of Claim for the lawsuit.


Second, here is a link to a 9-page report written by Target Newspapers, a Hong Kong
business periodical, discussing the lawsuit.


Third, here is a lawsuit for defamation filed by Tang against the foreign investor.


The Lawsuit


Issued on March 23, 2009, the original lawsuit is between Christian Emil Toggenburger,
and two holding companies he owns, against (i) Hung Viet Derrick Luu, (ii) Zhong Yi
(Hong Kong) C.P.A. Company Ltd and (iii) Ka Siu Johnny Tang (the majority shareholder
of Zhong Yi).



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CMFO

https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/659080-chinese-company-analyst/74115-china-marine-food-there-s-something-fishy-going-on

https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/659080-chinese-company-analyst/74799-cmfo-and-xianghe-a-dubious-acquisition

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.com/2010/06/04/cmfo-and-xianghe-one-fraud-acquiring-another/

https://seekingalpha.com/article/209881-china-marine-food-group-where-did-your-money-go

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/toggenburger-lawsuit.pdf

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/target-intelligence-report-3-27-09.pdf

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/tang-defamation-suit.pdf
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 2/19


Zhong Yi (Hong Kong) C.P.A. Company Ltd is the predecessor to ZYCPA Company Ltd,
CMFO’s auditor. Zhong Yi changed its name to ZYCPA as a result of potential bad press
coming out of this lawsuit.


I will first show a graphic timeline outlining the order of events that transpired during the
alleged fraud.


The cast of characters are as follows:


Christian Emil Toggenberger is the foreign investor who was allegedly defrauded and was
cheated out of HK$108mm.


Hung Viet Derrick Luu is the Chinese “businessman” who allegedly defrauded
Toggenburger and to whom the HK$108mm was transferred.


Ka Siu Johnny Tang is the majority shareholder of ZYCPA Co. Ltd. (successor to “Zhong
Yi (Hong Kong) CPA Company Ltd.”), and actively helped Luu execute the fraud,
according to the allegations. ZYCPA is CMFO’s current auditor.


Here is the timeline (click to enlarge images):



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/6/16/saupload_cmfo_timeline_jpeg_seeking_alpha_v4.jpg
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 3/19


The Allegations


I will first discuss a summary of the fraud allegations. Then I will focus on the active role
that the majority shareholder of ZYCPA played in the fraud, according to the allegations.


The events that follow are based on the allegations in the lawsuits I provided above,
primarily from Toggenburger’s original lawsuit. Tang has countersued Toggenburger for
defamation. The litigation is ongoing. The following allegations have not yet been proven
in a court of law, and I am merely summarizing the sequence of events as alleged in the
lawsuit.


Warderly Fraud Allegation


The events began when Tang introduced Toggenburger to Luu in November 2006. Tang
represented Luu to be a billionaire entrepreneur who was well-connected in China and
Hong Kong.


Shortly after the initial introduction, Luu and Tang met Toggenburger in January 2007 to
pitch a HK$25mm loan to Warderly International Holdings Ltd, a publicly traded company
on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Over the course of two meetings, Luu proposed that
Toggenburger make a convertible loan for HK$25mm. The loan would be convertible to
20%-25% of Warderly’s equity, or pay 2% per month for 2 years until maturity. Warderly
would use the loan to acquire an oil re-processing plant in Beijing from a business partner
of Luu.


Toggenburger agreed to make the investment.


In March and April 2007, Toggenburger lent HK$23mm to an intermediary escrow agent.
HKD$5mm was transferred to a subsidiary of Warderly, while HK$18mm was transferred
to a separate unrelated investment project of Luu’s. Luu promised Toggenburger that the
HK$18mm transfer was temporary and would soon be repaid, with the funds being
redirected to Warderly.


Toggenburger never received any bonds or shares of Warderly. Luu received shares in
Warderly for the contribution of HK$5mm to the Warderly subsidiary, and kept the shares
for himself. The remainder of Toggenburger's investment stayed locked up in Luu’s
separate investment project.


Here is a graphical representation of the flow of funds:
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 4/19


As we can see from the graph, HK$23mm left Toggenburger and was essentially
redirected to Luu.
In April/May 2007, Tang called Toggenburger to say that Warderly “was in trouble” and the
Warderly agreement “was not working out”. Simultaneously, Luu was “in trouble” and
could not repay the money transferred to his investment project.


In May, shares in Warderly were suspended and in January 2008, the Warderly subsidiary
in which Luu had received shares was wound up.


Toggenburger had lost HK$23mm.


Car Racing Fraud Allegation


Our story doesn’t end there.


When Toggenberger found out that his HK$23m investment was lost, he was naturally not
pleased. Tang, however, told him not to worry and that Luu would make it up to
Toggenburger by offering another attractive investment opportunity. Luu had an equity
stake in a racing car project in mainland China, and would offer part of that stake to
Toggenburger at a reduced valuation.


Specifically, in a May meeting also attended by Tang, Luu offered to sell to Toggenburger
a 15% share in a car racing project in mainland China. The 15% stake was valued at
~HK$40mm, according to Luu, but he offered to sell the 15% stake at a discounted price
of HK$16mm to make up for the failed Warderly investment. Luu told Toggenburger that
the car racing project was so profitable that investors would earn a return of 100% on their
investment every 6 months. He also said that broadcasting minutes for commercials to be
shown during car races had already been sold and such cash flow alone was enough for
Toggenburger to get repaid his initial investment within two months.


Tang also claimed that he had seen and checked the documentation for the project (ie.
contracts with Champ Car World Series LLC, the leading US car racing association); that
the project was a good investment for Toggenburger; and that it was the only way for



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/6/16/saupload_cmfo_warderly_flow_of_funds.png
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 5/19


Toggenburger to recoup his losses from Warderly.


Toggenburger agreed.


On May 21, 2007, Toggenburger paid HK$16mm to Zhong Yi as escrow agent, with the
escrow agreement stipulating that the funds would be released to Luu only if the transfer
of certain racing contracts were transferred to the holding company that Toggenburger
was investing in.


The HK$16mm was released to Luu without this stipulation being met.


No car races have been held pursuant to the car racing project. No revenue has been
earned from the car racing project. Toggenburger received no return on his investment.


Toggenburger lost HK$16mm.


Listed Company Fraud Allegation


It still doesn’t end there.


On the last week of May, Luu and Tang introduced a further investment to Toggenburger.
They told Toggenburger that they could assist him to acquire a listed company (ie. a
“shell” company), and that the car racing project or any of Luu’s other projects could then
be injected into that shell. Luu and Toggenberger would ultimately become shareholders
of the listed company.


Toggenburger agreed.


Between June and July 2007, Toggenburger wired HK$73mm to Zhong Yi CPA Company,
Ltd, which again acted as the escrow agent. In July 2007, Luu and Tang introduced
Toggenburger to a firm that introduced Toggenburger to the owners of a publicly listed
shell company in Hong Kong. In October, Toggenburger signed a contract with the shell’s
shareholders to purchase a majority of the shares of the shell.


In December, Toggenburger told Tang and Zhong Yi to transfer the escrowed funds to the
shell’s shareholders. Tang told Toggenburger that there is “some problem”, and the
transfer could not be carried out. Toggenburger was not able to complete the transaction
with the shell’s shareholders.


In February 2008, Tang told Toggenburger that the HK$73mm “was being used in another
account” belonging to Luu. It was “still locked” in Luu’s “other investments”.
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 6/19


Zhong Yi, acting as escrow agent, had transferred the funds to Luu and/or used them to
the benefit of Luu, without the knowledge of Toggenburger.


Toggenburger had lost HK$73mm.


As collateral for the HK$73mm, Toggenburger had been given 1mm shares of China Oil
and Methanol Group Inc., a company incorporated in Nevada. On June 23rd, 2007, Luu
took Toggenburger on a day trip by car to Guangdong province and showed him 3
refineries, which Luu said were assets belonging to 3 of China Oil’s operating subsidiaries.


Ultimately, it surfaced that China Oil has no operating subsidiaries, does not own any
industrial complexes and is not earning any revenue.


In total, Toggenburger was cheated out of HK$108m, according to the lawsuit:


Tang’s and Zhong Yi’s Roles in the Fraud


As can be seen from the above events, Tang allegedly played an active role in the frauds.
He was present in many of the meetings between Luu and Toggenburger. He also
allegedly made a variety of untrue claims that were fraudulent in nature.


In two instances, his majority-owned firm, Zhong Yi CPA, acted as escrow agent between
Toggenburger and Luu. In both instances, Zhong Yi allegedly violated the terms of its
escrow agreements and transferred funds to the benefit of Luu and to the detriment of
Toggenburger.


In the car racing project, Zhong Yi CPA was contractually obligated to hold in escrow
Toggenburger’s funds until certain racing contracts were transferred from Luu’s entity into
another legal entity that Toggenburger was indirectly investing in, and certain other
conditions pursuant to “closing” were met. Zhong Yi allegedly transferred the funds to
Luu’s benefit without these conditions being met.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/6/16/saupload_funds_flow_from_toggenburger_to_luu.png
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 7/19


In the listed company fraud, Toggenburger transferred HK$73m to Zhong Yi for the
purpose of investing in a listed shell company. Zhong Yi instead allegedly transferred the
funds for the benefit of Luu. When Toggenburger asked for the funds to be transmitted to
the owners of the shell company, Tang told him that there was “some problem” and that
the funds were locked in Luu’s investments.


Tang also represented that he had viewed the car racing contracts with Champ Car, as
well as the land title agreements to land near the car racing project to which Luu planned
to develop properties, and to which Toggenburger was to receive interests. Instead, the
Champ Car contracts were allegedly materially misrepresented to Toggenburger, and the
land titles didn’t exist.


Tang was present in many of the meetings between Toggenburger and Luu, and
recommended Toggenburger to invest funds with Luu. He was also responsible for
originally introducing Toggenburger to Luu.


Conclusion


The same man who owns a majority stake in ZYCPA is alleged to have actively aided the
defrauding of a foreign investor out of HK$108m. Johnny Tang is one of two partners at
ZYCPA and its majority owner.


Investors should not be merely concerned that CMFO is receiving inadequate oversight
from its auditor. They should be concerned about whether ZYCPA is actively aiding China
Marine Food management in falsifying its SEC financial statements. As discussed in
previous posts, the business claims made by Xianghe are simply not possible. The
Xianghe financial statements are very likely falsified in my opinion.


These same financial statements, as well as the financial statements of China Marine
Food, are audited by ZYCPA.


Disclosures: At the time of writing, I have a short position in CMFO.


In no part of this post do I attempt to provide false or misleading information. The
discussion of events in this post are primarily based on allegations in a lawsuit from March
2009, which I've included in the post. This lawsuit is ongoing and none of the allegations
have been proven in a court of law.


 Like this article
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 8/19


Comments (31)


ryankore
cool story bro


16 Jun 2010, 02:34 AM


pmcmullen100
Someone lost a lot of money and is very upset. They sued CMFO's auditor with a variety of allegations. None of these
allegations are supported by any proof at this stage of the legal proceedings, they are simply one person's view. The
auditor feels strongly enough that the allegations are false to file a defamation suit.


If each of the allegations in the initial lawsuit were proven true in a court of law, I might be concerned. But people file
millions of lawsuits a year. Most are dismissed. Anyone can allege anything and file it with a court. No one should
make investment decisions based on what one disappointed investor alleges, with no evidence whatsoever.


16 Jun 2010, 10:55 AM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I would read through the allegations. He is making very specific claims about events where
there should be verifiable paper trails. His lawsuit isn't a 3-page statement that talks in general terms. He lays
out in specific detail each of the fraudulent activities, and Zhong Yi's and Johnny Tang's roles in them.


I think based on the details and sequence of events he provides, Toggenburger believes that he has a
compelling case. And throughout his lawsuit, he alleges quite clearly that Zhong Yi and Johnny Tang played
roles that were front and center in the fraud.


Disclosure: short CMFO


16 Jun 2010, 11:28 AM


pmcmullen100
"CCA": Unlike you, I have some experience in this area. I am an attorney at a large (international) law firm
and deal with allegations of financial fraud on a daily basis. An amateur such as yourself, with no background
in this area of law, might think that the more specific the claims, the more likely they are to be true. That would
be incorrect. This is still just one person's set of unsupported allegations. Perhaps there is a paper trail -- you
haven't found it, obviously -- but it may prove the opposite of each and every claim. I have seen 200 page
complaints dismissed and 5 page complaints lead to large judgments. At this stage, the only thing anyone can
conclude from the Complaint is that someone claims to have lost money and has constructed a story that
places blame on the auditor. The defamation countersuit rejects that story. Ultimately the Court will decide
where the evidence lies.


U.S. corporations are literally sued on a daily basis. Many innocent companies are sued for fraud and
securities violations based on highly specific allegations that are ultimately proved false. Making investment
decisions based on a Complaint alone is like investing based on the direction of the wind - or investing based



https://seekingalpha.com/user/669767

https://seekingalpha.com/user/232004

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/232004
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 9/19


on the "story" constructed by a nameless, faceless "analyst" with no legal background or credentials of any
kind. If that's your strategy, best of luck.


16 Jun 2010, 11:46 AM


duediligence
By the time the case settled in court, it is too late to recoup your investment.


17 Jun 2010, 10:51 AM


GARP
My name is Kevin and I invest primarily in my wife's IRA and my own. I have been an investor in Chinese stocks listed
in the USA and now realize that the Chinese and SEC reports need to be checked for every one of the stocks that I
own. I would like to know if there is a good cheap or free way to check for discrepancies. A website needs to be
created if it has not already been created.


16 Jun 2010, 10:55 AM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Hi Kevin. It's a matter of time, and there are multiple parties working on this.


As for your investments for yourself and your wife's IRA, I don't mean to (i) act as your financial advisor or (ii)
paint the entire U.S.-listed Chinese RTO smallcap space with a broad brush. Within the sector, there are
some real companies, in my opinion. But amateur retail investors shouldn't really be involved in U.S.-listed
Chinese RTOs. I myself am both long and short different companies within the asset class. But it's a
complicated space that's not for the faint of heart. There's a reason why the Goldmans and Morgan Stanleys
don't cover any Chinese RTOs. They realize the difficulty of separating the frauds from the real companies,
and don't want to put their reputations on the line. I'd just caution you to be careful.


Disclosure: short CMFO


16 Jun 2010, 11:18 AM


GRG
What are you qualifications Chinese Company Analyst. What are your affiliations? I don't think you are a qualified
investment professional. Do you have a finance degree? Do you have a CFA? Atleast Chimin Sang had the decency
to reveal his qualifications and his opinion in this latest comment that the company could at the end of the day be
actually legit. Stop misleading investors with your baseless arguments. Anybody who has sound financial knowledge
can go through that 8k and come to the conclusion that there is no reason to doubt what the company is saying.
Additionally , 8 different analysts have issued buy ratings on this firm since the 8k was published. Are they all
wrong??


16 Jun 2010, 01:08 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/604092

https://seekingalpha.com/user/402520

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/165489

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 10/19


Author’s reply »  My qualifications are that I'm an anonymous internet blogger. I don't rely on past credentials
to get my points across. I rely on the points themselves.


I don't think my arguments are baseless or misleading. I'm very straightforward that I believe that CMFO is
falsifying its financial statements, and I have intended to provide evidence for that.


As for analysts who have published buy ratings on this firm, I'll reiterate a previous comment I made in a
previous post:


"As for research reports by Hudson Securities or Brean Murray, I don’t have specific comments on those firms
or analysts at this point. But as a general rule, I don’t think that research reports on Chinese RTO smallcaps
written by 3rd tier investment banks are worth the paper they’re printed on. These firms produce research
reports mainly to help their investment banking teams win equity offering mandates. Whether those equity
offerings are for real or fraudulent companies is not of primary concern to them. Their primary concern is
whether they can get the deals done, and if they can, they generally initiate research coverage on client firms.


All the power to them. This is a business. Investors who look to Brean Murray for guidance on whether to buy
CMFO in 2010 are no different from investors who looked to S&P for guidance on whether to buy BBB
subprime RMBS securities in 2006. Or investors who looked to Morgan Stanley on whether to buy
musicmaker.com in 2000.


Analysts from these firms aren’t kicking tires any more than Moody’s analysts were kicking the tires of
subprime mortgage bonds or Henry Blodget was kicking the tires of money-losing dotcoms."


Disclosure: short CMFO


16 Jun 2010, 01:24 PM


J1Hampton
The realization that one may actually be stepping over the line in regards to making criminal accusations is reserved
for the person who has been on the receiving end of such allegations in the past and has contemplated the severity of
their effects on all parties, innocent and guilty. To set oneself up as prosecutor, judge and jury in this case has only
caused harm by eliminating equity of innocent investors and branded the authors as a stock manipulators.


16 Jun 2010, 01:28 PM


pmcmullen100
CCA, I'm afraid your "just the facts" approach doesn't hold water when you start providing legal analysis. You are way
out of your depth here. The "facts" are that someone has made an allegation and nothing more. There's a reason
CMFO isn't dropping today.


16 Jun 2010, 01:33 PM


User 73585
CCA, you say, "In no part of this post do I attempt to provide false or misleading information."


If that's the case, why didn't you bother to mention that the auditor feels so strongly that the allegations made against
them are false that they have filed a defamation suit against the plaintiffs?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/391619

https://seekingalpha.com/user/232004

https://seekingalpha.com/user/73585
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 11/19


One can file a lawsuit about anything. Proving the allegations are something else entirely.


16 Jun 2010, 02:02 PM


pmcmullen100
Uh, User73585, the blog post clearly states that there is a defamation suit. It also includes a link to the defamation
complaint. This is the only time I will defend our anonymous Perry Mason.


16 Jun 2010, 02:11 PM


User 73585
Thanks, pmcmullen100.


My bad.


16 Jun 2010, 02:18 PM


pmcmullen100
This should be clear, but I am not providing legal advice or acting as anyone's lawyer in posting my comments. I am
simply offering my own view of the facts at issue here, based on my legal experience. I do not speak for anyone else.


16 Jun 2010, 02:48 PM


Upbeat
Let the buyer beware. CMFO may be totally aboveboard. However, I got burned badly on FUQI when they suddenly
announced they had to restate earnings due to accounting errors. 
If you are holding CMFO, please weigh the potential gain if CCA is wrong/not legit against the risk if he/she is
right/legit. 
I'm a non-practicing CPA, so I am skeptical about non-professionals playing as if they are professionals. But
sometimes we 'pros' can kid ourselves into wanting to believe a stock in which we invested is legit when it actually
isn't. 
Totally up to you...just consider if you are better or worse going elsewhere with your money, even within the China
sector. 
(I lost on FUQI, but have made money on other Chinese stocks and now am long DEER.)


16 Jun 2010, 09:42 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Several commenters have questioned the relevance of writing an article about an alleged fraud
involving CMFO's auditor. Pmcmullen100 claims that my lack of legal background makes me a poor judge as to
whether Toggenburger's allegations of fraud involving ZYCPA's main shareholder are materially relevant to my
allegations against CMFO.


Toggenburger's lawsuit is one of numerous red flags surrounding ZYCPA. It's a particularly serious red flag, because
it indicates potential criminal activity on the part of ZYCPA's major shareholder, as opposed to inadequate audit



https://seekingalpha.com/user/232004

https://seekingalpha.com/user/73585

https://seekingalpha.com/user/232004

https://seekingalpha.com/user/456901

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 12/19


oversight.


Here is another red flag about ZYCPA. Its client list is quite shoddy. You can see its client list here:


pcaobus.org/Internatio...


Search for ZYCPA. Its clients are:


ASIA GLOBAL HOLDINGS CORP. 
ASIAMART, INC. 
CHINA MARINE FOOD GROUP LTD 
CHINA SUN GROUP HIGH-TECH CO 
CHINA VITUP HEALTH CARE HOLDINGS, INC. 
ENSIGN SERVICES, INC. 
GHN Agrispan Holding Co 
GREEN DRAGON WOOD PRODUCTS, INC. 
HOME TOUCH HOLDING Co 
INNOCOM TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS, INC. 
MEZABAY INTERNATIONAL INC. 
NF Energy Saving Corp 
SINO ASSURANCE INC. 
Titanium Group LTD 
UONLIVE CORP


Here is a spreadsheet showing the exchange and market caps of the ZYCPA clients that are publicly traded:


chinesecompanyanalyst....


All of their clients are on the OTC or pink sheets. The largest market capitalization represented is $53m.


I would expect that many, if not most/all, of their clients are fraudulent in some way or other.


And yet our allegedly fast-growing, high-margin roasted squid producer has decided against switching to a new audit
firm, after being public for 3 years? It can't use a fraction of its $15m annual net income to afford an even slightly more
reputable auditor?


The question facing investors is this: Is CMFO merely being a pennypincher when it comes to its audit firm (it certainly
didn't seem to be a pennypincher when it came to buying an algae drink maker for $27m), or is it falsifying its financial
statements?


Disclosure: short CMFO


16 Jun 2010, 09:55 PM


China Expert
Very good point about the quality of the auditor. I for one will not invest in a company that chooses a "no
name auditor". In this case it is apparent that the auditor represents a large list of bulletin board companies
that are unknown to those who follow the Chinese small cap universe. So for another $25K why doesn't this
company hire a "real" audtior ? There are only 4 possible answers: 1) Management is cheap 2) Management



http://pcaobus.org/International/Inspections/Documents/issuer_audit_clients_of_certain_non-US_firms_by_jurisdiction.pdf

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/zycpa-list-of-clients.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/user/328836
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 13/19


has a relationship with the auditor; 3) Management is naive; or 4) Management fears a "real" audit. Whether
this author is right or wrong.....the nature of this auditor for this size company remains concerning.


17 Jun 2010, 08:37 AM


pmcmullen100
CCA:


You appear to have conceded that you are not qualified to offer an opinion about the strength or validity of Mr.
Toggenburger's allegations against the auditor. Or at least you don't claim that you can offer such an opinion. That's a
good and fair starting point. I would note also that this complaint was filed in March 2009 and there has been no
judgment yet. If this was such a slam-dunk and the paper trail was so clear, why are we still waiting for a court order?


As to the other companies the auditor represents, all I can say is that CMFO has told other investors I've spoken to,
who have contacted investor relations, that they will be upgrading their auditor "soon." I have already said I wish they
had done so a year ago, but they were a small, largely unknown company when they went public. They have no doubt
made mistakes, and not moving to a larger auditor is one of them. But I see no reason to assume that the choice to
continue using their auditor is anything other than an innocent mistake, or more likely, one of a million items on their
"to do" list that was a lower priority than other things, like the algae drink acquisition, complying with Sarbanes-Oxley
for the first time, building a new cold-storage plant, growing the business, etc. If two years go by and they have not
changed auditors, I might begin to doubt them. But -- maybe because I'm not shorting the stock -- I'm not going to see
fraud behind every decision.


Final point: it's ridiculous to say that every other company the auditor represents is on the pink sheets and thus you
"would expect that many, if not most/all, of their clients are fraudulent in some way or other." First, if it's not "all" then
you can't assume CMFO is a fraud. If some clients are on the up and up, CMFO may be also. Second, if you're
claiming that all Chinese companies -- or all companies of any nationality -- below a $53 million cap are frauds, you
should open a plaintiff's law firm and start suing. There are quite a few names on that list. Third, we're back to your
opinion, which has now morphed to "Chinese companies with a small market cap are all frauds." What is your basis
for that? What are your credentials? What it your experience and expertise? We don't know, because you won't even
give us your name. MY experience as an attorney is that your increasingly broad claims of securities fraud have zero
credibility or connection to reality.


By the way, are you shorting all the companies on the auditor's client list? If not, why not? Aren't they all frauds too?


17 Jun 2010, 12:09 AM


duediligence
Read the company statements carefully. The process yields clear and odorless extract. Does the statement imply that
either water or air can be extracted from marine algae? Do the options available include turning it into snake oil
marketed as "high protein low fat content drink"?


17 Jun 2010, 10:44 AM


mixerupper



https://seekingalpha.com/user/232004

https://seekingalpha.com/user/604092

https://seekingalpha.com/user/664800
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 14/19


Very interesting discussion. I'll be watching it and both sides of the argument have sense to them. Especially since I
have no experience whatsoever in Chinese stocks, lawsuits, etc.


17 Jun 2010, 02:43 PM


piper99
I read the Chinese Company Analyst's comment on CMFO and obviously he is not an analyst but a poor attempt as a
stock manipulator. It is interesting that he travels around the edges of reality with a lot of possibilities. Did he
mentioned that Hi Power sales were on track going into the strong seasonal period and is likely to hit at least $20
million in sales with margins approaching 40 percent? All of a sudden that would make the company's purchase a
bargain. Does not mention that the company is estimated to earn about 75 cents per share this year versus 60 cents
last year and an estimate of $1.00 plus per share for next year?. With these estimates the stock is selling at 6.2 times
this year's earnings, and 5.8 and 4.6 times the next 12 month's earnings and next year's earnings respectively. For a
convenience food company with strong sales and earnings growth,CMFO is a bargain. Management will be in visiting
major US cities in early July and you can be sure if they did not have something positive to say they would not be
making the trip.  
Good luck on your short guy. You better cover before you get burned 
Piper


18 Jun 2010, 02:00 PM


brooklynbadger
off topic, but does CMFO still have $47 million net cash on its balance sheet?


19 Jun 2010, 12:41 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Hi brooklynbadger. I believe that CMFO falsifies its SEC financial statements. So in my
opinion, the company's SEC disclosure that it had $47m of cash as of 3/31/10 is not reliable information. In
the United States, it can be difficult to falsify cash balances and cash flow statements because legitimate
auditors can get reliable information from banks independently verifying cash balances.


The same can't be done as easily in China. For starters, chinese bank managers can be bribed to provide
false information. Second, as discussed in this article, investors can't rely that ZYCPA is providing appropriate
oversight. ZYCPA is a suspiciously small and non-reputable firm for a company reporting $70m of revenue.
As well, the allegations being charged at its majority shareholder and lead partner are quite serious and
should not be taken lightly. In addition, ZYCPA's client list is fairly lackluster, and it has only two partners and
25 personnel, according to its website.


The $47m of cash that CMFO reports in its SEC financial statements may very well be falsified, in my opinion.


Disclosure: short CMFO


20 Jun 2010, 08:07 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/671475

https://seekingalpha.com/user/672172

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 15/19


Author’s reply »  I received this email from Mr. Tang's lawyers, which represents Mr. Tang's / his lawyers' response to
my article. I have every intention to allow Mr. Tang to respond to my article, so please see below:


-------------


Dear Sirs,


We act for Mr. Tang Ka Siu Johnny and Zhong Yi (Hong Kong) CPA Company Limited.


Our clients' attention has been drawn to an article posted in your website on 15th June 2010 under the title "CMFO's
Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud" and we have been instructed to publish the following statement for and on
behalf of our clients.


The court proceedings under High Court Action No.815 of 2009 are still pending and the various allegations and
claims of frauds are being defended vigorously by our clients. Our clients' position is that such allegations and claims
are totally unfounded and absolutely without basis.


The Plaintiffs allegations and claims in the said legal proceedings in Hong Kong are totally unrelated to the audit
exercise carried out by ZYCPA Company Limited ("ZYCPA") for CMFO.


It is emphased that the audit exercise for CMFO has been carried out by ZYCPA in the strictest compliance with the
prescribed statutory requirements. The standard of the audit carried out has not been compromised whatsoever.


Accordingly, our clients and ZYCPA are willing to cooperate in any form of investigations and inspections and are
confident that the results of such investigations and inspections will be more than capable of assuring all interested
parties the integrity and professionalism of our clients and ZYCPA.


Finally, our clients and ZYCPA hold the strongest belief that justice will prevail and their innocence will be upheld by
the Hong Kong law courts.


Yours faithfully,


CHAN, TANG & KWOK 
Solicitors 
Hong Kong 
Suite 1912, 19/F, Asian House 
1 Hennessy Road 
Hong Kong 
Tel: (852) 2823 9193 
Fax: (852) 2529 6202 
Email: brianchan@ctk-law.com.hk


A list of the firm's principals will be provided to the recipient of this electronic communication upon request.


20 Jun 2010, 08:55 PM


Waldo Mushman
Lets see here - 
1. ZYCPA was employed by the defendant? Check. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 16/19


2. ZYCPA was on the job for all three deals? Check 
3. ZYCPA was coecred to continue? Nope. 
4. ZYCPA has specific defenses or denies any of the story? Nope. 
5. ZYCPA cribs from Ken Lay speeches "the strongest belief that justice will prevail and their innocence will be upheld
" Check.


For the very slow studies in the group, what service would you expect a CPA to provide in a business transaction?
Would you expect the CPA firm to be unaware that the assets being transfered were not owned by the seller? Three
times?


Assume ZYCPA is innocent if you will, but it is impossible to believe they are competent. (or ethical)


John


21 Jun 2010, 11:32 AM


piper99
I keep reading the Chinese Company Analyst's posting and the more I read the more I realize that he has a serious
short position in CMFO and he is going to tell any story he can to put down size pressure on the stock. To quote him
in one posting "our story doesn't end there". 
I wish I had the idle time to spend the hours he must spend to create the spins he does on the company and it's stock. 
I ask our "analyst" where he would suggest where he would post on the balance sheet the good will that CMFO paid
for Hi Power? Many companies make acquisitions of other companies and pay significantly above the book value of
the company, and in numerous cases purchase companies that have no book value at all. If they are well thought out
acquisitions, they prove to be very rewarding  
In another writing he questions the cash balance of the company but fails to show us through such simple exercises
as to take starting balances, add in cash flow for the period in order to obtain an ending balance. 
I suspect that the more he writes, and he does so frequently, the more we realize he wants to make a case so he can
cover his short. 
Stay tuned for the company's conference call on Wednesday


Piper


21 Jun 2010, 02:44 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  You write: "I ask our "analyst" where he would suggest where he would post on the balance
sheet the good will that CMFO paid for Hi Power?"


My response: I think that the Xianghe financial statements are fabricated, and therefore the $23m in goodwill
is fiction. The business was never worth $28m, and the acquisition was just a way for CMFO management to
take money from US investors and redirect the funds for dubious purposes.


You write: "In another writing, he questions the cash balance of the company"


My response: I think that the cash balance is fabricated, the income statement is fabricated, the rest of the
balance sheet is fabricated, and the cash flow statement is fabricated. U.S. investors are accustomed to the



https://seekingalpha.com/user/671475

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 17/19


notion that cash balances and cash flow statements cannot be falsified. While that may be largely true in the
United States, it's not the case with Chinese companies. Chinese companies can use bribes and
sophisticated document forging to falsify their cash flow statements and cash balances.


Think of the risks and rewards from their perspective. If they cook the books and create SEC filings that show
$70m of revenue and $15m of net income, they can raise $30m from US investors. That's a large sum of
money. And if they get caught, there are few repercussions. US investors can't pursue legal action against a
Chinese seafood snacks company in Shishi province.


Disclosure: short CMFO


21 Jun 2010, 04:30 PM


piper99
Why does this guy (Chinese Company Analyst) and I say Analyst-tongue in cheek-keep talking about an auditor that
happens to also be the auditor for China Marine. Why does he make misleading statements like "In no part of this
post do I attempt to provide false or misleading information. " What a joke. 
The man is short and will write anything to put pressure on the stock. I think he has run out of darts , especially if one
listens to the conference call today. Either the company is a complete fraud and the numbers they are providing are
false, or the "analyst" is misleading and is being exactly what he accuses the company of being. One can call
anybody a fraud, even large companies in any country, but one should have facts to prove it. He does not. Just listen
to the conference replay. 
Piper


23 Jun 2010, 11:36 AM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I agree. I encourage everyone to listen to today's conference call. I have written an instablog
response at seekingalpha.com/insta...


I'll provide a transcript of the call in that same post when it becomes available. I've also re-pasted what I wrote
below. Basically, the company didn't address the concerns that Chimin and I discussed in our articles/posts:


------------


This morning, China Marine Food had a conference call to address concerns raised by myself and Chimin
Sang in previous articles.


In my opinion, it was a fairly uneventful call and the company did not address the specific concerns that we
have raised about the Xianghe Acquisition. Most of the discussion focused on current performance metrics
and forward-looking projections regarding Xianghe.


My concern, on the other hand, relate to whether the 2009 Xianghe financial statements are falsified. I
question how Xianghe could generate $7.6mn of revenue, $1.7mn of net income and $1.2mn of operating
cash flow in its first 5 months of operations with (i) $44k of startup capital it received from its original founder,
(ii) four hundred and fourteen dollars of capex, (iii) minimal spending on advertising, marketing and other
expenses related to building a popular beverage brand, (iv) 900x inventory turns, etc. As a reminder, the



https://seekingalpha.com/user/671475

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 18/19


original founder of Xianghe purchased "know-how" for the algae drink for less than ten thousand dollars in
January 2009. He then sold his company, which he began in July 2009 with less than fifty thousand dollars of
registered capital, for $28mn to CMFO in November 2009.


My blog post and Chimin Sang's article go into greater detail on why we are skeptical about the accuracy of
Xianghe's financial statements. Few of our concerns were addressed on the call. The company told a
heartwarming story about how Mr. Qiu is a hard worker and how they saw great potential in his algae drink
business. They did not address how it's possible to build a $17mn run-rate revenue beverage business with
negligible startup capital.


Rather, the company and analysts from Global Hunter, Rodman & Renshaw, Hudson Securities and Brean
Murray asked about distribution channels, revenue projections, June trends, etc. The core concerns of
skeptics such as myself were not addressed.


The company did mention that it was going to upgrade auditors. Certain callers in the Q&A portion of the call
asked whether the new audit firm was going to be a top-5 firm or a top-20 firm, and re-iterated their desire to
see a top-5 firm being appointed.


I'd also agree that if the company would like to genuinely address some of the concerns I and other investors
have, it would upgrade to one of the following 5 auditors:


1. KPMG 
2. PriceWaterhouseCoopers 
3. Ernst & Young 
4. Deloitte & Touche 
5. Grant Thornton


Disclosure: short CMFO


23 Jun 2010, 03:07 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
ChineseCompanyanalyst and the longs: 
Chinese company analyst is an exuberant optimist next to me. I have been looking but have not been able to believe
the numbers of a any reverse merger, small cap Chinse company that I looked at. 
I also have no faith that the top 5 auditors would prevent fraud or, for that matter, not participate in it. Arther Anderson
was destroying documents for companies committing fraud. An ex partner from Deloitte was recently charged for
insider trading on accounts he had audited. Deloitte had deficiencies in 20%, 15 out of 73 audits, that were reviewed
by the PCAOB in 2009. Am I supposed to be confident that all those errors were just negligence? How hard do these
guys find it to do an audit? If it was my firm, I certainly wouldn't except that level of quality.  
KPMG was in trouble with the government just a few years ago. Partners were blamed and fired. They had a large
group selling to corporations a wide variety of tax schemes that were, in my opinion, just complete tax fraud. Many
large companies bought these services. 
I could go on and on with this stuff. Just takes a little research.  
Seems people don't learn much, even from what just recently happened. How were the large banks, mortgage
companies and investment firms and AIG and other that went broke able to, in my opinion, greatly misrepresent their



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 China Marine Food Group: Auditor's Role in Another Alleged Fraud - China Marine Food Group, Ltd. (NYSEMKT:CMFO) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/210294-china-marine-food-group-auditors-role-in-another-alleged-fraud 19/19


financial status. Well, let just say that many of them had firms from the top 5 list above. The accounting rules
themselves are a sham to me, allowing very poor financial reporting even when one is following the rules. 
For those of you who believe the CMFO story - fantastic profits, margins and growth from seafood jerky and an algae
drink - believe what you want, seems like a real formula for success - NOT. Good luck to you.


20 Aug 2010, 02:12 AM
