5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 1/65


Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud
Jul. 15, 2010 8:20 AM ET178 comments
by: Chinese Company Analyst


Over the past few weeks, there has been much discussion on fraud allegations involving
Orient Paper (NYSEMKT:ONP). The dialogue has been extensive. The original Muddy
Waters research report was 30 pages long, and they have issued several subsequent
pieces of commentary. The company, in turn, has submitted several responses to the
Muddy Waters allegations and has hosted a conference call. There have also been
several articles by the company's defenders on thestreet.com.


There has been a lot of information and keeping track of it has been difficult. The purpose
of this article is to highlight the several most compelling pieces of evidence to me that
Orient Paper is a fraud.


As I’ve written in previous articles and blog posts, I believe that Orient Paper is falsifying
its financial statements. There is substantial evidence for that, but I’ll focus here on 4 of
the most convincing points to me. I’ll exclude certain disputed items like the AIC filings,
where the company and Muddy Waters are in disagreement over whose copies are the
correct documents.


1. Top 10 Customers


Much of Muddy Waters’ research has focused on direct due diligence that they’ve done on
the company’s premises in China. Yet some of the most compelling pieces of evidence
that Orient Paper is a fraud comes from incriminating evidence that it has published in its
own SEC filings.


One of the best examples of that is in its 2008 and 2009 Top 10 Customers. Here are the
two lists, from the SEC filings:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ONP

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/muddywatersresearch_onp_june-2010.pdf
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 2/65


Muddy Waters puts it well:


ONP’s 2009 top 10 customer list shows that it replaced 80% of the 2008 customers.
The strange item is that the minimum level needed to enter the top 10 lists stayed
constant at around $2.1 million. In other words, one could reasonably expect that
almost all of the companies who did $2.1 million or more in business with ONP in
2008 should do at least as much in 2009. But this was not the case, as eight of the
2008 top 10 customers disappeared. Yet, ONP did not lose any revenue. It grew by
56.5%.


The paper manufacturing business in China is highly competitive. First you have to
make the product. Then you then have to sell it. “If you make it, they will come” is no
less realistic in China than in the United States. Particularly when the product is
highly commoditized – such as paper is.


For a company to lose most of its top 10 customers and not have sales decline
requires significant effort by all throughout the organization. To lost most of its top 10
customers and still grow the company at 56.5% is a remote possibility.


And here is the company’s response:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/7/15/saupload_onp_top_10_customers_comparison.png
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 3/65


Muddy Waters also accuses Orient Paper of churning and burning its top 10
customers and misrepresenting its sales volumes to these customers. Those who
have followed Orient Paper and studied the Company's 10-K and other financial
disclosures carefully over the past two years understand the following Company
developments. Almost all of the Company's top 10 customers are printing companies
that buy printing/writing paper. The Company traditionally has a large number of
small packaging plants buying its corrugating medium paper and very few, if any, of
them make to the top 10 list. Within the group of printing/writing paper customers,
significant changes in Orient Paper's product portfolio occurred in 2008 and 2009. In
2008, HBOP started producing writing paper, thanks to the 1760# Fourdrinier Multi-
Cylinder Production Line that was placed into service in March. In the Fall of 2009,
because of the skyrocketing cost of imported wood pulp, Orient Paper stopped
producing high-grade offset printing paper, which requires virgin pulp (rather than
recycled paper) as a major raw material. In an effort to push for a lower-priced
medium grade offset printing paper, the Company converted the writing paper
production line in September 2009 to concentrate on producing more medium grade
offset printing paper. As a result of these shifts in product offerings, the top 10
customer lists of 2008 and 2009 had very different compositions. Orient Paper had
more white paper sales sold to those customers who switched to the Company's
mainstream medium grade offset printing paper.


Orient Paper is a paper manufacturer. It operates a commodity business, and Orient
Paper doesn’t have any special technology over and above its competitors. As well, while
China is a faster growing economy than the United States, it is nevertheless competitive,
and paper demand isn’t growing at 50% a year. The Company can’t simply change its
product mix, replace 80% of its Top 10 customers and still grow revenue by more than
50%.


2. The Video


The visual evidence presented by Muddy Waters makes a compelling case that Orient
Paper is falsifying its financial statements. While the new digital photo lines provided in
subsequent pictures may appear somewhat professional, the main legacy production lines
shown in Rick Pearson’s TheStreet.com video demonstrate a business far smaller than
what the SEC filings indicate.


To best examine the visual evidence, it’s best to look at competitors’ plants, and then
compare those plants with the Muddy Waters facilities:
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 4/65


Competitors' plants:


See pages 14-17 of the Muddy Waters report available here


Orient Paper’s plant:


See Rick Pearson’s video here
See additional Muddy Waters pictures here


Based on the videos and pictures, Orient Paper’s main plant is of materially lower quality
than that of its competitors. The machines are old, run-down and appear incapable of
producing high quality paper. As well, the videos show substantial steam generated in the
facility, which conflicts with the company’s claims of producing high quality paper. Once
paper is exposed to water, it becomes no longer flat, and cannot be billed as high quality.


3. Muddy Waters’ Claims that the Company’s Top 10 Customers Could Not Have
Purchased As Much Product As ONP Claims They Have


In its report, Muddy Waters tried to contact each of the Top 10 customers that Orient
Paper lists in its 10K. Five were contacted or otherwise verified, and Muddy Waters lists
their phone numbers in its report. Any outside third parties can independently contact
them, given that Muddy Waters makes their contact information readily available.


Click here for the table where Muddy Waters documents its diligence on its Top 10
customers.


Based on its findings, Muddy Waters concluded that Orient Paper has fabricated its sales
figures to those customers. Five of the customers were too small to be able to buy the
volume of paper that Orient Paper claims it purchased from them. For instance, at a
company to which Orient Paper alleges selling $3.4m of product, the cleaning woman
answered the phone during business hours and was the only employee working. She said
that there were only a few employees at the business and all were part-time. Four of the
companies within Orient Paper’s Top 10 could not be found, had no website or had no one
answering the phones during business hours.


Only 1 of their Top 10 customers, Boading Huatai Printing Co. Ltd, was large enough to
theoretically purchase the amount of paper from Orient Paper that ONP claimed.


Here is Orient Paper’s response:



http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/07/onp-competitors-plants.pdf

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0eS9E5vYhQ8

http://www.kodakgallery.com/gallery/sharing/shareRedirectSwitchBoard.jsp?token=479479971212%3A303292950&sourceId=533754321803&cm_mmc=eMail-_-Share-_-Photos-_-Sharee

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/muddywatersresearch_onp_june-2010.pdf

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/07/top-10-customers-due-diligence.gif
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 5/65


Muddy Waters has stated that it believes that "all but one of Orient Paper's top 10
2009 customers are too small (if they even exist) to buy the amount of product that
ONP claims they do." This accusation is false and Orient Paper believes that Muddy
Waters' methodology is inappropriate for establishing substantiation in a fraud case.
Business practices in China are different from those in the United States, where
many businesses are willing to reply to sensitive trade account confirmation given a
properly drafted written confirmation request from the trading partner and the
confirmation performed by legitimate third parties, such as auditors. Unsolicited,
improperly phrased enquiries are usually met with misleading or inaccurate results.
In addition, even in the U.S., auditors who perform written or telephone
confirmations must perform additional alternative procedures to get in contact with
the relevant parties to be confirmed before any conclusion can be reasonably made.
While Muddy Waters claims that they were unable to verify the existence of some of
Orient Paper's customers and made no effort to ask Orient Paper for assistance;
many institutional investors; investment banks, such as Roth Capital Partners; and
the Company's auditor, BDO Limited, have all performed due diligence on Orient
Paper's large customers and have confirmed and communicated with their selected
sample companies during the last twelve months. Among these parties, Muddy
Waters is the only one that claims Orient Paper is providing "false information" about
its top 10 customers.


Orient Paper’s response is basically twofold.


First, it claims that Orient Paper’s customers would lie to Muddy Waters about their size
because that is standard procedure in China. I doubt that’s the case.


Second, it claims that a variety of third parties have done the necessary due diligence on
Orient Papers’ customers. As I’ve previously written, BDO Limited has demonstrated an
inability to do proper due diligence in the past, given that it was the auditor of China Expert
Technology, which was a complete hoax. I would not rely on their work. The investment
banks working with Orient Paper are third-tier firms that have embraced Chinese RTO
smallcaps mainly because the sector generates a tremendous amount of investment
banking fees, not because the companies whose offerings they underwrite are real. As for
the institutional investors in ONP, I will not make an unwarranted generalization because a
variety of funds invest in Chinese RTO smallcaps, and they do so for different reasons and
according to different investment theses. But some of the funds that do proper on-the-



https://seekingalpha.com/article/213213-orient-paper-not-all-bdos-are-the-same
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 6/65


ground business diligence on Chinese RTO smallcaps like Orient Paper are indeed savvy
and have generated outstanding returns from the sector. But it hasn’t necessarily been
from avoiding frauds.


4. Further Inconsistencies within the SEC Filings


In addition to the unlikely 80% turnover within the Top 10 Customers, there are further
inconsistencies within Orient Paper’s SEC filings.


First, Orient Paper’s alleged inventory turns are extraordinarily high for a paper company,
and when compared with competitors. On page 25 of the Muddy Waters report, we see a
comparison of ONP’s inventory turns when compared to competitors. ONP’s 17x 2009
inventory turns is high for any manufacturing business, let alone a paper company in an
industry where its listed competitors’ inventory turns are 4x, 6x, 6x and 8x.


Second, as an additional blogger wrote in a post last week, if the company grew revenues
by 57% and earnings by 45% in 2009, why was its employee count 600 in both years? In
fact, an old video of Orient Paper (fast-forward to minute 1:46 of the video) says that the
company had 863 employees. If that’s true, how has revenue grown from $40m in 2007 to
$102m in 2009 while employees have actually shrunk 30%?


That blogger highlighted further inconsistencies. How did the company have a 37-member
R&D department that only cost them $30,130 in 2008? How did ONP more than triple
sales in 3 years while spending only a collective $655 (six hundred and fifty five dollars)
on advertising and promotion in those 2 years?


Conclusion


There is substantial additional evidence that Orient Paper is falsifying its financial
statements that I have not touched upon.


The company and Muddy Waters are disputing whether the SAIC financial statements
match the SEC financial statements. I also have acquired SAIC documents with the
personal seal of ONP chairman Zhenyong Liu, and may post them at a future date. Either
mine and Muddy Waters’ documents are falsified, or the ones recently submitted to the
Hebei AIC are falsified.


As well, I have not touched on whether ONP could theoretically purchase a production line
for $27m, when Muddy Waters has provided evidence that the most expensive highest
capacity 5.6m corrugating medium production line would cost less than $10m.



http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/muddywatersresearch_onp_june-2010.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/583323-seasaw64/80301-orient-paper-inc-onp-does-it-add-up-questions-for-tomorrows-conference-call

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ur_gI254gqA
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 7/65


Comments (178)


I have not touched on the low likelihood that the recycled scrap inventory shown in the
video and various additional Muddy Waters’ pictures could be worth the amount that ONP
values them at in its financial statements.


I have not touched on how ONP can generate the same gross margin as its competitors
despite its outdated equipment and far lower economies of scale.


But even without touching on the additional evidence that has been disclosed over the
past few weeks, the points highlighted in this article provide compelling evidence that
Orient Paper is falsifying its financial statements.


Disclosure: Author is short ONP


 Like this article


syfc
It's amazing how illogical and downright silly the Muddy Waters criticism is. The Muddy Waters claim is that ONP
"replaced 80% of its 2008 customers". The simply ASSUME that because a top 10 2008 customer didn't make the top
10 list in 2009 that they must no longer be a customer. Also, nevermind the fact that in 2009 the top five spots reflect
revenues that are higher than even the #1 spot in 2008. I guess growth with existing or new customers is now a sign
of fraud. Absurd.


This article also gives merit to some of the dumber Muddy Waters claims, like how steam is coming off of the
machines. Um, have you ever worked in a factory? I have. This is what happens when it's moist or when it rains. And
are you--the author of this article-- seriously saying that you're qualified to judge the quality of the facilities based on a
few videos and pictures? I have no doubt that I could take selective photos of every manufacturing plant in the world
and make them all look like a decrepit piece of junk. That's why you get real institutional investors to evaluate a
company, and not a couple of bozos who tried to extort a company by offering to write a positive report for $300,000,
which is Muddy Waters did.


Next, let's take a look at how the amazing investigative reporters Muddy Waters verified whether ONP's customers
are legit. OK ready? So 5 were verified. But the other 5 must be a fraud. Why? Because they tried calling them up and
they couldn't get immediate answers. So let's get this straight, two guys with absolutely no record as legitimate
research analysts start cold calling companies and they get no answers, so now ONP is a fraud? I'm sure that these
guys, who by admission can't even speak Chinese fluently (see below), got really far and at best managed to
convince the companies that they weren't making crank calls. How about instead they conduct some real analysis,
like financial reports and financial data for these customers? How about they actually speak to management of those
companies? The author of this article thinks we can't trust BDO, an independent auditor, but somehow, we can trust
Muddy Waters, a firm that after failing to extract $300,000 to write ONP a positive report launched its inaugural report
to slam ONP, which of course they've shorted.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 8/65


Yeah, and this author's sidebar at the end--referring to Muddy Water's criticism--how could you possibly spend $27 m
when you could get a $10 m machine that is a fraction of the speed? OK so by that logic, if I can buy an obsolete
computer today for $100, does that mean that if a brand new computer comes out that is top of the line and is 5 times
faster than the old computer that I shouldn't pay more than $500 for it? That's just not how it works, and anyone who
actually buys things knows this. Again, pure silliness.


I think it's pretty clear that Muddy Waters tag team is either just dumb or downright maliciously attempting to destroy a
company with false accusations in an attempt to profit from shorting the stock. If you have any questions about the
credibility, reliability or intellect of Muddy Waters--why don't you see for yourself? Here are some quotes from their
reports. Remember, this is supposedly a professional research firm:


"I never worked for a Wall Street bank, and until the day at the airport, I thought a 10‐K was a weekend race. Rick
[Pearson's] got that over me. But I do know factories!"


"It is true that Sean [a Muddy Waters principal] is not proficient in Chinese, and our interpreter had to translate a good
deal of technical speech."


"It is true that I didn’t ask many questions during the visit."


"[My father] told me that he was quite impressed with the CFO, Winston Yen. He also said that he had heard
Chairman Liu is “different” from other Chinese company bosses in that he doesn’t drink, smoke, or chase women.
That was a red flag to me. In my time in China, I’ve found out that people or things billed as “different” are usually too
much “the same.” I thought that if the Boy Scout legend turned out to be untrue (which it did – see the social lunch I
describe in the previous section), then the fact that this rumor has been created is alarming. It shows a deliberate
attempt to game the American investor psyche."


What?!! Yeah, what a great smoking gun! And onto my favorite:


"The mistake too many foreign businesspeople make is thinking that the English speaking, relatively polished people
they interact with here are representative of China. This myopia is a major factor affecting equity research on Chinese
companies. A number of my closest, dearest friends are Chinese."


Wow! Well I take it all back--Muddy Waters is definitely qualified bc the principals have some very close and dear
friends who are Chinese, so clearly they understand what's up. Sheeesh.


I'm long ONP, bc it's a good company with tons of potential. Eventually, the truth will come out....


13 Jul 2010, 01:30 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Here are responses:


1. 50% revenue growth while having an 80% turnover in Top 10 customers for a manufacturing company,
where the top customer is less than 10% of sales, is absolutely a sign of fraud. Find me a U.S. company that
has exhibited this: (i) 50% revenue growth, (ii) 80% turnover in Top 10 customers and (iii) the top customer is
less than 10% of revenue. It's basically impossible. The only way you can have that high of a turnover is if it's
one giant customer turning over. But for a widely distributed customer base, you can't have that sort of
customer turnover in your Top 10 and still have 50% revenue growth. It's basically impossible.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 9/65


In a commodity business like paper making, customer relationships matter, whether it's China or the US. A
company can't just forge new highly profitable customer relationships overnight.


2. It's a paper manufacturing company - the paper is manufactured in the open, and water from the steam
falls on the paper and ruins it.


3. This wasn't a video using deliberately selective "shots" of their bad machines - it was a promotional video
from a company supporter and it profiled the company's main paper manufacturing machines.


4. Who exactly are the "real institutional investors" you're talking about. Pope? Wall Street Associates?
Ironfire Capital?


Where's Blackstone, KKR, Och-Ziff, Apollo? If this was a real company, wouldn't actual "real institutional
investors" be coming in to buy up a company growing revenue at 60% a year, with profit margins of 12% and
trading at 7x PE? They have teams of analysts in China and offices in Shanghai and Beijing. I don't see "real
institutional investors" in the holders list.


5. The extortion claim is denied by Muddy Waters. I believe Muddy Waters. You believe the company. There's
nothing we can debate about this point. The same can be said for the customer calls & supplier call. I believe
Muddy Waters, and you obviously don't.


Incidentally, Muddy Waters released a transcript today of their call with Qinyang.


Disclosure: short ONP


13 Jul 2010, 07:11 PM


syfc
BTW, reports regarding the extortion come from ONP and have been reported by other sources, like Eric Jackson of
Ironfire Capital. I believe Muddy Waters has denied it. Hopefully whatever happened will eventually come out, and if
Muddy Waters did engage in extortion, as alleged, they will have to pay for it. But as investors or potential investors,
we ought to just look at the quality of the arguments at this point. And as you can see, regardless of their motivation,
their arguments are pretty darn awful.


13 Jul 2010, 03:07 PM


stevec
give it a rest - you are just trying to boost your short sale by trying to tank the stock. Muddy Waters is hardly a
reputable and established (or impartial) analysis company - and ONP Management have explained their unusual
findings such as teh changing customer list.


Do you shamelessly bash all stocks that you short???


15 Jul 2010, 09:38 AM


stevec
ALSO - most of your arguments are conjecture (the stuff lawyers would jump at) rather than evidence-based. Just
because their customer list changed, their product mix changed, their plant is 'shabby' does not mean they could not



https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872

https://seekingalpha.com/user/400686

https://seekingalpha.com/user/400686
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 10/65


execute effectively and profitably. What you really mean is that these situations are UNUSUAL, not impossible. 
You are free to express your opinions but you do not (as most people do posting on this site) frequently state that
these are just your opinions...... Keep to the facts!


15 Jul 2010, 09:45 AM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  OK. The content in my article represents my opinions. I hope this satisifies your concern.


15 Jul 2010, 09:51 AM


syfc
It's amazing how illogical and downright silly the Muddy Waters criticism is. The Muddy Waters claim is that ONP
"replaced 80% of its 2008 customers". The simply ASSUME that because a top 10 2008 customer didn't make the top
10 list in 2009 that they must no longer be a customer. Also, nevermind the fact that in 2009 the top five spots reflect
revenues that are higher than even the #1 spot in 2008. I guess growth with existing or new customers is now a sign
of fraud. Absurd.


This article also gives merit to some of the dumber Muddy Waters claims, like how steam is coming off of the
machines. Um, have you ever worked in a factory? I have. This is what happens when it's moist or when it rains. And
are you--the author of this article-- seriously saying that you're qualified to judge the quality of the facilities based on a
few videos and pictures? I have no doubt that I could take selective photos of every manufacturing plant in the world
and make them all look like a decrepit piece of junk. That's why you get real institutional investors to evaluate a
company, and not a couple of bozos who tried to extort a company by offering to write a positive report for $300,000,
which is Muddy Waters did.


Next, let's take a look at how the amazing investigative reporters Muddy Waters verified whether ONP's customers
are legit. OK ready? So 5 were verified. But the other 5 must be a fraud. Why? Because they tried calling them up and
they couldn't get immediate answers. So let's get this straight, two guys with absolutely no record as legitimate
research analysts start cold calling companies and they get no answers, so now ONP is a fraud? I'm sure that these
guys, who by admission can't even speak Chinese fluently (see below), got really far and at best managed to
convince the companies that they weren't making crank calls. How about instead they conduct some real analysis,
like financial reports and financial data for these customers? How about they actually speak to management of those
companies? The author of this article thinks we can't trust BDO, an independent auditor, but somehow, we can trust
Muddy Waters, a firm that after failing to extract $300,000 to write ONP a positive report launched its inaugural report
to slam ONP, which of course they've shorted.


Yeah, and this author's sidebar at the end--referring to Muddy Water's criticism--how could you possibly spend $27 m
when you could get a $10 m machine that is a fraction of the speed? OK so by that logic, if I can buy an obsolete
computer today for $100, does that mean that if a brand new computer comes out that is top of the line and is 5 times
faster than the old computer that I shouldn't pay more than $500 for it? That's just not how it works, and anyone who
actually buys things knows this. Again, pure silliness.


I think it's pretty clear that Muddy Waters tag team is either just dumb or downright maliciously attempting to destroy a
company with false accusations in an attempt to profit from shorting the stock. If you have any questions about the



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 11/65


credibility, reliability or intellect of Muddy Waters--why don't you see for yourself? Here are some quotes from their
reports. Remember, this is supposedly a professional research firm:


"I never worked for a Wall Street bank, and until the day at the airport, I thought a 10‐K was a weekend race. Rick
[Pearson's] got that over me. But I do know factories!"


"It is true that Sean [a Muddy Waters principal] is not proficient in Chinese, and our interpreter had to translate a good
deal of technical speech."


"It is true that I didn’t ask many questions during the visit."


"[My father] told me that he was quite impressed with the CFO, Winston Yen. He also said that he had heard
Chairman Liu is “different” from other Chinese company bosses in that he doesn’t drink, smoke, or chase women.
That was a red flag to me. In my time in China, I’ve found out that people or things billed as “different” are usually too
much “the same.” I thought that if the Boy Scout legend turned out to be untrue (which it did – see the social lunch I
describe in the previous section), then the fact that this rumor has been created is alarming. It shows a deliberate
attempt to game the American investor psyche."


What?!! Yeah, what a great smoking gun! And onto my favorite:


"The mistake too many foreign businesspeople make is thinking that the English speaking, relatively polished people
they interact with here are representative of China. This myopia is a major factor affecting equity research on Chinese
companies. A number of my closest, dearest friends are Chinese."


Wow! Well I take it all back--Muddy Waters is definitely qualified bc the principals have some very close and dear
friends who are Chinese, so clearly they understand what's up. Sheeesh.


I'm long ONP, bc it's a good company with tons of potential. Eventually, the truth will come out.... 
Jul 13 01:30 pm|


15 Jul 2010, 10:44 AM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  1. 50% revenue growth while having an 80% turnover in Top 10 customers for a
manufacturing company, where the top customer is less than 10% of sales, is absolutely a sign of fraud. Find
me a U.S. company that has exhibited this: (i) 50% revenue growth, (ii) 80% turnover in Top 10 customers
and (iii) the top customer is less than 10% of revenue. It's basically impossible. The only way you can have
that high of a turnover is if it's one giant customer turning over. But for a widely distributed customer base, you
can't have that sort of customer turnover in your Top 10 and still have 50% revenue growth. It's basically
impossible.


In a commodity business like paper making, customer relationships matter, whether it's China or the US. A
company can't just forge new highly profitable customer relationships overnight.


2. It's a paper manufacturing company - the paper is manufactured in the open, and water from the steam
falls on the paper and ruins it.


3. This wasn't a video using deliberately selective "shots" of their bad machines - it was a promotional video
from a company supporter and it profiled the company's main paper manufacturing machines.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 12/65


4. Who exactly are the "real institutional investors" you're talking about. Pope? Wall Street Associates?
Ironfire Capital?


Where's Blackstone, KKR, Och-Ziff, Apollo? They have teams of analysts in China and offices in Shanghai
and Beijing. If this was a real company, wouldn't actual "real institutional investors" be coming in to buy up a
company growing revenue at 60% a year, with profit margins of 12% and trading at 7x PE?


5. The extortion claim is denied by Muddy Waters. I believe Muddy Waters. You believe the company. There's
nothing we can debate about this point. The same can be said for the customer calls & supplier call. I believe
Muddy Waters, and you don't.


Disclosure: short ONP


15 Jul 2010, 10:50 AM


lc063185
Disclosure: Short ONP


REALLY MEAN BUY LOW & SELL HIGH  
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE SOME SHORT TERM GAIN  
( My opinion )


15 Jul 2010, 11:13 AM


ihtblr
While you try to fabricate lies and spew it on all forums, you dont have the guts to show your name/contact or identity.


What are you scared of really?


15 Jul 2010, 11:49 AM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  It's just not relevant to my arguments.


15 Jul 2010, 12:29 PM


TheTruth
This company is a fraud, plain and simple...SHORT AT WILL


15 Jul 2010, 12:15 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
1. If the top customers are less than 10% of revenue, sure you can have a 80% turnover of customers from one year
to the next. Say you have 50 customers, each provides between 1-4% of revenue. So any customer could jump up to
the top 10 by just adding 1-2 percentage points. But actually if the top customers are less than 10% of revenue, 10% /
10 = 1%. So mathematically, they only need to provide 1% of revenue. With sales so small, anybody can do that.


And sure, take a look at U.S. companies in the 1920's, and you will find companies doing this.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/686281

https://seekingalpha.com/user/630847

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/155302

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 13/65


2. Large institutional investors don't usually invest in small-caps, because there size can cause the stock to jump.
Warren Buffett even said he can't buy small-caps, because it will effect the market price dramatically. The smallest
company in Warren Buffett's portfolio is $3.9 billion. Your talking about a $400 million company here. The smaller
companies Buffett owns are private.


Blackstone is a private equity firm. So unless it wants to take ONP private, why would it waste its time on a public
company.


By the way, who are you? Never heard of you. Are you credible?


3. Oh, and yes, Wall Street's beloved name game. We disagree so there is no debate. Of course there is debate. We
can debate about the company, and until YOU convince me, you are a fraud too. Try statistics. Math. History.
Economic. They can't lie.


15 Jul 2010, 12:32 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Modie, find me 1 company in the US that satisfies the 3 criteria I mentioned above: (i) 50%
revenue growth, (ii) 80% turnover in Top 10 customers and (iii) the top customer is less than 10% of revenue.
You won't be able to.


15 Jul 2010, 01:02 PM


SA_Member_344233
I have difficulties even finding a company in the US with 50% growth hahahaha. Good luck "Analyst".


15 Jul 2010, 01:31 PM


InvLikeBizOwner
Hi CCA,


Did Muddy Waters analyze the wrong company (HBOP)? Even in their website ( copy part of the content below), they
recognized they analyzed Hebei Baoding Orient Paper Milling Co. However, at their initial report, they quoted all #s
from He Bei Orient Paper Milling Co.?


================


analyzed is 河北省保定市东方造纸有限公司 (if you’re browser doesn’t display the Chinese characters, click the link
below to download the PDF).


As we discuss in our report yesterday, this is the same company that is a party to a bilingual loan agreement that
ONP filed as an exhibit to its amended 10-Q (www.sec.gov/Archives/e...).


15 Jul 2010, 12:37 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Well, actually Montly Fool noted that a week or two ago.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/344233

https://seekingalpha.com/user/664767

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/hbop

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1358190/000114544310000219/d26110_ex10-5.htm

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 14/65


Zacks say Strong Buy.


15 Jul 2010, 12:40 PM


softlander1029
Strong buy from Zacks, yet stock down 10%+ this morning.


15 Jul 2010, 01:01 PM


syfc
This is just remarkable to me. So yahoo finance decides to link to a random blogger's article, which does nothing
more than rehash a report that has been discredited by reputable analysts like Rick Pearson and Eric Jackson,
Robert Hsu not to mention ONP, and that's enough to cause people to sell short?


No, I'm not a research analyst, but the crazy thing is, I am equally qualified as the principals of Muddy Waters, having
worked as a management consultant and a lawyer and having written zero research reports. But don't listen to me--
just look at the quality of the arguments and ask yourself if you really trust the people who are making them.


FACT -- even if Muddy Waters disputes that they attempted to extort ONP, it is 100% true that they did not join the
conference call ONP held to address investor questions, nor did the writer of this article. ONP has addressed each
and every criticism that Muddy Waters has made and this author has rehashed, but both have essentially chosen to
ignore these responses. I call BS.


FACT -- Muddy Waters and this author keep saying that ONP lost its top 10 customers from 2008 because you see
new top 10 customers in 2009. This is not just pure speculation--it's just wrong, a fact that I've confirmed with ONP's
investor relations. They did NOT lose all of these customers. In fact, the 10th highest customer from 2008 became the
2nd highest in 2009. If this company is a fraud, why would this customer increase its order with ONP? Also, it's just
convenient to ignore the fact that ONP shifted its focus to a new product line in 2009. Is it so hard to understand that
new products bring in new customers?


FACT -- the author of this article is not an expert in paper. He is just guessing that some steam will ruin all of the
paper, even though much of recycled paper requires mixing pulp with water. Paper making is a science. There are a
multitude of variables that need to be considered, and if I were to evaluate whether the conditions are appropriate or
inappropriate, I certainly wouldn't choose an anonymous internet blogger.


Do you own research and read what Muddy Waters has to say, and you'll see. Respected analysts have visited the
plant and spent considerable time with management. They have reviewed SEC filings and estimate the value of ONP
to be around $15. So who do you trust, anonymous bloggers and shady researchers taking potshots and making silly
and nonsensical comments (I'm sorry but "a number of my closest dearest friends are chinese" should NEVER
appear in a professional research report), or analysts who have a long track record and whose livelihoods depend on
their reputation?


15 Jul 2010, 01:16 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  You mention 3 "FACT"s. Here are responses.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/583279

https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 15/65


1. The fact that Muddy Waters did not join the conference call has nothing to do with whether ONP is
falsifying its financial statements. They've been very public about ONP being a fraud. Why is their absence
from the call even relevant? They've certainly not avoided confrontation. What's so special about a
conference call?


2. You say that the customer turnover is entirely from new customers. Fine. But what happened to Beijing
People’s Fine Arts Publishing House? What about Beijing Quihao Printing Co. Ltd? What about 2008
customers ranked #3 to #6, and customers #8 - #10? All of these customers apparently bought less from
ONP in 2009 than 2008? And yet ONP was firing on all cylinders and picking up a stream of new customers?


Again, it’s a paper manufacturing company. If eight of your customers from 2008 are buying less paper from
you in 2009, then you’re unlikely to be generating 50% revenue growth.


3. It's pretty straightforward that water ruins paper. Take a piece of paper and drop some water on it. Then try
to make the paper appear like it's new.


Disclosure: short ONP


15 Jul 2010, 02:30 PM


stevec
You clearly do not know what you are talking about. I DO run a business that supports several larg paper
mills. I DO regularly walk through them and they all, WITHOUT EXCEPTION, a) look shabby and in bad
repair b) have water and steam everywhere (impossible to avoid given the manufacturing process). And i
should note that these are reputable paper mills - International Paper, NewPage Corporation, Champion
International, Verso Paper, Myllykoski, Madison Paper, Boise Cascade. 
Your statment that water ruins paper is only correct once it has left the plant and is being sold. Paper Mills
have water everywhere during the manufacturing process. 
It is also VERY REASONABLE for a customer list to change dramatically during rapid growth and shifting
product lines. There are aften entirely different classes of customers for different grades of paper, never mind
different types of paper products.


15 Jul 2010, 04:06 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Zacks is not for short-term trading. For short-term, try powerratings.net. MSN Money is also for the long term.


15 Jul 2010, 01:18 PM


Argyll
Muddy Waters; the name speaks for itself. They have been semi-successful at muddying the waters.


And now an anonymous analyst. Real credibility there.


15 Jul 2010, 01:22 PM


Wholucan



https://seekingalpha.com/user/400686

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/user/534854

https://seekingalpha.com/user/439145
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 16/65


Hello readers, I am from Holland and do trade in ONP, with an membership of MyChinastocks.com all the members
get weekly detailed information about several stocks from Ms Zhao Sun, a Chinese lady which also visits may
company's in China as well: she has been at ONP and reacted on her site after the allegations from Muddy Waters.
She speaks in this reaction also about rumors that the people of Muddy Waters asked 200.000 US$ to write a good
story, but ONP did not agree with this proposal. After the allegations from Muddy Waters, ONP immediately reacted
with a detailed defense and Muddy Waters did not react on this; also ONP organized a Conference Call, on which
again Muddy Waters was not present to support their allegations!!


To my opinion this Muddy Waters stinks and I really hope that if afterwards the prove comes about this false
allegations; your law makes it possible to sew this kind of rousing.


Long on ONP


15 Jul 2010, 01:50 PM


China Expert
I guess playing the game of "your guilty unless you can prove yourself innocent" is an easy one to play for any
amateur armchair analyst who can spew a few "facts" and then watch investors scramble not knowing what the truth
is. It can be a nice business plan going forward for "wanna be" shorts until their "game plan" becomes recognized by
investors. Eventually, the act of "crying wolf" creates no future impact on short calls. I for one question the credibility
of amateur analysts who have no industry experience nor any fundamantal experience in analyzing companies. The
credibility of anonymous analysts further creates more question as to the veracity of any statements made. Unlike
short calls made by Asensio, this whole event reminds me of little children slinging mud at each other hoping that
some mud sticks to each other. In the end, the clothes will be thoroughly washed and this will turn out to be a "non-
event". I hope that managements simply stops with any future responses and pursues litigitation if warranted.


15 Jul 2010, 02:01 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Your comment actually didn't say anything. The question at hand is whether ONP is a fraud.
Please try to address that instead of questioning my credibility. I'm an anonymous internet blogger - the only
"credibility" I have is the content of my articles, and everyone knows that.


Disclosure: short ONP


15 Jul 2010, 02:04 PM


ihtblr
People who speak truth are "courageous".


But you don't seem to have the courage or the decency to identify yourself.


It is too sad the yahoo links articles posted by unethical shorts (who claim to be analysts) to scare retail
investors.


Is there any single ANALYST on earth who doesn't have an identity?


15 Jul 2010, 02:13 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/328836

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/630847
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 17/65


Wholucan
Maybe you are just one off the persons from Muddy Waters, the more I read your reactions, the more I get
this feeling.


Long on ONP 
(I will mark this page and in one or 2 months we all will know, an be sure I will react than again on your
comments)


15 Jul 2010, 02:21 PM


syfc
Chinese Company Analyst, do you really think your qualifications and credibility don't matter at all? Many
people are not in a position to evaluate the bald and unsubstantiated assertions that you are making, e.g.
'high turnover in top customers means fraud' or 'steam coming off machines means fraud'. And to them, it
likely makes a huge difference whether you're an industry expert or whether you're just some kid who got tired
of playing video games. The internet is a wonderful source of information, but one of the problems is exactly
what we're seeing here. The arbitrary selection by some Yahoo staffer to link to this article, makes people
believe that because it's in print, and Yahoo linked to it, it must be true. Whereas in reality, any Joe Schmo
can say whatever he wants without any fear of repercussions, without having to face the person or company
that he is criticizing in hopes of making a profit.


And that's exactly my problem with Muddy Waters. Yes, it absolutely matters that they didn't have the
conviction to face ONP and ask questions and participate in their call. In every forum where the truth matters,
whether academic, judicial, congressional, board meetings, or whatever, active discourse, back and forth, real
debate and engagement is used to uncover the truth. It is clear to me that the principals of Muddy Waters lack
the conviction, the courage, and the intelligence to engage in a real debate with ONP or the analysts who
really understand the business. And that's why they are simply relying on the technique of regurgitating their
arguments, ignoring ONP's responses and saying 'we stand by our position'.


15 Jul 2010, 05:51 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Yes, I genuinely believe that it's my arguments that matter, and not who I am or whether I'm
anonymous or whether I chose to make my arguments in a blog post or on a conference call.


Disclosure: Short ONP


15 Jul 2010, 09:11 PM


doberman8u
Well, if nothing else, fodder like this continues to make for excellent buying opportunities.


15 Jul 2010, 02:31 PM


Wholucan



https://seekingalpha.com/user/439145

https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/686433

https://seekingalpha.com/user/439145
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 18/65


correct, good idea


15 Jul 2010, 02:57 PM


prettyboyfloydm
I'm not sure who to believe here, but I like your guys defiance and I really like this price. I'm going long!


15 Jul 2010, 03:16 PM


SA_Member_344233
I like how no comments have 0 negatives, like the author is going through every comment and putting a negative
review.


15 Jul 2010, 04:14 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
the problem here is that most of the comments here appear to be utilizing the logically flawed argument of 'ad
hominen' or attacking the man. It is irrelevant if muddy waters or the author here are the devil themselves. The issue
is whether ONP's representations are true. None of the negative comments here appears to produce one shred of
evidence supporting ONP's representations. I suggest taking a look at ONP's website and their videos and their SEC
filings. Forget about Muddy waters or this author and look at the inconsistencies and problems with ONP's own
statements. On the video, made in 2007 according to the CFO (e-mail ONP for the date), ONP had 863 employees, 8
plants, and 9 production lines. Now, ONP claims to have 600 employees, 2 facilities and 8 production lines, except the
CFO now says there are only 6 production lines - 4 legacy lines and 2 new digital photo paper lines. During the same
time as this substantial reduction, ONP claims to have more then tripled revenues and quadrupled profits. Also, ONP
claims to be changing the type of paper it produces frequently at the same time (a production lines cannot
automatically start producing a different kind of paper). Thus, the alleged growth of ONP's revenues and net profit
does not match its reported downsizing. Certainly, it is unlikely to have been done with r&d as ONP claims in its
website that it has comprehensive research facilities but admits upon questioning that it has no r&d facilities.
Additionally, ONP claims on its website and its SEC filings that it has a 37 member r&d team, but admits it has no r&d
team - it just had several guys learning how to operate the two digital photo paper line. I recommend you do your
homework, review the website, the video and the SEC filings and see if the story makes sense? It appears very
difficult to reconcile ONP's own representations.


I was long ONP but changed my opinion after redoing my due diligence. I feel very fooled.


I find helpful any responses that contain attempts to provide information that is independently verifiable so that it can
be checked out. This includes providing names, addresses and phone numbers in english and chinese of entities and
people that can be contacted to verify.


'ad hominen' attacks, the latin name for logically fallacious arguments attacking the person, whether muddy waters,
this author, or ONP, are not helpful. Facts that can be independently verified are helpful.


Disclosure: short ONP


15 Jul 2010, 08:08 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/662381

https://seekingalpha.com/user/344233

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 19/65


syfc
Seasaw, could you please identify the video that you are referring to? Link? I would be happy to conduct
further research into this. Also, where did they say they had no R&D? I'd like to review that, too.


16 Jul 2010, 11:23 AM


Bzwnski
I am an American that lives and works in China. I am familiar with the difference between western factories and
Chinese factories. The Muddy Waters pictures are of a factory designed and built by either a European or American
firm. They are built in China and are clean, efficient, and well engineered factories by western standards. The ONP
factory represents a classic Chinese grassroots factory. No heat, No AC, minimal facilities. chalk boards and clip
boards for scheduling and recording. I have seen many factories like this in China and am friends with a few wealthy
Chinese that own some of the companies. These companies are highly profitable because they are away from the
cities(Low Wages) and obviously not a lot of money is spent on facilities and equipment. Knowing what I do about
current wages in China, and the location of ONP I estimate that their annual payroll for 600 employees would be
around $900,000.USD I know ONP pales in comparison to the pictures of their competitors but ONP does not have
the capital costs of their competitors either which makes profitability easier to achieve in a shorter time frame. I have
heard both sides of this story and understand that different people have different expectations. Some of the
comments by the Muddy Waters people lead me to believe that they don't know much about the paper and lumber
milling industries and they made some conclusions based on their lack of experience. What I plan to do is visit this
factory in early August and see for myself. For what it's worth I will post my findings on various sites.


15 Jul 2010, 10:26 PM


lunacraft
I am surprised that this article was linked to from Yahoo. It helped bring down the price and let me buy shares, so I am
actually thankful. I was annoyed at myself for missing the opportunity to buy after the Muddy Waters 'analysis'. These
complaints are clearly not worth taking seriously for the long buys. I am impressed at both authors' ability to short a
stock and then make it happen by writing something so lacking any real information. Perhaps that is a better method
for making money, if it wasn't somewhat unethical.


16 Jul 2010, 12:24 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
No offense, but I notice that neither of you have responded to the inconsistencies in ONP's own website and SEC
filings. These appear problematic.


16 Jul 2010, 02:09 AM


NYCortex
I am guessing what happened here is that some people decided to short after the Muddy Waters created a website
and published their first report, which I am guessing is fraudulent. The stock started to fall and people got excited and
started shorting. Muddy Waters probably made some good money off of it, but their followers lost money as the
counter reports starting coming in. I am guessing this blog poster was one of the people who lost money and didn’t



https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872

https://seekingalpha.com/user/686696

https://seekingalpha.com/user/686736

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/686871
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 20/65


understand why the stock was going up and therefore wrote this post just reiterating what was exciting to him/her
about the Muddy Waters report. As others have said, if a someone wanted to be fraudulent and give negative spin
about another company and the public was satisfied with Muddy Waters level of due diligence , it would not be hard to
knock Down any company, especially foreign. The question is who is making sure that Muddy Waters isn’t fraudulent?
Someone should go visit their offices.


16 Jul 2010, 08:11 AM


syfc
Eric Jacson Posting on SA on 7/15/2010 From Realmoney (Eric Jackson is a well-respected research analyst who is
a Senior Contributor on the Street and is a principal at Ironfire Capital. Yes, reputation matters. Ask anyone on Wall
Street who makes money)


ONP is down 12% this morning, due to a post by an anonymous blogger (who is short the stock). I took the
opportunity to add to my long position.


The arguments have been rebutted previously by the company.


Here are my responses to the blogger's arguments:


1. ONP's customers have changed. Newer, larger customers in 2009 bought more than prior customers who bought
about the same amount in 2009 as they did in 2008.


2. Yes, ONP has an older and less expensive plant than Nine Dragons. Nine Dragons is about 74x the size of ONP.
Let me repeat: 74x. Just because a company is smaller, doesn't mean it's not a good investment. US small-cap scrap
steel company Metalico (MEA) is 1/20th the size of Steel Dynamics (seekingalpha.com/symbo...). Does that mean
that MEA is a fraud? No.


3. ONP has real customers, real trucks leaving their plants every day, real auditors, real investment banking partners,
and real research analysts covering them regulated by FINRA. They've researched ONP's customers. ONP is audited
by BDO HK (not BDO China as this anonymous blogger incorrectly asserted). BDO HK has an excellent reputation for
its work in China.


4. The company rebutted the argument that Muddy Waters originally made that there were inconsistencies between
their SEC and SAIC filings. Also, Roth Capital published a research note on Monday discussing why there are many
legitimate reasons for differences between these two types of filings.


5. From half a world away, based on no firsthand knowledge or experience, the blogger asserts ONP can't be
purchasing a new corrugating paper line for $27mm. My colleague visited the supplier last week and was told
specifically the specs the new line would meet and why such a line would cost $80mm if it was built outside of China.


Position: Long ONP


16 Jul 2010, 09:55 AM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Please first see Seesaw64's responses. Here are my responses to Dr. Eric Jackson.


1. On customers, I have the same response that I had to you:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/mea

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/stld

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 21/65


"You say that the customer turnover is entirely from new customers. Fine. But what happened to Beijing
People’s Fine Arts Publishing House? What about Beijing Quihao Printing Co. Ltd? What about 2008
customers ranked #3 to #6, and customers #8 - #10? All of these customers apparently bought less from
ONP in 2009 than 2008? And yet ONP was firing on all cylinders and picking up a stream of new customers?"


2. Just for accuracy's sake, when looking at revenue, Nine Dragons is actually 20x higher than ONP (not
74x). Given that it's 20x smaller, one would think that ONP would have lower economies of scale, and have
lower profit margins. And yet it doesnt. That's an absolute red flag. Paper manufacturing is a commodity
business. Economies of scale matter.


3. Yes, it has real customers and real trucks. The company is just fabricating its financial statements, and is
far smaller than it says it is.


I never said it was BDO China. I wrote a whole article about BDO Ltd, which is the Hong Kong office of BDO.


4. The Muddy Waters AIC filings are the correct ones in my opinion, and the ONP filings were falsified and
filed in response to Muddy Waters' claims.


I've read the Roth report. It has absolutely nothing to do with whether the Muddy Waters copy of the AIC
filings are falsified, or the one recently disclosed by ONP.


5. Muddy Waters has published a full transcript of their call with Qinyang, which provides evidence that the
production line costs materially less than $27m. He's right in that I have no firsthand knowledge of the cost of
the production line, so its Dr. Jackson's word against Muddy Waters. I side with Muddy Waters.


Disclosure: short ONP


16 Jul 2010, 01:23 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Guys, this isn't a yahoo message board. If this is your first comment, readers know that you're
probably a spammer who has posted numerous times before and are just creating new logins. No one is going to buy
the stock because "lunacraft" just joined Seeking Alpha and is "annoyed at [herself] for missing the opportunity to buy
after the Muddy Waters 'analysis'" and decided to register on Seeking Alpha for the first time to make that view
known. So do everyone a favor, and for the sake of better discussion, stick to one username.


16 Jul 2010, 10:04 AM


lunacraft
I see you are applying your usual high level of rigor before making claims. Someone signs up to Seeking
Alpha for the first time therefore it must be a previously registered user. There is no possibility that the user
came across my blog post through Yahoo, and felt a need to respond on a site that they had previously not
used.


16 Jul 2010, 11:38 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/686736

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 22/65


Isn't that what always happens on Wall Street? They downgrade a stock based on what they "think," and the stock
goes down. 40% of the time they are wrong. The problem is that investors "believe" the analysts, sometimes more
than the people who run the company. So who said the analysts are the good guys, and the corporate heads are the
bad guys?


Anyway, addressing inconsistencies: 
1. Many small companies fail. This is especially true in China. The top ten customers in 2008 could have failed in
2009. 
2. Probably ONP, being a small company needed to consolidate to boost profitability. Doesn't that happen here, too?
What about Sears holdings? They consolidated, shutting down non-profitable stores and cutting employees, and their
profit jumped five fold. And remember, employees are the biggest expense for a company. Aren't big companies
cutting employees now and reporting huge profit increases?


16 Jul 2010, 10:24 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Syfc - the website I am referring to is the company's website orientalpapercorporati... The website has contact
information where they should confirm they have no r&d facilities - it was previously confirmed by the cfo at a
conference meeting. It may be a good idea for you to examine all the company's materials, especially their website
and SEC filings, before making the assumption that they are a good company. Even recently, they reported earnings
guidance at $1.21, then had to restate at about $.98 because they forgot to count all the shares. My guess is that
there will be many restatements. The CFO said their SEC filings had mistakes in them and blamed it on China
Finance but the problem is that there SEC filings have not been restated.


16 Jul 2010, 12:25 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Response to points above:


Syfc


1. ONP's customers have changed. Newer, larger customers in 2009 bought more than prior customers who bought
about the same amount in 2009 as they did in 2008.  
Problem - have you contacted these customers and verified this information? Muddy waters said they did and
reported problems with this reporting by ONP. From a practical point of view, it is difficult to believe that they grew
sales by 56%, particularly without an increase in employees to handle the increased production, sales and associated
administrative work. It is also difficult to believe that you can increase sales by 56% with that kind of turnover in your
top 10 customers.


2. Yes, ONP has an older and less expensive plant than Nine Dragons. Nine Dragons is about 74x the size of ONP.
Let me repeat: 74x. Just because a company is smaller, doesn't mean it's not a good investment. US small-cap scrap
steel company Metalico (MEA) is 1/20th the size of Steel Dynamics (seekingalpha.com/symb... Does that mean that
MEA is a fraud? No.  
Problem: nobody has stated that ONP is a fraud because they are smaller. the issue is whether they are producing
and selling what they say they are. On their video - orientalpapercorporati... - they say they had 9 production lines, 8



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/mea
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 23/65


plants and 863 employeees. Their last filing says they have 8 production lines, 2 facilities, and 600 employees. Verbal
reports of the company indicate they have only 6 production lines - 4 legacy lines and the 2 new digital photo paper
lines (capacity of only 2500 tons when the company claims a total capacity of 270k tons). These representations and
older, smaller, shabbier equipment and facilities does call into question whether they have increased their production
as they claim. Their website claims they have cutting edge technology and advanced processes - the video by the
promoter of their stock, Rick Pearson, calls that representation into question.


3. ONP has real customers, real trucks leaving their plants every day, real auditors, real investment banking partners,
and real research analysts covering them regulated by FINRA. They've researched ONP's customers. ONP is audited
by BDO HK (not BDO China as this anonymous blogger incorrectly asserted). BDO HK has an excellent reputation for
its work in China.  
Problem: all fraudulent companies in the past trading on major us exchanges usually had real auditors, real
investment banking partners, real research analysts, etc. Relying on someone else's reputation, especially those
making money of ONP, is as risky in this situation as in any other. don't rely on ONP, this author, Muddy waters, or
anyone else - do your own research. Their website and their filings don't make sense. They have no problem making
mistakes and then changing them - note they recently claimed guidance of $1.21 a share, then said they made a
mistake and it is $.98 cents a share. 
your point doesn't address the issue of whether ONP is inflating their numbers - they can have all the things you said
but still be greatly inflating their numbers.


4. The company rebutted the argument that Muddy Waters originally made that there were inconsistencies between
their SEC and SAIC filings. Also, Roth Capital published a research note on Monday discussing why there are many
legitimate reasons for differences between these two types of filings.  
Problem: muddy waters responded to ONP"s rebuttal and it is not clear that the company's rebuttal was convincing.
Please provide the cite to the Roth Capital research note that was published.


5. From half a world away, based on no firsthand knowledge or experience, the blogger asserts ONP can't be
purchasing a new corrugating paper line for $27mm. My colleague visited the supplier last week and was told
specifically the specs the new line would meet and why such a line would cost $80mm if it was built outside of China. 
Problem: Can you provide the name, address, and phone number of the person in English and Chinese that made
this representation. This is contrary to muddy waters, who claim to have been in China and talked to the supplier
multiple times. What were the specs? Why would the line cost $80mm if built outside of China? It is difficult to believe
that ONP is purchasing for $27 million a production line that would cost $80 million if built anywhere outside of China.


One thing you have not done is address any of the inconsistencies between the company's website and its SEC
filings. How can the company be growing at such leaps and bounds while reporting that it is downsizing? It is doubtful
it is due to the wonderful r&d it claims on its website - 37 member r&d team with comprehensive facilities - because its
SEC filings say it paid 30k for r&d in 2009, 30k in 2008 and 25k in 2007, and the company admits it is no r&d facilities
and no r&d team, other than several guys learning how to operate the digital photo paper line.


Modie: 
the problem with the customers is that it is doubtful that one can grow sales by 56% while turning over one's top ten
customers, particular when one is also changing the product - ONP claims at the same time that it changed the mix of
paper products it was producing. changes like that usually set back production and sales.
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 24/65


the companies that increase net profits by downsizing usually are decreasing production and sales, but have a larger
decrease in expenses. This is not the case with ONP. ONP is reporting large growth in production and sales - over
triple production and over quadruple in net profit - from 2006 to present.


16 Jul 2010, 12:54 PM


A. Hendrick
Seasaw:


Great work on this. Question: can you find on their website the citation about the 37 member R&D team? My
recollection is that this was on their site last week, but today I can't find it.


Now it states:


" Currently Orient Paper has a research team of over 15 staff，which is led by 4 senior managers and engineers. "


It looks like they are actively editing the site. I'm looking for a cached version on Google with the 37 member R&D
team claim. No luck so far. If I find it I'll put up a screenshot.


16 Jul 2010, 01:16 PM


phubaiguy
I worked for a major printer here in the US and what's it's R&D department did for it's bumper stickers was climb on
the roof and stick them to a piece of tin. Then they would come back and look at them in a couple of months. Actually
it would be better if someone who didn't have a stake in the matter would weigh in on this but does it really matter
after this much confusion is thrown in? Luckily I sold in the money calls but wish I'd sold deeper. Good luck on your
shorts anyway and please tell us if you flip over to long.


16 Jul 2010, 01:25 PM


A. Hendrick
Found the original claim. I'll post a screenshot shortly but here is the text prior to the change above:


"Therefore, the company's digital photographic paper has strong market competitiveness.  
Currently there are 37 professionals engaged in R&D, including one senior engineer with professorial experience, six
senior engineers and four senior technicians. The comprehensive facilities cover a computer control laboratory, R&D
laboratory and an advanced testing and measure laboratory. During the process of researching, R&D, this project
obtained strong support from a great number of experts and professors from the research institutes of State
Association of Light Industry, Shanghai Paper Processing Association, Research Institute of Beijing Zhongtian Paper
Group and Department of Technical Physics, Peking University. "


16 Jul 2010, 01:26 PM


Value Digger, Marketplace Contributor
Hello Mr Analyst,


What is your opinion about AMCF ?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/499631

https://seekingalpha.com/user/273888

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499631

https://seekingalpha.com/author/value-digger

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=value-digger&source=comment_author_tag
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 25/65


AMCF (Andatee) is very new in Nasdaq (its IPO at 6,30 $ took place in february 2010) and it has a pe < 4 in an infant
industry.


Thank you very much in advance. 
Best


16 Jul 2010, 01:33 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Hi, I haven't analyzed AMCF. But I'd just caution you to watch out with companies that have
a lot of similar traits to ONP, CMFO and CSKI. These three are not the only ones falsifying their financial
statements and I'd caution most retail investors to avoid this space until something broad-scale is done about
Chinese RTO smallcaps that fabricate their SEC financial statements. As should be fairly clear, the world is
changing for fraudulent reverse merger companies that our located outside of the United States but listed on
U.S. exchanges. A lot of people have made a lot of money investing in frauds, knowingly or not. But it won't
last forever, and it's unclear whether it'll even last another 12 months.


Disclosure: Short ONP, CMFO and CSKI


16 Jul 2010, 05:39 PM


prettyboyfloydm
This is getting unbelievably hairy. Down 21% in 2 days? I wish I never started following this thing.


16 Jul 2010, 02:01 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
didn't realize they changed their website from last week. Looks like they may have downsized the r&d department as
well. Now says they have over 15 staff members, as opposed to 37 member team. CFO said they didn't really have a
r&d team, just several guys learning how to operate the digital photo paper. 
anyway, their 10k sec filings for 2008 said they had a 37 member r&d team. link is www.sec.gov/Archives/e.... 
their 10k for 2009 said r&d team led by a group of 5 senior managers (in charge of product devleoment and quality
control( and joined by a group of select engineers and technichians. Didn't realize that meant they had downsized. 
Link at  
www.sec.gov/Archives/e....


phubaiguy: 
in my view of what r&d means, and I think in most people's view, if that is all that the r&d team did for your printer
company, that it doesn't appear to really qualify or fit into the expected definition of an r&d team. Maybe someone else
would have a different view, but I don't consider that r&d, particularly of the type ONP was representing - cutting edge,
advanced technology with important intellectual property rights. Likewise, it is doubtful one can view several guys
learning to use the digital photo paper equipment as r&d. Perhaps someone views that as a legitimate claim, but in
my view, it appears dubious. 
ONP just admitted a recent contradiction - it gave guidance at approximatley $1.21 cents a year, then claims it made



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/662381

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1358190/000119380509000681/e605224_10k-orient.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1358190/000114544310000702/d26418_10k.htm
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 26/65


a mistake that it didn't count in some of the shares, so it changed the guidance to about $.98 cents. 
It doesn't appear that ONP has a history of making consistent representations that can be relied on.


16 Jul 2010, 02:05 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
wow, another, new inconsistency. The new website says that today, HBOP has expanded to 5 production lines. the
video on the website in 2007 says they have 9 production lines. The sec filing in March of 2010 said they have 8
production lines. The CEO said they have 6 production lines. Now the new website says only 5 production lines. 
Somehow they are reporting fewer and fewer production lines, yet are claiming to have greatly increased production
capacity - for example, claiming to increase production capacity from 180k tons in approximately 2008 to 270 tons in
2009 (280k tons according to the website by the end of 2009). Increase of that size can't be due to the new digital
paper photo lines, as ONP reports only a 2500 ton annual capacity for those.


16 Jul 2010, 02:22 PM


stevec
OK, here is the perfect company response - they are hiring a big 4 accounting firm (and mention of lawyers) to
perform an independent expert analysis. 
If they really were conducting shady business, they would not call attention to it.


16 Jul 2010, 03:00 PM


stevec
In my opinion, there is a hint that they may sue Muddy Waters..


16 Jul 2010, 03:02 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Not necessarily a good sign when a company has to hire a law firm and big 4 audit firm to investigate whether it is
committing fraud itself. Was it required by the new board members (drew bernstein one of htem) appointed in
connection with the recent capital raising? Can anyone point out a time when a situation like this turned out good? Not
sure whether or not Loeb & Loeb Inc. is the right pick as they make money from doing this Chinese reverse mergers,
represent many of these Chinese reverse merger companies, represent investment banks like roth capital making
money from doing capital raises for these compenies - including roth having done the capital raise for ONP and Loeb
& Loeb sponsoring the next Roth Capital conference for Chinese small cap companies, at which ONP may be
presenting. Originally, Drew Bernstein said that DL Piper was doing the investigation - wondered why that fell through.


16 Jul 2010, 03:15 PM


syfc
Seasaw, yes, I've read all the SEC filings, listened to investor calls, have spoken to investor relations, read all the
criticism (including yours).



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/400686

https://seekingalpha.com/user/400686

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 27/65


Yes, the SEC filing says they have 8 production lines (2 are legacy lines, which explains why the CEO cited 6). They
have reduced the total number of employees (including R&D), which is not inconsistent with increases in profit--as a
prior poster had mentioned, this is pretty common--increasing efficiencies and focusing on more profitable lines
produces higher profits. I fail to see how it's evidence of fraud that the number of production lines is different today
than it was three years ago, especially if they are focusing on more profitable lines now.


Anyhow, all of this is just noise. If you don't already know it by now, ONP is hiring a well-regarded law firm (Loeb &
Loeb) and a big four auditor to make an independent investigation into this whole mess. So why don't we all wait to
see what they say? I'm sure that the naysayers will claim that there can be no independence if ONP is paying them,
but there's just no pleasing some people. I have worked for a large corporate law firm and management consulting
firm, and I can tell you that this is the only way to resolve it. We need real professionals going through the books and
performing real due diligence which is way better than anonymous non-professionals comparing web postings and
looking for inconsistencies between web videos and SEC filings. Rest assured that the truth will come out....


16 Jul 2010, 03:32 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
The only point I have: 
Intel cut 2000 jobs but managed to report profit and sales jumped. So it CAN be done. Do you watch Bloomberg?


Anyway, I would just sit and watch the whole show. Maybe Muddy whatever will be sued. Maybe not. You could buy
the stock for a profit if Muddy is wrong. The risk is what if they are right. My first thinking, "What's up with the name,
Muddy Waters? Doesn't sound very trusting." And the fact that it just came out, and decided to bash a company
instead of reporting positive analysis first is questioning. Believe what you want, but I am long. If the stock falls, I can
only loose 100% of my investment. If the stock soars, I can make 1000% or more of my investment.


16 Jul 2010, 03:51 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
syfc: 
Have you looked at their new website - it now says they have only 5 production lines. 2 of those are new - the digital
photo paper and only have 2500 tons production capacity a year - so those contribute very little to total production.  
Thus, the company is claiming to have increased production capacity and actual production greatly since 2006, at the
same time  
Your response ignores my point about the production lines - the company is claiming that they have a lot more
production capacity and have increased production significantly from 2006 to the present. At the same time, if there
own representations are to be believed - they have reduced the number of old production lines from 9 to 3, while
adding 2 new production lines that have a very small production capacity. 
This is not comparable to companies who reduce expenses by downsizing and thereby increase profits. those
companies don't increase production at the same time. Furthermore, ONP has not reduced expenses. 
It is not comparable to your example of increasing efficiencies by switching to more profitable products. The issue
here is total production and production capacity, which ONP claims, while reducing the number of production lines. 
All of this is not noise. ONP has a number of significant, inconsistent representations. You claim to have read
everything - I notice you still didn't mention the website - and you have not addressed a number of problems. 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 28/65


It appears to me that these problems may be the reason for the necessity of an investigation into the company by a
law firm and an audit by a big 4 firm. Originally, the law firm was supposed to be DL Piper - no explanation has been
given for the change. Is Loeb & Loeb the right law firm? It is heavily involved in representing chinese small cap
companies, including doing reverse mergers, it represents Roth capital - who did the capital raising for ONP - and it is
sponsoring roth capital's investor conference on chinese companies. so it is not clear. 
In any event, these contradictory representations exist - indeed, the current website now has the production lines at 5,
1 less than the CFO stated. has another production line closed? The contradiction by ONP itself, without citing muddy
waters or anyone else, have been detailed. 
these contradictory representations don't change and can't be ignored and noone needs to wait for someone else to
do an investigation to address them. 
Obvioiusly, it is a good thing generally for a company with these problems to have a law firm investigate them and
also have an accounting firm audit them. Even if the results turn out bad for hte company. 
however, it may be unwise to rely on anyone else's conclusions. It may be best for each person to do their own
research and investigation and come to their own conclusions based on those. law firms and accounting firms also
have been incorrect themselves.


16 Jul 2010, 04:00 PM


syfc
I will look into the issue you raised regarding the production lines. If I learn anything, I will let you know.


BTW, obviously ONP is only hiring Loeb and the accounting firm because the regurgitated Muddy Waters
allegations have beaten down the stock's price. Nobody is talking about the 'contradictions' you've found on
the website--clearly that hasn't been the focus of ONP or Muddy Waters' dispute. Your saying that their
choosing to hire a law and accounting firm indicates there is a fraud is getting it backwards.


With respect to your questions about Loeb & Loeb, I don't see why a law firm that has experience
representing other small cap chinese companies makes their representation of ONP a problem. In fact, isn't
that what makes them uniquely qualified--if they understand Chinese businesses? And who cares if Loeb
represents Roth? That, by any legal or ethical standard isn't enough to make them conflicted out. With a big
firm, it's virtually impossible to represent one client who doesn't have some kind of connection to another
client. If you're going to play the bias card, you might as well just focus on the fact that ONP is paying them to
do the investigation, but I figured you'd prefer to focus on the facts and the arguments. For Loeb to allow their
representation of Roth color their findings would be hugely scandalous and worthy of legal sanctions. Loeb
has an exemplary record, so I see no reason for concern.


16 Jul 2010, 05:00 PM


phubaiguy
Uh oh. ONP retains international law firm plus independent audit firm. Looks like I should have bought that call back. I
may not get a chance Monday while I'm still making money on it.


16 Jul 2010, 04:40 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872

https://seekingalpha.com/user/273888

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 29/65


Modi: 
Sometimes I watch tv, including bloomberg, but i find that media reports need to be verified as they are sometimes
inaccurate. I try to read the SEC filings myself. 
In the case of intel, I found that it reported a decrease in revenue when it decreased its employees. Specifically, Intel
reported that it decrased employees from 86,300 in December of 2008 to 83,900 in December 2008. It reported a
decrease in revenue from 38.3 billion in 2007 to 37.6 billion in 2008. 
Intel has never reported anywhere near the kind of growth ONP has while reporting a reduction in the number of
employees and facilities or production lines. There are also significant differences between intel's business and onp's
business to make ONP's claims much more implausible. 
If you have information to the contrary, please provide it. A recommended source is to provide cites to their SEC
filings, especially the 10ks and 10Qs. I think you will see that Intel has never reported anything similar to ONP but
look at it for yourself. 
Agreed that Muddy Waters does not seem to be a good name. 
However, ONP own reportings in its SEC filings and on its website have inconsistencies and problems. It appears
difficult to rely on ONP's representations given these inconsistencies and problems. 
if one can't form a reliable opinion prior to the outcome of the investigation, it may be hazardous to one's investment
performance if one has a position, long or short, in ONP.


disclosure: short ONP


16 Jul 2010, 04:43 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Loeb & Loeb, eh. If any of ONP's supporters aren't quite sure how actively involved Loeb & Loeb is
with the universe of Chinese RTO smallcaps that are falsifying their financial statements,


Disclosure: short ONP


16 Jul 2010, 05:46 PM


syfc
So NOW you care about credibility, even though all along you've been saying we should just pay attention to
the arguments? Pretty selective about that, aren't you? For your sake, I hope you get your facts right and stick
to making good faith arguments. The last thing I'd want to do is defend against a defamation lawsuit brought
by a powerhouse law firm that has a reputation for its integrity if I were negligent about the facts and made
reckless insinuations about the firm's involvement in a fraud.


16 Jul 2010, 06:23 PM


Chinese Company Analyst, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I'm not sure why my comment was cut off, but it was along the lines of the fact that Loeb &
Loeb is not the appropriate law firm to act as an independent third-party observer will probably be discussed
extensively over the next week.


17 Jul 2010, 11:23 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872

https://seekingalpha.com/author/chinese-company-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 30/65


prettyboyfloydm
Still short, eh? I thought you may have covered by now. Logic tells me you don't hire for an investigation of your own
company if you have much to hide. I expect the price to jump next week. You might have to put out a few more stories
to stifle the momentum. Best of luck.


16 Jul 2010, 06:17 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Seasaw: 
Of course Intel has never reported anything like ONP. Intel is a LARGE CAP with a $100 billion or so market cap. Its
sales are huge, so it is unlikely Intel can grow sales at the magnitude of ONP, which is a SMALL CAP. It was just an
analogy to make a point, sales and profit can rise with consolidation. I said nothing about revenue, but thank you for
clarifying.


16 Jul 2010, 06:29 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
well, in the data I pointed out, which appeared to be the time period they cut 2000 employees, intel didn't grow
production and revenue while cutting employees as you had indicated. 
as i am sure that you are aware, intel didn't start out as a large cap. it started out small like most every other
company. so i am talking about throughout its history, including when it was small. 
in fact, intel has had amazing growth to become the large cap it is, as most large caps have. So, in fact, intel has had
a much longer, greater record of growth than ONP. 
again, it is very difficult to imagine that ONP has been growing production and production capacity, as a paper
manufacturer, with virtually no r&d, and mostly old, smaller equipment, while at the same time reducing the number of
its employees and its production lines. 
you have failed to explain how they did this nor has the company. 


16 Jul 2010, 06:52 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
syfc: 
i am not getting anything backwards. I did not say that the board was hiring a lawyer and independent accounting firm
because there is fraud. What I am saying is that it becomes necessary for the board to hire attorenys to investigate
fraud and accountants to do another audit when management in the company has not been able to provide
satisfactory responses to allegations of fraud. 
In my opinion, if there was no fraud, it would be very easy for ONP to provide ways for everyone to independently
verify the truth of their representations and the falsity of Muddy Waters claims. they haven't done that in my opinion.
On the other hand, Muddy Waters has provided information in their report on numerous occassions that allows one to
independently verify their allegations. 
I am not aware of a situation where a board had to get attorneys to investigate and have another audit and things
turned out well. Are you? 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/662381

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 31/65


The annnouncement about Loeb & Loeb is that they will be investigating, not representing, ONP. there are plenty of
big firms that don't have the connection to the chinese reverse merger small cap firms that Loeb & Loeb does. In fact,
most large law firms don't represent small chinese companies in reverse mergers as Loeb & Loeb does. Drew
Bernstein initially announced DL Piper has the law firm that was doing the investigation and no explanation was given
for the change. I am not aware of DL Piper having the involvement does that Loeb & Loeb has in doing chinese
reverse mergers or sponsoring conventions promoting chinese small cap companies. 
I think the jury is still out on Loeb & Loeb's participation in these reverse mergers for chinese small cap companies. I
don't know whether it has been legitimate or not. There have been a variety of questions raised about these
companies. Mainly these are led by one attorney, Michael Nussbaum, at Loeb & Loeb. He may be great or he may
not. Loeb & Loeb does have some excellent attorneys. Most large law firms I know have some excellent attorneys
and also other attorneys whose ethics I question. 
Certainly, it raises questions when you are involved in sponsoring conventions that promote chinese small cap
companies, make money from doing reverse mergers for these companies, represent these companies, and then
claim to be an independent investigator of them. I don't think it is a good choice, but maybe they will do a fair
investigation. Again, though, it is mainly just one attorney and department that is involved in this at Loeb & Loeb. I
thought DL PIper was a better choice. I could name many other firms with no involvement that I think would be a
better choice. Again, though, maybe Loeb & Loeb will do a great job, just not a choice I would pick given a potential
conflict of interest.  
I didn't raise an issue about ONP paying for the investigation because they have to - who else is going to pay for it. It
seems to me to be unfair to attack them for that. Also, if there is fraud, some of the board members may have an
interest in knowing about it, given that they would put on the board in connection with the recent capital raise.
Obviously, they don't want the price of their stock to go down, but they also probably want to know if they have been
ripped off. If the answers they are getting from management are not satisfactory, perhaps the only choice they had
was to get an investigation done by an attorney and an auditor, especially if they are worried about the CEO or
embezzlement - might be better to salvage what they can then assist in perpetrating a possibe fraud on others that
may have been perpetrated on themselves.


16 Jul 2010, 07:17 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
prettyboyfloydm: 
Can't really follow your logic. Seems to me that the only time that you would hire for an investigation of your own
company is when you there is something to investigate. If you are on the board of directors and management has
been able to show you there is no problems or fraud, you can show that to the public and there is no need for an
investigation. 
On the other hand, if the answer are not satisfactory, then that is the time that a board would need to hire an
investigator and have an investigation done. 
The thing to realize is that ONP is made of different people with different interests. ONP recently did a capital raise.
People gave substantial sums of money to ONP for shares. In return, they made demands - one of which was putting
on the board of directors. management received the money and acquiesced to the demands. 
If the people who have been giving money are worried there might be fraud and have not gotten satisfactory answers
from management, they might want to have the directors they put on the board have an investigation done. 
In other words, management may have something to hide and the directors may have an interest in rooting it out



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 32/65


through an investigation. 
I hope that explains to you why it is not logical to think that a company would investigate whether there is fraud only
when they are convinced there is no fraud.


? I thought you may have covered by now. Logic tells me you don't hire for an investigation of your own company if
you have much to hide. I expect the price to jump next week. You might have to put out a few more stories to stifle the
momentum. Best of luck.


16 Jul 2010, 07:25 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Ahh, sorry for the mistake, must make one correction. New website says 5 lines run by Hebei and 2 new digital lines
run by Baoding Shengde. Thus, 7 lines total, not 5 lines. Of course, this is still 1 less than reported by ONP in its filing
on march 2010, 2 less than reported on its 2007 video, and 1 more than reported last week by its CFO. Thus, issue
with downsizing production lines, but claiming great increase in production still a problem. 
This also raises another issue - why doesn't ONP own Hebei directly rather than control it through contractual
relations as a variable interest entity. I was under the impression that there was some problem with PRC law with
foreign ownership of a domestic entity, so Baoding Shengde was created as teh wholly owned foreign entity that just
controlled Hebei through contractual relationships. 
However, if Baoding Shengde is conducting operations in China by running the digital lines (and ONP reports further
expansions will be through Baoding Shengde, not Hebei) and ONP owns Baoding Shengde directly, why can't it just
own Hebei directly? 
Second, why is Hebei, previously the only operating entity, not operating the digital lines and other alleged
expansions? why is boading shengde operating the new digital lines and further expansion being done through them?


16 Jul 2010, 09:19 PM


syfc
It's definitely a shame that ONP has to hire a third party investigator to rebut these claims. All of Muddy Waters
arguments have been addressed to my satisfaction, and as we know, reputable analysts have agreed. Clearly, the
author of this article and some of the commentors don't. It's not just speculative, but untrue to say that the board
decided to take this measure of hiring an investigator, bc they felt that the corporation's responses did not adequately
provide the board with the confidence that there is no fraud. However, based on what's happened to the price of the
stock, it goes without saying that the message the corporation previously communicated was insufficient to shield the
stock from suffering from this week's losses.


Why? Surely some are shorting the stock opportunistically with a belief that the yahoo link to this article will drive the
stock down, even if they don't believe in the contents of this article; some may believe the contents of this article for
whatever reason and may be betting on fraud to be uncovered; some may have conducted their own research and
have no faith in the company as a result of their own findings irrespective of the article; and some may be reacting in
fear and may believe that Chinese companies in the middle of nowhere can't be trusted--surely there are many
different reasons why the stock fell; and many may be acting based on a combination of these factors. My suspicion is
that the shorters have been largely affected by their own fear or taking advantage of other people's fear. Why else
would this stock have tanked on the very day Yahoo published the link to this article? No new information was



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/684872
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 33/65


presented--the Muddy Waters analysis had been out for weeks and this article did nothing more than repeat those
arguments. The best way to address this fear is to hire an independent US investigator, since people are inherently
suspicious of being ripped off by a small corporation in rural China that they can't see. Most people are clearly more
likely to trust an investigation conducted by an american law firm and a well-known independent american auditor,
even if the investigation is really no more thorough than the one performed by BDO. I really don't think that ONP had
a choice. Just about any small cap Chinese company, no matter how honest and transparent, would be forced to
make the same choice under these circumstances.


I am surprised that we're even talking about Loeb's credibility, given all of the admonitions about how we ought to be
focusing on the arguments, rather than attacking the credibility of organizations or people. Certainly, we know for sure
that Muddy Waters and the author of this article have a vested financial interest in attacking ONP. Why would Loeb be
less credible? They've been around for over 100 years, have a longstanding record of integrity and excellence, and
they are being paid to investigate in conjunction with a Big Four accounting firm, no matter what the outcome. For
them to compromise their integrity in hopes of bolstering other parts of their business (that surely can't comprise a
significant portion of their overall portfolio) would not only be legally sanctionable, but it would destroy their reputation
that they've built for a century. Yes, there are unethical lawyers everywhere, and if you have a specific reason to
believe that Loeb is unethical, then let us know. The bar has strict ethical standards with respect to conflict of interest
rules--if this is really such a case where a real conflict exists, it will definitely come out, especially given the fact that
this case is receiving some press. And heck, if you are really concerned, maybe you ought to report it to the Board of
Ethics for the NY State Bar and let them handle it.


In the meantime, I'm going to wait and see what comes of the investigation. I'm sure that I wont have the last word
here, and surely this comment war could go on forever. Although I strongly disagree, I do respect your enthusiastic
participation in this forum.


16 Jul 2010, 11:20 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
ONP does not have to hire a third party investigator - they have chosen too. Obviously, ONP has decided that the
Muddy Waters' allegations are deserving of being investigated. If the directors were satisfied that the allegations of
Muddy Waters were sufficiently answered by management, they wouldn't need to hire investigators. It is a
monumental waste of time and money for them to have an investigation into something that does not need to be
investigated. Obviously, there standards are much higher than yours for being satisfied with managements response
to the Muddy waters allegations. in any event, why should anyone care whether you are satisfied, I have responded to
each of your arguments and shown how they make no sense whatsoever. 
You claim this assertion is untrue - again, you simply make this conslusory statement without any support or
evidence. 
then you try to blame short sellers again without a single wit of evidence or support. Shortsqueeze.com shows that
the short interest is only 102,500 shares, only .67% of float. that is relatively insignificant. 
The fact is that the muddy water's report and the inconsistencies in ONP's own filings and website are very
persuasive. Muddy water's report was very well down - much better than the company's response. More importantly,
Muddy waters provided a great deal of information for one to verify on their own what they said. They provided the
names, the websites, and the phone numbers of the suppliers, customers, who they said they contacted or tried to
contact. They did the same with the manufacturers of the machines that the company claimed to buy from. 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 34/65


Where is that in ONP's response? ONP should be able to provide that in more detail than Muddy waters. It is not
there. Instead, they, their promoters, and you have repeatedly attacked muddy waters, a noted logical fallacy called
'ad hominen" or attacking the man. You can find it in every logic book and it is taught as an improper argument
technique but you continue to use it.  
Probably most damaging for ONP was the video provided by its own promoter, Rick Pearson. This is a company that
claimed to be on the cutting edge, with advanced technology. Instead, the video showed the worst looking paper mill I
have ever seen; in fact, it appeared staged, like no one was really working; and certainly did not look like it could
produce much. The defense is it is a smaller paper manufacturer with older, smaller equipement - but this was
certainly not its pitch and was contrary to the image portrayed to investors. 
If a company is really good and is making money, I fail to see the problem if its stock price drops. It just provides a
good opportunity for the company to enhance its wealth by buying back its stock cheaper. Great companies have
historically done this - look at Teledyne - it never cared if it stock price droped other than loving the opportunity to take
advantage of it and increase their wealth by increasing their ownership at a low price. 
thus, the company doesn't need to do anything to prop up the stock price. 
I have made simple point about Loeb and Loeb that you have not addressed. They have an interest in supporting
these chinese small cap companies that most other large law firms don't, thus I don't think they are the best choice.
However, I don't know, maybe they will do a great job. Generally, most large law firms go out of their way to avoid
even the appearance of impropriety. You haven't responded to that point. 
Of course, virtually every party has some motivation. That is why I don't keep referencing it like you do. For example,
the CEO of ONP and other large holders of ONP appear to have the most financial motive, more than muddy waters. I
am not going to attack them for that like you and others attack muddy waters. Each party has its own financial motive. 
My problem with your post is that it deals very little with the facts and just makes conclusory statements. I have
presented ONP discrepancies that you have mostly ignored, as you have ignored most of the problematic points
presented by Muddy Waters. 
Do you see the last mishap with ONP - they reported earnings guidance of $1.21 per year. Then they had to correct it
later because they hadn't even made the calculation with the right number of shares, and said it was only about $.98
a share. 
so maybe they are fraud or maybe they are just the gang that couldn't shoot straight but I see no reason to trust
anything that they say - even according to them, they have to change prior representations quite frequently.  
What reason to we have to trust their financials? What if they come out later and say we made a translation error and
added a few zeros? 
Perhaps this is the type of company you like to invest in. It is not the type of company that I like. It is hard to imagine
that it is run well and their own video certainly doesn't help their case. 
Disclosure: short ONP.


17 Jul 2010, 12:24 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
No, no, no. It is all Wall Street's game. Someone bashes a stock. It falls if it can be believed by the herd. If
management cannot convince the herd, the stock continues to fall. So the last resort is to hire a law firm to do the
convincing. Just like Wendy's and the chopped off finger. Wendy's addressed the issue, investigated, gained back
investor faith, and the stock went back up.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 35/65


If management KNOWS there is a problem, why would they shoot themselves in the back. The law firm will find the
problem, and the stock will continue to fall. Not in the best interest of management. By the way, insiders own 30.88%
of the companies outstanding shares. If there is a problem, and if they are smart, they would take the money and run.
Another point, check what the insiders are doing. They know more than you. If they are buying, that may be a good
sign.


17 Jul 2010, 08:35 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
By the way, has anybody thought that ONP could have changed thier accounting strategies? In today's world, it is not
uncommon. I can name a few US firms that did so, not to mention the infamous Nortel Networks. Red Hat, if I am
correct, did the same.


17 Jul 2010, 09:05 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
When has it turned out well when a board of directors had to hire lawyers and do a special audit to investigate
allegations of fraud against management? that was not the situation with the Wendy's chopped off finger and no one
claimed that was a wall street game but more an attempt by a lady to get paid off in a personal injury lawsuit, not
stock manipulation. the police quickly announced and investigation and solved the crime - not Wendys. 
the board of directors made the decision to hire a law firm and audit firm, not management. There was a recent capital
raise - those people gave money to management and asked for certain controls, including appointing members to the
board of directors. They might be afraid that management is embezzling their money. 
Again, there is a lockup provision, so management insiders can't sell their stock. However, the issue is whether they
are taking the money from the equity raises and runnings, as muddy waters is alleging. There has been no reports of
insiders buying that I am aware of.  
I have no idea what you mean when you say they may be chaning their accounting strategies. I think that is one of the
issues, do they have adequate internal financial controls? Is there accounting correct?  
Again, the problem with your post is that you provide no evidence or support for ONP, just conclusory statements.


20 Jul 2010, 10:38 AM


Amoney, Contributor
Seasaw64: Considering that ONP is manipulating its financials, do you have any thoughts as to what the true
value of the company might be, or by what amount you suspect they are fudging on the books. Judging from
previous posts, you seem to agree that the company is not a 100% fraud, as they do have operations and
assets, so it seems safe to say there is some underlying value.


21 Jul 2010, 04:01 PM


apolo_11


so whats the verdict here ? scam or not ? why is it so complicated to get an answer ? 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/amoney

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 36/65


I wish I could go to their spot for 1or 2 days and count the amount of truck getting in/out. That will give a pretty good
idea of who is right.


but unfortunalty I live in france and dont have the money/time for that kind of trip... :(


21 Jul 2010, 10:38 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Isn't the board and management the same thing?


And supposedly Muddy Waters checked one subsidiary of ONP. You can't look at one part and say the whole is bad,
not to mention that they seemed to get the wrong subsidiary.


21 Jul 2010, 08:50 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
No, the board and management are not the same thing. The board of directors is not management - it oversees
management, is supposed to be responsible for very high level strategy ,etc. Management is resopnsible for the day
to day operations. High level management, like the CEO is often either the Chairman of hte Board or on the Board. 
ONP had one operating entity until recently, HBOP. Muddy Waters checked them. The holding company Shengde,
recently became the operating company for the alleged 2 new digital photo paper lines. However, those lines just
started production this year, so they don't have any revenue for last year. Also, those lines only have capacity for
2500 tons a year, so they are very small part of the operations anyway. 
ONP did not get the wrong subsidiary and, until this year which is not done and for which there is not reporting, HBOP
was the entire operating entity. 
I hope this helps. 


22 Jul 2010, 01:12 AM


apolo_11
Look like this chinese publication did their own investigation.  
result here: 
www.21cbh.com/HTML/201...


its in chinese tho. trying to find an english version..


22 Jul 2010, 04:21 AM


jsIRA, Marketplace Contributor
I basically agree with the author's stand that ONP is a fraud.


Actually this is not the only case involved with the fraud. NEP may be another one. LIWA, BBC, ... You name it.


China as a country is full of corruption, fraud.


22 Jul 2010, 04:26 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

http://www.21cbh.com/HTML/2010-7-22/wOMDAwMDE4ODEwOQ.html

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jsira

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=jsira&source=comment_author_tag
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 37/65


tliu
I can not believe you because you ahve the short position.


22 Jul 2010, 06:30 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
amoney: 
I don't have any idea of the value of the company. I am not sure what they are doing. The possibilities I have
considered are that they are either a small paper manufacturer or perhaps just a reseller.


22 Jul 2010, 03:09 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
tilu: would somebody having a long position cause you not to believe them? I advise not believing anybody but
looking into the matter yourself.


22 Jul 2010, 03:10 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Yup, don't buy or sell based on one person's opinion. If many people agree with that person, than the odds are better
that they are telling truthfully. Humans in general are not always ethical. They act in their best interest. Doing your
own research (or homework as Jim Cramer puts it) is best.


For me, I have a long position, so that is probably why I am more bullish about ONP. However, yeah, I have a $400
position, so I don't have much to loose. Question, how big is your short position? Do you have a lot to loose if your
wrong? If so, you likely would do anything you can so you don't loose. It's like gambling.


Anyway, ONP is about the same price it had on July 1, not long after Muddy Water's report. It jumped 43% the next
day. Down another dollar and it will erase its gains for the year and come close to its IPO price. Does it have more
room to fall? Is it a worthless company. P/E is near 3. Remember Citigroup. It went down to a dollar and bounced
back up to $3 in no time. Could this be a repeat? History repeats itself. Humans are foolish. Investors are irrational.


Good luck investing.


22 Jul 2010, 10:49 PM


Wholucan
wright, it will bounce up, My source also confirms that this whole story is made by shorters. In less than three
weeks they will come out with there 2th quartor, it is a rule that they are forbidden from SEC to react now on
any alligations or whatever. It is the believe from Mychinastocks.com and mine aswell that they will jumb up. 
She even mentions a buy limit under US$ 9,00,.....


so make up your mind and lets find out who is telling the truth!


26 Jul 2010, 11:56 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/683306

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/user/439145

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 38/65


Modie: 
some people would do anything they could to make money on a long or short position but most people wouldn't. I am
concerned about your view that anyone who is short would do anything to make the price go down. Is that projection
on your part because that is how you are? It is certinaly not how I am. 
The problem her is that you are not presenting any facts about ONP or reasoning based on those fats. Rather you are
just speculating. Can ONP be fraudulent and bounce up? Sure. Is that a good way to invest? I doubt it. 
If ONP is actual worth more than its price, I hope it goes up and I lose money on my short. I should not make money
based on the wrong analysis. However, as my posts suggest, I question that ONP is worth anything near what it
claims. If I am right, I think I should do well. If I am wrong, I think I should do poorly. 
There are very good reasons for this and to have this view, even if you lose money on a trade you were wrong about.
Think about it.


23 Jul 2010, 04:09 PM


taxed2much
Another far fetched piece of evidence offered up by Rick Pearson in his video where he states that ONP is basically
doubling their revenue using 100% recycled paper. The numbers he gives sound good at face until you throw in the
costs of re-manufacturing that recycled pile. Chemicals, employees, energy use plus sales and more will not allow
doubling their revenue as presented.


27 Jul 2010, 02:02 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
What numbers?


28 Jul 2010, 10:41 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Oh, and ONP is selling for less than its revenue and enterprise value. Might be a good time to buy.


28 Jul 2010, 11:47 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
seasaw64: 
I just question why others haven't seen what Muddy Waters claims or agrees with their claims. It is 27-1. So the odds
are that they are wrong. You know, con artists are very clever. They can reproduce a statement and make it look real.
There are professional analysts and institutions out there. They have more tools than the average investor. The best
bet is to look what they are doing. Again, it is 27-1.


28 Jul 2010, 11:59 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
What do you mean, it is 27-1? 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/275681

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 39/65


My point about MW is that they often provide you the information necessary so that you can verify it yourself if you
like. They provide name, addresses, phone numbers and websites 
On the other hand, ONP often does not provide such information but using more the tactics you refer to that con
artists use. They often don't provide information that you can independently verify but provide some document that
claim supports there point but it lacks the detail and information I would expect. 
I don't know what you mean - 27-1? Obviously, people are takling the MW allegations very seriously. The Company
claims they intend to hire a law firm and Big 4 accounting to investigate and audit the company for the fraud MW
claims. Roth Capital suspended coverage and indicates they need to do their own due diligence. 


29 Jul 2010, 11:10 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
No, the law firm is to pursue legal allegations on Muddy Waters.


27-1 means all the analysts, from Rick to the Street.com, and institutions supporting ONP. Muddy Waters is the only
player so far accusing ONP.


Have you checked the "verifications" Muddy Waters puts? Have you dialed the phone numbers? Anybody could put
any random phone numbers and say, "Here is my verification."


30 Jul 2010, 10:48 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
ONP's press release did not express any intention to hire a law firm to investigate or pursue legal claims against
Muddy Waters. Instead, ONP announced an intention to hire a law firm to help it hire an accounting firm, who would
then investigate the claims by Muddy Waters, which include fraud. ONP's given reason was to reassure investors, not
to sue Muddy Waters. ONP had just recently raised over $23 million from investors in a capital raise. I am guessing
these investors mya have raised questions after Muddy Water's report and may have been unsatisfied with the
answers and may have demanded actions like this. 
I don't think it is 27-1. 
(1) ONP's board is taking Muddy Water's allegations seriously enough to intend to hire an accounting firm to
investigate their claims. ONP must believe investors have doubts because it is doing this to reassure investors. 
(2) Roth Capital now claims it needs to do further due diligence and has suspended coverage, effectively withdrawing
their report. Doug of wallstreetmedia.com sold his share of ONP shortly after the trip to ONP where he took the
promotional video that he posted. Eric Jackson said that the Muddy Waters allegations cannot be dismissed out of
hand and must be taken seriously and looked into. 
(3) The stock price has dropped from over $8 a share to under $5 a share - how many of the institutional investors
have sold? How many did not buy in the first place because they had doubts? 
(4) A year prior to Muddy Waters, an Motley Fool article warned to stear clear of ONP. See Beware Chinese Penny
Stocks, dated June 8, 2009 at caps.fool.com/Blogs/be.... 
(5) Numerous others doubt ONP. The Chinesecompanyanalyst.com has called ONP a fraud. Mikeyun has posted
articles regarding his doubts re ONP. I have posted articles. Waldo Mushman has posted his doubts. 
Of course, why do any counting? I don't believe in determining something based on who believes something or not; or
on how many others believe something or not. 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

http://caps.fool.com/Blogs/beware-chinese-penny-stocks/208628
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 40/65


I think that if you are going to make an investment decision regarding ONP, you should do your own due diligence and
research and make your own conclusions. I certainly don't believe you should take my word for anything, or anyone
elses. Look at all the evidence yourself and use your own methods to make your own conclusions. 
I have done my own due diligence, which is different than Muddy Waters. Frankly, to avoid any factual disputes, I first
looked at everything the company says. This was enough for me to view ONP's representations as very problematic,
because I found them inconsistent. See my instablog re Questions for ONP's conference call. 
Again, to avoid factual disputes, I have reveiwed the videos put out by the promoters of ONP, Rick Pearson and Doug
from the wallstreetmedia.com. I found these videos problematic for ONP. I posted an instablog on the problems with
ONP I saw in Doug's video. Doug also reported selling ONP stock shortly after the visit he took to ONP to shoot the
video. 
I have continued to do a great deal of research. At this point, I don't need a single piece of information from the
Muddy Water's report to reach my own conclusions. 
My point with Muddy Waters is that I found the way they did the report credible and I don't find the way ONP did their
reports or responded to be credible. Muddy Waters gave detailed information, with plenty of ways for someone that
didn't believe them to followup and verify whether they were telling the truth or not. In my opinion, ONP has done the
opposite. Even though ONP has all the information, they give very little detail and very little information that allows
one to followup and verify. 
The suppliers and customers are one example. ONP could easily have refuted Muddy Water's contentions there by
providing all the information about the customers and suppliers - their names, addresses and phone numbers in
English and Chinese - the contracts, contacts at these companies to verify their reports, etc. ONP did none of this. On
the other hand, Muddy Waters provided the contact information. Sure, you can just provide phony information but
then you are wide open to being proved wrong. If Muddy Waters were wrong, I believe we would have irrefutable,
verifiable evidence by now that the names and numbers they gave were phony. 
I have spent a great deal of time researching this and have allocated the time to the tasks I thought were most fruitful.
I have not called the customers and suppliers to verify myself. I amy do it in the future (I would have to have an
interpreter). Frankly, I don't believe the growth and turnover that ONP reports is possible and I find it contradictory to
ONP's other reports that they have stable, long term relationships with these customers and suppliers that appear to
be turning over to me. I also have no reason to doubt Muddy Waters and I expected to see ONP and promoters of the
stock provide conclusive evidence that these representations were false if they could. I haven't seen that.


My point with Muddy Waters verifiable information is that my experience I have found that those who give you the kind
of detail that Muddy Waters gave, with information that allowed you to verify it, tend to be telling the truth. If you don't
believe it, you can follow-up and find out if it is true or not. 
I have not followed up to call the


Have you checked the "verifications" Muddy Waters puts? Have you dialed the phone numbers? Anybody could put
any random phone numbers and say, "Here is my verification."


ONP announced that it intended to hire a law firm to work with the Audit Committe to retain a Big Four audit firm who
would conduct an indpendent investigation into the issues rasied by Muddy Waters.


31 Jul 2010, 01:47 PM
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 41/65


Michael Anderson, Contributor
You are stating that Muddy Waters provided verifiable evidence? Then you must either change what you
consider research or you are just trying to mislead others. Many claims in the MW report are just heresay
such as stating that they have spoken with specific suppliers and customers, but not providing exactly who
they spoke with. Also, stating that some companies do not exist because they cannot find the contact info on
them or contact them by the phone number that they have. As a credible report, wouldnt you contact
management to get the contact info to try to visit or at least contact these companies? In regards to the
people you say the matter needs to be taken seriously, it is because the price has dropped so much which
requires additional research to dispute the claims and Eric Jackson has done that on some of the issues and
Roth will do additional research to confirm their initial thoughts and it is understandable to suspend coverage
based on everything that is going on. I have more for you later as I plan on showing many faults and lies by
you, MW, and others. If I am unable to complete and gather and tie all of the info together I have a dispute for
a misleading statement you have made previously. So I already know some of your lies and slowly, others are
realizing these fraudulent claims as well


31 Jul 2010, 02:18 PM


Michael Anderson, Contributor
I forgot, "Numerous others doubt ONP. The Chinesecompanyanalyst.com has called ONP a fraud. Mikeyun
has posted articles regarding his doubts re ONP. I have posted articles. Waldo Mushman has posted his
doubts"


Are you trying to state these people as credible doubters when they are unknown and unreputable? If this is
what you have as the naysayers, then that also helps prove the point that not one other person who has
visited, done the research, and spoke to management, watched the videos, has come up with any negativity
but have validated their own positivity of ONP. Do not forget ONP never tried to contact management up to
releasing the report or revisited either and they have not released any documents of proof of their claims.


31 Jul 2010, 02:22 PM


Michael Anderson, Contributor
"Do not forget ONP never tried to contact management up to releasing the report or revisited either and they
have not released any documents of proof of their claims."


I meant to say MW never tried to contact management or revisited


01 Aug 2010, 02:14 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Michael Anderson: 
1. You accuse me of making false statements of facts without specifying a single one. Please immediately inform me
of any mistatement of fact along with proof that it is a mistatement. If I have made any mistatements, which I don't
believe I have, I will correct it immediately. 
2. No other person has compe up with any negativity but only validated their own positivity - untrue. You ignore that



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-anderson

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-anderson

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-anderson

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 42/65


Roth Capital has indicated they need to do additional due diligence and have suspended coverage and doug of
wallstreetmedia.com sold his ONP stock shortly after visiting ONP. 
3. Again, my first two posts were based on ONP's representation in its SEC filings, on its website, and by its CEO as
well as on the videos of ONP by the promoters of the company. The SEC filings and the videos are on the internet for
anyone to see. I have the website of ONP - they changed it shortly after my article. If I mistated anything, please point
it out, along with a cite to your evidence.  
4. Yes, Muddy Waters provided verifiable evidence. For example, they provided the Chinese names, addresses,
phone numbers of customers and suppliers. ONP did not and has not. This is important because you cannot translate
the English to Chinese without more information than just the English name. ONP and its promoters and supporters
have not provided verifiable information to dispute Muddy Waters reports about customers and suppliers. Since it is
ONP's customers and suppliers, that would be very easy to do if ONP's representation were true. 
Sure, Muddy Water's report, like any report, could be improved by more research, more disclosure, etc. However,
Muddy Water's report is very good. Compare it to the Roth Capital, Hudson Securities, or Harbinger reports where
they mostly just restate what ONP has said. They did very little to no research or investigation other than getting the
information from ONP and their filings and website. Even doing that, they don't note any of the problems with ONP"s
representations that I point out or other have pointed out. 
5. If ONP would just provide all the necessary evidence and information, then there would be no need for additional
research by Eric Jackson and Roth Capital or anyone else. They need to do additional research because they now
realize their initial research was insufficient and ONP has not provided the evidence or infomration they need.
Additional research may lead them to the conclusion they were wrong. 
6. You have no basis to say that any of the doubters of ONP I reference are not credible and your provide no
evidence. Furthermore, those doubters provide excellent facts and information which have not been satisfactorily
responded to. I recommend that noone take my word for that or your word against that - just read the articles and the
responses. The responses in general appear similar to yours - usually bereft of any facts or evidence. 
When you have facts and evidence, with supporting cites, and sound reasoning therefrom, please provide it. If you
have proof that I have provided any inaccurate information, please identify it and provide it. I have attempted to be
completely accurate, but if I have made any mistakes at all, I am happy to correct them. 
Thus far, you just make conclusory statements about lies without even identifying what the lies are.


31 Jul 2010, 04:50 PM


Michael Anderson, Contributor
I have no basis to say the doubters you speak of are not credible? Who are they? If no one even knows who they are
how can you even begin to say they are credible? If you read my statements I do not ignore that Roth suspended
coverage, but it does not bother me nor is it that unexpected. They did not place a downgrade on it nor is it a
permanent suspension. You say they state verifiable evidence? They post the phone number of a couple of the
customers and state on the others that they may not be real because they could not determine any contact info or
could not contact them through the phone number that they put down. Again, if it was a serious report why would they
not contact ONP to get the contact info? ONP has provided a good amount of evidence in their press release and Eric
Jackson has as well in his several articles. Muddy Waters whole report is based on heresay without any proof. They
need to do additional research because the price has fallen because of overreaction and now things have to rebutted
unfortunately. So above are some statements to provide that you are providing misleading information, but if I get my



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-anderson
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 43/65


report together it will be posted otherwise I will post some of my rebuttals of some your claims as a comment. Just be
patient. you seem to be squirming as information is unfolding of these crooks


31 Jul 2010, 07:27 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Michael Anderson: 
We appear to being going in circles at this point as you repeat points that I have already responded to. We appear to
have different approaches. I am focused on ONP and trying to look at the underlying facts and evidence and sound
reasoning there-from. You appear focused on the people commenting on ONP and making unsupported, conclusory
statements about their reputations and the quality of their work. 
For example, as you point out, Muddy Waters said some of the customers may not exist because they could not find
any information concerning them. Does ONP or you have any independently verifiable information that they exist?
Read ONP’s responses to Muddy Waters – they (and you) have not provided any information allowing one to contact
these companies, such as their Chinese name and phone number. On the other hand, Muddy Waters provided the
Chinese names and phone numbers of customer and suppliers they were able to find. ONP has not provided any
contact information concerning those suppliers and customers to refute Muddy Water’s claims. Neither have you. This
is the kind of information that is useful, not unsupported, conclusory statements about reputations and methods. 
For reasons like the above example, I found Muddy Water’s report to be good and ONP’s responses to be poor. I
believe that I, and others, did a poor job in our original due diligence (I was originally long ONP). Now, some are
backpedalling. I sold ONP and I am now short. The Company decided it needs to do an investigation. Roth Capital
decided it needs to do more due diligence. Doug from Wallstreetmedia.com sold his ONP stock after visiting ONP. 
The bottom line is I would like to focus on facts and evidence and reasoning there from concerning ONP, which is the
investment decision we are discussing, rather than on periphery issues. If you have any, I would be happy to read
them.


31 Jul 2010, 09:48 PM


apolo_11
seasaw64: 
what evidence do you have that Doug sold his ONP stock ? 
could not find any such info in his twitter account.


01 Aug 2010, 05:57 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
apolo_11 
Doug's posts his portfolio on covestor, which lists him selling the stock, link at covestor.com/douglas-e.... 
Doug did twitter to try to explain the sale when questioned about it, saying "tried to be fair and sold half so ppl didnt
say pumping it. cost me money to do that. if keep all - pumpng. if sell all, dumping". See twitter.com/wsmco.


01 Aug 2010, 12:04 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

http://covestor.com/douglas-estadt/track-record/transactions

http://twitter.com/wsmco

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 44/65


So he re-bought ONP. It clearly say in your link seasaw64. And according to Doug, he was not negative, but being
fair. Now since his video was out for 5 days, he re-bought the stock. Why? I highly doubt he is negative.


Analyst often follow the herd, so if they are wrong, they can say that everybody else though so. Roth Capital took a
neutral approach by suspending coverage till everything settles. This is so they won't loose credibility for posting a
positive view of ONP when its stock continues to fall. With all respect, nothing seems to stop the downward pressure
of the stock.


Why did Muddy Waters just check the top ten customers? Why didn't it check ALL the customers? Clearly this would
easily tell if Muddy Waters claims that they have an 80% turnover is true. Those customers could be below the top
ten, meaning ONP did not loose any customers. Does Muddy Waters have something to hide?


michael anderson: 
If you have the facts, why not post them? Why wait?


01 Aug 2010, 01:18 PM


Michael Anderson, Contributor
Part of it is I do not know if I will be able to put forth the time and effort to put everything together in a well written
article. It is information that is already out there that most have seen or can see by reading all of the reports, releases,
10-ks, articles from others, etc. I was just going to try to put a well written article together with a lot of links, the
sources and try to match everything together to dispute the claims by Muddy Waters by going through each individual
thing that they have released, but it is slowly coming together. In regards to Seasaw, some of the information he
provided can easily be rebutted by looking at the 10-ks such as advertising and r&d and I am not sure if I am going to
put that in my full written blog or just post as a comment. Again, all of the information is out there it is just putting it all
together all at once and have it be well written at the same time.


01 Aug 2010, 02:11 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
micheal anderson: 
Well, I look forward to your report. But instead of waiting to finish it and let the stock fall further, why not post a little bit
each time and compile it later in a well-written article?


01 Aug 2010, 03:07 PM


Michael Anderson, Contributor
If it were to have any impact, it has to be done with complete effort and everything has to be tied together in well
written article. Plus, as I have stated, the information is out there and we have seen it seperately. Listing small things
at a time would probably be a big waste of time as it is out there and it would not tie together like I want it to. I am also
awaiting confirmation on certain things as well. Hopefully I can put it all together and unfortunately so much has to be
done by everyone because of peoples overreaction and not reading all of the information out there including the MW
report to easily see that MW is the fraud and not ONP.


01 Aug 2010, 03:21 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-anderson

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-anderson
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 45/65


apolo_11
so seasaw64 - why do you say: "Doug from Wallstreetmedia.com sold his ONP stock after visiting ONP." and present
that as an argument against ONP.


The fact is that Doug sold some of his ONP shares @ 4.49$ on 7/23 and buy more 5 day later @ 4.46$.


btw I dont think this info is very important by itself. but that just show that you are presented the info in a way that
serve your interest.


you are discrediting yourself by doing so.


01 Aug 2010, 04:08 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
Doug sold his shares shortly after he returned from ONP. He said it was half his shares. I think that is negative.
Apparently, since I looked, he repurchased some. Wa it more than 1 share? I don't know. Was it because he was
criticized for selling? I don't know. But I do know it was negative that he sold shortly after returning from the visit. 
ONP has not released anything but the top ten customers in English. So blame ONP, not Muddy Waters. Forget about
Muddy Waters, just look at the evidence. Are you planning to short or buy Muddy Waters? No, you can't, there aren't
public traded. Focus on ONP.


02 Aug 2010, 02:39 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Michael Anderson: 
I don't think you have anything to post because you haven't. I welcome you to post the information for advertising and
r&d and the cites to the 10k and 10q reports. Should take you a total of about 5 minutes. I know I already posted the
information and the links.


02 Aug 2010, 02:45 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
apolo: 
I wasn't aware that after Doug had been criticized for selling his shares upon returning from his visit to ONP, he had
bought any shares. I didn't follow-up to keep checking after I was informed of his actions selling after visiting ONP.
Was it more than 1 share? we don't know as that is not reported. 
the timing is interesting though. Doug bought the shares on July 28, the day before the company issues a press
release claiming that revenue was up 70.8% and income was up 102.5%. Coincidence?


02 Aug 2010, 02:50 AM


apolo_11
well I dont have any data to rebut your accusations against ONP. I have just the feeling that at the end of this story
you (& MW) will also come up with "I was not aware of..."



https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 46/65


just a feeling. lets see.


long @ 4.25.


02 Aug 2010, 04:18 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
seasaw64: 
Using cross analysis used by lawyers, you say, "I wasn't aware that after Doug had been criticized for selling his
shares upon returning from his visit to ONP, he had bought any shares." 11 minutes earlier you said, "Was it because
he was criticized for selling? I don't know." So you claim the Doug HAD been criticized, when you stated earlier that
you don't know if Doug HAD been criticized.


apollo_11: 
We are all theoretically trying to give out good information. If we are wrong, then that was our mistake. But until
proven wrong, we are theoretically innocent.


02 Aug 2010, 10:08 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
I said I didn't know he had bought shares after he had been criticized. Obviously, to make that statement, I had to
know he had been criticized. My question was about the reason for buying the shares, was it because he was
criticized? You appear to have difficulty with reading comprehension. Is English not your native language, perhaps?


apolo: 
I am sure that myself and Muddy Waters aren't aware of a lot of things. I just like to deal in facts, evidence and sound
reasoning therefrom. that is one reason I ask if anyone has any contradictory information to provide. However, as you
can see, not much is provided. 
You have a different approach. Good luck to you.


02 Aug 2010, 10:31 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
seasaw64: 
Well, obviously English isn't your native language. But again, personal attacks which go nowhere.


So you claim he was criticized. Can you prove it?


Notice he re-bought the shares at almost the same price.


02 Aug 2010, 10:48 AM


Waldo Mushman
Doug is a fat stupid PE teacher. If he bought or sold it should make absolutely no difference to anyone who
walks upright.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 47/65


Your are painfully trying to hang some meaning to the actions of a meaningless person. Why don't you shut
up about Doug and your personal interprtation of his motivations and talk about the stock.


John


02 Aug 2010, 02:43 PM


apolo_11
ok - so lets try some reasoning.. 
so lets take the 80% turnover in top 10 customers (which appear to be the main issue in this case). 
if I was ONP CFO and I had to manipulate the financials I wont probably do that as its excessively unusual therefore
suspect. 
I will - for ex - take 8 out of 10 from the year before + 2 new customers and just inflate the number for each one.


easier and less detectable.


my point is that when you falsify your book, you try not to come up with unusual events.


its why - in this case - i think they are telling the true(or they are completly stupid).


02 Aug 2010, 11:32 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
Sorry if I insulted you. I was trying to find out if that was the reason you kept having difficulty understanding what you
read and misinterpreting it. You keep attacking me and it makes no sense. 
Yes, Doug was criticized. Does he dispute it? check with him and If he posts something disputing he was criticized for
selling his shares, I will provide proof that he was, including my own posts. Otherwise, don't waste my time asking me
to prove things that are not disputed.


02 Aug 2010, 01:03 PM


Michael Anderson, Contributor
The fact that you posted that information trying to bloat that he sold after coming back from his trip and then
not rechecking to see if he bought again, which he did obviously, is very irresponsible and shows your
misleading behavior and/or lack of research getting the correct facts. So thanks for continually pointing out
your ignorance.


Also, could you tell me the advertising costs for some other paper companies? thanks


02 Aug 2010, 03:05 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
michael anderson: 
nonsense. he sold shortly after coming back from china. The fact he buys later doesn't change that. those facts were
completely accurate and did not change. I am not going to keep checking up on Doug for everything he does, believe
me. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-anderson

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 48/65


however, it is interesting to note that Doug bought his additional shares the day before ONP pre announced expected
earnings. Is that a coincidence? 
why would you ask me for information when you claim I am ignorant. It shouldn't be too hard for you to do your own
research. 


02 Aug 2010, 07:46 PM


apolo_11
I dont think DOug is relevent here. I wont do anything based on 
what he does .


seasan - so far what you have against ONP is 1)inconsistencies between their SEC and SAIC filings 2)you didnt like
the video.


To me Doug's video look quite good. 
as for the inconsistency I suggest you to read the article below:


seekingalpha.com/insta...


03 Aug 2010, 04:47 AM


apolo_11
and beyond all that you should not forget the ONLY important fact so far which is this: 
finance.yahoo.com/news...


------------- 
long ONP @ 4.25 
will buy more in the next 2 weeks (unless REAL fraud evidence pop out).


03 Aug 2010, 07:57 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
seasaw64: 
Okay, I will tone down. Technically, I attack anybody who I question. You just happened to be one of the main ones I
question regarding ONP. Chineseanalyst is another. Sorry to make you feel uneasy. Remember, it's nothing personal.
It's debating and showing others who don't see your view to see.


michael anderson: 
Again, person attacks. I am getting tired of hearing the words "ignorance," "stupid," or "not your native language."
Keep those to yourself.


apolo_11: 
Interesting. You should publish that.


03 Aug 2010, 10:06 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/628941-wefe5433/84982-fear-uncertainty-and-doubt-in-reverse-merger-china-stocks-provides-opportunity

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/Orient-Paper-Announces-prnews-2503045153.html?x=0&.v=101

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 49/65


apolo_11: 
Obviously you didn't bother to read my instablogs or consider them. My article showed the inconsistencies and
problems with ONP"s own representations in its SEC filings and on its website(s). My article did not address the SAIC
filings at all. If you had read the comments to the article you cite me too, you would see I have already read and
commented on it. 
To each his own, people can watch doug's vido at thewallstreetmedia.com and judge for themselves. Of course, I am
overstating it to call it a video, as it just shows a series of pictures while Doug reads a prepared statement as the
picture slideshow plays. I would have expected real video as well as interviews of the Chairman who was giving them
the tour. 
I thought it odd that ONP would pre-release alleged "outstanding" expected earnings when they have already said
they need to investigate allegations about whether the financial statements are fraudulent or not. The questions is not
whether the numbers in the press release and financial statements are fact or whether they are fraudulent.


03 Aug 2010, 10:16 AM


prettyboyfloydm
Seasaw, approximately how much time a day do you spend defending your short position on these threads? Are you
still suggesting that you are NOT doing this for the sake of bolstering your stake here? You are quite the philanthropist
to respond to every single ONP positive post in efforts to simply inform the ignorant.


03 Aug 2010, 03:02 PM


apolo_11
seasan - 
I read your 2 articles and honestly I think you are focusing on details. 
I personaly dont care much about minor inconsistencies on their SEC filings. I dont care much about the video either. i
dont care if they have 689 employes or 600.


what I care is whether ONP is making the revenue they claim. 
I think they do.


I think they should be pretty crazy to post a pre release earning of that magnitude under the current circonstance and
lying.


I increased my position today and will keep buying.


In the next 2 weeks this stock will go over 6.


------------------- 
long @ 4.33


03 Aug 2010, 03:30 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
I don't think it will go to $6 in two weeks. Nothing disproving Muddy Waters claims is out there. Yes, it will go to $6, but
it will take a long time to do so.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/662381

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 50/65


Meanwhile, Allied Defense Group should double in two months or so. Some company is buying most of its assets for
$7.25 per share. Current price of ADG is about $3.25.


03 Aug 2010, 09:24 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
apolo: 
Yes, I focus on the details, as that is what I use to form my opinion on whether their revenue is correct. What are you
using?


prettyboyflody: 
I was actually long ONP originally and feel I was fooled. I am short now. If I am wrong in my short, I feel the
appropriate result is that I should lose money. Yes, my purpose is to get correct information out, as I feel that this
stock is being pumped correctly with misinformation. 
However, I am also hoping that if I am wrong, my posts will cuase people to present information that proves me wrong
or at least any correct infomration that is contrary to my view so I can evaluate it. 
As Feynman said, 'the first principle is that you must not fool yourself and you are the easiest person to fool.'
Obvioiusly, I feel I fooled myself initially by being long. If I am fooling myself now, I would like the evidence to be
presented so I can change my mind. 


04 Aug 2010, 02:42 AM


apolo_11
i use common sense and proof by contradiction.


1. why 80% customer turnover? The goal is to inflate revenue right ? not to  
show high customer turnover. why will they do such a suspect,unusual and unnecessary thing?  
shown me one similar case in which such a thing happened.


2. why pre-release the finanancial and reiterate such a huge earning?  
show me one similar fraud case in which the CEO released a preliminary financial results of this magnitute when so
many are watching him so closely.  
The guy should be crazy. and considering he is running his business for 15y, involving hundred of employees, I find it
hard to believe.


3. why no one has resigned yet? This case is pretty simple - those guys are selling paper. Anyone in the executive
know the REAL volume of paper they are selling as well as the REAL revenue they are generating. and yet no one
has resigned.


have to go to work. good day.


04 Aug 2010, 04:52 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
apolo_11: 
good luck! You may be right. I certainly am focused on details. If the representations are not true in the SEC filings



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 51/65


about other things, then they certainly might not be true about the revenue. This is especially since those details are
supposed to show support that the companies is making the revenues it claims. 
How many shares do the PIPE investors for the last capital raising still own? Why do I ask this? Well, if ONP reports
$0 revenue for 2010, the PIPE investors get, for free, another 3 million shares. And guess what? The new members
of the board of directors were appointed by the investors and they are the sole members of the audit committee and
called for the fraud investigation. By the way, it appears that the biggest investor, Pope, sold its shares. Any
predictions as to what ONP will report in net profit in 2010?


04 Aug 2010, 10:03 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Common sense investing is sometimes the best investing. If you take Warren Buffets value approach, look at the
business as a whole. Imagine yourself as the buyer of the business. Does it have a potential? I think ONP does.
People will always need paper. And as the population of China grows, more paper will be needed. ONP spend more
on their machinery to make more paper and thus more revenue. Plus, ONP is in the packaging business. As the
Chinese economy grows, more packaging material is needed to ship goods. Paper is not a hard business to
understand. And like you said, it is like a commodity business. Obviously, ONP has more raw material to make paper.
Just look at the video. And isn't raw material put on the books of miners as potential revenue?


04 Aug 2010, 10:09 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
Do you know anything about the paper business? it is a commodity business - they are low barriers to entry. Tthe real
price of paper has fallen over the last decade as component prices, such as raw materials, has doubled or tripled.
Meanwhile, capacity has been growing much faster than demand. China's demand is weak and they export most of
their paper. Do you want me to go on? Papermaking is not a good business, particularly in China, where paper
manufacturers have shown poor profitability. 
How about the alleged, local regional advantage? ONP themselves indicated in a press release that there were 34
other paper mills. What they didn't mention is that International Paper has a cardboard box plant right in Boading in
Hebei province.


04 Aug 2010, 11:21 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Well, the macro demand for paper seems good. International Paper and Clearwater Paper forecast strong demand.
And ONP makes packaging paper, too. Everything needs to get packaged. Just look at what is going on here. Is
China different? I doubt it.


And they need paper for newspapers. How are the Chinese going to get the news out? 60% of the country is still
farming. They don't have a computer. Not everybody has a television, phone, or radio. The country still needs to build
on its existing telecommunication system.


04 Aug 2010, 11:47 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 52/65


apolo_11
seasaw - what evidence do you have re: weak china's paper demand?


Paper comsomption in china looks pretty good to me.  
It is expected to overtake the United States as the world's largest paper consumer in a few years.. 
see: 
www.chinapost.com.tw/l...


===================== 
Household paper consumption volume in China grew rapidly in the last two decades to hit 3.91 million tons in 2008,
accounting for about 10 percent of the global market, according to CNHPIA. Annual per capita consumption jumped
from 0.59 kg in 1990 to 2.95 kg last year, more than 400 percent growth over 19 years.


“China has become the world's second-largest household paper consuming nation, next only to the U.S., and is
expected to be the largest within a few years,” 
=====================


04 Aug 2010, 01:53 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
A description of the paper market, focused on China, along with a cite to sources would be a little long here. Would
you like me to do an instablog where I spell it all out?


Main problem is that production capacity has been outstripping supply for the last ten years, both locally in China and
globally. China has no competitive advantages for making paper, government has propped up the industry with $33
billion in subsidies since 2002. Look at per capita demand for paper in China - very low compared to other countries.
Some of these types of paper you are mentioning are not made by ONP.


Too much information here. Can do an instablog if you like and you can comment on it. Not helpful just focusing on a
small part of the picture - need the whole picture to see the weaknesses in the paper manufacturing business,
particularly in China.


04 Aug 2010, 02:16 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
seasaw64: 
Sure, do a instablog. More information out there is better, right?


However, how do you explain International Paper's bullishness on the global paper market?


04 Aug 2010, 11:40 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
The CEO of international paper was interviewed. He did not sound bullish to me. Paper demand crashed with the
global meltdown like everything else, and, like everything else, there has been a tepid recovery. So, it is better than



https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

http://www.chinapost.com.tw/life/discover/2009/06/10/211610/China-tohtm

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 53/65


last year. Of course, he may also want to put the best light on it as well, he is after all the CEO of one of the largest
paper manufacturer in the world. Most CEO's tend to be positive about their industry even when it is not that great.


04 Aug 2010, 11:57 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Really? When was the interview? Just a few months ago he said paper demand was robust. And most analysts
agree.


05 Aug 2010, 09:31 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
I posted a instablog: Outlook for the Chinese Paper Market: Not Too Rosy. 
The interview was recently. What analysts think paper demand is robust? Where did he say paper demand was
robust? Also, I think it is important to look at the specific numbers, rather than just a general statement like "paper
demand is robust". Paper demand is certainly robust compared to the falloff that occurred at the bottom of the
downturn. It is certainly not robust in light of the large overcapacity. Comments like demand is robust often are very
informative without the accompanying data.


05 Aug 2010, 09:55 AM


apolo_11
hm..looks like this stock will get to 6$ in less than 2 weeks.


------------------ 
long @ 4.51


05 Aug 2010, 10:14 AM


apolo_11
Predcition: 
in the next 10 days the stock will get over 6$. reaching its max at 6.5$ when ONP will release their financial result.  
Then the stock will oscillate into the 5.5 - 6.5 range, waiting for Deloittes results.


Deloittes will clean up ONP of any fraud accusation.  
You will then see THE spike in the share price, bringing it back into the 8-9$ range.


The whole thing will take less than 2 months.


=============== 
increasing position. 
long @ 4.66


05 Aug 2010, 10:26 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 54/65


Apolo: 
Why are you quite sure that Deloitte will clean up any fraud accusation? It is only their financial advisory services that
are being hired. Loeb & Loeb is doing the investigation. 
Also, I have no idea where the price will be when and I don't think you do either or frankly anyone. Of course, any
price prediction, including yours, could end of being correct but it appears that you are just shamelessly pumping the
stock.


05 Aug 2010, 10:33 AM


apolo_11
I already explained my point:


1. you say 80% turnover is a sign of fraud. I say this is a sign of NOT fraud. 
why? b.c when you want to inflate your revenu (which is the accusation), you dont show up a 80% turnover in your
customers base.  
why will you do such a suspect,unusual and unnecessary thing? 
its a non sense unless it reflects the reality.


2. no resignation so far in ONP. look at other fraud case. look at ENRON - at this stage the CFO had long time
resigned.  
Anyone in ONP executive know the REAL volume of paper they are selling as well as the REAL revenue they are
generating. and yet no one has resigned.


3. check out the CEO bio. He started ONP 15y ago. it is his baby.  
do you really think he will have release preliminary financial of that magnitude under the current circonstance and
lying? I dont think so.


As for the prediction - it may happen or may not.  
It's why it's a prediction as oppose to actual fact.


=============== 
long @ 4.66


05 Aug 2010, 10:53 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
apollo: 
1. When you want to show fraud, you don't show a turnover of 80%: Huh? My point is that, based on studying the
paper industry and other paper companies, I don't believe you can change paper mixes and have an 80% turnover of
customers and obtain a 56% rise in revenue. Why would you do that? People trying to perpetrate a fraud run into all
kinds of difficulties not making mistakes in trying to make up stuff that appears to be true. I have no need to explain it



https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 55/65


since, in my analysis, I don't believe it is possible or that it occured. Muddy Waters speculated that it is common tactic
in fraud - you can read there report for their explanation. You certainly have provided an rebuttal to their explanation.


2. No resignation by the CEO? This is evidence that there is no fraud? Are you kidding me? In my opinion, in the most
of the frauds I have seen, the CEO hadn't resigned in a comparable stage to this. Even if they had, it means nothing.
In my opinion, the CEO had not resigned at a comparable stage in Enron either - it appeared to me that he hung on
and denied the allegations far longer than this. Means nothing anyway though.


3. which bio? When they were OPAI, the bio on the website said he became Chairman of hte Board and General
manager of Orient Paper Inc. in 1990. I think the fact that Orient Paper can't keep their own statements straight (often
people not telling the truth have a hard time staying consistent) is a good reason to doubt them. See link at
www.orientalpapercorpo....


Pre-release of earnings: I thought that was terrible to pre-release earnings at the same time that you claim it is
necessary to hire a law firm to investigate allegations of fraud against management. ONP has a history of issuing
press releases that have no basis in reality whatsoever. Want an example: In 2008, ONP claimed they were building a
2 million square metre facility that would have a production capacity of 1.2 million pounds by 2010 and revenue would
reach $1.3 billion by 2010. Orient Paper either is not telling the truth or has an inability to separate fantasy from
reality. See link at www.packaging-online.c.... 
Having any doubts yet? They are giving guidance now at what, about $18 million for the year? How about another link
from 2008 where they claim net income will be $160 million to $230 million in 2010? See www.pr-inside.com/orie.... 
In other words, I would be surprised if the CEO said or did anything. It wouldn't make it credible to me just because it
would be outrageous to do. By the way, I find those types of arguments to be incredibly unpersuasive. Read Hitler and
other propagandist where they explain how that type of reasoning can be used to make big lies to people that they
then believe. 
Again, ONP has a history of making prediction don't that happen. My opinion is that it fits the standard mold of the
pump and dump scams.


Orient Paper has a history of providing press releases to pump the stock and the information in the press


05 Aug 2010, 12:13 PM


apolo_11
seasaw -


1. If you want to inflate your revenu - you dont need to show any turnover in your customers. Showing 80% turnover is
a nonsense in ONP case. unless it reflect the reality.


2. my point is that ONP executives know the reality of the finance.  
and in a fraud scenario, we will have seen a couple of departure among the executive team. Kind of " I'm leaving for
personal reason.." 
check historic cases. As for ENRON, the CEO indeed resigned, among other. (see: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/...)


3. ONP CEO bio can be found here 
www.orientalpapercorpo... 



http://www.orientalpapercorporation.com/pdf/OPAI_Fact_Sheet_v3.pdf

http://www.packaging-online.com/paperboard-packaging-content/news/orient-paper-build-new-mill-china-11996

http://www.pr-inside.com/orient-paper-to-build-paper-milling-r610982.htm

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enron_scandal

http://www.orientalpapercorporation.com/About.asp?g0t0=c_4
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 56/65


He has been around for 15y. I dont see him screw up the whole thing in the way MW descriebed. I dont see him pre-
release the finanancial and reiterate such a huge earning based on a fraud in this context.


4. hiring a law firm to investigate allegation will cost them a lot. but knowing that they will end up clean will boost their
share price in a way that will make the investigation cost negligible.


=============== 
long @ 4.66


05 Aug 2010, 01:15 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
apolo: 
1. Reporting 80% turnover in customers provides absolutely no evidence that there is not fraud. However, the problem
with reporting changes in product mix and 80% turnover in the paper business is that it leads to a decrease in
revenue, at least in the short term, not an increase in revenue in short term as reported by Orient Paper. That is why it
supports the fraud cause concerning revenue. Your response to that does not address it and makes no sense. 
2. Managements failure to resign also provides absolutely no evidence that there is not fraud. However, there have
already been several departures of executives in this case, including the first CFO. Anyway, I have the opposite
impression than you - i am almost always amazed how long executivies hold on in these fraud cases. The Chairman
and CEO, Ken Lay, is a perfect example. Allied Capital is another example. Probably the reason is that fraud is not
always caught, or even when it is, fraudsters still sometimes get away, so it is hard to get them to abandon the ship
that they profit from. 
3. The length of time the CEO is irrelevant, many CEOs who committ fraud have been their a long time. Neither does
pre-releasing earnings, which looks particular suspect in light of the audit committees' claim that it needs to hire a law
firm and accounting firm to look into allegations that the financial statements are false. Anybody reputable would wait
for the outcome of the investigation. Orient Paper has a history of issuing outlandish claims regarding their future of
their business. In 2008, they claimed they estimated they would make between $160 millon and $230 million net profit
in 2010 because they were building a 2 million metre factility that would provide 1.2 million tons of production. Didn't
seem to bother the CEO to issue that outlandish press release when it didn't have an ounce of truth to it. Maybe they
have read Hitler and other propagandist about the susceptibility of the public in believing big, outlandish lies, even
more than smaller, seemingly more believe lies. 
4. Spinning the hiring of a law firm to be positivie is one of the most bizarre twists of reasoning I have seen in this
case. Imagine Goldman Sachs' audit committee announcing that it has hired a law firm and accounting firm to
investigate allegations of fraud against the Chairman and CEO Lloyd Blankfein and other executives, and to
investigate whether the financial statements were accurate. Imagien this occuring with virtually any company you are
not involved with. It would not be fired as a positive development but as a negative one. Whye? A board's audit
committee doesn't hire a law firm to investigate fraud claims if the claims are on the face frivolous or management has
been able to satisfactorily answer the board's questions and provide proof that fraud is not occuring. It makes no
sense - it would be a waste of time and money. If the evidence of no fraud exists and is convincing, the board can
immediately provide it to the public. In this case, Orient Paper's response to the fraud allegations did not provide the
necessary evidence and was not convincing.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 57/65


I hope this helps you.


07 Aug 2010, 04:52 PM


apolo_11
I do not agree. I think common sense is against you here.


I think the elements you bring in your articles are not related to a massive revenue fraud and anyone who will take the
time to read them will get to the same  
conclusion: minor SEC filings inconsistencies are not proof of massive revenue fraud. The fact that you dont see 600
employees in Doug video is not proof of fraud. etc.


good luck to you.


=============== 
long @ 4.66


08 Aug 2010, 05:33 PM


apolo_11
Prediction update: 
Next week the stock will get over 6$. reaching its max at 6.5$ when ONP will release their financial result.  
Then the stock will oscillate into the 5.5 - 6.5 range, waiting for Deloittes results.


Deloittes will clean up ONP of any fraud accusation.  
You will then see THE spike in the share price, bringing it back into the 8-9$ range.


The whole thing will take less than 45 days.


=============== 
long @ 4.66


08 Aug 2010, 05:40 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
When is it reporting financial results?


08 Aug 2010, 06:13 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Apolo: 
You are obviously just pumping the stock with nonsense predictions. Nobody knows what the price will be this weeks. 
Minor SEC inconsistencies? If they boggle SEC filnigs like that, then it is hard to see how they could run a company
with $1 million in revenue, much less $100 million in revenue. If you think those are minor inconsistencies, then I
wouldn't trust your views about anyone's financial statements.


08 Aug 2010, 11:55 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 58/65


apolo_11
I explained numerous time why I think ONP is a real business doing the revenue they claim. Of course this is not hard
coded proof - just like yours are not hard coded proof of revenue fraud. and the share price reflects that reality.


As of today - based on all what I read on this stock, and at current evaluation, I think the probablility to make money
on this stock is higher going long.


save my prediction and read it in 2 months - probably less.


09 Aug 2010, 03:40 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Apolo: 
I do not remember you providing a single bit of evidence showing Orient paper is a real business doing the revenue
you claim. 
You have not, in my opinion, provided any analysis of the company or the business, and certainly not a good one, in
my opinion. 
Your predictions are nonsense. Noone is any good at predicting the price of a stock two months out.


09 Aug 2010, 12:03 PM


drjohn35
>a single bit of evidence showing Orient paper is a real business doing the revenue you claim.


from an Eric Jackson article:


"In addition, we have checked ONP's power consumption usage last year and this year against the cost of power for
industrial users in Hebei Province. The company's power usage for steam consumption matches its output. "


09 Aug 2010, 03:02 PM


apolo_11
seasaw -


I can not prove the revenue is real obviously - just like you failed in my opinion to prove it's fabricated.


but I think I read most of the articles on the subject - including yours - and I decided that it made more sense to go
long.


I wont reiterate all the argumentation again.


btw - on Doug movie - did you pay attention to the amount on the contract (@3:01)? it's look like a 100M RMB
contract or about 15M$. Like 3 times higher that the top one from 2009 and 5 times the top one from 2008.


quite impressive assuming its real obviously.


09 Aug 2010, 07:39 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/694998

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 59/65


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
apolo: 
are you kidding on the contracts in the video? We don't have any idea what they are for at all or even that they are
real. Not one ounce of detail in the video. Nothing about who the contract was with, what is was for, how much it was
for, nothing. Contract could be to buy jets for all we know. 
Would be a very easy exercise for the company to establish that the revenue is real, if it was. They haven't, which is
very problematic. 
You should read the SEC filings, the website(s), the press releases, look at the videos, readd all the cites in my
articles. It is very clear and obvious that this company has repeatedly made false statements. It is clearly contracting -
over time it makes less types of paper, It has fewer manufacturing facilities, it has fewer production lines, it has fewer
employees, it has substantially reduced the land it leases and/or owns for its operations and it repeatedly contradicts
itself. But, hey, if you want to believe that it tripled revenue during that same time period, you are welcome to and
welcome to vote on it with your purchase of your stock. Good luck!


09 Aug 2010, 10:58 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Hm, didn't K-mart (Sears Holdings) increase revenue and earnings by downsizing?


09 Aug 2010, 11:27 PM


apolo_11
seasaw -


Again your arguments are NOT evidences of massive revenue fraud.


As for the contract - it features a paper order for the amount of 100M RMB (~15M$), with name, specification,
quantity, unit price and total in RMB (Chinese yuan).


You can decide that it's fabricated of course. You can decide everything you see in this video is fabricated. Doug is
not Doug, the CEO is not the real one, and all the employees/trucks have been added using photoshop. It's your right.


I think this contract is real. I think ONP is a real business doing the revenue they claims. And to me it looks like 2010
will be a pretty good year for ONP.


=============== 
long @ 4.66


10 Aug 2010, 02:00 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
Wow, I can see why you are confused with Orient Paper. You really need to do your research if you are going to make
these comments. Are you referring to the Kmart that went bankrupt in 2002? I assume you are. It purchased Sears



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 60/65


Holding at the end of 2004 and reported its first year of years sales increase of .5% in 2009 and the second such
increase since 2001.


Apolo: 
let me try again - decrease in types of paper sold, decrease in manufacturing facilities, decrease in number of
production lines, decrease in number of employees, decrease in R&D, decrease in advertising and promotion
expenditures (although not large in the first place), substantial decrease in land leased and/or owned for operations,
and so on. The company is contracting. At the same time, ONP is reporting tripling revenue and quadrupling net
profit. And you think that is possibe on this planet in the paper manufacturing business in China? Pray tell how ONP
has accomplished this miraculous feat? ONP certainly hasn't provided a clue on how it has or, excuse me, they have
made some false representations that were then contradicted by other representations they made. Specifically, it was
somehow supposed to be occuring due to cutting edge, advanced technology beyond everyone else that was
responsible for incredible efficiency and giant sized margins well beyond other companies. How disappointing it was
to learn they have no R&D facilities and no R&D, unless you counted several line workers learning how to operated
the digital photo paper equipment.


seasaw -


Again your arguments are NOT evidences of massive revenue fraud.


As for the contract - it features a paper order for the amount of 100M RMB (~15M$), with name, specification,
quantity, unit price and total in RMB (Chinese yuan).


You can decide that it's fabricated of course. You can decide everything you see in this video is fabricated. Doug is
not Doug, the CEO is not the real one, and all the employees/trucks have been added using photoshop. It's your right.


A paper order for what tuype of paper? Was ONP ordering the paper from someone or were they ordering from ONP?
If they were ordering from ONP, who was ordering (chinese name and english name if you can)? What was the
amount? When was it to be delivered (if more than one order, the amounts and dates of order)? What were the unit
prices? What was the total? Was ONP to deliver or were they picking it up? (that is a priceles one by ONP that almost
every customers picks up the paper from them, almost as good as the one that it doesn't matter if you store the raw
materials outside exposed to the elements because it ends up getting processed in a vat of water).


I saw very few employees at the facility (loved the pictures of the employees cutting the paper by hand - real efficient
and leads to a lot of volume). I saw very few trucks at the facility (loved the guys unloading by hand, throwing bags
down to the guy below him - very efficient and leads to high production). I saw very few production lines and the ones
we saw were small - it was, according to Doug, a compete tour and he took pictures of everything - but those
production lines we saw couldn't produce a fraction of the approximately 600 tons a day ONP is claiming - they
couldn't produce a tenth of that. 
But, hey, that is just my opinion. Don't pay any attention to me. Evaluate for yourself. Best of luck!


10 Aug 2010, 04:21 AM


apolo_11
seasaw -



https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 61/65


You can decrease the types of paper sold, decrease the number of employees, decrease the R&D, decrease the
advertising and promotion expenditures..and still make more money. how?


by decreasing the price of your production. In this part of the world enough 1 cent below the concurrence to take the
market. Price is the big “decider” for Chinese buyers. Unless told otherwise the cheapest always prevails.


again - the fact you bring are not FRAUD related.


hope it helps.


=============== 
long @ 4.66


10 Aug 2010, 08:37 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
seasaw: 
Can I chuckle? Of course I am talking about Sears Holdings. I put it in apprentices. Sears kept the K-mart name, while
downsizing K-mart, closing stores, and cutting employees. This freed up capital that could be used elsewhere.
Therefore, the K-mart division of Sears Holdings became profitable again, and the stock has done very well since.


10 Aug 2010, 10:49 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
apolo: 
first, you changed my question to an easier one. But second, ONP does not report any decrease in their price of
production that would account for it being able to triple revenue while suffering the contraction I referred to. Not even
anywhere close.


Modie: 
(apprentices - do you mean parenthesis?). Your appear to abandon your point that Sears reduced employees while
increasing revenues and you didn't even claim that they did that anywhere near the scale ONP claims to have done.
Anyway, seems like I put this issue to bed and you have conceded. Good luck to you!  


10 Aug 2010, 04:00 PM


apolo_11
no - I took in account only the facts I could verify.


10 Aug 2010, 04:25 PM


apolo_11
bought more shares @ 4.91 thanks to new CCA article. 
i'm now long @ 4.69.


10 Aug 2010, 04:29 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709

https://seekingalpha.com/user/689709
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 62/65


Michael Bryant, Contributor
seasaw: 
No, I didn't abandon any point. Sears bought K-mart. K-mart is Sears. My point is it is possible for Sears, K-mart, or
whatever to increase revenue while decreasing employees. And earnings jumped 5-fold.


And thanks for the correction. Yes, I meant parenthesis.


10 Aug 2010, 08:41 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
What are you talking about? Are you being deliberately dishonest or is there some other explanation?


The percentage by which Sears revenue dropped was similar, in fact slightly higher, than the percentage by which the
number of employees dropped: 
2006 revenue: 53 mil 
2007 revenue: 50 mil 
2008 revenue: 46 mil 
2009 revenue: 44 mil


Employees as of Feb. 3, 2007: 352,000 
Employees as of Feb. 3, 2008: 337,000 
employees as of Jan. 31, 2009: 324,000 
employees as of Jan. 30, 2010: 323,000


this data is directly from the 10k's of Sears.


11 Aug 2010, 02:17 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Then why did SHLD (Sears Holding's stock) skyrocket after it went public and reported earning jumped 5-fold while
they downsized. finance.yahoo.com/q/bc...= And looking at the chart, that was BEFORE 2006. You gave the wrong
numbers.


12 Aug 2010, 11:13 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
Lets take a basic financial course, please. You were talking revenue and number of employees. I gave you those
numbers. Now you are talking stock price and net profit. 
The stock prices chart you give is all over the place, the stock is up, then down, then up, then down. Stock prices go
all over the place for all kinds of reasons, including many crazy and irrational reasons, as well as even sometimes due
to stock manipulation or even phony trades. I don't intend to explain short term stock prices, other than to say that
eventually over the long term a stock tnds toward reflecting its return on equity although it may vary widly at any given
time. 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

http://finance.yahoo.com/q/bc?s=SHLD&t=my&l=on&z=m&q=l&c

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 63/65


I didn't look at net profit of Sears. They may have improved net profit even though revenue was reducing by reducing
expenses. This is not what Orient Paper is doing. Orient Paper is claiming tripling revenue while decreasing
employees 30%. Sears, on the other hand, reported decreasing revenues while decreasing employees in close to the
same proportion. 
IN other words, your analogy doesn't fit. I am gathering that you haven't looked at ONP"s financial statements and
don't really understand much about it, correct? 


13 Aug 2010, 01:47 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
No, I was always talking about the time period before 2006. Why did you provide the numbers after 2006? And if I am
correct, Sears Holdings downsized ever since they went public. As a matter of fact, Sears had to downsize K-mart
even before it went public to increase their revenues.


I didn't buy the Sears story, because it was non-sustainable. You can only downsize so much. Saying ONP's business
model of increasing revenue and downsizing is non-sustainable would be a more legitimate argument to me than they
are fraud because they increase revenue while downsizing. It is hard, but it can be done for a period of time.


13 Aug 2010, 09:05 AM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
When you actually do some work and provide some data, why don't we talk. You clearly don't know anything about
Sears Holding. I am gathering you didn't bother to read their SEC filings or look up the data. That is why you didn't
provide it. 
The merger did'nt occur until 2005, so 2006 was the first full year for which there was data for Sears Holding, that it
why I started with the data from that year. 
Sears Holding was supposed to be your brilliant example of a company that did what ONP claims, more than tripling
revenue while decreasing profit more than 30%. Didn't happen with Sears Holding. It is not happening with ONP. 
Next time, why don't you provide data and cites like I do, instead of just talking about that which you do not know.


13 Aug 2010, 10:24 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
Then why does the stock chart for Sears Holdings starts in 2003? What I state is based on memory. I have been
watching the market long before 2003 like I note in my bio. I remember Bloomberg stating earning rose 5-fold, and
Cramer telling everybody to buy the stock back in 2003. I didn't. Could have made some money if I did. But the stock
is now, 7 years later, back where is was when Cramer told everybody to buy.


13 Aug 2010, 08:11 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
Well, don't wate my time with your inaccurate memory.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 64/65


13 Aug 2010, 08:37 PM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
seasaw64: 
I'm not. I never asked you to respond to EVERY one of my posts on ONP plus a lot of other positive posts explaining
how you see the positive posts to be wrong.


13 Aug 2010, 10:54 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Modie: 
I am sure you didn't. I never asked you and the massive team of pumpers of this stock based on no information
whatsoever to go around posting everywhere shamelessly pumping this stock.


14 Aug 2010, 12:55 AM


Michael Bryant, Contributor
And who said I am a pumper?


14 Aug 2010, 09:39 AM


Morgenstern
An update to all the above. Just finished reading in the March 7th, 2011 issue of Barron's on page 36 an interview
with none other than our friend or foe, as the case may be, Carson Block of Muddy Waters fame. Anybody remember
him? At least now I know what he looks like!! (More than I can say for me).


ONP was mentioned as a prelude to the interview. The information on ONP was a short rehash of his statements
concerning overstatement of revenues and misappropriation of funds. Don't know where his partner was for the
interview unless he is the silent type or there was a management/ownership change in Muddy Waters.


Block has a noble "White Horse" approach in sounding the alarm with respect to suspected frauds. Hope he
continues to do that but that he also learns to check his facts more thoroughly as it appears he did not with respect to
ONP, whether by design or not, I don't know. Although, as with most, if not, all so called "White Horse" (could
substitute White House here also) approaches they unfortunately stem more from greed than for the good of the
whole; the latter being an indirect result, in my opinion, of the former.


There was no mention in the prelude about the results of the audit performed on ONP's books by one of the top
(general consensus) international accounting firms (name skips me at the moment) along with one of the top
international law firms. The results were, as I believe them to be, on point with respect to the levels originally reported
by the company and exonerated ONP from frauduently overstating revenues and misappropriating funds. To wit, they
are still listed and still throwing off positive cash flow from operations although still a bit weak to fund the company's
operations for 2009 as an infusion of approximately $5M from a stock sale was needed to help fund cap-ex for that
year. Would like to see what 2010 figures show.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/author/michael-bryant

https://seekingalpha.com/user/641605
5/23/2018 Orient Paper: Key Pieces of Evidence for Fraud - Orient Paper Inc. (NYSEMKT:ONP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/214639-orient-paper-key-pieces-of-evidence-for-fraud 65/65


It was also from greed that I was able to reduce my overall investment cost by doubling up my investment at a lower
price. Although Carson appears to have missed his mark with respect to ONP being an outright fraud, he has been
very helpful towards lowering my aggregate loss in the stock also. See, Carson really isn't so bad after all.


I'm obviously long ONP and have been through all of the "Muddy Waters".


05 Mar 2011, 12:40 PM


Business Economics Analyst, Contributor
Carson Block checked his facts very thoroughly with ONP. 
ONP was audited by an audit committee, not the accounting firm. The results did not exonnerate them, they
implicated management in blatant insubordination. management refused to let the auditors on the facilities to
audit the production equipment to see if it was actually there, what it was worth, and how much it was
producing. Clearly, the obvious conclusion is that management denied access to the aduit committee because
the production equipment either did not exist, was worth a pittance, and did not produce much, if any, paper.
The audit committee made it clear that a conclusion could not be reached because the audit could not be
completed. Shockingly, management was not imdeidately fired, but was allowed to conintue despite its blatant
insubordination. 
Carson Block hit it right on the head with ONP, except he may have overvalued the company.


06 Mar 2011, 05:29 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/business-economics-analyst
