5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 1/46


China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up?
Dec. 31, 2010 8:35 AM ET114 comments
by: Matt Berry


Imagine that a Hollywood director is making a new film and he offers you and your four
buddies a million dollars. You only need to skydive from 8000 feet up. You all agree and
the director gives you parachuting instructions along with five parachutes which he has
packed himself. After reading the instructions, buddy number one jumps out of the plane,
the parachute doesn't open but just before he smashes into the ground he radios back
that there was no chute in the backpack. Buddy number two shrugs his shoulders, looks
back at the instructions and says, “It's OK; it says right here that the other parachutes are
packed and ready to go.” You try to get him to face the fact that something outside of the
narrow parameters of the instructions has already contradicted the former assumptions
and any trust he might place in the document. Buddy number two looks a little concerned
for a moment, but decides to call the director personally. After nodding his head five times,
“uh huh ... I see ... Wow ... you don't say … well, that's it then,” he gets off the phone and
says, “It's O.K. The director confirmed the instructions. Everything's correct. And besides,
the first backpack was only one-fifth of the scene and the other four-fifths – that would be
us – are different. There's a million dollars waiting for us at the bottom. We're good to go.”


How does the lesser portion of a failed test grant total confidence in the untested
remainder? How can a larger quantity trump the poor quality of its own reporting and not
also trump our claim to intelligence? Easy. Investors do it all the time. They are in my
opinion doing it right now with China-Biotics (OTC:CHBT). When there's a lot of money
and a reputation that you can win or lose, you're in a very emotional predicament.
Investing is too often not a logical exercise consequent of restraining emotions, but an
exercise in enabling emotions by way of logical precision. Evidently, the 1/5 of a failure is
too uncomfortable of a thought, given the sweet dreams that we would have to give up,
and so we avoid any evaluation of the quality of the plan. This leaves the remaining 4/5ths
of the enterprise substantially superior in quantity – and this quantity feeds our emotions.
At this point excessive precision with the accounting lends us confidence. And when
confidence rises up to challenge the fact of a solid turd; it is usually confidence that wins
that turd.


Who would really be the second skydiver in the situation? Is it too ridiculous of an
example? Yet, why should this situation sound so implausible? Here we are with such
situations in the stock market every day. Let's go with a China-Biotics rundown.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CHBT
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 2/46


In brief, management claimed 111 retail outlets in their Form 10-K March 2010 and then
103 in the June 2010 10-Q. (here and here)


Retail Outlets were a strategic part of China-Biotics, at least as of March 2010. From the 10-K: 


We continue to survey cities in China to assess and select suitable locations for new outlets. As part of


our strategy, we will also consider licensing franchisees to operate retail outlets in due course.


We intend to expand our operations by opening additional new retail outlets to facilitate direct sales of


our products to customers.


In preparation for the opening of additional retail outlets, we have also been actively recruiting and


training retail sales staff. We have already successfully recruited a number of very experienced sales


professionals and have trained a pool of sales staff.


We continue to survey cities in China to assess and select suitable locations for new outlets.


We intend to expand our operations by opening additional new retail outlets to facilitate direct sales of


our products to customers.


After the June 10-Q claim of 103 outlets, Citron Research challenged those numbers,
claiming that many of the retail outlets were pure fiction, and noted the lack of published
addresses.


Management then published a list of addresses, which you can find here (.pdf)


Some short-sellers hired investigators to test addresses and take photos. Out of 43
locations they covered, only 2 were branded retail outlets. 18 were products on the
shelves of other company's retail stores. The other 23 locations came up as short as my
position in the stock. (see here)


There was a furious debate between Longs and Shorts and it was anything but clear how
many stores there really were. We all knew that some of them existed. I wondered if the
short-sellers didn't conveniently select these 43 and pass over the remaining 60 or so
because they were indeed stores. Not so. The issue was quickly resolved by the company
itself. From the September 10-Q, we find China-Biotics' next claim,



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1271057/000114420410033291/v187643_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1271057/000114420410042045/v192653_10q.htm

http://www.citronresearch.com/index.php/2010/08/30/it-doesnt-take-a-microscope-to-see-whats-wrong-with-china-biotics-nasdaqchbt/

http://chbtupload.files.wordpress.com/2010/09/store-locations-provided-by-chbt.pdf

http://therealchbt.com/
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 3/46


In our continuing effort to shift our focus from retail business to bulk business and to
improve operating efficiency, we closed 95 retail outlets during the quarter ended
September 30, 2010.” They also said that they added a few outlets, ending with a
new store count: “we are operating 15 retail outlets in China.


From 100+ in June to 15 in September. Closing 95 retail outlets in one quarter. I try to
imagine the workload on existing staff, the logistics and red tape. This was either a
financial strategy or a cover up. But even if we accept this as a legitimate strategy, how
could it also be financially efficient? Why shift focus from a profitable segment of the
business? Let's go back to the March 2010 10-K, before the Citron Research report was
released:


The promotion and sale of probiotics products has historically been most effective
through word-of-mouth marketing. We believe that the use of Community Network
will provide an additional channel to educate the public about the benefits of
probiotics and to provide advice on health related matters.


We believe that the use of Community Network to market and sell our products will
be cost effective compared with the traditional advertising and selling through
distributors, and that it should increase our profit margin.”


“Profitable” and “Cost effective”?


Is there a relationship between the “community networks” and the “retail outlets”?
According to a July 15, 2009 press release for the fourth quarter and full year (2009)
results we find the statements:



http://www.chn-biotics.com/files/07-15-09%20CHBT%20Q4%202009%20Earnings%20Release%20FINAL2.pdf
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 4/46


During the fourth quarter of the 2009 fiscal year, net sales increased 18.9% to $15.5
million from $13.1 million a year ago. The increase resulted from significant growth
in the sales of new products, most of which were sold in the Company’s Shining-
branded retail outlets, and growth in the bulk additive business. The Company’s
established retail outlets and well-trained sales assistants contributed to the rapid
revenue growth from new products through its customer-oriented sales model and
establishment of the Community Network, which provides health education and
probiotics-related seminars to health-conscious consumers in the middle and high
income levels.


Profitable. Cost Efficient. Driven by the community networks which were enabled by
the retail outlets and their trained staff. If so, why close those retail outlets? How
would a move to wholesale distribution be more efficient and profitable than the
efficiency and profitability already in place? What will happen to the community
networks and the “rapid revenue growth”?


What happened between 103 stores in June to 15 stores by September 30? One
difference impossible to ignore is the emergence of the short-sellers' photos.


In the June 11, 2010 press release we find the statement,


The long-term growth prospect of retail probiotics products in China is promising as
more and more Chinese become aware of the benefit of probiotics to enhance their
health condition. Therefore, our current business lines continued to generate record
growth momentum.


Nonetheless, after the negative report by Citron Research, in a mere three months we
went from 103 retail stores to 15. Just out of curiosity, how does the investor experience
that subjectively? Does he feel like the rug is being pulled out from under his feet or that
his mind is not connected to reality? Neither. Interestingly, the once furious debate over
how many retail outlets there really were is now ho-hum chatter about whether or not their
absence is meaningful or meaningless. The explanation now is that revenue from the
retail outlets was only a small portion of total revenue; the greater part of the business is
still intact.


But if we can't trust the management what basis do we have for declaring any
percentages of revenue from either the retail outlets, the standard distribution channels, or
the bulk business? How do we know it is a small portion? Or big? Does a poor quality
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 5/46


report find itself overthrown by its own touted large quantities or is the mind overthrown by
an ego that “deserves” to be inflated … I mean, wealthy?


The entire question of the unreliability of reports seems to have made no mental impact
whatsoever. The stock was soaring as I wrote this.


Of course, any failure of the retail outlets does not guarantee the failure of the distribution
and bulk businesses. It is in fact not impossible that the others might function as claimed.
It is however my own estimation of the reliability of the reports that must shift, and with the
adjustment, the probability of the outcome needs to be recalculated. I don't believe in
telekinesis. My mind doesn't move the facts in China; the facts coming in from China must
move my mind. At this point it is imperative to inspect the business from outside of the
official statements and documents, not to mention how important it is to vet the engineers
and promoters. Is the management honest? We certainly don't have an accident here. We
don't have the 103 stores we had last June. We have photos. We have a claim of 15
stores. Did we have a strategic reduction or a cover up? Or is the issue so small it is not
worth considering, given the huge growth story for 2011? This point is crucial. Imagine
sitting at a poker table and letting a man who cheated the last hand play out the next
because you listened to what he had to say and found nothing amiss.


We sometimes have an opportunity to test what we hear with what can be seen. Or we
can enlarge the message and mentally shrink the evidence against it until it is so
“negligible” the happy story overwhelms our attention again. This emotionalism comes
equipped with a very curious slide-rule: How do you rate the impact of a loss on a scale
from small to even smaller? By the logic of a “negligible” impact of lost outlets we should
be more bullish on the reduction of stores if the revenue contribution had been zero
percent, but we can't do that because that would lend credence to the suggestion that
most of the stores were complete fictions to begin with. On the other hand, the greater
their contribution to revenue the more irrational closing the stores would be – not to
mention the greater the hit the closures will have on next year's numbers due to lost
revenue. So to promote the stock at this point you have to go small with the outlet
revenue, but not too small. If Goldilocks is going to steal this porridge she needs Baby
Bear revenue: “This one's really bad; that one's worse, but this one's just bad enough.”
(Then the bears come home.)


The last thing I need to do at this stage is to rely on the story and the numbers given in the
SEC documents as filed thus far. The company's admission to 15 retail outlets this last
quarter should have been a power-fact. But it was a mere 1/5th of total revenue? Or 8%?
... 5%? Leaving us 80% of the old revenue? Or, maybe even 90%. But who cares for the
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 6/46


Comments (114)


remainder? What is four-fifths of zero reliability? A gamble on a random outcome. After
having such proof of the unreliability of the management's SEC reports it then requires a
failure in self-auditing to continue supplying precise answers to even the most concrete
questions of cash flows, assets, new buildings and contracts. To think otherwise, business
knowledge would have to dwarf your experience with the reality behind it. At this point,
one simply has no intelligent justification for certain types of questions, like, “Based upon
this document, how much …. ?” Yet, what happens? When a really good get-rich story is
underwhelmed by its own poor facts it usually takes flight.


Disclosure: I am short CHBT.


 Like this article


Emerging Markets Investor, Contributor
Way before the negative report on August 30th, the Company published its June 30th 10-Q and stated: "During the
quarter ended June 30, 2010, we added 1 distributor for retail products and closed 8 retail outlets, as we believe
selling retail products through our distribution network is a more efficient way to grow our retail market." On the
August 9th earnings call, management reiterated these points.


Therefore, it is grossly inaccurate to portray that management was involved in a cover-up of non-existent stores. In
the quarter that ended September 30th, management continued the store closures that began at the end of the
previous quarter. Companies are entitled to shift strategies and this one made complete sense for the following
reasons:


1) Sales from retail outlets were never a large percentage of sales, but represented almost half of the employees.
Retail outlet sales were 9.1%, 16%, and 16% of total retail sales in FY'08, FY'09, and FY'10 and represented 9.0%,
14.7%, and 11.7% of total net sales (including bulk) in FY'08, FY'09, and FY'10. Distributors on the other hand,
represented 84% of retail sales over the past two fiscal years and as management stated in early August, distributors
represented a more efficient way to grow the retail market. This is especially important as management needs to
focus on building its bulk probiotics business instead of building out their own dedicated retail stores for only 14 retail
products.


2) In FY'10, each retail outlet accounted for only $90,779 in sales per year. However, with a vast majority of the
locations in Shanghai, the lease costs were increasing dramatically as Shanghai real estate prices has increased
significantly over the past 1-2 years. In addition, the Company had 232 retail outlet employees and labor costs in
major cities were also increasing dramatically. Therefore, the operating margin was dropping quickly for each store.
My analysis of the margins of each store after the cost of goods sold, lease costs, and retail employees, was not
pretty.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/emerging-markets-investor
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 7/46


The retail locations posted on the Company's website are from sample locations supplied by distributors since a
majority of the Company operated retail outlets are now closed (this was fixed the day after the sample locations were
published by Grayling, the Company's IR firm, as Ms. Yan, who runs the retail business does not speak or read
English). However, prior to the closing of the retail outlets, I visited several retail locations in person and saw photos of
additional locations to account for approximately 20 locations. In addition, at the Company's Investor Day on
September 20th, I saw a list of all 103 retail locations with addresses and copies of actual leases.


As highlighted in my latest article on China-Biotics: 
seekingalpha.com/artic... 
The closing cost was slightly more than 4.8 million RMB with 4 million RMB in lost lease and deposit costs and 0.8
million RMB in severance costs (approximately US $716,000). These costs were offset by a foreign exchange rate
gain on cash of $974,854 taking the Other income / expense line to a net gain of $258,233 in Q2.


In conclusion, I can say with 100% certainty, the retail outlets did exist in the past. However, as a shareholder, I am
glad that the dedicated retail outlet experiment is over and the Company can grow its business in a more efficient
manner with a focus on being a food ingredients company.


31 Dec 2010, 01:55 AM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  The article is as much about investor behavior as it is about CHBT. Your comments provide
supporting material:  
“1) Sales from retail outlets were never a large percentage of sales, but represented almost half of the
employees. Retail outlet sales were 9.1%, 16%, and 16% …. In FY'10, each retail outlet accounted for only
$90,779 in sales per year …”


Again, this leapfrogs the issue of the quality of the reports by focusing on the quantities in those reports.
Quality of data precedes any quantification of that data. If there is a road sign, “Go straight ahead” but you
can see that the road goes over a cliff, you would instantly say, “Something's wrong with that sign.” You
wouldn't go over the cliff. With investing however, the fears of losing money, 'missing out', or losing face invert
our behavior and we sometimes prefer the report (sign) to the evidence (a cliff) that has already contradicted
it. This was a key point made in my article.


Also, on large or small percentages of total sales: I dealt with this in the paragraph that begins, “We
sometimes have an opportunity to test what we hear with what can been seen.”


And you also commented …


'Way before the negative report on August 30th, the Company published its June 30th 10-Q and stated:
"During the quarter ended June 30, 2010, we added 1 distributor for retail products and closed 8 retail outlets,
as we believe selling retail products through our distribution network is a more efficient way to grow our retail
market." On the August 9th earnings call, management reiterated these points.'


First, the paragraph you cited was incomplete. The full passage is as follows. (I have underlined the
sentences which were not included.): “As of June 30, 2010, we have 27 distributors for retail products, and we
are operating 103 retail outlets in China (as of June 30, 2009, we had 107 retail outlets). During the quarter
ended June 30, 2010, we added 1 distributor for retail products and closed 8 retail outlets, as we believe



https://seekingalpha.com/article/242696-china-biotics-my-top-stock-pick-for-2011

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 8/46


selling retail products through our distribution network is a more efficient way to grow our retail market. We
have been hiring consultants who have many years of experience in the direct selling industry to facilitate the
development of the Shining brand outlets. We are also creating a “Community Network” through which we
continuously provide training and seminars to educate the public about becoming more health conscious and
about the benefits of probiotics and the Shining products.


The phrase “the development of the Shining brand outlets” clearly refers to a program that is underway. And
with the supporting material in my article, we can see that the “Community Networks” are facilitated through
these outlets.


Second, “way before” is relative to the observer. In absolute terms, the time period you refer to was one
month. CHBT published the June 10q on August 9. Citron Research released their first report on August 30.
But if you like we can go out six months and reach the same conclusion. I can say that 103 heretofore
profitable retail outlets were closed in 6 months instead of saying that 95 heretofore profitable outlets were
closed in 3 months. It would just be a choice between bad and bad.


 
“My analysis of the margins of each store after the cost of goods sold, lease costs, and retail employees, was
not pretty.”


And the fact that your analysis contradicted CHBT claims of a successful outlet program didn't give you
pause?


“… prior to the closing of the retail outlets, I visited several retail locations in person and saw photos of
additional locations to account for approximately 20 locations. In addition, at the Company's Investor Day on
September 20th, I saw a list of all 103 retail locations with addresses and copies of actual leases.”


 
Why doesn't the company publish this? Why say “approximately 20” … why not give an exact number? Why
not get the list, photos, bank statements, … etc., and publish them?


If I take it for granted that you saw 20 locations, maybe we could build a case for 30 total outlets. Even so, we
still must face the fact that in June there were 103. It is the missing locations that are in question. To say that
someone has been 1/3 truthful and forthcoming …. at this point it's like trying to feel good about a relationship
because someone has been 30% upfront with you. It's a quality issue. The management has or has not been
honest with investors. Of course it is possible that the evidence exists and that there were indeed outlets that
have not yet been shown to investors. A positive claim has been made; positive evidence should be available.
But until we get that evidence what conclusion can we make?


“In conclusion, I can say with 100% certainty, the retail outlets did exist in the past.”


I can say that too. Supporting that claim however is something else.


31 Dec 2010, 03:37 PM


A. Hendrick
Jason- Any thoughts on the following?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/499631
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 9/46


"Lianhua Supermarket shelves in a Xinzha, the reporter saw double-Jin Youyi bacterial protein powder, but
the display of the two commodity production date is January 2, 2010, and it has been more than 1 year. 货架
销售员称“很少有人买这个产品”。 Shelf salesman said "very few people buy this product." "


translate.google.com/t...


What's the shelf life on this stuff? Doesn't quite jive with the "$6,294 in monthly sales per outlet" that you
highlighted in the past.


seekingalpha.com/autho...


Do you still think supermarkets were moving $200 a day of CHBT probiotics?


21 Jan 2011, 12:51 PM


Emerging Markets Investor, Contributor
I think the shelf life is around 2 years if the product is micro-encapsulated. I am not aware of that
supermarket, but I am sure if we go to USA supermarkets, you can find products with old shelf lives. Not all
locations are fast moving.


I never said that the supermarkets were moving $200 per day. The CHBT retail outlets were selling around
$200 per day. I don't have an exact count of the number of points of sales through distributors (e.g.,
supermarkets, pharmacies) to know what the average sales per day per supermarket might be.


21 Jan 2011, 01:46 PM


Mike Renaldi
I would say the article is a fraud like the rest of the hit pieces. Coincidentally it appears on options expiration.
Its very clear the shorts are just manipulating the stock price as best they can. With the tiny float they can
attack the options and drive the price down 2-3 points. They will call this company a fraud (knowing it is not)
just to make money driving it down. Waldo and friends are not legit about the company being a fraud.. they
are just stating it to make trades.


21 Jan 2011, 02:07 PM


A. Hendrick
Quick reminder: The "retail stores" were mostly shelf space in supermarkets.


The average "retail store", per your calculation above, did $6,294 in sales a month. Do you still find this
number believable?


21 Jan 2011, 02:08 PM


Waldo Mushman
As this grows you may appreciate the implications. The distributors are a lie just like the stores.


You were told that the big time distributor was selling millions of dollars worth of the spice into the major
grocery store in Shanghai. The truth is that the stores mentioned, Carrefour, Tesco, and Lotus sell trivial



http://translate.google.com/translate?js=n&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&layout=2&eotf=1&sl=zh-CN&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.yicai.com%2Fnews%2F2011%2F01%2F661660.html

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jason-nevader/comment/1190555

https://seekingalpha.com/author/emerging-markets-investor

https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499631

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 10/46


amounts if any of Shing Brand product. Who do you think the "distributors" are selling to?


As you try to worm on your words, lets keep it clear that you were suggesting this as the best stock on the
planet with a target of $200? You have a significant obligation to review your long time support and help the
people you will hurt by remaining unresponsive to these issues.


John


21 Jan 2011, 02:39 PM


Mike Renaldi
Just posted the article is most likely forged and a fraud. CHBT has been making money as reported in its
filings all Tax docements and bank statements were confirmed by ROTH capital at the investor day. Roth
confirmed.


21 Jan 2011, 02:44 PM


Mike Renaldi
Article is just a 'blog' by a person with a name of a chinese accountant. Rehashes same garbage Waldo and
the shorts been stating over and over. All of this was proven false in the investor day however Waldo
continues to spread the lies. Waldo and his team are looking for a way to cover thats why they publicly show
up and spread the lies. If Waldo knew his picks were frauds he would sit back until the companies folded and
covered his short position. He wouldn't have to be spreading gloom and doom . He's a fraud. Makes perfect
sense.


21 Jan 2011, 04:05 PM


DrRufus
Matt , good luck with investing. I am sure you are not as ignorant about other stocks as you are about CHBT. You are
way out of your league here.  
(long CHBT)


31 Dec 2010, 10:22 AM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  "You are way out of your league here."


I'm beginning to suspect that.


31 Dec 2010, 03:39 PM


Van Gastel
GET OUT OF THIS WHILE YOU CAN!!!


YOU'VE BEEN LUCKY, take your profit and run like hell, so you can spend a happy new year.


Greetings to all, long and short.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317

https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317

https://seekingalpha.com/user/720539

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/user/173922
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 11/46


31 Dec 2010, 10:42 AM


Sean Wright, Contributor
Hi Matt,


I like your writing style, although I disagree with your conclusions.


Here is a clip from the Financial Times yesterday that you might find interesting. Beijing is raising its minimum wage
by 21% following a 20% increase in June. The rising labor costs management is referring to are real. Selling the
product through these retail outlets did not make a lot of sense. I've visited the company twice in China and I can tell
you it's the real deal and very impressive. However, the retail stores are not impressive, and I've visited several. The
retail strategy never made much sense to me. B2B sales make a lot more sense.


www.ft.com/cms/s/0/30f...


You can write all day on this subject, but I've seen the bank statements, tax filings, and leases for the now closed
stores all with my own eyes. I've also seen the factories twice. I even took a sachet of CHBT's protein probiotic in my
OJ this morning. It's quite good.


Kind regards,


Sean


31 Dec 2010, 01:26 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Thanks for the article. In case anyone else is interested in reading it and has trouble linking to it, try
the following link. (I had some trouble, but I've been having trouble all day with my computer). Good article:
www.ft.com/cms/s/0/30f...


You wrote, 
“I've seen the bank statements, tax filings, and leases for the now closed stores all with my own eyes. I've also seen
the factories twice.”


Do I understand this correctly? In Shanghai, on September 20, 2010, China-biotics hosted its first “Investor Day
Event.” At this event the company showed key documents that they did not and have not released to the general
public. Am I mistaken about this? If I am mistaken, please show me where I can see the bank statements that you
saw. Was it during this presentation in Shanghai that you saw the leases? Were you shown leases for all 95 closed
outlets?


31 Dec 2010, 04:59 PM


tjcfool
Looks like another desperate short looking for a way out to cover. Late to the scam game Matt? The smart
shorts sold long ago ,after the bogus short then report game they played . Game over now!


31 Dec 2010, 07:29 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/sean-wright

http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/30f7f9e0-1277-11e0-b4c8-00144feabdc0.html#axzz19iLtDa7t

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/30f7f9e0-1277-11e0-b4c8-00144feabdc0.html#axzz19j4jNrDv

https://seekingalpha.com/user/701661
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 12/46


sb8636
Gotta say, if true - which it likely is - this is a massive violation of Reg FD.


en.wikipedia.org/wiki/...


10 Feb 2011, 02:21 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I never received an explanation for this comment:


Nevader: "I have the list of all of the addresses of the retail stores that make up 7.8% of overall revenues. I
tell you what, you tell me your real name and biography as well as the name, company name, and phone
number of your competitor contact, and I will give you the addresses of the retail stores before they are listed
on the Company's website." 
Aug 31 09:39 am 
seekingalpha.com/autho...


10 Feb 2011, 02:56 PM


phinance101
I am guessing that Jason shillboy has been busy consulting with legal counsel on how to avoid prosecution.
He has probably eaten that list.


10 Feb 2011, 03:06 PM


TrekRider
I don't want to get too terribly specific here as most of this stuff has been covered ad nauseam. Mr. Berry, you
reference the Citron articles extensively. I'd like to offer a quote from the first Citron article dated Aug 30, 2010. I
quote,


It would also be possible to show pictures of the half-finished over-budget manufacturing facility side-by-side with
company claims that it was already in production, or the photos of their current production facilities the size of a
“bathroom” where the acidophilus pills drop out of a machine two by two.


www.citronresearch.com...


This comment stands in stark contrast to Jason Nevader's "Investor Day" article dated one month later on Sept. 30,
2010.


seekingalpha.com/artic...


Now I know a good project manager and crew can make all the difference, but that's a heck of allot of building for the
month's time between the Citron article and Mr. Nevader's rebuttal.


I can also see where Citron might get the relative size of the facilities mixed up. With the vast quantities of you know
what coming from that quarter, you'd need a gargantuan sized bathroom alright.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/684656

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regulation_Fair_Disclosure

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jason-nevader/comment/1188562

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316

http://www.citronresearch.com/index.php/2010/08/30/it-doesnt-take-a-microscope-to-see-whats-wrong-with-china-biotics-nasdaqchbt/#more-430

https://seekingalpha.com/article/227866-china-biotics-pictures-provide-evidence-of-a-high-quality-business
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 13/46


With this stark contrast in mind between Citron's imagined 2 by 2 "bathroom" sized facilities compared to Mr.
Nevader's photographs of a vast, modern probiotic manufacturing facility, might I direct you to your own prose. I
quote,


But if we can't trust the management what basis do we have for declaring any percentages of revenue from either the
retail outlets, the standard distribution channels, or the bulk business? How do we know it is a small portion? Or big?
Does a poor quality report find itself overthrown by its own touted large quantities or is the mind overthrown by an ego
that “deserves” to be inflated … I mean, wealthy?


The entire question of the unreliability of reports seems to have made no mental impact whatsoever. The stock was
soaring as I wrote this.


01 Jan 2011, 12:54 AM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I'm worried that we might misunderstand each other here, and I certainly do not want to find
myself guilty of a straw man argument if we do. So, let me confirm “your logic of my logic.” Are you saying
that, based upon my own reasoning, if Citron failed a test presented by Nevader, I should then lower my
estimation of Citron's reports? And then in turn I should find the photos of the retail outlets to be unreliable?


01 Jan 2011, 06:52 PM


TrekRider
Allow me to clarify. I am not saying that Citron failed a test presented by Mr. Nevader. I am saying Mr.
Nevader invalidated a thesis presented by Citron. And yes, I am saying based upon your own reasoning, you
should then lower your estimation of Citron's reports.


01 Jan 2011, 09:39 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  And then in turn I should find the photos of the retail outlets to be unreliable?


01 Jan 2011, 09:45 PM


Waldo Mushman
The photos of CHBT's facilities and production line as described by Citron exist. I have seen the video.
Unfortunately the video was taken in late May and the newly finished facility is what was presented to the
visitors in September. Prior to the completion of the new installation CHBT had other manufacturing
equipment that is accurately described in the Citron report.


No one disputes the existence of fine, modern facilities today. They clearly are in place and are operating.
The issue is CHBT's revenue which is probably less than 1mm annually.


John


01 Jan 2011, 10:03 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 14/46


TrekRider
Make of the retail outlets what you will.


It is my *opinion* that the short surveillance machine watched China-Biotics management closing the stores,
thought they could concoct a gruesome short-sided story to match the newly emerging heretofore unknown
facts, and started their "Muckster" campaign.


I suspect CHBT management, rather than being criminal, are not entirely current in their thoughts and actions
as presented in the SEC documents. A concern which should be corrected, but not a deathly problem.


01 Jan 2011, 10:06 PM


Waldo Mushman
And you don't find it amazing that none of the closed stores can be found anywhere on the internet? Both
Baidu and Googlle maps locate 11 CHBT locations in all of China. As you know map data is normally dated
and certainly is not current. The 11 located in mapping software are the same stores that survived the drastic
closings. There are no additional stores to be found on Google or Baidu. It would seem reasonable to expect
that maybe one or two of the stores they closed could be on the mapping software. Or in a directory.


To make this clearer....100% of the stores they kept open can be found on mapping software prior to the
closings. Zero percent of the closed stores can be found anywhere in data sets that predate the closings by
many months.


John


01 Jan 2011, 10:43 PM


TrekRider
I'm still waiting to see these images of the original facilities the size of a "bathroom." I didn't know those sheep
over there at Pope were so easily fleeced, having loaned $25MM to a company with such meager
manufacturing capabilities. I'd imagine I should also hold the DD of Roth Capital suspect before the awesome
might of the Citron blog?


02 Jan 2011, 02:31 AM


Reason10
“The photos of CHBT's facilities and production line as described by Citron exist. I have seen the video.
Unfortunately the video was taken in late May and the newly finished facility is what was presented to the
visitors in September”


If they had a video of the facility back in May the size of a bathroom then why the hell didn’t they add that to
their hit piece? That would have been the icing on the cake. They could have made a fortune.....case over.
Again, because there was no video of the facility in Pudong being bathroom size. I know. So quit spreading
lies.


02 Jan 2011, 09:35 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316

https://seekingalpha.com/user/746525

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 15/46


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Your posts are mysterious. In light of Roth's recent history, what could you possibly mean by
the following?


"I'd imagine I should also hold the DD of Roth Capital suspect before the awesome might of the Citron blog?"


Do you trust or mistrust Roth's research? And based upon that answer, are you long or short CHBT?


02 Jan 2011, 12:16 PM


TrekRider
I find my comments considerably less cryptic than this supposed Citron video.


Roth worked the late 2009 offering. I assume they at least walked through the plant before selling approx.
$70MM of China-Biotics stock, who knows though.


www.sec.gov/Archives/e...


Long CHBT


02 Jan 2011, 01:30 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  TrekRider, I guess you're not going to follow through with your logic.


You wrote, 
“... yes, I am saying based upon your own reasoning, you should then lower your estimation of Citron's
reports.”


I repeated the next question, 
“And then in turn I should find the photos of the retail outlets to be unreliable? “


You neglected to answer twice.


Maybe you get it. We shouldn't confuse what the camera snapped with the cameraman. If source A presents
a photo of empty space where a store should be, I now have two sources: source A and the Camera. If a
source B should find out that source A lied about OTHER research, it would be imperative that I lower my
estimations of the reliability of source A. (We both agree here, in principle.) But why would I throw out the
photos without a good reason? (Maybe you agree here too.) They are still solid evidence. Are they or are they
not reliable? Make a case against them if you can. If there is no credible case against them, they stay. As an
investor, the existence of the stores is my focus, so any case against source A, because he lied to me, would
of course result in my lower estimation of his trustworthiness, but would thereafter remain irrelevant to the
issue of stores.


I do not rely on Citron. I do rely on the photos taken. Citron's interpretations are not my source. The photos
presented are.


02 Jan 2011, 01:36 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1271057/000114420409050865/v161650_424b5.htm

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 16/46


Author’s reply »  "I'd imagine I should also hold the DD of Roth Capital suspect before the awesome might of
the Citron blog?"


How would Citron's case for fraud make Roth's downgrade to a Sell rating suspect?


Headline due diligence:


“Wall Street Journal - Sep 21, 2010  
Roth Capital cut its stockinvestment rating on ChinaBiotics IncCHBT $9.83$0.69 6.55% manufacturer of
biotechnology products and supplements to sell from buy ...” 
tinyurl.com/2awsxw7 (read text)


 
Roth had a buy rating on CHBT. 
Citron publishes its case. 
Roth goes to Investor's Day on September 20, 2010. 
Roth downgrades to sell the next day.


Other longs know this. 
You can follow lots of links here 
tinyurl.com/2ahulcj  
and here 
tinyurl.com/2az3zvt


Sean Wright,  
"6. I talked to the Roth analyst at the investor day and he commented to me afterwards "impressive
technology." If you've been around the securities industry long enough you'll know that analyst ratings are
rarely independent. I wonder in his heart of hearts if he really believes what he wrote or if he was just
pressured internally. We'll probably never know the full story. The important thing is to do your own work. I
never rely on equity research reports to form my opinions and have often found the best buys when the
analysts all have sells on a stock." 
seekingalpha.com/artic... 
(found in comments section)


And how does Roth Capital make money?


02 Jan 2011, 02:40 PM


TrekRider
Mr. Berry,


Allow me to apologize for not following through with the logic. I am not an academic. I readily admit that the
stores are a grey area into which I, as a retail investor, have little ability to see clearly. I do know that at the
time of the Citron publication dated Aug. 30, 2010, they were already short the stock. I am also waiting for this
video of the "bathroom" sized manufacturing facilities.


Not only have I not seen said video, but the holders of said video are clearly motivated by their short position.
This makes their judgment and thesis highly suspect.



http://tinyurl.com/2awsxw7

http://tinyurl.com/2ahulcj

http://tinyurl.com/2az3zvt

https://seekingalpha.com/article/226882-china-biotics-what-really-happened-at-the-investor-day

https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 17/46


Myself, I invest in equities, by which my reasoning tells me have a higher potential for upside profit than
downside risk. I am not looking for, nor do I care if the management of equities I invest in are saints. I am
looking for people who know how to make money. In regard to the retail outlets, as I said earlier...


I suspect CHBT management, rather than being criminal, are not entirely current in their thoughts and actions
as presented in the SEC documents. A concern which should be corrected, but not a deathly problem.


I am much more concerned with the present than the past. I would like to disconnect from this conversation
as it not my job to protect China-Biotics, nor do I feel there is much more to be said.


*Frankly, I don't care whether the whole affair *was* a multi-level marketing ploy or not.*


With this statement, allow me to gift you your logical victory in this academic argument. The real victory,
however, is going on be won or lost, on the ground, within the present day China-Biotics organization. This
victory I suspect I have a considerably higher chance of winning than losing.


Good day to you sir,


MW


02 Jan 2011, 04:49 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  TrekRider,


I found our discussion valuable, and for the record, I feel that your original post was the best challenge to my
article.


Happy New Year 
Matt


02 Jan 2011, 05:32 PM


tjcfool
That's right Sean, Look at what the stock price has done since the Roth downgrade, up over 60%. Good job
Roth. It appears that Mr. Market is making the call now. The short's scam game has played it's course. The
left over lemmings are stuck holding the bag with no way out. Thanks Mr. Market.


13 Jan 2011, 10:18 AM


tjcfool
Here is Citrons author Andrew Left " Lefty"


It appears that Left has been convicted of fraud by the NFA (National Futures Association) Summarized
below (link to full report at end)


Respondent/Effective Date 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 03/02/1998



https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/user/701661

https://seekingalpha.com/user/701661
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 18/46


Rule Summary 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 
• C.R.2-29(a)(1) - FRAUDULENT COMM. TO PUBLIC PROHIB. 
• C.R.2-2(a) - CHEAT,FRAUD DECEIVE CUSTOMERS


Committee Summary 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 
• HEARING COMMITTEE 
• APPEALS COMMITTEE 
• BUSINESS CONDUCT COMMITTEE


Action Summary 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 
• SALES PRACTICE 
• GENERAL CONDUCT


Penalty/Event Summary 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 
• RESTRICTIONS ON ACTIVITIES 2 YRS 
• REQUIRED TO TAPE RECORD 2 YRS 
• TEMPORARY BAR FROM NFA MEMBERSHIP 3 YRS 
• MAY NOT SUPERVISE 2 YRS 
• OTHER--SEE NARRATIVE


Narrative Summary 
COMPLAINT -


ON DECEMBER 21, 1995, NFA'S BUSINESS CONDUCT COMMITTEE ("COMMITTEE") ISSUED A
COMPLAINT TO UNIVERSAL COMMODITY CORPORATION ("UCC"), ANDREW N. STERN ("STERN"),
CARL ROBERT SAATHOFF ("SAATHOFF"), LARRY S. FREEDBERG ("FREEDBERG"), LARRY ALAN
KAHN ("KAHN"), JOHN THOMAS CIARAMELLA ("CIARAMELLA"), MARTIN SOMMERS ("SOMMERS"),
DAVID RAY BRIDGES ("BRIDGES"), LEONARD PETER VITELLO, JR. ("VITELLO"), BENJI SCOTT DAYAN
("DAYAN"), JEFFREY LAWRENCE BURSTEEN ("BURSTEEN"), ARNOLD BARRY ZAGER ("ZAGER"),
KENNETH ALAN ZINNER ("ZINNER"), WILLIAM KELLY PARKS ("PARKS"), MICHAEL D. BUSHEY
("BUSHEY"), MITCHELL GROSS ("GROSS"), DANIEL ALAN GETZ ("GETZ"), DAVID SCOTT STEINFELD
("STEINFELD"), ANDREW EDWARD LEFT ("LEFT") AND ADRIAN MULLER ("MULLER").


THE COMPLAINT ALLEGED THAT UCC, STERN AND SAATHOFF USED DECEPTIVE AND MISLEADING
PROMOTIONAL MATERIAL, IN VIOLATION OF NFA COMPLIANCE RULES RULES 2-29(a)(1), 2-29(b)(1)
AND 2-29(b)(2). THE COMPLAINT ALSO ALLEGED THAT UCC, BURSTEEN, SOMMERS, BUSHEY,
BRIDGES, STEINFELD, DAYAN, PARKS, ZAGER, ZINNER, VITELLO, GETZ, LEFT AND MULLER
CHEATED, DEFRAUDED AND DECEIVED COMMODITY FUTURES CUSTOMERS AND ENGAGED IN
SOLICITATIONS WHICH OPERATED AS A FRAUD OR DECEIT, IN VIOLATION OF NFA COMPLIANCE
RULES 2-2(a) AND 2-29(a)(1). MOREOVER, THE COMPLAINT ALLEGED THAT UCC, SOMMERS,
ZAGER, GROSS AND GETZ FAILED TO OBSERVE HIGH STANDARDS OF COMMERCIAL HONOR AND
JUST AND EQUITABLE PRINCIPLES OF TRADE IN THE CONDUCT OF THEIR COMMODITY FUTURES
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 19/46


BUSINESS, IN VIOLATION OF NFA COMPLIANCE RULE 2-4. FURTHERMORE, THE COMPLAINT
ALLEGED THAT UCC, STERN, SAATHOFF, KAHN, FREEDBERG AND CIARAMELLA FAILED TO
DILIGENTLY CARRY OUT THEIR SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES, IN VIOLATION OF NFA
COMPLIANCE RULE 2-9.


DECISION - BRIDGES, VITELLO, DAYAN, BURSTEEN, ZAGER, ZINNER, PARKS,


GROSS, GETZ, AND LEFT.


 
ON FEBRUARY 13, 1998, A DESIGNATED PANEL OF NFA'S HEARING COMMITTEE ISSUED A
DECISION AFTER A HEARING TO BRIDGES, VITELLO, DAYAN, BURSTEEN, ZAGER ZINNER, PARKS,
GROSS, GETZ AND LEFT. THE PANEL MADE THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IMPOSED THE
FOLLOWING PENALTIES:


ANDREW LEFT -


 
THE PANEL FOUND THAT LEFT MADE FALSE AND MISLEADING STATEMENTS TO CHEAT, DEFRAUD
OR DECEIVE A CUSTOMER IN VIOLATION OF NFA COMPLIANCE RULES 2-2(a) AND 2-29(a)(1). LEFT'S
CONDUCT WAS INCONSISTENT WITH JUST AND EQUITABLE PRINCIPLES OF TRADE.


CONSEQUENTLY, THE PANEL BARRED LEFT FROM ASSOCIATION WITH AND FROM ACTING AS A
PRINCIPAL OF ANY NFA MEMBER FOR THREE YEARS; ORDERED HIM TO TAKE AN ETHICS
TRAINING COURSE; AND PLACED RESTRICTIONS ON HIS ACTIVITIES FOR TWO YEARS WHICH
PREVENT HIM FROM SUPERVISING ANY AP AND REQUIRE HIM TO TAPE RECORD AND LOG ALL
CONVERSATIONS WITH CURRENT AND POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS.


 
Here's the link: 
www.nfa.futures.org/Ba......


15 Jan 2011, 03:23 PM


phinance101
Well, I am with the experts here, Jason/Sean. If they say they saw 103 leases, then that’s all I need to know. If I had
any sense, I would wonder why the company just doesn’t clear this up and add a hundred million or two to market
cap, by simply making public the addresses to the closed stores, and maybe hiring a credible auditor. But why should
I worry about that, when I have the 100% assurances of Jason/Sean?


Like Jason/Sean and the rest of the stockholders, we don’t really want to talk about the stores thing anymore. If the
company really fabricated the stores, that would render all of the pretty projections that Jason/Sean have produced
useless, because their numbers mean nothing if the management are liars and the auditors were fooled by a non-
existent highly profitable retail chain, that was closed in a big rush, after the company was accused of fraud.


01 Jan 2011, 10:53 AM


stever10



http://www.nfa.futures.org/BasicNet/Case

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/715756
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 20/46


Other than the short seller's supposed research reports, all of the other investment analyst's that have visited CHBT
sites and have done on the ground due diligence have come up with the same results, that this is a very legitimate
high growth company with a very good b2b model that should have some very spectacular results in a short time
period. Revamping the distribution network and moving towards a bulk supply network will provide much better
quantity of scale in revenue and profits. The 3 major bulk contracts signed recently is a good example of their new
strategy and how it is going to pan out. Their quality of their probiotics was never in question and is considered
superior to other probiotics manufacturers. This is a great high growth strategy and company. LONG CHBT!----Happy
New Year to you all!


01 Jan 2011, 10:57 AM


phinance101
What are the names of the 3 major bulk customers signed recently, please? They have announced dozens of
new bulk customers since April of last year and I can’t find any names that they have mentioned. Not that I
doubt anything they say, but I am just curious.


Thanks, LONG CHBT! Happy new year to you too!


01 Jan 2011, 11:10 AM


Waldo Mushman
In addition to the "dog ate my homework" explanations of the retail outlets there is the fact that the SAIC audited
financials filed with the Chinese government are consistent with the trivial number of stores. When Citron did the
photo tour of the chain stores that were selling the probiotics it was obvious that the only CHBT product being offered
was a large gift pack. None of the stores offered packages of individual items. Recent return visits to several of the
chain stores finds that the gift packs are no longer available either.


The chapter you write about is more than adequate proof to any rationale investor that CHBT didn't have the stores
and therefore didn't have the revenues. The distributors are an equally fictitious construct. In CHBT speak a
distributor is an Avon lady type reseller. The entire company was built on multi-level marketing plan and it isn't
working.


Unfortunately discussing CHBT has morphed into the realm of religion. You must have faith in miraculous events and
absent that faith you will be shunned and damned.


John


01 Jan 2011, 12:56 PM


TrekRider
Waldo,


So far as I can tell, the only thing the "dog ate" is this supposed Citron video.


Then again, who needs to publish actual pictures when you've already covered your shorts and unloaded
your, much appreciated, put options?


02 Jan 2011, 02:39 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 21/46


Ventureshadow
The skydiving allegory is not appropriate. It is an exaggeration beyond relevance or understandability. It threatens
death. It ignores the complexities and details of the situation. For example CHBT underwent inspections and testing
by TuV, the German agency that examines quality and completeness in both operations and paperwork. So add to the
skydiving story that each parachute came inspected by an established trusted and costly independent agency, with
proper certification of this. Further add that the first skydiver was a short-seller with a strong death wish (i.e.,
suicidality) and that he had been drinking heavily.


You oversimplified your description so it does not conform to the details. But it does conform to your emotions as a
short seller. Every investment has strong elements of faith and luck. Assessing these is a complex judgment.


01 Jan 2011, 01:26 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Allegories simplify. That's why we use them. That's how an allegory differs from a direct
explanation of a particular circumstance. Of course just because they can make short work of obfuscation
doesn't mean that they can't be abused. What we try to do with an allegory is illustrate a principle that
sometimes crosses over into other contexts and puts them into better perspective through the comparison or
contrast. (From my view it was a comparison; from yours perhaps, a contrast.)


For example, my article questioned whether or not sources of revenue existed, not whether or not the
manufacturing facilities were functional and legally compliant. You wrote,


“CHBT underwent inspections and testing by TuV, the German agency that examines quality and
completeness in both operations and paperwork. So add to the skydiving story that each parachute came
inspected by an established trusted and costly independent agency, with proper certification of this.”


Here's a teenager. His mother walks through the front door. The carpet looks just as dirty as when she left it.
She asks him if he'd vacuumed the house like he was supposed to. He quickly pulls out the vacuum sales
packet and waving the warranty and inspection seal in her face, says, “What's wrong with you?! Can't you see
these certificates?!”


“Every investment has strong elements of faith and luck.”


I would say that every speculation has strong elements of faith and luck. Every investment has the weakest
possible elements of faith and luck. I will admit however that even at the weakest point there is still a lot of
vulnerability and in that sense I agree with your use of the word, “strong.”


“Every investment has strong elements of faith and luck. Assessing these is a complex judgment.”


There is a difference between a well-defined, complex situation and confusion. Risk, the need for faith, and
confusion increase with ignorance. Assessing an enterprise from ignorance is not a complex judgment; it's not
even a simple one. It's not a judgment at all. I make judgments from facts and the more relevant facts I can
acquire the less faith and luck I need. As ignorance passes to knowledge and experience, faith passes to
confidence and clarity. An experienced jet pilot in a cockpit works with very complex instruments and
circumstances. That doesn't mean he can't take off and land safely. That also doesn't mean that because my



https://seekingalpha.com/user/160216

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 22/46


ignorance and inexperience increases my confusion, risk, and need for faith that this somehow makes his
task more difficult. (I think it was Seth Klarman who said that understanding complex situations was his
advantage ... was an investor's moat.) Complexity is only a problem if I can't understand it, in which case I
really should ask myself, “Is this beyond my limits? Have I really done my homework? Am I on the wrong side
of the market? And just what is this cognitive dissonance thing anyway?” If it is indeed too complicated to
understand, short or long, for whatever reason, why would I invest here?


02 Jan 2011, 10:44 AM


Waldo Mushman
It is also preposterous that CHBT could find no way to create any value out of the 111 operating store. They had
ostensibly spent several years and millions of dollars to open the stores. They had booked profitable revenue of over
25mm during the last 3 years. But for some reason none of the distributors, none of the employees, none of the
competitors, none of the city's entrepreneurs wanted to take the stores over. Not merely was CHBT unable to sell the
stores, they were unable to find a way to maintain them as wholesale customers under someone else's management
and ownership.


It is also useful to remind the audience of the list provided by CHBT of the 79 retail locations. In response to Citron's
challenge to "show us the stores" CHBT published a list of 79 addresses. It turns out that CHBT was confused about
the challenge and decided to publish random locations where the product might be found. A weary cleric was blamed
for including a parking lot, a bike repair shop, a demolished building, and 2 vacant lots on that list.


But not to worry, the shills are more than happy to contort the justifications to fit any scenario. And did I mention that
the bulk sales don't exist either?


John


01 Jan 2011, 01:44 PM


phinance101
Wait a minute Sir waldo, Jason said in the comments to his fine article Aug 31, "China-Biotics: Shorts Found a
Way to Cover", that the list you are talking about was a list of the retail stores, period:


As promised, here are the list of retail stores: 
chn-biotics.com/c4... 
Good luck trying to maintain any credibility now. 
Aug 31 09:59 AM


When that was met with skepticism Jason replied:


Sure, check out the stores. You have a list of every store now. Was that so hard? Take your time and visit
each one. ...... 
Aug 31 10:17 AM


When it was promptly found that many of the addresses corresponded not to CHBT retails stores, but to
hotels, schools, vacant lots, and gay bars, Jason firmly stated:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

http://www.chn-biotics.com/c4
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 23/46


No, I do not feel foolish, but rather vindicated. The addresses for the outlets are there on the Company's
website for all to see. 
Sep 01 01:53 PM


So there you have it Sir waldo. The list of Shining whatever branded retail stores and, by logical extension
everything else, is on the up-and-up. No worries. It's all good.


What you do not understand is that they doesn't has to show you no stinking list, because the stores have
been closed in a BIG PANIC, and they were not important anyway. What is so hard to understand about that?


01 Jan 2011, 02:17 PM


devassocx
Phinance101... Just wondering why the link you provided is a  
404 error?


01 Jan 2011, 05:31 PM


tjcfool
Poor shorts are in a panic. LMAO


01 Jan 2011, 04:31 PM


Reason10
Stores....how many times can you beat a dead horse. I guess if that is all you have. We've seen the bank statements,
tax filings, and leases for the outlets.  
Amazing how people who short the company could have gone to investors day and proved their case once and for all.
But they didn't. Because they knew they would have found a great company. 


01 Jan 2011, 06:41 PM


phinance101
The stores are not a dead horse. They are a serious charge in active stockholder class action lawsuits, and
the SEC just might be looking into that same issue, among others. Such as why CHBT has two auditors and
at least two sets of books. And why they have filed very different audited numbers with authorities in the U.S.,
versus what they file in China. And please spare us the "it don't matter" nonsense.


If you have gone to China to attend the Investor's Day dog-and-pony show then you are one of about only
forty who could have attended, due to limited accommodation offered by the company. If you were shown the
documents with the material information that you claim to have seen, then you are a witness to a very likely
violation of SEC Reg FD. Something else ( I am just taking a wild guess here) that the SEC is looking into.


I know you don't care, but it seems to me that any stockholder who thinks that the company is trading at a big
discount because of shortster FUD, would want the company to clear these things up. How about a simple list
of the addresses for the stores, before they were closed in a BIG PANIC? How about showing the rest of the
stockholders the VAT invoices, bank statements, and whatever else they showed to the forty feted attendees



https://seekingalpha.com/user/161079

https://seekingalpha.com/user/701661

https://seekingalpha.com/user/746525

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 24/46


of the dog-and-pony show? Just for the little old ladies in Phoenix, who can't afford to go to China to see what
they have a right to see, because they are owners of the company too.


If you think that CHBT management can just stonewall this stuff, with the help of a few friendly, somewhat
clever propagandists, then you are going to get a rude awakening, fairly soon. The pressure on the SEC to
put a stop to the sytematic fraud of Chinese reverse mergers is about to be ratcheted up. New Congress
coming to town.


02 Jan 2011, 12:22 AM


Mike Renaldi
Just as I thought, you shorts are looking for fault with the company to create a class action suit. Brilliant. The
class action suit would have zero impact on the business but the news could drop the stock 5 points with help
from shorting and options manipulaton by your circle of hedgies. You are looking for anything and getting
desperate. Who are the customers? Where can I find them? You missed your chance at investor day.. why
weren't your investigators there?


I know why you guys went short. You felt the sales-marketing seminar approach was unsustainable. Maybe
true.. but too bad for you the company is going a different direction and the market for their product is taking
off.


Spreading lies is illegal and so is manipulating options and stock prices. I hope the SEC finds you.


02 Jan 2011, 08:11 AM


qspinor
phinance101,


You are very emotional, my goodness! You must have lost quite a significant sum trying to short this stock. Thank you,
your comment must have scared quite a few people. Please continue, trying to pick more shares up at $11.00.


We both know this will go back up even if you bunch of conspirators continue about. Win/Win for long and shorts. You
might pick a little back up in the short run and I can pick my shares up cheaper. God bless you, damn price was
moving up outta control.


02 Jan 2011, 05:53 AM


phinance101
Shorts are obviously really dumb, or they would be longs. What's really funny is that they do not even
possess useful basic animal instincts.


The cheetah cannot add 2+2, but when it is out to kill a meal it does not go after the fastest and strongest
beast in the herd. It's hot and dusty out there. A long and grueling chase ending in a life-or-death struggle that
might get the cheetah a horn in the eye, or a sharp hoof up the rear-end, is not part of their game plan. They
go after the new-born, the lame, and the oldsters suffering from alzheimer's and arthritis, who have fallen and
can't get up.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317

https://seekingalpha.com/user/810210

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 25/46


Why do the shorts always launch their evil lying attacks on the strongest companies? Those fierce speedy
beasts with bulging cash balances, amazing bacteria growing technology, no competitors, dozens of new
anonymous bulk additive customers, and earnings that are growing exponentially. In other words, the stories
that are too good to be true.


And now the SEC, instead of investigating the shorts, is about to crucify a whole class of companies that the
crazy shorts have targeted. Go figure.


02 Jan 2011, 11:55 AM


TrekRider
phinance101,


I have three explainations for why reverse mergers are being targeted.


1) They haven't paid Wall Street outfits via the standard IPO process. Apparently RM's happen more often
with Chinese companies than with other subclasses. As we all know, Wall Street both likes to be paid and has
many political connections. I am weighting #1 far heavier than the last 2.


2) As long as we're using allegories, have you ever seen the film "Interview with the Vampire?" There is a
scene where the head Vamp, while talking to a newer Vamp from America, runs his hand over a burning
candle, taking delight in the experience. He was explaining to the new American Vamp that their lives have
become trivial and mundane over the centuries, and the newcomer can add purpose and clarity, transitioning
them old to new age. For them, their lives have become so boring and droll, that they look for entertainment
via whatever means they can (most of which is not very nice with regards to anyone not in their group). CHBT
is the candle flame.


3) Some are frauds.


02 Jan 2011, 02:06 PM


phinance101
1) The stock offerings of the Chinese reverse merger companies are underwritten by US investment banks,
who have made a lot of money. Roth, and Rodman Renshaw have made the most. Do the larger "Wall Street"
firms not see the opportunity, or are they not able to compete with the likes of Roth, and Rodman? Or have
the first and second-tier firms stayed away from the shell games, because they are more squeamish about
getting involved in a space where transparency is a joke and fraud is common?


2) I didn't see the movie, but if you are saying that running one's hand over CHBT will get one burnt, then I
get it.


3) You got that right. And some are more obvious frauds than others. You can tell by the way they react when
they are busted. If they are startled like the proverbial deer caught in headlights and try to account for a
missing chain of a hundred eleven highly profitable retail stores by putting out a bogus list, that's a dead
giveaway. If the stores were not a fabrication, they would provide a verifiable list of the stores locations,
period. It's that simple.


02 Jan 2011, 03:34 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 26/46


qspinor
Your assumption the U.S. SEC is on any moral high ground the and the guardian of financial ethical truth is
exactly what you describe as"new-born, the lame, and the oldsters suffering from alzheimer's and arthritis,
who have fallen and can't get up." The basis that the fact whether the SEC doesn't investigate or investigate
means innocence is quite naive. I am just arguing with you, because your so desperate. Really, before the
crisis, which bank was under investigation from the SEC? These days SEC is "investigating" everything. Till
something is release, this means nothing.


Shorts do not go for the strongest companies, they go after Chinese ADR's lol. Both good and bad ones,
without discrimination. Let me see if I can make out your day. GOOGLE, look for a Chinese ADR that has
risen +20% in 1-3 months. Okay let me look for something to blog about (look for the something to scare
people about) Get in positions. Is not that you are out here trying to save you fellow Americans from a
scandal or expose the evils of Chinese ADR to make the world a better place. Bottom line, your here to make
a fast buck just like the other vultures here. Why in the world do you care if CHBT makes any money? I
believe you are the Cheetah sir. Great analogy.


I have read this forum for years. My first few post. Why? I can't imagine how crazy the world has become with
Blogs. Some nobody like you actually has affects on real market prices. lol The true price of the information
age where the used cars salesmen can attack the likes of corporation with a few comments. But your
comments are considerably more emotional than the other vultures. Borderline hilarious. Thanks you for
laugh.


02 Jan 2011, 10:17 PM


phinance101
I am not so desperate that I will spend more than 20 seconds responding to your incoherent babble...your
time has expired.


02 Jan 2011, 11:03 PM


qspinor
Sorry 10 seconds of desperation. Point is, shorts have created a system to attack companies thru blogs. If
you do not like the stock, don't buy it, simple. Shorts have another motive altogether. intentionally create
nonsense to drive the prices down a day or two, take money from hard working investors. Easy money, copy
a couple of quotes from other nonsense sources, which are also shorts and spend by your correct estimate
20 seconds for a 10% gain. Car Salesmen for the new decade. Why in the world do any of you care about a
bacteria company in China? $$$$$


03 Jan 2011, 06:30 AM


TheBoringAnalyst
1. Wall Street isn't in China and neither is the SEC so if they IPO'd in HK or China reason #1 is moronic


24 Jan 2011, 08:54 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/810210

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/810210

https://seekingalpha.com/user/828881
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 27/46


TheBoringAnalyst
? Company execs lying to investors is fraud - I have a hard time understanding how that is a difficult concept
to grasp.


24 Jan 2011, 08:56 PM


TrekRider
One of the short arguments is that one shouldn't invest in China because it is a police state.


Does anyone else find it odd that a police state is allowing their business ambassadors to list fraudulent companies
on American exchanges by the barrelful?


02 Jan 2011, 02:26 PM


phinance101
It's a corrupt police state. It is communist party policy to rip off gullible foreign pigeons. The terms of trade are
rigged against trading partners. The theft of intellectual property is rampant and ignored. Try to collect any
compensation for that nasty Chicom dry wall you have in your house, or for any other shoddy or poisoned
Chicom product. Do you think the authorities don't know about fraud in China? Google "China official
corruption". They are all getting their cut.


02 Jan 2011, 03:43 PM


TrekRider
phinance101,


You have strengthened my arguement eloquently. This is cultural and political. It is also about Wall Street not
being paid their IPO fees.


MW


02 Jan 2011, 04:30 PM


phinance101
TrekRider,


Sorry, but I have actually stomped on your argument's heart and mashed that sucker flat.


What you don't understand is that Wall Street was never going to get any IPO money out of the Chicom
reverse merger scammers. Those fly-by-night enterprises would never pass the scrutiny that would allow
them to do an IPO here. That's why they have taken the back door route to get to the wallets of gullible US
investors. It is to the credit of the first and second-tier Wall Street firms that they have rejected the opportunity
to be accomplices to this particular scheme of systematic fraud.


And your implication that the Red China police state would not allow it's businessmen/crooks to rob gullible
foreign pigeons, as it would embarrass the state, is ludicrous because police states, by definition, are
impervious to embarrassment.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/828881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/507316

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 28/46


Anyway, the SEC will straighten this out for you soon enough. They won't be able to get at the crooks or the
money safely ensconced behind the Great Wall, but they will plug the reverse merger scam loophole and
save you from the temptation of gambling on these too-good-to-be-true Chicom frauds, in the future.


02 Jan 2011, 06:47 PM


egarl
Does anyone want to talk about what a good company Enron was? It seems that a lot of people want to blab on about
chbt and I don't understand why. I hope you are trying to save someone from making a mistake but I think you just
have time on your hands and want to make mischief.  
I am long chbt with several thousand shares and I am confortable with it. If you don't like the company don't buy it! 
Now tell us about Apple and how it is a scam and sure to collapse. You can probably get 3-400 immediate responses.


02 Jan 2011, 04:24 PM


phinance101
I see what you are getting at. Enron was a fraud, so it is no problem for you to be comfortable investing in a smaller
fraud. If Apple claimed to have a large chain of highly profitable stores that did not exist, would that be fraud?


02 Jan 2011, 06:51 PM


tjcfool
CHBT is now rated No. 1 for timeliness by Value Line as of this week.....very bullish. Their No. 1 picks have vastly
outperformed.  
AND,


As of today, China-Biotics (CHBT) was upgraded from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Global Select
Market.


The NASDAQ Global Select Market is for public companies that meet the highest listing standards in the world, with
measures including market value, liquidity and earnings.


Inclusion in the NASDAQ Global Select Market is a mark of achievement and stature for qualified companies. Listing
on NASDAQ represents companies’ commitment to provide investors with superior market quality. Investors benefit
not only from lower trading costs on NASDAQ but also by knowing that NASDAQ Global Select Market companies
are models of leadership and have met the highest standards of any market in the world.


Companies qualifying for the NASDAQ Global Select Market make up approximately one-third of NASDAQ listings
and reflect the diversity of NASDAQ as a whole, in terms of market cap and across industry sectors.  
SEC approval was needed for this qualification .


The shorts are totally screwed!


03 Jan 2011, 10:10 PM


xiaogoubaba



https://seekingalpha.com/user/174372

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/701661

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/chbt

https://seekingalpha.com/user/417166
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 29/46


CHBT has around 150 million USD of cash on hand while its revenue is only 80 million USD. It raised money in Q3 of
2009, but it hasn't spend any of the raised money.


The company has bad publicity. In 2009, investors who went to its plants saw very little activities, meaning that
utilization rate is rather low. At that time, its claim that company's products will be used widely yogurt also does not
seem to stand. I don't know whether the claim really pans out right now.


Some investors just think management is raising money and use the money for personal purposes as late as 2009. I
know the company has recently purchased its own CB. This action can also means that there is really little activities
going on.


Bottom line -- its product are not selling widely in the market, for what ever reason.


05 Jan 2011, 02:40 AM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  You make some good points. That cash thing. In case you haven't seen it, Chinese
Company Analyst provides documents from China, scroll down his article and look at revenue and cash
balances. Huge difference between US and Chinese financials. You can also click through some of his links
and see the original documents.  
seekingalpha.com/artic...


Also Citron Research points out that interest earned seems too low for a company with this amount of cash. 
www.citronresearch.com.../ 
From Citron Research: "China Biotics claims its cash in the bank is $159.7 million in the bank, according to its
June 30 SEC filing – every dollar of which is supposedly available for corporate purposes. Yet it reports
interest of just $87,876. So where is the interest? . How can the company be earning interest of less than
1/10th of comparable companies? Companies with large cash balances earn interest. Interest rates on free
cash balances in China earn 1% for 3 month to 1 year term deposits, and 2% for 1 to 2 year term deposits."


05 Jan 2011, 08:20 PM


Sedric
When the short investigator went to check sites in some cases he ended up at a large market/ pharmacy . He did not
go in to see product counters or such as he said he didn't want to "reveal" himself.


Now that is quality due diligence by the shorts. We know some of the locations were counters within larger stores
where they rented space and the store name was not Shining products..


05 Jan 2011, 11:24 PM


Mike Renaldi



https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/article/223068-china-biotics-vs-spreadtrum-communications-why-aic-filings-matter

http://www.citronresearch.com/index.php/2010/09/14/china-biotics-chbt-is-a-fraud-%E2%80%93-now-sue-citron-we-dare-you

https://seekingalpha.com/user/719506

https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 30/46


I have been checking the options activity since you posted this article expecting to see call sells and put buys and
hadn't witnessed it. Today it is happening. Options are being manipulated via call sells and put buys forcing the MM to
sell short. This is typical activity when these short sided articles hit. Shorts can't win long term.


07 Jan 2011, 03:45 PM


Waldo Mushman
Mike-


You clearly (again) don't have a clue what you are talking about. To begin with please identify the number of
calls sold on the bid (MM likely buyer) compared to number of calls bought at the ask (MM likely seller) and
note the number of inside transactions (likely non-MM).


After that please describe how a MM creates a delta neutral position using puts, short sales and calendar
spreads. It will be helpful if you make note of how that is done between different strike prices and x dates. You
do know what delta neutral means don't you?


You can then also explain how the negative on the borrow is used in pricing the options. Bonus points for
describing how most MM's in the option market limit the equity (actual shares long or short) they have to pay
interest on.


And doesn't the fact that you are identifying this manipulation as being a week late somewhat undermine the
idea that it is manipulation at all? Us short guys must be pretty dim to wait until the story is printed,
distributed, discussed, ignored or heeded, and then we jump on the trade.


John


07 Jan 2011, 04:20 PM


Mike Renaldi
Its really not that complicated. When I see gobs of puts being bought at a premium (price up) and gobs of
calls being sold (prices down) the MM has to sell stock. Take a look at Telestone today.. see the options. They
are NAKED shorting manipulating the options. ILLEGAL but that is how they (you guys) drive the stock price
down. Your system is clear as day I don't understand why the SEC allows this since its illegal.


11 Jan 2011, 12:42 PM


Waldo Mushman
Options are derivatives. They are not equities. A naked option translates into a lack of an offsetting position in
stock. Naked shorting of a stock is selling shares without a borrow. They are two entirely different and
unrelated activities. Your unfamiliarity with both leads you to mistakenly wrap them in the cloth. They are not
clear because you are manufacturing boogie men.


John


11 Jan 2011, 04:19 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/author/ryuto-a-kawai
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 31/46


Ryuto A. Kawai, Contributor
Hello Matt,


Good piece. You're going to realize quickly, that the shorts will most almost always remain short, and the longs will
remain equally stubborn.


I'm active in this space, and on balance my thinking has been on the slightly negative/short side of agnostic on this
one. If anyone lays out an objective unbiased chronology of events, they will have more than enough reason to-- in
the least-- be very wary on the long side. And I don't mean buying into what 3rd party bulls or bears are saying. I
mean how poorly the company has communicated time and time again, and how the company has seemed to either
be sloppy with words or purposely/deceptively ambivalent.


+++++ 
No position CHBT. No derivative positions. No intentions to buy long nor short in the 3 month term. No intentions to
initiate derivative positions on CHBT in the 3 month term. I am not acting to benefit any affiliates or friends or anyone
else as to CHBT's direction.


The information above does NOT constitute specific investment advice. I do not make any suitability
recommendations as each investor's situation is different. I do NOT vouch for the accuracy of my statements though I
believe them to be true when made. I will not be held liable for possible inaccuracies as to statements of fact nor for
opinions held here. Please perform your own due diligence, including fact-checking, and come to your own
independent conclusions.


10 Jan 2011, 12:10 AM


Reason10
Everyone is entitled to their opinion….and there is no shortage concerning this stock.


10 Jan 2011, 08:24 AM


suzanny
Yet another short storm...this is old. Just once I'd like to see one of these guys who had visited China and spoke
Chinese and knew the deep culture. I trust Jim Rogers opinions for these reasons


10 Jan 2011, 10:11 AM


suzanny
Who is EVER independent? Just once I'd like to see an unvested opinion by one of these 'shorts' who had ever even
been to China or knew the language or deep culture. Their behavior consistently tracks along self-interest.


10 Jan 2011, 10:20 AM


Waldo Mushman
The short position is to recommend avoiding the names for exactly the reasons you outline. You are investing
money as a long trying to overcome the lack of personal knowledge, appreciation of the culture, familiarity
with the business and the people who run it, and an inability to independently verify the claims since you don't
read or write the language.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/ryuto-a-kawai

https://seekingalpha.com/user/746525

https://seekingalpha.com/user/734204

https://seekingalpha.com/user/734204

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 32/46


You will never see a short seller recommending that you enter a short position since we have to compete for
available shares. Obviously every short seller is hopeful the price will go down and makes no bones about
that ambition. Whether you agree or disagree with the short thesis you have to appreciate that people with far
better information than you have, much more experience in China and the stock market, more money, and
better market sources, is betting against you and actively working to grease the skids.


Why do you want anything to do with a company that has that kind of a headwind? It is impossible not to
realize that CHBT lies to its shareholders about the retail outlets and to the Chinese government on the SAIC
filings. Are you so busy making justifications for unacceptable behavior 101 that you can't locate an honest
enterprise?


John


10 Jan 2011, 10:40 AM


phinance101
You do not have to go to China, or know the language, or the culture of corruption that is endemic there to
know that CHBT never had a highly profitable chain of branded retail stores, or they would have produced a
freaking list of same, when they were accused of fraud.


I would like to see you, or any other allegedly confident long, explain why no list has been produced. Come
on, give it a try.


10 Jan 2011, 11:42 AM


R-D.
we can say something fo sure. 
beside the long and the short thesis, we all will know who was right and who was wrong.


I'm fucking long on CHBT


10 Jan 2011, 04:41 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  "beside the long and the short thesis, we all will know who was right and who was wrong."


... but if we take out "the long and the short thesis," what would remain for us to be right or wrong about? In
the end we could say that we were "right" but really we'd just be lucky.


"I'm fucking long on CHBT"


Why not? One random position bouncing off of an unexamined company is as good as another.


10 Jan 2011, 05:55 PM


R-D.
you reacted exactly as i expected. 
The point is: 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/725675

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/user/725675
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 33/46


i could be here trying to explain my investment view about china biotics, as well as the deep due diligence that i
made,the market analisis and why the stock is going to be valued much more in the near future. 
But what would be your comment? 
And since nobody can prove his thesis, we relay much more on the style in which the arguments are presented that
on the substance. 
And you are really good in presenting your personal opinion in a in a way in which it appears reasonable.....appears


I'll say it again :beside what i say and beside what you say, we will see in a couple of months who was right who was
wrong.


I'm fucking long on CHBT


11 Jan 2011, 05:46 AM


phinance101
Maybe Matt's personal opinion appears to be reasonable, because it is reasonable.


My guess is that Matt's opinion has upset you, because it does not confirm your decision to gamble your
family's money on a Chicom reverse merger scam. I will help you. Spend your time reading and re-reading
the 'articles' of Jason Nevader and Sean Wright. They have the pie-in-the-sky nonsense that you are looking
for. And if you are only semi-literate and not very bright, they provide some convincing explanations for all the
red flags that rational investors see sticking out of this turd.


11 Jan 2011, 12:53 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  He “could be here trying to explain” … but he's not. He might have done “deep due
diligence” but he feels it is futile to present it. Where does this sense of futility come from?


Is it because we are incapable (all of us) of understanding his case? 
... But if he knows that we are incapable, why is he here? A lack of self-control?


Does the futility come from understanding his position all too well?  
... But if he understands it well enough to know that it can't survive rational debate, wouldn't that be the point
where a rational person would change his mind? Wouldn't he either take a short position or admit that he
doesn't know?


Or does he feel the futility because he does not understand his position?  
... But if he doesn't understand the basis for his long position, why is he in it? The answer would be, of course
-- because he doesn't understand it.


11 Jan 2011, 03:01 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  R-D wrote 
“you reacted exactly as i expected.” 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 34/46


Transparent hindsight bias. If you had truly expected my reply you would have provided the added detail to
your original post instead of this one.


“The point is: i could be here trying to explain my investment view about china-biotics, as well as the deep
due diligence that i made,the market analysis and why the stock is going to be valued much more in the near
future. But what would be your comment?”


If you present sufficient evidence and find errors in my article, I will change my mind. Trust me, I worship clear
thinking.


“And since nobody can prove his thesis,” 
Sufficient proof has been presented by the company itself. Maybe your confusing Proving with Convincing?
DNA proved O.J. guilty, but the jury was not convinced. An FBI video proved DeLorean guilty, but the jury was
not convinced. 
1) 100+ outlets were claimed in SEC documents. 
2) Investigators' photos proved that claim wrong and proved that management was capable of lying ... in a big
way. 
3) If those outlets really existed the company could have easily proven it with physical evidence. 
4) Instead 3 months later the company conveniently “closes” 95 outlets, leaving 15. 
… but you are not convinced.


Providing proof and convincing others are two different events.


We have a critical failure in the company's SEC filings, and thus no basis for knowing how much money this
company earns or has. (Unless you accept the filings with the Chinese AIC: seekingalpha.com/artic... .)


If the unreliability of CHBT's SEC documents has not been proven sufficiently and if you know that, you
should be able to demonstrate that by debunking the photos or proving the existence of the retail outlets.
Those of us who have short positions have an interest in learning what you have to offer.


“... will see in a couple of months who was right who was wrong ...” 
The timing of CHBT's day of reckoning is unknown. It might take a couple of years, maybe months. CHBT
might survive in a much reduced form. They might even get lucky as a start up. (They have a new factory and
can try out their new bulk business). But they are not who they say they are.


11 Jan 2011, 04:41 PM


Mike Renaldi
When is the SEC or someone going to begin prosecuting these people writing these 'hit pieces'? These authors who
are paid off or hedge fund people publish these lies and drive stocks down for profits at the expense of honest
investors. I am appalled this is going on. Look what they did to TSTC. Spread a bunch of conspiracies and drive the
stock down to make trades. This is as criminal as stealing and ripping people off. I can't believe this is going on in our
present day.


11 Jan 2011, 02:51 PM


phinance101



https://seekingalpha.com/article/223068-china-biotics-vs-spreadtrum-communications-why-aic-filings-matter

https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 35/46


Mike,


If you owned a very large chunk of a public company, and you were that company's CEO, how would you
react to a FALSE charge that you had committed FRAUD, by lying about a chain of 111 highly profitable retail
stores that allegedly never existed?


Since none of you self-righteous crybaby longs have ever answered that question, I will have to help you:


You would release a list of the locations of 111 stores, denoted as "open" or "closed". It's that simple.


The evil, usually omnipotent shorts would be screwed, and the SEC would not bother you. You and your
stockholders would be happy and a lot richer, as your stock price would reflect the enhanced credibility of
your amazing pie-in-the-sky story of retail and bulk additive successes.


Now if the charge of FRAUD was in fact TRUE, you might react like a deer caught in the headlights and
release a list of locations stores where your product might be found, along with the addresses of vacant lots,
schools, and gay bars. After the shorts shoot that stupid list down, you come up with another story. Uh,
yeah...well...uh...let me think for a minute...yeah, I got it...uh...we closed all those stores, in a BIG FREAKING
PANIC! And we doesn't has to show you Gringos no stinking leest!


11 Jan 2011, 05:07 PM


Waldo Mushman
The people writing "these hit pieces" include the Wall Street Journal, Barrons, Bloomberg, CNBC, etc. Stocks aren't
driven down by lies. Any negative opinions can be countered by the company and the investing public can make up
its mind. In my conversations with the SEC they are appreciative of the efforts I have made and gladly accept the
research I have done. My personal experience would instruct me that the SEC is very happy to have Matt Berry and
others like him warning investors of potential traps. You may have noticed that the entire Chinese RTO space is
probably going to be investigated.


You are lining up with the bad guys Mike. Truth is on the side that says there are problems. Truth is on the short side.


John


11 Jan 2011, 04:28 PM


R-D.
to phinance 101: 
" And if you are only semi-literate and not very bright"


i apologize for my english since it's obviously not my mother language. 
i would doubt about being bright since i spoke five languages, do you?


"your decision to gamble your family's money on a Chicom reverse merger scam"


i'm sorry but i'm a financial investment manager with two degrees (economics and enegeneering both cum laude) an
MBA an i'm currently studing to take a CFA. 
I manage a 500 milion dollars fund and i invested my own money as well as a part of the fund in CHBT. 
and if i'd close my long position right now i would take a profit of 40% (in 3 months) on chbt since i bought it at 10. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/user/725675
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 36/46


but belive me i have no intention to do so. 
do you really think matt's article is able to upset me? 
after all the due diligence, the valuation and my 3 trip in china to personally see how chbt work?


don't make me laugh phinance 101


11 Jan 2011, 08:20 PM


phinance101
Well if we are throwing around alleged credentials to lend faux authority faux to a lame argument, then I have
14 degrees summa cum loco, speak 42 languages, and I have made $400 million escudos for my clients, just
this week. I am also an astronaut, a cowboy, and a pimp.


You talk a lot but say nothing. Matt has articulated the reasons why he is short this stock, and that is obviously
causing you great angst. You pretend not to care, but you keep posting your innocuous implausible
foolishness. Why don't you tell us why you have gambled your family's money, on this little Chicom reverse
merger turd?


Start by answering the question: Where da list?


If the stores really existed they can produce a freaking list. Is that right, or not? Surely you can answer that
simple question. I will rephrase it: If the stores existed, are they able to produce a verifiable list, or not? Is that
clear? If you can't answer any variation of that simple question, you should disappear and salvage something
of your tattered dignity.


11 Jan 2011, 11:07 PM


R-D.
to matt: 
i'll' try but i dont fell like writing thousend of words since i'don't have to persuade you. 
i'm serious: 
do have any idea how to make a corporate valuation ? 
if sell a ferrari with a scratch on its seat at the full price would you buy it? 
neither do i 
but what if sell the same ferrari with the same scratch at 100 dollars wuold you buy it? 
i think yes. 
because even if it had some scratch you konw either the seat is not a core part of the veichle and you know for sure
that you are buying something whose value is much more than 100 dollars for sure.


about china biotics: 
1)the stores are not an essential part of its business 
2)the market position of chbt is amazing 
3) the valuation right now it's so chep that even if something went wrong with the stores, i own a stock that worth
much more than 15 dollars for sure.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/725675
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 37/46


Please, i make only quantitative valuation. 
so dont' tell me " o my god the manager could have lied to us" and stuff like that..


as long as i'm here to make money i only care if something has an impact on the valuation of the company and there
are any possibilities that the market price could be higer than the intrinsic value.


in this case, belive me, they aren't.


FCKN long on CHBT


11 Jan 2011, 08:48 PM


R-D.
The quality of the number is absolutely relevant. 
But what matter is how they are going to change in the future….and the forecasting rely above all on the market
analysis as a whole and no company can falsify it. 
Just few highlight 
1) China's average annual GDP Growth is 9.30 
2) The probiotic market is growing like mad 
3) Right now china is an importer (do you understand? The greatest exporter is, in this particular field, an importer)  
4) The company that’s going to serve the china internal probiotic market will make a fortune.


As you can notice, my analysis not only rely on chbt sec fillings but on a more comprehensive analysis as well.


In a few word,(and I hope to be clear enough) at this price even if all the store didn’t exist at all and even if the cash
was a half of what the declare, would make no difference as long as they have the facilities to produce the
microbiotics (that I visited personally)


Don’t try again to tell me that I didn’t answer.


Make me a promise, we will meet right here on the 15th of july (after 3 sec fillings)


12 Jan 2011, 01:33 PM


Mike Renaldi
CHBT #1 stock for 2011. 3 million shorts in bigtime trouble. Now we know where these short sided articles are coming
from. 3 million short ouch. articles.moneycentral....


12 Jan 2011, 02:51 PM


phinance101
I will sum this up for you Matt. Please feel free to add your philosophical observations and any appropriate analogies,
as you see fit.


It's a cover-up. It is obvious to all but the most dim-witted and delusional CHBT worshipers, that the chain of 111
highly profitable retail stores was a big fraud. The CHBT choir members' dumbstruck avoidance of the question-
Where da list?-is all the proof we need of their recognition that they are invested in a fraud. But here's the funny part:
they think the rest of the CHBT too-good-to-be-true/pi... story is true.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/725675

https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317

http://articles.moneycentral.msn.com/news/article.aspx?feed=IVPL&date=20110112&id=12595678

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 38/46


It doesn't bother these geniuses that the company has announced about 3 dozen new bulk additive customers since
April of 2009, without identifying a single one of them. Oh, but the customers don't want to be named. Sometime in
April 2009, all the probiotics bulk additive customers in Red China got together and agreed that they would keep their
existence a secret, for competitive reasons. So far, it is working out very well for them.


The CHBT faithful choose to believe that the fraud is all in the past. CHBT has a new plant, built with money they
stole in that secondary offering, and the market for probiotics in Red China is said to be enormous and growing like
crazy. And CHBT's competitors don't know anything about it. They are picking their noses, while CHBT scoops up all
the business.


I don't think the SEC is buying it. Some of the investigators at the agency are at least as smart as the average CHBT
bagholders, who know the company has committed fraud. It is just a matter of time until the SEC acts on the
information provided to them by Sir waldo, et al. Then it will be CHBT.PINK. The money stays in Red China, and the
bagholders get to keep the bag. End of story.


12 Jan 2011, 04:08 PM


Sedric
phinance101, Did Did Yahoo ban you? If so why


13 Jan 2011, 09:18 AM


phinance101
Yes, yahoo banned me because a bunch of crybaby loser longs on the loser RINO board got together and
complained that I was too rough for the little whining pussies. I am pretty sure they would not have been offended by
ny style, if I had been scorching the "bashers".


The yahoo boards are nothing more than support groups for intolerant insecure idiot longs. I almost never take a short
position on a stock, yet I still find whinging crybaby longs to be the biggest imbeciles on the internet.


I have several IP addresses, so returning to yahoo would be easy enough, but I don't think I will ever get involved in
that crap venue again. Complete waste of time trying to reason with irrational idiots. Finding some of that here too.
Many of these semi-literate morons should not be allowed unsupervised access to the internet. Maybe the admin will
do me a favor and ban me from here also:)


13 Jan 2011, 10:14 AM


tjcfool
Matty, Andrew "Lefty" Left ,publishes the blog rag called Citron. He's a convicted criminal. Check it: 
t appears that Left has been convicted of fraud by the NFA (National Futures Association) Summarized below (link to
full report at end)


Respondent/Effective Date 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 03/02/1998


Rule Summary 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/719506

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/701661
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 39/46


• C.R.2-29(a)(1) - FRAUDULENT COMM. TO PUBLIC PROHIB. 
• C.R.2-2(a) - CHEAT,FRAUD DECEIVE CUSTOMERS


Committee Summary 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 
• HEARING COMMITTEE 
• APPEALS COMMITTEE 
• BUSINESS CONDUCT COMMITTEE


Action Summary 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 
• SALES PRACTICE 
• GENERAL CONDUCT


Penalty/Event Summary 
0253075 LEFT, ANDREW EDWARD 
• RESTRICTIONS ON ACTIVITIES 2 YRS 
• REQUIRED TO TAPE RECORD 2 YRS 
• TEMPORARY BAR FROM NFA MEMBERSHIP 3 YRS 
• MAY NOT SUPERVISE 2 YRS 
• OTHER--SEE NARRATIVE


Narrative Summary 
COMPLAINT -


ON DECEMBER 21, 1995, NFA'S BUSINESS CONDUCT COMMITTEE ("COMMITTEE") ISSUED A COMPLAINT
TO UNIVERSAL COMMODITY CORPORATION ("UCC"), ANDREW N. STERN ("STERN"), CARL ROBERT
SAATHOFF ("SAATHOFF"), LARRY S. FREEDBERG ("FREEDBERG"), LARRY ALAN KAHN ("KAHN"), JOHN
THOMAS CIARAMELLA ("CIARAMELLA"), MARTIN SOMMERS ("SOMMERS"), DAVID RAY BRIDGES
("BRIDGES"), LEONARD PETER VITELLO, JR. ("VITELLO"), BENJI SCOTT DAYAN ("DAYAN"), JEFFREY
LAWRENCE BURSTEEN ("BURSTEEN"), ARNOLD BARRY ZAGER ("ZAGER"), KENNETH ALAN ZINNER
("ZINNER"), WILLIAM KELLY PARKS ("PARKS"), MICHAEL D. BUSHEY ("BUSHEY"), MITCHELL GROSS
("GROSS"), DANIEL ALAN GETZ ("GETZ"), DAVID SCOTT STEINFELD ("STEINFELD"), ANDREW EDWARD LEFT
("LEFT") AND ADRIAN MULLER ("MULLER").


THE COMPLAINT ALLEGED THAT UCC, STERN AND SAATHOFF USED DECEPTIVE AND MISLEADING
PROMOTIONAL MATERIAL, IN VIOLATION OF NFA COMPLIANCE RULES RULES 2-29(a)(1), 2-29(b)(1) AND 2-
29(b)(2). THE COMPLAINT ALSO ALLEGED THAT UCC, BURSTEEN, SOMMERS, BUSHEY, BRIDGES,
STEINFELD, DAYAN, PARKS, ZAGER, ZINNER, VITELLO, GETZ, LEFT AND MULLER CHEATED, DEFRAUDED
AND DECEIVED COMMODITY FUTURES CUSTOMERS AND ENGAGED IN SOLICITATIONS WHICH OPERATED
AS A FRAUD OR DECEIT, IN VIOLATION OF NFA COMPLIANCE RULES 2-2(a) AND 2-29(a)(1). MOREOVER, THE
COMPLAINT ALLEGED THAT UCC, SOMMERS, ZAGER, GROSS AND GETZ FAILED TO OBSERVE HIGH
STANDARDS OF COMMERCIAL HONOR AND JUST AND EQUITABLE PRINCIPLES OF TRADE IN THE
CONDUCT OF THEIR COMMODITY FUTURES BUSINESS, IN VIOLATION OF NFA COMPLIANCE RULE 2-4.
FURTHERMORE, THE COMPLAINT ALLEGED THAT UCC, STERN, SAATHOFF, KAHN, FREEDBERG AND
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 40/46


CIARAMELLA FAILED TO DILIGENTLY CARRY OUT THEIR SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES, IN VIOLATION
OF NFA COMPLIANCE RULE 2-9.


DECISION - BRIDGES, VITELLO, DAYAN, BURSTEEN, ZAGER, ZINNER, PARKS,


GROSS, GETZ, AND LEFT.


ON FEBRUARY 13, 1998, A DESIGNATED PANEL OF NFA'S HEARING COMMITTEE ISSUED A DECISION
AFTER A HEARING TO BRIDGES, VITELLO, DAYAN, BURSTEEN, ZAGER ZINNER, PARKS, GROSS, GETZ AND
LEFT. THE PANEL MADE THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IMPOSED THE FOLLOWING PENALTIES:


ANDREW LEFT -


THE PANEL FOUND THAT LEFT MADE FALSE AND MISLEADING STATEMENTS TO CHEAT, DEFRAUD OR
DECEIVE A CUSTOMER IN VIOLATION OF NFA COMPLIANCE RULES 2-2(a) AND 2-29(a)(1). LEFT'S CONDUCT
WAS INCONSISTENT WITH JUST AND EQUITABLE PRINCIPLES OF TRADE.


CONSEQUENTLY, THE PANEL BARRED LEFT FROM ASSOCIATION WITH AND FROM ACTING AS A PRINCIPAL
OF ANY NFA MEMBER FOR THREE YEARS; ORDERED HIM TO TAKE AN ETHICS TRAINING COURSE; AND
PLACED RESTRICTIONS ON HIS ACTIVITIES FOR TWO YEARS WHICH PREVENT HIM FROM SUPERVISING
ANY AP AND REQUIRE HIM TO TAPE RECORD AND LOG ALL CONVERSATIONS WITH CURRENT AND
POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS.


Here's the link: 
www.nfa.futures.org/Ba......


14 Jan 2011, 04:34 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  tjcfool,


I've read about this and about Andrew Left. He is as interesting as the emotional responses he provokes.


But I don't understand what your point is. Of course you know that the missing retail outlets don't suddenly appear
today because you or Andrew have this or that past.


Physical evidence is physical evidence. There are photos from a camera. That camera is the silent witness. The
CHBT retail outlets are missing.


I don't understand your point, unless this is just an ad hominem attack on Andrew Left. What bearing does your post
have on the issue of missing retail outlets?


14 Jan 2011, 05:27 PM


Sedric
Phin 101 is Don Monford. Waldo did that article say your partner was convicted or am I mistaken. Could you clarify?



http://www.nfa.futures.org/BasicNet/Case

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

https://seekingalpha.com/user/719506
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 41/46


14 Jan 2011, 08:00 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Sedric,


Since the above is not an article ... since I know that Left and Mush are not partners ... and since the only article
yesterday relevant to your post yesterday was in Bloomberg's ... you must be referring to tinyurl.com/mushmanInB....
... ?


(For anyone who hasn't seen it yet, here's another article in TheStreet tinyurl.com/MushmanInT...)


15 Jan 2011, 08:38 AM


Sedric
Where Waldos assertions seem to fall apart fast is the claim of total business volume of 1 million dollars. That doesn't
stack up from the ground. The largest dairy in China is a CHBT customer and participated in the investor day
presentations. Spoke glowingly of CHBT's customizable products, repeatability of production and price advantages.
How many 2x2 pills is this customer buying? $1250 dollars worth per year? Do you think these guys would put their
own reputation at stake for a small supplier? It is believed from some earlier analysis that this customer alone buys
much more than a million dollars in bulk , not pills. Where are the pictures of the the bulk manufacturing in addition to
the bathroom plant? Every photo claim is just that- a claim. The short PI told us he didn't look into big superstores for
Shinning brand products as he didn't want to be "discovered". WTF? Go back and read some of his posts and be the
judge of that PI"s efforts.Hilarious


16 Jan 2011, 09:24 PM


phinance101
Was it Waldo claiming that CHBT did $1m in business, or was it CHBT that filed that audited data with the
Chinese government? Are you saying CHBT officials lie in audited financial disclosures? And that at least one
of CHBT's Chinese auditors is complicit, or just incompetent?


How much product does the biggest dairy in China buy from CHBT? Seen any information on that? Why no
names for the nearly 3 dozen alleged bulk additive customers that have been added since April of 2009?
Aren't any of them significant enough to identify? Are we to assume that CHBT has not signed up a major
customer since April of 2009?


Have you heard of CXTI? They are now CXTI.PK. Several sophisticated investors went to China to check
them out and were told by several local government officials that the company was legit, and in line for many
big contracts. The many big contracts turned out to be zero contracts.


query.nytimes.com/gst/...


And coincidentally, CHBT has the same Hong Kong auditor that signed off on CXTI's bogus SEC filings, for
years.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

http://tinyurl.com/mushmanInBloomberg

http://tinyurl.com/MushmanInTheStreet

https://seekingalpha.com/user/719506

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9C0DE0D61F3FF936A35753C1A9619C8B63
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 42/46


One more thing:


At the Investor's Day show, the company produced alleged leases for 103 of their alleged stores. I have seen
no account from any attendee that they were told nearly all those stores would be closed within less than two
weeks , at the end of the quarter. How many stores did they close in two weeks? And Jason Nevader claimed
that the company had released a list of all the stores, but that turned out to be untrue, unless Jason has seen
the list and has verified every location, which could account for his 100% certainty. But if that is the case,
Jason ain't sharing the list.


Where is the list? Wouldn't the company put out a true list of all the stores they ever had, if there is no
problem with their story? If you were running the company, wouldn't you put out the list and cut the shorts off
at the ankles, if you really ever had the stores?


17 Jan 2011, 04:25 PM


Sedric
don, Waldo said the sales totaled only 1 million in a prior post. I agree with you that a listing of all stores made public
could put an end to this dialogue. Maybe they are playing with the shorts buying back stock on the cheap? Maybe you
guys are helping out?


FYI they had 3 named wholesale customers speak at the Investor Day including China's largest dairy so some
wholesale customers are known. Just have your detective follow the trucks from the plant and find out. What about all
the cars at the plant daily? Are they just running a car wash there?


17 Jan 2011, 06:51 PM


Waldo Mushman
As Don points out the financial statements they filed report the less than 1mm in annual revenue. That
number predates the new manufacturing facility so whatever volume they might be doing now is unreported
revenue (in China).


If you view the company based on what they said last year rather than ignore the SEC filings you will see a
company of three distinct parts 1.) The retail stores (which are clearly no longer contributing) 2.) The
distributors who supposedly sell CHBT product to major retailers and 3.) Bulk buyers such as the dairies.


CHBT has not provided the name of any distributors publicly and the claims that the first distributor to speak
at "Investor Day" made are starting to look very suspect. Reportedly that distributor claimed that he sold
CHBT product to all the Carrefour, 20 of the Tesco and numerous Lotus grocery stores in Shanghai. Recent
visits to Carrefour and phone calls to their Shanghai offices indicate that they sell nothing from CHBT. I am
attempting to get documentation that will adequately support my point, but I expect to find that none of the
major grocery or drug stores in Shanghai sell the CHBT product which would strongly suggest that there are
no distributors.


If that is true, CHBT has no retail existence and no distribution. I strongly doubt if they have any bulk business
either, but that will have to wait.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/719506

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 43/46


If you doubt my claims about Carrefour, they have English speakers available. Ring them up or drop them an
e-mail.


John


20 Jan 2011, 05:35 PM


phinance101
Did you read the post you just replied to? Where do you think waldo got the number? He didn't just make it up. The
company filed the audited and signed documents with the Chinese authorities. Do you dispute that?


Maybe they do have 3 real wholesale customers, just like they maybe had 10-15 real stores, when they claimed to
have 111. When is the last time they identified a major customer in an SEC filing and gave a hint as to the volume of
business? Why have they not announced any of the names of the dozens of alleged new bulk additives customers
they have signed up since April of 2009? Ain't it kind of funny that they have not signed up a new customer worthy of
mentioning by name, in that length of time?


You know, believing everything they tell you is not a pre-requisite to owning the stock. Would you trust an American,
or Albanian company in similar circumstances that told you they closed a hundred highly profitable retail stores, and
would not reveal the locations?


And yes, in the near future I believe they will be running a car wash there. Also, you should suggest to the communist
authorities that they put car washes in some of their ghost cities and vacant mega-malls. They are selling a lot of cars
over there, and it is extremely dirty.


18 Jan 2011, 02:33 AM


Reason10
Jason and Sean,


If you didn’t already know -


I believe the newspaper article was based on this Chinese blogger – he seemed to quote the two of you for most for
his information.


txiacao.blog.hexun.com...


Looks like the same arguements.


21 Jan 2011, 05:18 PM


phinance101
Yeah, it's the same old stuff. Ignore it. It will go away. No problem. The part about Danisco calling CHBT's business
presence "miniscule" and Bright Dairy denying that they are a CHBT customer was kinda new, but it will get old in
about 6 months. Just continue the usual ducking and dodging and all will be well.


You better get a real person to translate that thing for you. The computer translations don't do it justice. It's really ugly.


21 Jan 2011, 09:44 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/746525

http://txiacao.blog.hexun.com/60828015_d.html

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 44/46


Mike Renaldi
The company didnt commit fraud. The class action suit is the only lawsuit against the company. The class wants the
company held responsible for the stock price decline. The class thinks they were misled by the retail stores thinking
the closing of the stores caused the drop and that they were not informed. They also claim the SEC and SAIC
document differences made the stock drop. Waldo claims he is waiting to see the bank statements at the trial (doubt it
goes to trial) and that the company will fail to produce those. Stupid move Waldo the bank statements were revealed
at the investor day ROTH was there to confirm. What is your real reason for being short? Waiting for some negative
news that has no future impact on the business but might drop the PPS a few bucks so you can profit from a short
trade. To slander the company and its business to makes you a sick person imho.


25 Jan 2011, 08:25 AM


Waldo Mushman
If they have the bank statements you are in great shape. I don't believe they do. There are currently two
cases against CHBT one is the class action suit under 10-b-5 statutes and the second one under common
law fraud statutes. Shorts don't open a position expecting a class action. I certainly didn't and the potential
impact from these cases is not one of my key concerns. The timing is difficult and the highest probability is a
settlement. The cases do offer some significant potentials and disclosure is the root of that upside. I
mentioned bank statements, but any documents related to the charges are fair game. That includes
manufacturing records, copies of contracts, employee reports, etc.


The problem you have to fade is the increasing attention the company will receive in China. It is now a major
feature story in a major publication and whether you believe it or not; the writer will keep following the story. I
suspect that some people associated with the Chinese Government read the article and it crossed their mind
that a $30mm number is worth checking.


I am only distressed by the lack of shares so that I might increase my bet against the company.


John


25 Jan 2011, 11:26 AM


Mike Renaldi
I don't see any reason the company needs to have bank statements to show anyone. Again, I described the class
action and what they are after.. has nothing to do with the companies bank statements or retail stores. The class
wants compensated for their losses because they claim the SAIC and SEC documents made the stock go down as
well as how they perceived the retail stores. No reason for bank statements needed unless the shorts are driving that
from the class.. but who cares the statements were confirmed at investment day ROTH confirmed. Not only do shorts
take positions days before a class action is announced they take positions days before a clown posts BS here on
seeking alpha. You are certainly aware of the short game don't tell me shorts don't open positions expecting a class
action. If guys like you know of a class action you short bigtime ahead of the PR. You can't be trusted its one lie after
another.


25 Jan 2011, 12:22 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 45/46


Waldo Mushman
Its very difficult to explain something this simple to someone who either won't understand or is incapable of
understanding. Class action lawsuits are a corporate event. They are a negative corporate event. Much like
the announcement of a major new contract or floating a new secondary, or a drug trial failing, the event will
effect the perception of the companies value.


It is predictable that short sellers will be more enthusiastic about a company with problems and less
enthusiastic about a company that has none. You keep rattling on as if short sellers had made up the 111
stores. It is CHBT that provides all the data points I use to attack them. Those same data points are attractive
to class action attorneys. The fact we both arrived on the scene is a predictable result of CHBT's actions.


You are absolutely correct that short sellers will establish a position well before they share the information that
has been accumulated. We are capitalists and it seems reasonable to benefit from your efforts. Would you
prefer the stock to crash in response to Chinese articles? They certainly aren't short sellers and the story they
published had a major impact on the price. Whatever accusations are made are never blindly accepted and
the market has plenty of opportunity to determine if they agree with the analysis or not.


You also seem to miss the stark reality that the stock price is virtually unchanged from the date of the original
Citron report.


John


25 Jan 2011, 01:33 PM


phinance101
I am with you here Mike. You can't trust anything negative. When you hear anything negative, you know it
came from a lying short. That's why we true longs are never shaken from our resolve by crap like a hundred
missing stores. If the company says they closed those stores, that's all we need to know. And the more
lawsuits, the more our resolve grows. Every true long knows that the shorts and the lawyers only attack
companies that have nothing to hide. Actually, that doesn't make any sense. I need to work on this some
more Mike. Keep them busy.


25 Jan 2011, 11:40 PM


Mike Renaldi
The class action suits are a joke. The class wants compensation for a declining stock price. You guys continue to
attempt to scare longs and mislead investors to go short making it appear the company could go under. Again, the
company might settle for 1 million out of the $155 million in cash they have. The suits are not going to affect the
growing business. The company willingly showed the bank statements that accounted for the 150 million+ cash. Now
your stories just don't add up. So what the 10k didnt spell out the exact detail of business. Nothing new. Neither does
Apple or Walmart. Thats all you guys have right now. The cash is confirmed and this proves you are lieing. What I
don't understand is how you guys are prosecuted. CHBT is going to trial for about a few lines in the 10k that aren't
even important and you guys spread lies and slander the company, its employess and we investors. What is wrong
with this country?


26 Jan 2011, 08:08 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/user/801879

https://seekingalpha.com/user/723317
5/21/2018 China-Biotics: Strategy or Cover-Up? - China-Biotics, Inc. (OTCMKTS:CHBT) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/244256-china-biotics-strategy-or-cover-up 46/46


R-D.
it's quite clear what the shorters are trying to do. 
they perfectly know how fear can play a bad trick on human mind. 
so they select low liqud stock far from U.S, buy a lot of put and they edege themselves going short.


if you notice the date on wich they publish their articles, everybody can see that it happens before an increasing of put
volume as well as in some significant date.


For example the so called wise Matt Berry published his firs artcle on 31 December.


is it just a coincidence? 
i doubt


26 Jan 2011, 09:18 AM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Filed yesterday, Feb 9, 2012 
"China-Biotics, Inc. (the “Company”) is unable to timely file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
December 31, 2011 (the “Form 10-Q”) by the prescribed due date of February 9, 2012 as a result of the Company’s
inability to provide audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. The Company is unable to
provide audited financial statements due to the resignation of it independent auditor, BDO Limited, on June 22, 2011.
The Company has not yet retained a new auditor." 
http://1.usa.gov/zLCzYP


10 Feb 2012, 06:51 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/725675

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

http://1.usa.gov/zLCzYP
