5/23/2018 GeoInvesting's Dan David Talks Cheetah Mobile - Cheetah Mobile Inc. (NYSE:CMCM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2408725-geoinvestings-dan-david-talks-cheetah-mobile 1/3


GeoInvesting's Dan David Talks Cheetah Mobile
Aug. 11, 2014 7:58 AM ET1 comment
by: Benzinga


Summary


Despite being relisted on Google Ranks, GeoInvesting still thinks the company is a
bad investment with an obsolete product.


David continued that not only did Cheetah Mobile fail to make a disclosure, they did
not respond to a direct request.


US investors have been largely unaware for the same reason they were unaware
that the app had been removed until GeoInvesting published its short thesis on July
31.


By Luke Jacobi


Shares of Cheetah Mobile (NYSE:CMCM) rose 21.2 percent over the past two days after
the company's Clean Master app was relisted in Google Rankings.


US investors have been largely unaware for the same reason they were unaware that the
app had been removed until GeoInvesting published its short thesis on July 31.
Downloads dropped 88 percent when removed from Google Rankings.


In an exclusive interview with Benzinga, GeoInvesting's Dan David discussed updates
with the stock.


The Story


"What happened subsequently is that they are being ranked again on Google Play," David
said. "What they haven't done is disclose why they weren't ranked from July 14. I think it's
a material omission."


He continued that he is happy that the app is once again listed for Cheetah Mobile's
uniformed US investors.


"Two days ago, they were in the Chinese media letting everybody know, before the market
opened, that they are being picked up by Google Play again."


However, no announcement was made to US investors, leaving them in the dark as
Chinese investors bid the stock higher.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CMCM

http://www.benzinga.com/topic/dan-david
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting's Dan David Talks Cheetah Mobile - Cheetah Mobile Inc. (NYSE:CMCM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2408725-geoinvestings-dan-david-talks-cheetah-mobile 2/3


Comments (1)


"It's just a shame ... They list on our exchanges, and our exchange does not force material
disclosures that they are disclosing in China."


David continued that not only did Cheetah Mobile fail to make a disclosure, they did not
respond to a direct request.


"I reached out to their IR before we published anything, and I asked them the questions
about not being ranked in Google Play. They had no comment."


Fraud Risk


When asked about the possibility of Cheetah Mobile posting fraudulent figures to boost
the stock, David said that they are at risk because they are in China.


"If they do it, they may get away with it, and they may get money. Or, they may not get
away with it, and what is going to happen? Nobody goes to jail, nobody [investors] gets
their money back."


Looking Forward


Despite being relisted on Google Ranks, GeoInvesting still thinks the company is a bad
investment with an obsolete product. The $7.04 to $8.80 price target was derived with
comparable company PE ratios.


Shares of Cheetah Mobile gained 12.7 percent Thursday to $24.84.


Disclosure: The author has no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate
any positions within the next 72 hours. The author wrote this article themselves, and it
expresses their own opinions. The author is not receiving compensation for it. The author
has no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Disclaimer: Neither Benzinga nor its staff recommend that you buy, sell, or hold any
security. We do not offer investment advice, personalized or otherwise. Benzinga
recommends that you conduct your own due diligence and consult a certified financial
professional for personalized advice about your financial situation.


 Like this article


Ping Sheng



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1229341
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting's Dan David Talks Cheetah Mobile - Cheetah Mobile Inc. (NYSE:CMCM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2408725-geoinvestings-dan-david-talks-cheetah-mobile 3/3


the whole company is a fraud


28 Aug 2014, 10:36 PM
