5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 1/21


A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story
Oct. 17, 2012 11:54 AM ET35 comments
by: Matt Berry


The story behind ClearSign Combustion Corporation (NASDAQ:CLIR) and its ECC
Technology has suffered a critical failure. There is a point in time, before which I find no
credible scientists capable of inventing ECC Technology, and after which all latecomers
are irrelevant to the founding of the technology.


It's a logical problem: what comes after an event does not come before it. Imagine that
you are standing on a riverbank. Upstream, you see a lumberjack by the river cutting
down a tree. It splashes into the water and floats down past you. You follow the log with
your eyes and can see further downstream yet another lumberjack, ax in hand.


Which one cut the tree down? The lumberjack upstream or the lumberjack downstream?
At the least, common sense would confidently eliminate the lumberjack downstream.


Who put together ECC Technology and When?


Here is the simplest expression of the critical failure. MDB Capital has been with
ClearSign from the beginning of its public life and wrote a 26 page research report,
published last month on September 7, 2012.


"In addition, the team retains the original inventor of ECC, Chief Scientist David
Goodson …" ~ MDB Capital Group, Sept. 7, 2012, research initiation.


Mr. Goodson as the original inventor of ECC is a very big problem, as we discovered in
my last article and which we shall summarize shortly.


But April 2009 is also a very big problem for ClearSign. This is the point at which
ClearSign investors stand upon the riverbank. April 2009 is when ECC Technology was
first articulated ... when ClearSign applied for its first patent, touting the technology
currently pending and used in the prospectus to sell shares to investors. Now, just as the
log floating down the river tells us that the lumberjacks downstream did not cut down the
tree, we also know that the later engineers and professors who joined ClearSign after
ECC was declared could not account for that formulation. Any experimentation and
articulation of the technology on that patent application occurs before April 3, 2009. So
let's go over who was upstream and who is downstream from April 2009?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CLIR

http://www.mdb.com/assets/files/cs%20final.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 2/21


Upstream: The currently pending application lists 5 "inventors." Who are they? (I've dealt
with their resumes in greater detail in a previous article: Here, I present a brief summary.)


First, from false patent claims to highly questionable scientific and undisclosed
businesses, David Goodson's credentials in the prospectus were sometimes inflated,
sometimes inadequate, and sometimes downright false. The most humorous: ClearSign
claims that he had once collaborated with Nobel Prize winners ‒ in such a highly unlikely
situation that it is safe to say that somebody lied. This is ClearSign's "Chief Science
Officer," who was said to be the "original inventor of ECC."


Second, where was ClearSign's disclosure of Thomas Hartwick's affiliation with
Sustainable Power Corp (OTC:SSTP)? Sustainable Power Corp was used by John
Rivera, convicted last year for fraud in a classic pump and dump.


Third and Fourth: CEO Richard Rutkowski and CMO Geoffrey Osler are businessmen,
not combustion scientists or engineers. Why are they listed as "Inventors"? Are they
sincerely patenting inventions or inventing patents to sell shares to investors? Why are
they here?


Fifth, Christopher Wiklof is the patent agent.


This is upstream of April 2009 and these are the five "inventors" who first articulated ECC
technology. I cannot find a credible scientist on the patent application. I believe that
ClearSign's pursuit of ECC Technology is a science scam.


(In this particular Seeking Alpha article, I'll set aside the fact that the four effects touted in
the Whitepaper had already been discovered by other scientists and engineers ‒ 15 to 60
years earlier. Any attempt by ClearSign to claim these discoveries for their own, failing to
give credit to the scientists who made the actual discoveries, is tantamount to scientific
plagiarism. For now however, let's return to the critical failure in the ECC story.)


The Lumberjack downstream couldn't have cut down the tree:


The engineers and University of Washington professors that began participation with
ClearSign after April 2009 cannot therefore be those who participated before. This is just
common sense. It's the same as saying that "after" is not "before." But then again, the
mind is full of traps and illusions. When a mental association with prestigious credentials
goes up against the inexorable chronology of events how can "after" come before? We
can do it in language, either mistakenly or dishonestly. We can do it with sloppy thinking.
We cannot however find it in reality. And yet here we are! Since April 2009 ClearSign has
paid for advisors in cash and stock, many from the University of Washington. Clearsign in



https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SSTP

http://www.scribd.com/doc/60631374/Rivera-Summary-Judgment

https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

http://www.flickr.com/photos/58346149@N03/8097313714/in/photostream
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 3/21


my opinion borrows credibility by this association with the professors. They sign non-
disclosure agreements and are said to have no decision-making power, leaving them with
more financial benefits and less legal accountability. These advisors are put front and
center, next to ClearSign's employees in documents, on websites, and even on a recent
research paper, and by this mere proximity many unsophisticated investors take their own
mental association as proof of the legitimacy of ECC Technology.


It appears to work. The point appears to have been lost on many investors, and so we say
it again: It is physically impossible for the professors who arrived after April 2009, to have
made the contribution to ECC Technology before April 2009. As scientists, you have Mr.
Goodson and Dr. Hartwick in April 2009; they fall short. It makes no difference whether
you put even an Einstein or a Newton next to them later.


A Fake-it-till-you-make-it strategy?


Could the later engineers and University of Washington Professors discover a genuinely
new technology? But wait a minute … could we say this without suggesting that
ClearSign's business model was just another Fake-it-till-you-make-it scam? There would
be serious problems with such a ... "business model."


First and most obvious, this would not have been what everyone signed up for.


Second, …


From a business perspective, most Fake-it-till-you-make-it strategies are due to
management's illusion that they can control the uncontrollable. They get further and
further behind, the lie gets bigger and bigger … until they implode.
From a scientific perspective, I'm betting there is no scientist so competent he can
resurrect a living result from a dead scam.


A scam sets up an inverse relationship between integrity and ability.


Damage done: Under normal circumstances one wants the most talented and intelligent
on one's science team. When however one has determined the existence of a scam, then
everything is reversed. The greater the credentials, skills, and intelligence the more
investors they will bring in and the greater the damage done. In principle, this is similar to
something Warren Buffett once said about hiring employees. He said that you want
employees who have three qualities: integrity, intelligence, and energy. However, if they
don't have integrity, their intelligence and energy will kill you. When you think about it, he
tells us, you really want dishonest people to be dumb and lazy.



http://www.amazon.com/Tao-Warren-Buffett-Interpretations-Billionaire/dp/1400103533
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 4/21


Lost Integrity: And when you think about it, once you see that a fraud has taken place, the
more intelligence and experience a scientist has the less integrity one can afford him. This
is my objection to those who tout Dr. Thomas Hartwick's credentials. Once he used those
credentials for Sustainable Power Corp, while the SEC was suing John Rivera for fraud,
those credentials work against him. If one wants to say that he is highly intelligent and
scientifically experienced, then one will have a difficult time arguing that he did not know
what was happening ….


From a business perspective, Rivera was currently being sued by the SEC. How could
Dr. Hartwick not know what he was supporting?
From a scientific perspective, Dr. Hartwick was supposed to be an expert on this
ready-to-commercialize, albeit now discredited, "SSTP Process." If anyone was in a
position to know, it was supposed to be Dr. Hartwick.


There is no room to maneuver here. Either a scientist is competent enough to know that
he is involved in a scam and is therefore untrustworthy, or he does not know the science
well enough and is therefore incompetent. Since one is always free to invest elsewhere,
"Bad or Bad?" is not a choice; it's a mental trap.


For the record, I have until now deliberately avoided mention of Dr. Breidenthal (and the
other University of Washington professors). Being downstream they were irrelevant.
However, recently ...


1. He allowed Mr. David Goodson to be listed as co-author on research he is to present
to the American Physical Society next month


2. He allowed his research, his name, his credentials, and his university to be used in a
ClearSign press release.


So here we are. Dr. Breidenthal is now relevant, whether by passively or actively letting
his name be used … I don't know which. It appears that ClearSign is working hard to
associate itself with the University of Washington, and currently with the American
Physical Society, through Dr. Breidenthal.


How much has Dr. Breidenthal been paid for his role in ClearSign? What are his
credentials? As far as ECC technology is concerned, it doesn't matter. He signed on after
April 2009 and is downstream from the invention of "ECC Technology," the original
inventor of which was said to be David Goodson.



http://meeting.aps.org/Meeting/DFD12/Event/177012

http://ir.stockpr.com/clearsigncombustion/company-news/detail/163/clearsign-demonstrates-novel-method-to-improve-energy-efficiency-in-turbines-and-other-systems
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 5/21


This fact matters. David Goodson's problems are serious and transparent. After thorough
research, I believe that ClearSign's April 2009 set up of ECC Technology and the way it
has been touted to investors constitutes a science scam. I also believe that the professors
who signed on later are intelligent and educated. Therefore, my chief objection to the
University of Washington professors is due to the mere fact that they are here.


The university advisors are paid in cash and stock. Mr. Goodson and ClearSign can stand
next to the ClearSign advisor, Dr. Breidenthal, and borrow credibility by their association
with the University of Washington and the American Physical Society. So here's Mr.
Goodson, listed as co-author on Dr. Breidenthal's research. Did Mr. Goodson make a
genuine contribution or did Dr. Breidenthal's financial interests and/or contractual
obligations with Clearsign find a merely plausible way to put him there? After in depth
research into the false and inflated claims regarding the Chief Science Officer, Mr.
Goodson, I am confident it is the latter.


Analogy: A straight-A student is arrested in a bank robbery. The excellent grades, past
education, and current level of intelligence do not sponge away the crime. In fact they
demonstrate that he has a clearer thought process than most, less room to claim
ignorance, demonstrating in turn his greater guilt. In any event, his grades do not make
him innocent; his being here makes him guilty.


Given his education and intelligence, my case against Dr. Breidenthal is the fact that he is
here.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2012/10/14/582827-13502613546826866-Matt-Berry_origin.jpg
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 6/21


Comments (35)


[For source material, unless otherwise noted, see the previous article: "Clearsign: The
Reinvention Of Fire Or...?".]


Disclosure: I am short CLIR. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Lou Basenese, Contributor
Coincidences?


1. This article re-hashes the main objections to CLIR the author made less than one month ago, without mentioning a
word about the company's two latest developments since then. (1M Btu/hr and applicability to turbine systems)


2. The lock-up period expires on Oct. 22


3. The author has a short position in the stock


4. The author's been actively re-publishing his opinions on Yahoo! message boards, known hangouts for promoters
and market manipulators. (In the author's mind, "guilt by association" must somehow only be relevant to Dr.
Breidenthal.)


Bottom line: It's hard to believe this research was published for purely altruistic reasons.


Like with any stock, there's a bull and bear case. They've both been presented. It's time to let the market and the
marketplace bear out who's ultimately right.


17 Oct 2012, 03:35 PM


Danny1929
Lou - To what do you ascribe the 10% dip in the past ten days or so (according to Yahoo Finance)? I picked
up a very small position based on your own article, then I read both of Matt's articles. This is what small play
positions are for - experimenting. But I'd be interested to hear your analysis on the stock performance of late.


17 Oct 2012, 05:47 PM


Ba1k3es
1. This article is about a pump and dump... 1MBtu and potential turbine application does not matter if the
technology is a farce.


2. I assume you are pointing out the lock-up expiration to warn investors to get out asap. Anyone who doesn't
be prepared to face the same as, MDB Capital's other pump and dump, PAMT's lockup expiration that



https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CLIR

https://seekingalpha.com/author/lou-basenese

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5169461

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 7/21


happened last week of September... 30% loss... OUCH! (Interestingly a short article warning of similar issues
with PAMT and Lou came out defending it... more on that later.)


3. Having a short position is no different than having a long position and coming out with an article. Really the
position is immaterial if facts are right. Lou, most of your information and opinions comes from MDB Capital, a
company who has a significant stake in CLIR, which is no different.


4. How would you know his opinions are on yahoo boards, unless you are there yourself? Of course then you
would know your articles are there as well.... but surely you aren't that naive.


Lets talk Lou and his history. In the past couple years that Lou has been on Seeking Alpha only 3 times out of
160 articles has he come out and defended a specific stock. One was CSTR over a year ago. The other two
were within the last few weeks; PAMT and CLIR. Interestingly both are linked to MDB Capital. The question is
why would an author who writes on very general topics, almost never specific stocks, come out and defend
these two specific MDB Capital stocks. Both are similar in that they claim "disruptive technologies", but both
are using old technologies that are well known and not useful.


So the question is why would Lou, who claims no position in the stock or relationship with the company or
MDB Capital, be so apt to defend two of MDB's investments so vehemently? Especially considering his
writing is nearly always a broad view and not a single stock view. Why does his research information come
straight from MDB, instead of independently? Lou can you say you have absolutely no relationship with MDB
capital, or that you or any company/organization you work for recieves any benefit from MDB Capital?


Links to both PAMT articles. Notice the stock decline following the lockup expiration. 
http://seekingalpha.co... 
897401-a-rebuttal-to-r...


Now onto the actual problems with the company. Look at the 1978 patents from Mr. Goodson with his
company Air Pollution Control Systems, Inc. They are nearly identical to the ECC technology... these ECC
tech patents filed are worthless. I find it funny that Rutkowski's bio touts his founding of MVIS. Go pull up a
chart for MVIS... if that is the future of this company then YIKES! Also the BOD is not independent at all,
which is very concerning for shareholders. Matt details in this and the previous article the very shady past of
the people involved. The saying goes: fool me once shame on you, fool me twice shame on me. This goes for
anyone who continues to stay long the stock, you will be had.


Caveat Emptor


18 Oct 2012, 12:31 AM


Ba1k3es
links didn't work. Just search PAMT on seeking alpha. Both articles will be there.


18 Oct 2012, 02:39 AM


patrickwolfe
Ba - I haven't been able to find the patents from 1978 that you reference. Can you post them or a link I can
check out. I really haven't looked to hard, so I may find them tomorrow, but any help would be appreciated. 



https://seekingalpha.com/a/j1h9

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 8/21


Thanks


18 Oct 2012, 05:22 AM


Ba1k3es
http://bit.ly/REwTMH


Sorry it was the 1995 (issued 1997) patent from Thermal Energy Systems, INC, linked above. This one is
exactly ECC tech...


The 1978 patent, while very similar, is only using electrostatics to remove particulates from flue gasses. It can
be found here: http://bit.ly/U9uBdm


18 Oct 2012, 11:49 AM


patrickwolfe
BA1k3es 
Thank you for the links.  
So David Goodson is the original inventor of this technology.  
The patent you reference above shows it. 
It looks like the new patent has a computer controller added, since they didn't have those back in the 70's. 
Thanks for the verification of who the original inventor was. Matt Berry is very confused about that. 
Matt Berry, I believe you need to look a little earlier, like about 20 years, to find when the original technology
was articulated. 
It looks like Mr. Goodson tweeked it, updated it with computer control, and went and gota great combustion
engineer to R&D it.


18 Oct 2012, 01:10 PM


Ba1k3es
Way to try to twist what I wrote. What it actually means is that tech is OLD. ANYONE can copy it legally, if
they would want to. Why hasn't anyone.... probably because the tech is a sham.


31 Oct 2012, 05:20 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  The “author” … my name’s “Matt.”


“1. This article re-hashes the main objections to CLIR the author made less than one month ago, …”


No. The previous article was a broad 17 page report. This article focuses specifically on the critical failure in
ClearSign’s ECC story.


And on the contrary, your article “re-hashed” the official company line, as if no problems had been exposed by my
earlier article. You did not mention a single word about the serious fractures brought up. In fact, your article about
ECC Technology failed to mention the man said to be the “original inventor of ECC.” Serious questions had just
recently been raised about ClearSign's false and inflated disclosures regarding his history. Why wouldn’t you mention



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

http://bit.ly/REwTMH

http://bit.ly/U9uBdm

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 9/21


David Goodson, the Chief Science Officer, largest shareholder, director, and co-founder? Despite requests in the
comment section for you to explain the omission, you offered none. Do you think he is phony? Without him and Dr.
Hartwick, how could we have the April 2009 articulation of “ECC Technology”? Can we have an invention without an
inventor?


Who put ECC Technology together? Why can’t you talk about them?


“… without mentioning a word about the company's two latest developments since then. (1M Btu/hr and applicability
to turbine systems)”


Read the article again. I don’t short science companies. I short scams. ClearSign needs to reveal credible inventors
for ECC Technology. Where are they? Without that, CLIR would just be another fake-it-till-you-make-it gamble.


“2. The lock-up period expires on Oct. 22”


It is good for you to underline the fact. A fully informed retail investor has a better chance that way (some of whom
may be your subscribers).


“3. The author has a short position in the stock”


Of course, after researching the company in depth, I have taken a short position.


On the other hand, after touting the stock as a pick for others, have you finally shared the risks of your readers and
bought some shares? Are you still recommending the company? I put my own money at risk ‒ on my own research.
Have you?


“4. The author's been actively re-publishing his opinions on Yahoo! message boards, known hangouts for promoters
and market manipulators.”


Exactly, and they are pumping up the stock price with “copy and paste” material (some of it yours) and I am there to
counter it with the heretofore missing information. Investors have a better chance when the opinions of both sides are
heard, especially when the only information available so far has been the company’s own guided tour.


“ (In the author's mind, "guilt by association" must somehow only be relevant to Dr. Breidenthal.)”


No. I refer to involvement and intelligent awareness of what is happening (scienter).


“Bottom line: It's hard to believe this research was published for purely altruistic reasons.”


This is a free market economy, where multiple interests advocate their positions and in vigorous debate, as a
tendency, prices settle at the value of the underlying assets and cash flows. It’s the stock market, not Sunday School.
Altruistic? Is this your standard for assessing a stock pick? If not, why would you hold me to it? If yes, how altruistic is
it to promote a stock that you do not take a chance on yourself? (Or, did you finally pick some up? It’s getting
cheaper.)


“Like with any stock, there's a bull and bear case. They've both been presented. It's time to let the market and the
marketplace bear out who's ultimately right.”


Of course you do not expect that the company will go silent now. This is a market and it will be an ongoing debate and
the more information that gets out there the better the chances retail investors will have. I always work very hard to
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 10/21


take the side of the market that benefits the most from increased transparency. You don’t do your readers a favor by
reducing information and resisting debate. The side that begs to contain the information and dim the lights is usually
the wrong side. More debate … if you don’t want that, you need to ask yourself why not. Following the guided tour is
not research.


17 Oct 2012, 05:56 PM


Lou Basenese, Contributor
I'm not discouraging transparency and open debate. Re-hashed arguments get tiresome, though.


You keep obsessing about giving credit to an original inventor. What matters most is a company's ability to
commercialize a technology.


Or put another way, I’m most concerned with the process of innovation: taking something that has been discovered,
improving it and commercializing it.


Countless examples of this exist in the real world. Like Steve Jobs and the mouse. And Thomas Edison with the light
bulb. He didn't discover the science. He commercialized it.


By your logic we should ignore those successes, though, because Jobs and Edison didn’t discover/develop the
original technology. As an investor, that makes no sense.


Clearsign has a credible engineer on board, Joe Colannino, to help commercialize ECC. Yet, you keep ignoring his
existence. Or worse, you try to dismiss him because he wasn’t on board when the original science was articulated.
Again, that’s inconsequential.


Extending your lumberjack analogy, it doesn’t matter who cut down the log in the first place. I'm interested in who pulls
it out of the water and sells it to someone to build a house, thereby creating real world value for the first time.


17 Oct 2012, 09:58 PM


Ba1k3es
What about the fact that ECC technology is nearly identical to the patents filed by Mr Goodson in 1978 at Air
Pollution Systems, Inc? It didn't work then.


Also what about the shady and sketchy past of many involved in the company? Those are way more
important when investing in small caps than anything else.


18 Oct 2012, 12:30 AM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Lou,


“I'm not discouraging transparency and open debate. Re-hashed arguments get tiresome, though.”


That’s funny. Re-hash? A little known fact by most is that your promotional piece came out three times. 1) You
said it was originally a research report sent to your subscribers. 2) Then you explained in a message to me
that it had been plagiarized by Mobile Guru in an article published on SA. 3) That was then deleted from SA



https://seekingalpha.com/author/lou-basenese

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 11/21


and republished under your own name the very next day ‒ giving your promotional piece two full pops at
yahoo! syndication.


Every contributor knows that you get the most readers on the first day of yahoo! syndication, and that as the
article link recedes into the past, the readers dwindle off. So you get two days in a row of top-listed Yahoo!
Syndication and the stock price was pumped up, the consequence of which now appears to be a whole lot of
bag-holders ‒ who I don’t think are completely aware of what took place. How many took your advice? The
price soared from about $7 to $8.5 as the investors poured in for about 4 days and who are now getting
burned. (And not a single word in your article about the end of lock-up coming this next Monday?)


Interesting, the plagiarized SA article mentioned Hartwick. It is pulled and your text re-appears under your
name but makes no mention of Dr. Hartwick. Either that was an isolated portion of the article that was not
plagiarized or it was in your original newsletter and you decided to take it out.


Either way, you tout a technology without addressing the serious lack of credibility in the inventors. What
happened to Mr. Goodson and Dr. Hartwick?


But there is also a basic problem to your objection ‒ “rehashing.” It all depends upon the situation. Sometimes
repetition is necessary.


Teacher: Class, What does 2 + 2 equal? 
Billy: 5! 
Sue: No, it’s 4. 
Billy: It’s 6! 
Sue: No, it’s 4. 
Billy: 203!!! 
Sue: No, it’s 4. 
Teacher: Sue, it’s tiresome hearing you re-hash the same thing over and over again. Can’t you add a little to
the dialogue? Use your imagination. Look at Billy, he’s not only giving us variety he’s increasingly optimistic
with each answer. And try to be a little more cheerful: you’re disappointing everyone with your smaller
numbers.


ECC Technology is missing a credible inventor. You can add all the other facts and people that you want, but
until this is addressed, we will need to return to this critical failure in the story.


“What matters most is a company's ability to commercialize a technology.”


A technology 60 years old and counting … Why wasn’t this mentioned to investors?


“Countless examples of this exist in the real world. Like Steve Jobs and the mouse. And Thomas Edison with
the light bulb. He didn't discover the science. He commercialized it. By your logic we should ignore those
successes, though, because Jobs and Edison didn’t discover/develop the original technology. As an investor,
that makes no sense.”


As an investor I pay attention to survivors’ and hindsight bias. Going forward, your chances of picking out the
survivor, among all the competitors, is very slim. We too easily ignore this when looking backward.
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 12/21


Also, Edison was a great inventor, with over a thousand patents. A small portion of those patents paid off. If
you lived in his time period and rushed to an investor and said, “Edison invented this. Buy it!” you most likely
wouldn’t have been doing that investor a favor. Despite his greatness as an inventor, the basic odds are
against any given invention working out … as an investment. That is nothing against Edison. This is just to
say that Edison serves as a model for inventors, not investors.


“Clearsign has a credible engineer on board, Joe Colannino, to help commercialize ECC. Yet, you keep
ignoring his existence. Or worse, you try to dismiss him because he wasn’t on board when the original
science was articulated. Again, that’s inconsequential.”


 
No, it is not inconsequential and I haven’t ignored him. Eliminating a possibility is not the same as ignoring
that possibility. Re-read the article. If there are no original and credible inventors for “ECC Technology,” then
that strongly suggests a fake-it-till-you-make-it scam. Re-read the article. If there is a critical failure in the
story, then the issue of management’s integrity comes into full view. If this is a scam, then the greater the
intelligence and skills the later team has, the greater the culpability of that team and the greater the damage
done to investors. Re-read the article.


“Extending your lumberjack analogy, it doesn’t matter who cut down the log in the first place. I'm interested in
who pulls it out of the water and sells it to someone to build a house, thereby creating real world value for the
first time.”


It matters if a lie took place ‒ and it matters a lot. If management lacks credibility, how can you lean on their
information?


18 Oct 2012, 05:29 PM


patrickwolfe
Dr. Thomas S. Hartwick 
Independent Consultant


Thomas Hartwick is a technology and business advisor with long experience in technical management for commercial
and government activities with emphasis on research and development. With a specialty in electronics and optics, his
background includes R&D and management positions at Hughes Aircraft Company, the Aerospace Corporation, and
TRW. In addition to participation in key business strategies of more than a dozen companies, he has served on
numerous national advisory panels, including the Advisory Group on Electron Devices for DOD, review panels for the
Defense Science Board and AFSAB, and various boards and committees of the National Research Council. Hartwick
currently serves on five corporate boards and committees.


18 Oct 2012, 12:31 AM


Chris Marlett
Pretty amazing how this guy doesn't go visit the company or call any of the credible people that do believe in the
promise of this technology and are lending their time and money to help....especially when he has been invited to.
Seeking Alpha should really screen their writers much better. They obviously don't have editors that can turn it into a
credible information source.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4915551
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 13/21


Seeking Alpha can start to be credible by printing this as some of my other posts similar to this have not been posted.


18 Oct 2012, 12:39 AM


Ba1k3es
Chris, how many shares did you and MDB capital sell when the lock-up expired for PAMT? How many do you
plan to sell when the lock-up expires + the following 12 months for CLIR?


You are self proclaim to be an expert of investment in ip. Explain exactly how CLIR's tech is any different than
the failed tech in patents Goodson filed under his former company, Air Pollution Systems, Inc.


Has Lou Basenese or his employers benefitted from you, MDB Capital, or associates in any way directly or
indirectly?


For those that do not know. Chris is the head of MDB Capital, and has a very large long interest in selling
stock of CLIR.


18 Oct 2012, 01:04 AM


UrbanAchiever
Marlett -


Attacking Seeking Alpha? Way to go. I am guessing you are OK with Seeking Alpha publishing Mr.
Basenese's article on CLIR?


I believe time will show that Mr. Berry is doing the investment community a service by researching & writing
these articles. It doesn't take a genius to know that "something is rotten in Denmark" here.


I have no position in CLIR but it is literally calling out "short me, short me, big boy". Especially after reading
Marlett's dodgy retorts.  


18 Oct 2012, 05:18 AM


Chris Marlett
Looked at Matt Berry's book on Amazon called The Mechanics of Virtue. Quite a nice read so far. But one of his
quotes early on is "The truth does not need to resist an attack. Those who attack truth can only fail. Those who
protect their assumptions can only fail.


The company and I are inviting him to hear the truth and he has not taken us up on it. I can only assume he is trying
to protect his erroneous assumptions and not seek greater truth.


Since the truth does not need to resist attack I will no longer post here. My quote I live by is "Never argue with fools or
drunks"....so signing off.


18 Oct 2012, 12:40 AM


patrickwolfe
UPDATE ON AVIATION SECURITY



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1852551

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4915551

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 14/21


Statement of 
Thomas S. Hartwick, Ph.D. 
10510 196th St. SE 
Snohomish, WA 98296 
360/668-4257 
Chairman of the Committee on Assessment of Technologies Deployed to Improve Aviation Security 
National Research Council/National Academy of Sciences


before the 
Subcommittee on Aviation 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
U.S. House of Representatives


March 16, 2000


18 Oct 2012, 12:48 AM


patrickwolfe
Dr. Thomas Hartwick 
Thomas S. Hartwick is retired from general management in the aerospace industry. He has more than 50 years of
research and development, technology transfer/insertion, and mainstream business experience supporting all
segments of the U.S. government. Dr. Hartwick previously worked at Hughes Aircraft Company, Aerospace
Corporation and TRW. General management positions include electro-optic R&D laboratories, chip R&D and
manufacturing, corporate strategic planning, a commercial chip company, and a major satellite payload program. His
areas of published research include sensors and imaging, optical communications, magnetic materials, microwave
devices, molecular lasers, far-infrared lasers and their applications, and laser heterodyne radiometry. Since leaving
the aerospace industry in 1995, Dr. Hartwick has served on a number of academic, government, and industrial boards
in a technical management role. He is past Chairman (Emeritus) of the Advisory Group on Electron Devices for Office
of Sec Def, Chair of NRC committees on Aviation Security R&D, active with the Defense Science Board and GAO,
and active for two decades with the National Technology Transfer Center. He holds a Top Secret clearance for service
on AFSAB, DSB, AGED, ARL, AFRL, NSA, the National Academies and other committees. He is also an advocate for
on-shore DOD chip production and reviewer of AFRL organization, materials and manufacturing activities.
Dr.Hartwick’s more recent activities include hands-on experience in strategic planning, marketing, manufacturing,
business acquisition and licensing, and congressional interactions. He has been advising companies for the MDA
SBIR program since 1986. He currently serves on 5 corporate boards/committees. He is a National Associate of the
NAS/NAE and a senior member of OSA. Dr. Hartwick received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University
of Southern California, his M.S. in physics from UCLA, and his B.S. in physics from the University of Illinois.


18 Oct 2012, 12:55 AM


patrickwolfe
Crystal Research, Inc. named Dr. Thomas S. Hartwick as the 
Chairman of the Board on December 12, 2002.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 15/21


Dr. Thomas S. Hartwick received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering 
from University of Southern California (1969), a M.S. Physics from 
UCLA (1958), and a B.S. Physics from the University of Illinois 
(1956). Dr. Hartwick worked as the manager of the satellite payload 
program and system design at TRW ($450M program) and is an 
expert in the manufacture and deployment of complex defense and 
surveillance systems. Dr. Hartwick has several years of experience 
as manager of various organizations ($ 1 B sales) in the aerospace 
industry at Hughes Aircraft Company and Aerospace Corporation. 
His areas of research include sensors and imaging, especially 
optical communications, far-infrared lasers and their applications, 
and laser heterodyne radiometry. Since leaving the aerospace 
industry in 1995, Dr. Hartwick has served on a number of academic, 
government, and industrial boards as a technical manager. He 
served on the National Research Council (NRC) Committee on 
Optical Science and Engineering and is a National Associate of the 
National Academies.


18 Oct 2012, 12:56 AM


patrickwolfe
The marketplace will determine who is right. Matt is working a long-winded article with no merit, timed to publish when
the lock up period is expiring.  
I believe that everyone with "Common sense" will see that.  
I just hope that this poorly written, self serving and manipulative article results in the same gains that QIHU is seeing.
Matt was writing about Qihu, and since his last article the stock has risen dramatically.  
I'd say common sense shows that Matt Berry doesn't know what he's writing about, and he's pushing his short
position.


18 Oct 2012, 01:38 AM


Ba1k3es
How do you know mr. Hartwick?


18 Oct 2012, 02:37 AM


patrickwolfe
Matt, I have read both of your articles, and understand that you have spent alot of time on this. However, you have
lost me with your logic. You state that you can find no credible scientist on the original patent. You then say we need
to ignore everyone that has joined the company since that first patent.  
Where I get lost is here: Dr. Hartwick. With Clearsign, you spend alot of time convincing me to ignore everyone
downstream of the original patent, because you can't find anyone on the patent with any credibility.  
You use the exact opposite argument to discredit Dr. Hartwick. He joined SSTP AFTER all the research was done and
the fraud was commited. 



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/nrc

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5074101

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 16/21


Please set the record straight, because this is so confusing. 
If I discredit Dr. Hartwick, then I must give full credit to Joe Colannino, who is doing all the major R&D at ClearSign. 
If I have to ignore the amazing addition to the Clearsign team that Mr. Colannino brings, then we all need to ignore Dr.
Hartwick being at SSTP, and agree that he is a very accomplished scientist that is shown on the original patent 
Please set the record straight. And please, for the sake of everyone's time, don't include any math or stories about
lumberjacks. I just want to know which person I should give credibilty to: Dr. Hartwick, or Joe Colannino.


18 Oct 2012, 05:51 AM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  “Matt, I have read both of your articles, and understand that you have spent alot of time on
this.”


I didn’t take this lightly. And I wouldn’t be speaking up if I hadn’t found the critical failures outlined in my
reports.


“You then say we need to ignore everyone that has joined the company since that first patent.”


1. The logical elimination of a possibility is not the same thing as ignoring that possibility. 
2. Not ignore, but understand that humans don’t time travel, and that the lack of a credible inventor for ECC
Technology has a direct bearing on the credibility of management.


“[Dr. Hartwick] joined SSTP AFTER all the research was done and the fraud was commited.”


…. And while it was being prosecuted.


Re-read the article. “After the fraud” ‒ is what my article was referring to. His intelligence and experience
should have told him that something was wrong. Either 1) He was smart and experienced enough to know
that the SSTP process was not commercially viable and that a pump and dump was going on, suggesting that
he lacks integrity or 2) He wasn’t smart enough, suggesting a lack of ability. Neither would be a very good
thing for his involvement with CLIR.


The smarter you make Dr. Hartwick out to be, the more room for “scienter” you give him.


Re-read the article. And have you written off David Goodson? Why won’t anyone talk about the “original
inventor” anymore?


No, if you “discredit Dr. Hartwick,” then the integrity of management is under direct scrutiny. If management
lacks integrity, then the lights are out on the rest of the story.


Two kinds of credibility in a scientist: intelligence and integrity. Please re-read the article. You’ve missed this
point.


****** 
Text from the previous article: http://bit.ly/UFnuVu 
****** 
source documents: http://bit.ly/RboW2q



https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

http://bit.ly/UFnuVu

http://bit.ly/RboW2q
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 17/21


There was a Mr. John Rivera who was deeply involved with two companies ‒ U.S. Sustainable Energy Corp
(USSE) and Sustainable Power Corp. (SSTP). Also involved was a "technology" sometimes called the
"Rivera Process" or the "SSTP process" and which claimed a bio-fuel called "Vertroleum." (Source
Documents.)


According to court documents, in a Summary Judgment on July 2011, (Case 5:08-cv-00245-DCB-JMR)


"The central fraud alleged involves claims by Rivera that USSE could produce viable commercial biofuel and
fertilizer products." (Page 2.) (USSE = US Sustainable Energy Corp.)


"Rivera was also the principal shareholder of SSTP. According to the Commission, Rivera used SSTP for
misconduct similar to that alleged in this case." (Page 3, Note 2)(SSTP = Sustainable Power Corp)


"The defendants also argue that two purported contracts filed with their response demonstrate that USSE (or,
later, SSTP) was commercially viable." (Page 20)


As you can see from the court documents, the case was so strong that it did not need to go to trial: John
Rivera received a summary judgment from a federal judge. (The story gets a little weird at this point: Mr.
Rivera was said to have died just before sentencing and his credibility was so low that many thought he might
have faked his own death, but that was apparently not the case).


In the middle of the SEC suit, Dr. Hartwick, with his credentials, is presented to investors by SSTP. Hartwick's
job appears to have been twofold, first, to communicate the science to the average investor:


"'As we received consistent, encouraging information from the university that conducted testing at our
Baytown facility, we felt it wise to retain someone of Dr. Hartwick's stature and reputation to help disseminate
in layman's terms how effective and efficient the SSTP process is,' stated Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer, M. Richard Cutler." ~ Sustainable Power Corp. Appoints Dr. Thomas S. Hartwick as
Scientific and Technical Advisor to the Company


And second, to validate the "SSTP Process," which had been subject to doubt, given recent scrutiny,


"'When I was approached to review the SSTP process and the utilization of the proprietary catalyst, I spent
nearly five weeks reviewing the technical data before I agreed to accept the position as scientific and
technical advisor. Only after I became convinced that the technology was based on sound scientific principles
would I accept this position,' stated Dr. Thomas Hartwick." ~ Sustainable Power Corp. Appoints Dr. Thomas
S. Hartwick as Scientific and Technical Advisor to the Company


18 Oct 2012, 01:41 PM


patrickwolfe
Matt, 
You don't answer the question, but then again, a philosophy writer who went to writing school, with no formal training
in research, can't be expected to answer a point blank question.


Matt, on to the great news that we have discovered the inventor of the original expression of ECC technology. You
actually found the patent for it, but you didn't realize what you were looking at. 
The original inventor of the technology was David Goodson, and a colleague named Robert McRuer. It is patent #



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 18/21


5702244. BA1k3es brought this to my attention. 
It looks like the 2 men patented it in the mid 70s. 
Fast forward 30 years and the work has been updated with computers and software algorithms, and given a name:
ECC. 
You keep saying that April 2009 was was the first time that ECC technology was articulated. 
Sorry man, that occurred 30 years previously, in the 70s. 
By David Goodson. 
And now we have Clearsign engineers developing it for the marketplace. 
If I have learned anything, Philosophy writers are not very good at patent research.


18 Oct 2012, 01:58 PM


Matt Berry, Contributor
Author’s reply »  “You don't answer the question,…”


Another’s inability to comprehend what is meant by “begging the question” is not my failure to respond. If I do
not discuss a point because logic has already eliminated it as a possibility, that does not mean I haven’t
answered a question so much as the question had been precluded.


Goodson is the “original inventor of ECC”? I think you should get that message out there. It’s important. Mr.
David Goodson is the “original inventor of ECC Technology” … I have been trying to tell everyone this for a
long time. In fact, it is the simplest expression of the case I am making. (You might want to consult with other
longs and find out why they have avoided the entire topic.) A TV interview with him would be ideal. We need
to know more about his high school experience with Nobel Prize winners. Human Energetics Systems might
just be as interesting as the Alternative Energy Resource Alliance … not to mention the electric field
influences outlined in both MyCoFerm and ECC Technologies. (Have you read either my original report or
CLIR’s SEC prospectus?) Mr. Goodson is the “Chief Science Officer” and the “original inventor of ECC” ‒
What can we do to get investors to start talking about this? So far, no one is willing to discuss him.


“The original inventor of the technology was David Goodson, and a colleague named Robert McRuer. It is
patent # 5702244. BA1k3es brought this to my attention.”


The patent was listed in the prospectus and in my article. You make it sound as if you just discovered it today
… but you’ve already invested. It’s in the prospectus. Have you read the prospectus?


The reason why ClearSign and/or Goodson did not spell this out in greater detail might be because …


1. It had a short life. 7 years. “Patent Expired Due to NonPayment of Maintenance Fees Under 37 CFR 1.362”
2. It references the Kaehni’s 1946 patent application (issued in 1952). That patent contains text that is eerily
similar to ClearSign’s whitepaper claims. Go here: http://tinyurl.com/kaehni 
3. It undermines ClearSign's claim, 
"Until now, combustion engineers have had only buoyancy and momentum forces in their tool kit for shaping
wayward flames. ECC technology provides a third force of at least an order of magnitude greater than either
buoyancy or momentum to shape flames." ~ Clearsign Whitepaper, Clearsign Video


However, that is the "long way home" ... because the Kaehni's got there much earlier. The Kaehni’s are the
first serious attempt at this technology that I have found. (Go there: http://tinyurl.com/kaehni) Serious



https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-berry

http://tinyurl.com/kaehni

http://tinyurl.com/kaehni
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 19/21


research was also done by Calcote and Pease in the 50’s. Almost every serious researcher cites their work.
These guys deserve credit, not ClearSign.


19 Oct 2012, 12:20 PM


patrickwolfe
Actually, the whole point of your article doesn't even make sense now.


18 Oct 2012, 02:01 PM


UrbanAchiever
Actually, investing in this "world-changer" without 3'rd party verification doesn't even make sense now.


18 Oct 2012, 05:37 PM


Danny1929
Patrick - I don't think attacking Matt is going to make ClearSign's story any more clear. The point is that they
misrepresented themselves, or at least did a poor job with transparently presenting their scientific history. I sure hope
you and Lou are correct, though, and we see ClearSign making all of us a whole bunch of money.


18 Oct 2012, 05:44 PM


patrickwolfe
Danny, 
I won't be posting anymore, I'll let the story play out.


19 Oct 2012, 02:19 PM


stevenkind
Well I guess it is my time to chip in. As I stated in my first comment on Matt’s first article, I am a retired combustion
engineer with 30 years of experience. This gives me two things Matt or for that matter, most of the other commenters
do not have; an expertise in the evaluation of the ECC Technology and credibility that goes with it. Honestly, I don’t
really care about the minutia Matt is in such an uproar about. What I care about is the present day development of the
Technology and how that development can make a profit.


There are literally thousands of instances where inventors have built on the work of others, both successful and failed,
to invent a useable, commercialized product. Whether it is the new application of an older technology or the
continuation of a path of research that dead ended in the past, due to the lack of some sort of component or
sympathetic technology, it really just does not matter. What does matter is the development of a reliable, working
system that delivers what the company says it will deliver.


A similar story is another system currently available for the control of burner fuel/air mixing. The original patent was
developed and filed by NASA as part of the Voyager mission. The technology was the spectral absorption of certain
colors of light through the use of specifically colored light filters to identify constituent gas content. In the NASA
program, this technology was used to identify the atmospheric gases making up the atmospheres of extra-terrestrial
bodies. NASA let the patent expire. Another fellow, a combustion engineer, had read about this technology, quickly



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1852551

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5169461

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5234471

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3362331
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 20/21


adapted it to read the constituent gas content in the flue gases produced by burners and then used this data to control
the fuel/air mixture supplied to the burner. Even though he did not invent the basic technology, he was able to
incorporate it into his controller and patent it. He has since built a very successful company based on his fuel/air
controller. I view CLIR and the ECC Technology in the same manner. I really don’t care where the under lying
technology has come from. As long as the past patents have expired our specific elements are licensed, it makes no
difference at all. As long as CLIR’s ECC Technology works to achieve the stated function, then all is good. This is the
only place where the notion of fraud or the usurping of IP can enter in to it.


I have been to the Company Offices. I have witnessed demonstrations of the Technology. I have spoken at length with
the Principles involved in the development of the ECC Technology. I have read virtually every piece of company
documentation available to a potential investor. My conclusion was to invest my own money. I take offense at words
like fraud and scam being thrown around by someone with no technical expertise in the evaluation of combustion
equipment. Making such accusations without serious technical expertise or even speaking to the principles seems to
me to be libelous and opens the door to legal issues.


As for the Short Positions, I just can’t seem to understand the reasoning. The potential to drive the price down by only
2 or 3 dollars with such inflammatory statements on a stock with low share price and such low trading volume just
does not make a lot of sense to me. It seems like a risky way to make a marginal return. My evaluation leads me to
believe that the share price over time will increase much more the 2 or 3 bucks. I will be watching the stock very
closely over the next few weeks. If the price falls after the expiration of the lock-up date, I intend to increase my
position.


As for Chris or any of the other major stock holders selling off a portion of their positions after the lock-up date, oh
well, it just part of doing business. It’s no different than any other company. There have been plenty of other IPO’s that
have reached their lock-up dates in the news lately. Why would one not expect the same kind of thing to happen
here? Going short on this date only makes sense. Trying to verbally assault the company to boot really does not
seem that intelligent to me. I am sure folks like MDB will vigorously protect their positions.


Matt, what I would really like to hear is your detailed explanation of your trading strategy. Maybe we all might be able
to learn something.


Steve


19 Oct 2012, 02:59 PM


daveletsgo39
this or these atricles are a prime example of why retailers should steer clear of small caps.this piece arguing the
challenges of owner ship which lay ahead.then theirs another piece from a different site stating 'this is old news and in
essence has been resolvable. author's short position is the motivating reason for this writing'.i suspect somewhere in
between these two opinion's lay the facts. a personal note.i've rotated away from smallcap's.it's not unusual for a S.A.
writer to do a hatchet job to a stock.;driving down the price of these sensitive equities .to this writer's credit he is
honest,on his position. that in of it self is refreshing.


21 Oct 2012, 08:32 AM


Lee 99



https://seekingalpha.com/user/2584031

https://seekingalpha.com/user/243559
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 21/21


Stevenkind is the only contributor who actually has facts about the company. Everyone else has opinions, most of
which have no basis in fact, but rely on innuendo and an obscure philosophy regarding past events that are probably
not relevant to today's results. Here is a similar story: One of the most influential inventions in history was the mouse,
the basis for graphical user interface. It permitted unsophisticated computer users to become proficient. Xerox Palo
Alto Research Center, the inventor, saw no value in it. Steve Jobs did and made a huge contribution to the
productivity of the planet with his insight. By the inane logic put forth in this article, that should not count, but it is key
to successful product development. 
The political structure of this article, that should have relevant supporting tech info, is not what I would like to see on
SA. It is simply manipulative journalism. 
For the record, I am an engineer who has worked in commercial and military product development thru out my career.


12 Nov 2012, 07:11 AM


daveletsgo39
Whom ever is correct in this debate.ONE THING IS SURE.the stock is is going no were.had i been aware of these
articles i would not have bought it.now i'm under water .and my spec portfolio has dead money. i guess when
speculating i'll have to include s.a. in the research befor pulling the trigger. thanks for nothing.


12 Dec 2012, 11:07 AM


daveletsgo39
for a company that is as you describe they have a pretty good balance sheet, with little debt, a book value improving
year over year .on the tech. side thier at support.by any other metric this is a great stock.and the numbers are
showing a well run co. improving each qtr.i suggest s.a. take look to see if this piece ,should be pulled . well intended
or not!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


12 Dec 2012, 11:21 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/2584031

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2584031
