5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 1/15


VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1
Oct. 1, 2014 7:02 AM ET26 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


VirnetX's expert showed damages for VPN on demand equating to enormous
downside to the stock.


VirnetX misleading investors.


VirnetX patents remain at risk of invalidation.


In his book, "Fooling Some of the People All of the Time," David Einhorn recounts his
encounters with employees at Allied Capital and Wall Street analysts who covered the
stock that disputed his work while readily admitting that they had not read or seen his
presentation. While it seems that VirnetX (AMEX: VHC) is aware that we have written
about them, it appears to us that they are purposefully obfuscating the truth. The CEO
during his "fireside" chat as well as VirnetX's press release on September 19th, did
nothing to refute what we argued in our most recent article. In this article, we will compare
what VirnetX said in their press releases and conference call to what we have written.


During the "fireside" chat, the CEO made a point to say that VirnetX's patents had been
validated by the courts. We fully agree that the district court and Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (CAFC) have upheld the patents asserted against Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL)
and we even pointed this out in our article. However, we also pointed out that the courts
and PTAB have different standards for examining patents and that patents that are upheld
at the district court level can be overturned by the PTAB. The CAFC can then agree with
the PTAB that the patents are invalid and throw out all non-final judgments. This sequence
of events was what played out in Fresenius, USA Inc. v. Baxter International, Inc. which is
described in this article. Therefore, while the courts have upheld VirnetX's patents, we
believe that there is a lurking danger from the reexamination proceedings at the PTAB that
shareholders may be unaware of and that VirnetX seems unwilling to acknowledge.


In its press release, VirnetX also noted that "The USPTO has terminated the
reexamination proceedings with respect to certain claims of VirnetX's U.S. Patent Nos.
6,502,135; 6,839,759; 7,418,504; and 7,921,211." It is important to note the term "certain
claims" in this sentence. The claims that were dismissed are of no relevance to the lawsuit
against Apple because the dismissed claims were not being litigated. The claims being



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VHC

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL

http://www.pharmapatentsblog.com/2013/07/08/fresenius-escapes-25-million-damages-award-based-on-invalidation-of-baxter-patent-in-ex-parte-reexamination/
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 2/15


litigated are still under reexamination. The PTAB noted that the "petition to terminate
reexamination of the remaining claims of the '135 patent under reexamination, i.e., claims
1-9 and 13-18, in the '1679 reexamination proceeding is dismissed." Put simply, this
means that the reexaminations are continuing with regards to claims 1-9 and 13-18. Since
Apple's VPN On Demand product was accused of infringing claims 1, 3, 7 and 8 of the
'135 patent, it remains likely that the PTAB will uphold its initial findings of invalidity for
these patent claims and that all of the patent claims which Apple was found to have
infringed will be invalidated. Upon an invalidation, Apple would owe nothing for VPN On
Demand's alleged infringement of this patent.


We also do not want to let the concerns we raised around the problems that a time bar
pose for VirnetX be ignored. As we pointed out in our last article, we believe that the
reason VirnetX has yet to launch lawsuits against other parties is because VirnetX knows
that if it sues someone else, the new defendant will not be time barred from filing new
IPRs. Since past IPRs have only been rejected due to technicalities around the time of
their filing relative to the date of a lawsuit being filed, there is a very high probability that
IPRs from an entirely new entity would be accepted. If the PTAB subsequently invalidates
the patents before the Apple case finishes, then Apple would no longer be liable for any
damages. We believe that VirnetX is well aware of this risk and does not want to do
anything that could put its patents in further jeopardy. VirnetX even admits in its press
releases that the dismissals of certain Apple and Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT) claims were
due to the parties being time barred from filing IPRs. Indeed, for the claims where the time
bar did not exist, Microsoft had its claims accepted. VirnetX has been lucky that it has not
had to actually argue the merits of the patents in front of the PTAB. Because VirnetX faces
the risk of additional IPRs, we are very skeptical of VirnetX's claims to be close to
additional licenses. After all, why would a company make a licensing deal with VirnetX
when it can file an IPR and see what happens over the course of a couple of years?


During the "fireside" chat, we were struck by several other claims made by the CEO. First,
he told investors that the company's cash burn was, "less than $1 million per month in
burn rate…" That claim certainly does not square with what the financials actually show.
As we pointed out in our earlier article, the company ended last year with $38.9 million in
cash (defined as cash plus investments held for sale) and now 6 months later, it is down to
$25.7 million - or about $2 million per month of cash burn. We have trouble seeing why
the cash burn will decline given the ongoing legal expenses. The CEO also told investors
that the CAFC had determined what the royalty rate would be going forward and that the
only thing left would be what the base that you apply that royalty rate to would be. During
the "fireside" chat, CEO Kendall Larson stated, "I also want to point out that the guidance



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MSFT
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 3/15


for the royalty has already been given. The guidance is use the licenses, you asked me
the question earlier about the patents that have been licensed. We have comprehensive
patent portfolio licenses with several strategic vendors such as Avaya, Siemens, NEC, all
those licenses that were done are all over 1%, and so the guidance that the Federal
Circuit gave us is to use the VirnetX licensing model as our guide. All of those are over
1%." However, this is simply not true. Nowhere in the CAFC opinion does the court say
that only the royalty base and not the rate is still up for dispute. In fact, the CAFC opinion
even noted, "Finally, Apple notes that the sixth license covered sixty-eight VirnetX patents,
and was therefore much broader than the license to four patents Apple would be seeking
in the hypothetical negotiation. It also equated to a 0.24% royalty rate, which is
significantly lower than the 1-2% rate Weinstein testified VirnetX would accept." Even if
VirnetX were to ultimately achieve this 1% rate, we showed in an earlier article that at this
rate and using the $29 royalty base that was undisputed by the CAFC, there is not much
value to VirnetX's stock. The company also left unaddressed the open question of whether
VPN On Demand deserves a much lower royalty base than FaceTime does. The higher
royalties that might be due for FaceTime may never be realized because based on Apple's
description of how FaceTime works, the new definition of "secure communications link"
appears to rule out infringement by FaceTime since the anonymity limitation is not met.


Of the three damages theories VirnetX originally presented, only one attempted to
apportion between FaceTime and VPN On Demand. Even though we know that the
damages VirnetX sought were too high, we know that the apportionment was
approximately 75% to FaceTime and 25% to VPN on Demand. As was noted in the CAFC
ruling, "This theory yielded a $708 million demand, consisting of $566 million for products
including both FaceTime and VPN On Demand, and $142 million for those including only
VPN On Demand." (Link) This section of the CAFC ruling clearly talks about VPN On
Demand having significantly less value than FaceTime. If only 25% of damages should
have been attributed to VPN On Demand, then the jury award would have been $92.3
million. However, this $92.3 million number gets further reduced after accounting for legal
contingency fees as well as SAIC's portion of the award. As we see it, VirnetX simply
collecting an ongoing royalty for VPN On Demand is unlikely to bring VirnetX to
profitability. Below we lay out our math on why we believe this:



http://www.cafc.uscourts.gov/images/stories/opinions-orders/13-1489.Opinion.9-12-2014.1.PDF
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 4/15


Keep in mind that the starting point for this calculation of $142 million does not represent 1
year of damages, but rather multiple years of damages on a variety of products including
iPhones, iPods, and iPads. VirnetX claimed that there was infringement going all the way
back to the original iPhone and the iPod Touch, both of which were launched in 2007 while
the iPad was launched in 2010. There is no good way to know how many devices or how
long a period of alleged infringement this verdict covered, but we do know it would be
incorrect to think that VHC would collect $63.7 million a year. If we assume the damages
in this case cover a blended period of 3 years, that would bring the average royalty per
year down to $21.2 million. This figure would be lower than VirnetX's current cash burn
which is over $25 million a year. Therefore, over the next 4 years before the patents expire
in October 2018, VirnetX would collect almost $85 million in royalties. Unfortunately, they
would also burn over $100 million in cash over that time period leaving nothing but dilutive
equity raises for shareholders.


Even if VHC were to be awarded the full $142 million, this would yield a value of only $98
million to VirnetX:
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 5/15


Once again, keep in mind this $98 million does not represent 1 year of damages, but
rather multiple years of damages. If again we assume the damages in this case cover a
period of 3 years, that would bring the average royalty per year down to $32.7 million. This
figure would be greater than VirnetX's current cash burn of over $25 million a year, but
would only leave around $7.7 million for shareholders or approximately $0.15 a share
each year. However, since the patents would expire in October 2018, there would only be
about another four years of collections or approximately $0.60 per share incremental.
Thus, a best case scenario (which we believe is unlikely) would result in a total value of
$2.50 per share for VirnetX.


Finally, we would like to address the meaning of the CAFC upholding the jury verdict of no
invalidity. Many shareholders seem to believe that this is binding on everyone. It is not. It
is only binding on Apple and only then when the case is final in all respects. This case is
unlikely to be final in all respects until 2018 and that means that Apple's ongoing Inter
Partes Reexamination proceedings can proceed. If Apple is successful in the ongoing
reexaminations, then VirnetX's entire case would be dismissed. Also, in the meantime,
anyone else who gets sued will get their own crack at showing invalidity, and if VirnetX
ever loses (either by a jury or the PTAB), the finding of invalidity becomes binding on
VirnetX and it can't sue anyone over the invalidated patents. Some shareholders don't
understand that fights over validity will go on until the patents expire, especially if VirnetX
threatens others with the same patents. As for the patent expiration, as was pointed out by
one commenter there seems to be some contention over when the patents expire. All four
of these patents claim priority to application 60/106,261. This application was filed in
October 1998 and since the patents have a 20 year life to them, they expire in 2018.


In conclusion we heard nothing in the CEO's "fireside" chat or in VirnetX's press release
which refuted our opinion that the patents remain highly susceptible to being invalidated
and that the stock is worth well less than $1.00 per share.
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 6/15


Comments (26)


Disclosure: The author is short VHC.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Faxbot, Contributor
@author 
Interesting article. What are your thoughts on software patent litigation in general from other companies like vrng, dss,
wddd. Do you think they would all be eventually thrown out somewhere down the judicial system?


01 Oct 2014, 07:27 AM


Richard Lomas, Contributor
Multiple re-exams by the USPTO have already been dismissed after the CAFC ruling. These key patents will not be
invalidated. VPNoD has been found to violate those patents. You can try to minimize the value of the patents but
VPNoD is embedded in the OS and is utilized extensively. If VPNoD were removed from IOS, Apples enterprise
customers would be irate. There would have to be modifications to FaceTime again bringing up customer satisfaction
issues like the last time Apple tried to remove dependence on Virnetx patents. iMessage would require a major
rewrite and not be able to maintain the security that customers want. Your obvious hit piece is meant only to drive
prices down for all your short friends. Without Virnetx patents Apple will not be able to support LTE-A.


01 Oct 2014, 07:46 AM


silence_twain
Richard: Let's compare track records for a moment when dealing with court cases. Alpha Exposure
successfully predicted that ParkerVision could lose the entire case on the JMOL's which they did. This author
also correctly predicted that VirnetX would lose the appeal, which they did.


Now lets look at your track record. Your most recent article had two glaring errors. The first was you
determined the royalty that Apple would collect off of all smartphone sales and not just Apple smartphone
sales. Secondly, you did not understand the CAFC opinion at all which is why you got a royalty based on the
total sales price of the iPhone. Now in the comment section you seem incapable of following some simple
links which show that VHC's patents could be in trouble.


(Please do this section in a Joe Pesci "My Cousin Vinny" type voice)


The choice now is go with the author (Alpha Exposure) who has been proven correct or Option B, go with the
author (Richard Lomas) who cannot understand the difference between something as simple as global



https://seekingalpha.com/author/faxbot

https://seekingalpha.com/author/richard-lomas

https://seekingalpha.com/user/954931
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 7/15


smartphone sales versus Apple's smartphone sales. I'm going with option A, trusting the author who has been
proven correct in the past.


01 Oct 2014, 08:17 AM


Dale Korpi
silence twain,


You might examine whether either's track record is relevant to the ultimate outcome(s) here.


Earnest as each is, neither is a titan on the nuances in the matter as a whole and by their speak alone,
certainly not on civil procedure and the fine parsing of language in patent law.


Attacks against either contributor are not necessary and undeserved, they put it out there and I commend
them for their efforts.


Remanded in the legal lexicon translates to have the jury do it over again Judge Davis and tweak the jury
instructions just a bit to address the possible confusion on the dynamics of smallest salable unit and
apportionment.


The apportionment concept pervades the common law of damages but as to patent law it got a bit sloppy and
definitely fuzzy math.


However, at this time, Prost and Chen have chosen to correct the course and thus the tweaks.


Game on then ... We will all catch it on the backside.


Best regards,


Dale Korpi


01 Oct 2014, 08:46 AM


cadams2164
yeah we get it....your short. lol keep it coming.


01 Oct 2014, 08:24 AM


Perdix, Contributor
You have numerous inaccuracies in your article. Just a few:


1) Weinstien apportioned for FaceTime / VPNoD in two of his three damages calculations. One using the price of the
camera, one using a survey.


2) The CAFC rulings on claim construction and the applicability of prior art are binding on every other legal
proceeding relating to the patents in suit. The PTAB cannot adopt a claim construction that is different than the claim
construction adopted by the CAFC. While the PTAB can still consider arguments that the patents are invalid, your
statement that the CAFC rulings are binding "only to Apple" is technically incorrect and misleading.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1033589

https://seekingalpha.com/user/808301

https://seekingalpha.com/author/perdix
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 8/15


3) The damages issues in the case are much more complicated than your very simplistic analysis above. One glaring
issue that you completely missed is that the remand will likely take place after the spring of 2015, a full 2.5 years after
the original trail. Yet, your analysis assumes the same sales base($566 million), ignoring the fact that 2.5 years of
additional sales data (all those iPhones sold in the U.S. between November 2012 and the date of the remand) will be
considered during the trial. Missing this very simple fact makes your entire analysis erroneous, demonstrates that you
don't know what you are doing, and destroys your credibility. In addition, your conclusions as to the result of the
damages analysis are without basis. Discussions about damages will include analysis of Apple's failed design around
attempt, and could possibly have a higher royalty rate associated with the smaller royalty base.


I do agree that the threat that VirnetX patents could be ruled invalid in an IPR is still very real. However, your
conclusion that such an outcome is imminent is spit out without meaningful analysis. You make no attempt at squaring
the potential outcome of the IPRs with the legally binding rulings that the CAFC made on appeal, and instead simply
guess that the result might be bad.


Good luck rolling the dice here. If you get lucky, the result could be very lucrative.


01 Oct 2014, 08:39 AM


Kishavan
Well done, Perdix.


01 Oct 2014, 09:12 AM


Robmeng
I have following points:


1.You calculate a cash burning rate is $2m/mon, not $1m/mon. Do they using cash to buy new patent? or just a non-
removeable overheads? It's maybe one time investment.


2.VHC already get fees from Araya, Siemens, ect. Do you count that parts?


3. Also, if you said the shareholders are expected to get less than $2, AAPL will have to pay loyalty since then. So the
pipeline is fueled with new income.


4. You pointed VHC cannot sue others at the moment. Let them win the "big guy" first, it is just a strategy. What do
you think if they win AAPL? They don't have to spend more to fight and win others.


5. You are talking about a lot pf uncertainty for the court proceedings. But every proceeding have to work under a fact:
AAPL violated VPN patent.


01 Oct 2014, 09:02 AM


Hardog
Rob


 
good questions.


06 Oct 2014, 06:46 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/23053773

https://seekingalpha.com/user/958132

https://seekingalpha.com/user/785235
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 9/15


zeleration
Alpha Exposure you are dishonest in your analysis and factually wrong on multiple issues including your (lack of)
understanding the CAFC court in regards to it's affirmations. Instead of writing more misleading articles on SA can
you please fully answer all the people who have already refuted your "theories" from your recent posts on SA. You
provide glib answers to many posters that spend the time to explain where your research is wrong or misleading.


01 Oct 2014, 10:10 AM


The Chairman
VirnetX Granted New Mobile Security Patent 
Supports Secure Domain Name Initiative Partnership Efforts


ZEPHYR COVE, Nev., Oct. 1, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- VirnetX™ Holding Corporation (NYSE MKT: VHC), an Internet
security software and technology company, announced today that on September 30, 2014, it was granted a new
patent from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO); US Patent No. 8,850,009, System and Method
Employing an Agile Network Protocol for Secure Communications Using Secure Domain Names.


The new patent, the eleventh granted in 2014, is the result of VirnetX's significant research and development
investment and commitment. The patent supports VirnetX's Secure Domain Name functionality which is used to
enable various types of communications that use encryption to protect data, such as encrypted communication
channels or links, secure communication links and virtual private network communication links. This functionality
allows various applications including audio/video, telephony and messaging applications to communicate seamlessly
and securely over the Internet. Customers can obtain a license from VirnetX to use this functionality in their current or
new applications. VirnetX is also building a number of messaging and cloud- based applications that run on VirnetX's
Gabriel Technology Platform for home and small business networks.


"This new patent further supports our Secure Domain Name Initiative and will assist in our pursuit of new licenses and
strategic partnerships," said Kendall Larsen, VirnetX CEO and President. "We believe our encrypted communications
links using our secure domain names are unique and can help prevent a number of security breaches that have come
to light lately."


01 Oct 2014, 10:48 AM


wannamillion
Do investors want to trust you or the CEO?, who has transparently indicated that the top strategic partners were
waiting for validity in the CAFC ruling. Shorties time is up and your hit pieces are just desperate efforts to try to keep
covering a massive naked short position that will be impossible to deliver once VHC's secure domain name initiative
is rolled out into the marketplace. tick tock tick tock


01 Oct 2014, 10:50 AM


The Chairman
Ming shūshu says Kiuchi Kiuchi Koo to you Mr author.


(Full credit to Ming the Merciless @InvestorVillage. Thank you Uncle Ming).



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3452291

https://seekingalpha.com/user/483855

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6142841

https://seekingalpha.com/user/483855
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 10/15


There is a great many misrepresentations in the latest Seeking Alpha hit piece. One egregious misrepresentation is
particularly infantile. The author points out that non-litigants are not time-barred from filing IPRs. He, she, or it then
concludes, "After all, why would a company make a licensing deal with VirnetX when it can file an IPR and see what
happens over the course of a couple of years?"


The parochial answer is that the PTAB is charged with only entertaining requests for IPRs that proffer new issues in
challenging a patent. All IPRs to date seem principally to rely on the 1996 publication by Takahiro Kiuchi.


Now some would argue that the fee loving PTAB would entertain an IPR even if it cited something by Hans Christian
Anderson. Even if so, one need only look to page 21-22 of the Appellate decision to see how easily that reference can
be shredded.


The decision states that "A claim is anticipated only if each and every element is found within a prior art reference." It
then goes on to address Apple's contention that Kiuchi is prior art with respect to VHCs patent claims.


They state; "The jury heard substantial evidence that at least one element of each asserted claim was missing from
that reference with respect to the 135, 504 and 211 patents". Specifically they found that the Jury heard evidence that
Kiuchi's proxy servers do not teach client communication between a client and target computer. Instead,they
terminate the connection, process information and create a new connection, hence it is not direct communication as is
the VHC patents.


As to the 151 patent, Kiuchi's communication doesn't send by a client since Kiuchi's client is a web browser
distinguishable from the client side proxy.


In sum, there is no prior art to which a legitimate IPR can be based. Even should an IPR by a non-litgant be accepted,
it can easily be defeated. Ergo, the argument that a non-litigant would go that route is meritless. There is every
incentive for a non-litigant to license now. They may even enjoy a better rate by being proactive. Any argument that
they would wait to see what rate will be imposed on Apple can be defeated by a codicil in the license that adjusts their
rate should a lesser one be imposed in the Courts upon a competitor.


01 Oct 2014, 11:10 AM


Richway
Good hit piece... looks like you made 3 - 4% today.


01 Oct 2014, 11:14 AM


Scaramouched
I won't even go into ALL the numerous "understandings and uninformed knowledge" this SHORT has overlooked
beyond what has already been posed by intelligent informed readers--there are several!! His "hit piece" accomplishes,
with dubious and nonsensical hypotheticals, little truth. However it does succeed to remove what few weak hands are
left in the stock. This short needs to recognize most importantly that the potential to scare weak hands is all but
removed from the stock!! HE is now in the unenviable position of trying to generate more fear to wise "investors" who
understand that they hold the next SUPER STOCK of the Internet security--a VERY, VERY, precarious position in
which to stand. Careful shorty, soon enough "the bell will toll for thee!! My advice since your "informed" nonsense
holds very little water--COVER STEALTHILY. YOUR TIME IS RUNNING OUT QUICKLY!! Remember, a stock can run



https://seekingalpha.com/user/815736

https://seekingalpha.com/user/807627
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 11/15


up forever, and the downside here IMHO has been reached. You need more than this hit piece my friend, you need
Jesus and a lot of prayers!! Get out now, the Lord does not view unrepentant liars and cheats as salvageable!! :)


01 Oct 2014, 12:31 PM


kkomaha
Good timing on the hit piece with market weakness.


01 Oct 2014, 12:34 PM


Jeff's WaterWorks, Contributor
Remedial reading classes may be in order here for the author. His quote from the CAFC states:


""This theory yielded a $708 million demand, consisting of $566 million for products including both FaceTime and VPN
On Demand, and $142 million for those including only VPN On Demand." (Link)


And the author states:


"This section of the CAFC ruling clearly talks about VPN On Demand having significantly less value than FaceTime. If
only 25% of damages should have been attributed to VPN On Demand, then the jury award would have been $92.3
million. "


What is actually happening here is that the VPN on Demand products account for both the $142 million and the $566
million. Do the math $142MM + $$566MM = $706MM. So even without FaceTime, VPN on demand damages are
$706MM.


Makes you wonder how many other "facts" he has misread or misinterpreted (to be polite).


01 Oct 2014, 01:25 PM


Keubiko, Contributor
>>What is actually happening here is that the VPN on Demand products account for both the $142 million
and the $566 million. Do the math $142MM + $$566MM = $706MM. So even without FaceTime, VPN on
demand damages are $706MM.<<


Maybe I need remedial reading classes as well, but if "even without Facetime" the VPN damages are at $706
million, isn't that like saying Facetime would be zero?


That would be kind of odd, especially given that Weinstein's other 2 approaches (based on NBS) were
"regarding FaceTime alone" and spit out $588 million and $606 million.


It seems pretty clear that that the bulk of the value relates to FaceTime over stand-alone VPN on demand.


This thing sill seems outrageously overpriced. It might be interesting for a punt at 50 cents but not at $5.


CRDS has way more IP litigation upside than VHC yet trades at 15% of VHC's market cap. IMHO of course.


 
Waterworks - your saucy tone is a bit rich given the author totally nailed the outcome here vs. your pounding
the table to buy at 3x the current price. IMHO as well.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/232625

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jeff-s-waterworks

https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 12/15


03 Oct 2014, 04:07 PM


Jeff's WaterWorks, Contributor
VHC took the approach that FT alone was worth mid-nine figures in damages, VPNoD alone was worth mid-
to-upper-nine figures, and combined (VHC was not asking for a royalty stacking) if both were found to be
infringing VHC only wanted the higher of the two numbers for damages. Here is also a portion of the
transcript (page A1625 in the appeals joint appendix) that tells it exactly how it is: 
"....13 Q. (By Mr. Cassady) If the jury determined that  
14 only VPN On Demand infringed, what would the damages be? 
15 A. (By Mr. Weinstein) Then the damages would be $708  
million. "


I make no apologies for taking a "saucy" tone to "authors" who blatantly misrepresent facts. The story for VHC
and its long term investors is far from over, so we shall see who is really correct about this company in the
future.


I know nothing of CRDS, but it I think you should study the non-litigation potential of VHC before declaring it a
$0.50 stock. If the secure communications link claim construction doesn't get reversed upon a request for
rehearing, most likely it will still be found infringing in a retrial. VPNoD damages are still in place and
regardless of the lack of literary understanding rampant on this thread there is a very good chance of even
higher damages being awarded by the second jury.


As for your supporting an author who obviously does not research his facts (to be nice), or who distorts the
truth for his own potential gain (the readers can decide, not my job) I offer (besides the aforementioned
statement about VPNoD damages) the following:


The author says: "VirnetX claimed that there was infringement going all the way back to the original iPhone
and the iPod Touch, both of which were launched in 2007 while the iPad was launched in 2010".


Again, from the transcript "Judge Davis will ask the jury to decide the  
amount  
2 of a reasonable royalty is to pretend, basically, that  
3 the parties -- Apple and VirnetX -- got together in a  
4 room at the time of Apple's first infringement; not  
5 today but back in 2009. " (June of 2009 to be exact).


The author says: "All four of these patents claim priority to application 60/106,261. This application was filed
in October 1998 and since the patents have a 20 year life to them, they expire in 2018."


The truth of the matter is that each patent usually has additions or subtractions from the 20 years from the
filing date of the patent from which they claim priority. It is called a Patent Term Adjustment (PTA), this from
the PTO: 
" '211 patent: Total PTA Adjustments: 701" (plus one year, eleven month, five days) 
" '504 patent: Total PTA Adjustments: 646" (plus one year, nine months plus).


There are more, but my daughter is finally asleep.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/jeff-s-waterworks
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 13/15


06 Oct 2014, 12:07 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  This entire company is a sham that was designed to separate marks from their money. I
believe that FaceTime will be found not to infringe, that VPN On Demand will ultimately see a jury verdict for <
$100 million (and that shareholders will get none of that), that the PTAB will invalidate VHC's patents, and that
it will be a close call (timing wise) as to whether the CAFC decides the appeal from the Apple case or the
patent challenge first. If the CAFC hears the patent challenge first, I believe the patents are likely to get
nothing. If the CAFC hears the next Apple appeal first, then VHC gets the < $100mm and the stock is still
worthless. I'm still short this stock and think there's a lot more downside.


06 Oct 2014, 02:48 PM


Stocks4success
How can you post article having in position of stocks $VHC? This is illegal.


11 Oct 2014, 06:11 AM


Dale Korpi
Stock4 ...


I am trying give meaning to your question and to whom you are posing the question to.


You assert "illegal" but who and what is the source for the "illegal" assertion? My best explanation is:


1. How can you (is this to Jeff's ...) post *an* article *while you have* a position *in* VHC stock?


If it is Jeff's ... what statute, regulation, case law causes you to assert "illegal?" Is it a criminal or civil
construct? Do you have any similar facts and circumstances that support your assertion.


If it is Jeff's, although he is accused of a saucy tone, it is a stretch to cast it in "illegal"


Jeff's and the SA Community await ....


Best regards,


Dale Korpi


11 Oct 2014, 09:19 AM


The Chairman
author San,


Your attempt to obfuscate the real truth in your hit piece is failure. Little interest with just 16 comments posted while
majority readers yawned. Seems most readers now have you on ignore. Stock price not worth under $1. Market set
price way higher, market not agree your opinion because an obvious attempt at disinformation that not working very
well. Who says CEO needs to refute anything you write?



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14132462

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VHC

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1033589

https://seekingalpha.com/user/483855
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 14/15


Regarding the re-examination proceedings at the PTAB and Baxter. This issue thoroughly thrashed out on IV board
between Takasugi San and oilsandsman. Baxter was ex partes reeam. VirnetX vs Apple is inter partes reeaxm. The
difference is, estoppel not apply in ex partes reeaxm (Baxter). For VirnetX estoppel applies, meaning, (as concluded
by Takasugi San) there two concepts of "final" under USC 317(b), once right to appeal “validity decision” ends it look
like USPTO/PTAB will respect federal court validity decision. Not need “entire case” to be final, as required under
Baxter. It seems clear then that CAFC validity decision will become final well before any PTAB action become final.
Baxter not apply at all in this case, and SA hit piece entirely wrong. Doma arigatou Takasugi San. And many thanks
oilsandsman for pointing out the fundamental difference between Baxter and VirnetX vs Apple, http://bit.ly/1rLsiNq
nicely done sir.


Regarding Facetime. You assume Facetime non-anonymity is dead certain. New information suggests
http://bit.ly/1tjnBao that VirnetX will be able to prove to a jury with relative ease that Facetime is anonymous and
infringing VirnetX’s patents. Many thanks and full credit to investor_don, floydrocks and dhwwork @InvestorvVillage
for putting this together.


Regarding the comments from the CEO Kendall Larson about the CAFC’s guidance for the royalty has been given,
the guidance is use the licenses. What makes you believe his statements? Disinformation works both ways.


This stock has enormous upside potential that is currently not discounted in the share price. Scaramouch’s comment
that it is you who is in a VERY VERY precarious position with your short couldn’t ring more true. This hit piece
generated a tiny noise nothing more, mostly ignored by the market. The effect these hit pieces have of the share price
is diminishing. Give it up author San, the market isn’t interested in what you write anymore. It just yawns, ignores and
moves on, like you should.


02 Oct 2014, 04:23 AM


Stocks4success
Your report is trash. You and your short friend's money game. You defiantly hold short for VHC.


11 Oct 2014, 06:13 AM


shaned
"Shorties time is up"


yeah. look up at the scoreboard: vhc trading at its lows.  
short is the new 'tall'; the vhc wake/party is just starting. grab a beer, some chips and we can watch this thing sink
together. we're family after all!


13 Oct 2014, 02:33 AM


shaned
"Your report is trash."


let me guess: you're long, strong and wrong. my advice for you is to stay long, grab a bong, sing left wing whacko
songs and bang a gong.



http://bit.ly/1rLsiNq

http://bit.ly/1tjnBao

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14132462

https://seekingalpha.com/user/124140

https://seekingalpha.com/user/124140
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 15/15


it won't help your situation or the world at large, but at least the attorneys will get paid. which, ironically, is why vhc
exists


13 Oct 2014, 02:49 AM
