5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 1/14


VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated
Sep. 19, 2014 3:04 AM ET37 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


VirnetX is at High Risk of Having its Patents Invalidated in the Ongoing Inter Partes
Reexaminations.


The Patent Board has Already Ruled that all of VirnetX's Patents Asserted vs Apple
Are Invalid.


The Patent Board Uses an Easier Standard for Invalidation than the Courts Do.


We believe that the most important thing for the CEO of VirnetX (AMEX: VHC) to address
during his "fireside" chat on September 19th is the current status of the ongoing inter
partes reexaminations of the patents that are at the center of their case against Apple
(NASDAQ: AAPL). Along with updating investors on these reviews, VirnetX's CEO should
also provide shareholders with a description of the path forward on the reviews. These
inter partes reexaminations pose an existential threat to the viability of VirnetX because
they threaten to invalidate VinertX's patents, overruling the prior findings of the CAFC. It is
our belief that the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) has already given preliminary
rulings that VirnetX's patents are invalid. If these rulings are ultimately affirmed, the
existence of the company itself is threatened.


In response to the CAFC's recent ruling that caused the stock of VirnetX to decline a
cumulative 64% in the past three days, the company put out a press release that stated
"The USCAFC affirmed the jury's finding that all 4 of VirnetX's patents are valid." Our last
article on VirnetX discussed our opinion that VirnetX's stock is worth less than $1. This
article will further reinforce our valuation by explaining why all of VirnetX's patents are still
at risk of being invalidated and why we believe there is a high probability that they will
ultimately be invalidated.


At the start, it is important for investors to understand that there are two routes via which
patents can be invalidated - either through the courts or through Patent Office actions
(primarily Inter Partes Review, Inter Partes Reexamination, and Ex Partes
Reexaminations), all of which are done through the PTAB. In order for a jury to invalidate
a patent, the defendant must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the
patent in question was either anticipated or obvious at the time it was issued. In addition to



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VHC

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2502575-virnetx-is-worth-well-under-1-per-share
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 2/14


the high bar of "clear and convincing," parties challenging patents in court face the further
hurdle that the patent is presumed to be valid. In contrast, the PTAB uses the standard of
preponderance of evidence, which is a much lower standard than that used in court. The
reason for this difference is that while the courts act on the assumption that the patents
are valid, the PTAB does not. It is therefore possible for a court to affirm a patent as valid
and for the PTAB to find the same patents invalid based on the same evidence. The
CAFC can then uphold the PTAB's finding of invalidity even if the CAFC had previously
found that a patent was valid. This occurs because the CAFC applies the same standards
as the PTAB does when it hears appeals from patent actions resulting from an inter partes
proceeding whereas the CAFC applies the court's standards when it hears appeals from
lawsuits. Therefore, if in the future the PTAB finds that VirnetX's patents are invalid, it is
entirely possible that the CAFC will affirm the PTAB's finding of invalidity. In this case, the
patents will be treated as though they "never existed."


The above description of the procedural differences between the courts and the PTAB is
especially important to VirnetX because there are four inter partes reexaminations
ongoing at the PTAB covering all four of the patents that were asserted against Apple and
were previously found not invalid by the courts. These inter partes reexaminations for the
patents can be found at the following link. To find the inter partes reexaminations at the
site click the radio button for "Control Number" and enter the control number for the patent
in question (the control numbers are listed below). Unfortunately for VirnetX, the
reexaminations appear to be going very poorly and all of the patents appear likely to be
invalidated by the PTAB:


1) U.S. Pat. No. 6,502,135 (re-ex control no. 95/001,682) - merged with re-ex filed by
Cisco. The last status on this patent was on 6/12/14 and says "Ready for examiner action
after owner/requester comments period after Action Closing Prosecution." It appears that
the examiner is getting ready to invalidate this patent.


2) U.S. Pat. No. 7,418,504 (re-ex control no. 95/001,788) - The examiner has rejected all
60 claims of this patent in view of the prior art and the patent will be invalidated pending
conclusion of the appeal brief filed by VirnetX on 8/27/14.


3) U.S. Pat. No. 7,490,151 (re-ex control no. 95/001,714) - This patent was merged with
the re-examination filed by Cisco. The last action on this was 7/7/14. It looks like owner
petition fighting the merger of the two re-ex proceedings is still pending.



http://portal.uspto.gov/pair/PublicPair
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 3/14


4) U.S. Pat. No. 7,921,211 (re-ex control no. 95/001,789) - The examiner has rejected all
60 claims of this patent in view of the prior art and the patent will be invalidated pending
conclusion of the appeal brief filed by VirnetX on 8/25/14.


In summary, VirnetX has already lost before the examiners on all claims of the '504 and
'211 patents (the patents asserted against FaceTime) and has appealed that decision to
the PTAB. Unfortunately, for VirnetX, the PTAB affirms their decision most of the time. We
consulted our patent attorneys about these ongoing reexaminations and they told us "It is
pretty easy to tell that all claims currently stand rejected in both of the VPN on Demand
patents right now. Figuring out a timeline going forward is more difficult." Ultimately, the
above shows all claims on all four patents are on their way to being invalidated at the
claims office. Following invalidation at the PTAB, VirnetX will have the opportunity to
appeal to the CAFC.


Because VirnetX faces the high likelihood that some or all of its patents will ultimately be
invalidated, there is now a "race" for final judgment because if the PTAB finishes first and
finds the patents invalid, then any non-final district court findings become moot. We saw a
similar race to finality in Fresenius, USA Inc. v. Baxter International, Inc., which is
discussed in this article. In this patent lawsuit, Baxter won a judgment against Fresenius
and the CAFC found the patents in question valid based on the standards used in
lawsuits. Unfortunately for Baxter, a year later the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
cancelled their patent, which caused the federal court to throw out the whole lawsuit and
no damages were ultimately payable. A similar series of events may very well be pending
for VirnetX with regards to its patents covering VPN on Demand. Accordingly, we believe
VirnetX will be highly motivated to have the district court as well as the inevitable appeal
finish before the ongoing patent re-exam becomes final. If the district court decision
becomes final (i.e. survives appeal to the CAFC), then it is binding. Unfortunately for
VirnetX, even if they win this race, the decision would only be binding against Apple. The
patents could later be found invalid and they would then be useless in future cases.


VirnetX shareholders have also taken false comfort in the rejections of IPR requests by
Microsoft, Apple, and RPX. As VirnetX noted in their press release on July 29th, "Like
some of the petitions filed by Apple and all of the petitions filed by RPX, the USPTO found
that Microsoft's petitions were not filed within the time limit imposed by the statute and
declined to institute inter partes review." This press release clearly explains that the IPRs
were not denied because they had no validity, but rather because they fell outside the time
limit. The IPR process was not available until 2012, which means that it was unavailable to



http://www.pharmapatentsblog.com/2013/07/08/fresenius-escapes-25-million-damages-award-based-on-invalidation-of-baxter-patent-in-ex-parte-reexamination
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 4/14


Apple and Microsoft when VirnetX filed its original lawsuits. Since there is a one year
statutory bar on IPR filings after a lawsuit is initiated, Apple and Microsoft exceeded the
allowable time limits.


However, Microsoft has proven that if a defendant does not exceed the allowed time limits
for filing IPRs, it can get an IPR accepted. VirnetX announced on August 4th 2014, "The
United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) granted two petitions for inter partes
review (IPR) filed by Microsoft Corporation. These petitions seek review of certain claims
of VirnetX's U.S. Patent No. 7,987,274 ('274 patent). The '274 patent is one of six VirnetX
patents that were asserted in a patent infringement suit against Microsoft in 2013."
Microsoft was able to get these patents reviewed via the IPR process because the lawsuit
was filed in 2013, so Microsoft was not barred by a timeline. Therefore, VirnetX
shareholders should be aware that going forward IPRs are going to be a real hurdle and
that getting a patent overturned has been quite successful, as can be seen in this article.


This timing issue also explains why VirnetX has not filed lawsuits based on these patents
against other companies. VirnetX knows that if it sues someone else, the new defendant
will not be time barred from filing new IPRs. Therefore, there is a very high probability that
the IPRs would be accepted. If the PTAB subsequently invalidated the patents before the
Apple case was finished, then Apple would no longer be liable for any damages. As we
explained earlier, if the patents are invalidated before VirnetX gets to final judgment, then
Apple will have been deemed not to infringe with regards to VPN On Demand.


There also seems to be some confusion on FaceTime. Some shareholders seem to
believe that because the direct communications link definition was upheld that FaceTime
must infringe some parts of VirnetX's patents. However, that is not the case. For FaceTime
to infringe a patent, it must meet all the conditions of at least one claim within a patent.
There are no claims in any of VirnetX's asserted patents that are tied to direct
communications and not to secure communications links. Accordingly, all the claims
against FaceTime must be retried or dropped.


Ultimately, VirnetX is facing a dire situation. VirnetX's patents covering both FaceTime and
VPN on Demand are on their way to being invalidated as evidenced by the initial PTAB
rulings of invalidity. VirnetX is now in a race with Apple to get a final judgment and it
appears that Apple may very well win this race. It is unclear how VirnetX could possibly
complete both a new trial on FaceTime and damages at the district court level and also
have an inevitable appeal heard at the CAFC before the re-examinations are completed
and on appeal. Furthermore, it is still unclear whether VirnetX could even win a new trial
on FaceTime because as we have previously discussed, the VPN on Demand only



http://www.merchantgould.com/OurPractice_PostGrant_IPR_Statistics.aspx
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 5/14


Comments (37)


patents are just not worth that much. Ultimately, we believe all four of the patents from the
Apple case will be invalidated through the ongoing inter partes reexamination process and
Apple will owe nothing. For all the reasons we have brought up in both this and our
previous article, we re-affirm that VirnetX is worth less than $1 and quite possibly $0.


Disclosure: The author is short VHC.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


heresthewire
After reading your article ("VirnetX Is Worth Well Under $1 Per Share") the other morning I felt quite comfortable
buying a sizeable number of VHC shares on Thursday @ $4.50. Thanks for your "help".


19 Sep 2014, 03:35 AM


Dennis Baker, Contributor
The big problem with 'investing' in NPEs is there is no ongoing business. If these patents are invalidated, there is no
residual value. Shell companies like this are little more than bets on the outcome of litigation. You might as well go to
Vegas, at least they serve free drinks.


19 Sep 2014, 03:55 AM


The Chairman
In your previous article you stated "One last important point with regards to valuation on future royalty streams is that
these patents all expire in October 2018, so future royalty streams will be limited given the expiration date on the
patents".


Here are the expiration dates for all 4 patents: 
6502135 expires Dec 31, 2019 
7490151 expires Feb 2, 2026 
7418504 expires Aug 26, 2025 
7921211 expires Apr 6, 2026


I don't know where you get your October 2018 expiration crap for all four patents but it seems your sole purpose is to
spread FUD. The '504 and '211 patents asserted against FaceTime have more than ten years left on their clock..
Even the '135 doesn't expire until the end of 2019.. Where's this October 2018 come from? Its all FUD.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/12305051

https://seekingalpha.com/author/dennis-baker

https://seekingalpha.com/user/483855
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 6/14


19 Sep 2014, 05:19 AM


Dale Korpi
The Chairman,


I appreciate your effort and I am dismayed but not surprised that the patent particulars are misstated.


Of course SA is a community ostensibly designed for an exchange of ideas on topics. The ideas on topics
assert multiple positions and the SA editorial, see Eli's latest article on the same, function is liberal as to what
a contributor or comment can contain.


The risk in such a liberal policy is that community be may subject to "false equivalence." However, a
misstatement of facts on a critical property right goes beyond the pale of false equivalence.


The advent of civil procedure in common law was constructed in England to replace the cultural trial practice
of compurgation. A trial of compurgation was conducted quite simple - eg., a multiple oxcart accident dispute
in the village was resolved by the respective drivers recruiting as many villagers to each side - the decision
was based on which driver had the most villagers on their side. (Evidence based on facts or an actual witenss
was irrelevant and the oxes were never represented.)


I understand the trial by compurgation was as much a spectacle as a hanging with the villagers jostling for
position for a view or to comment.


The SA community is a unique model and although there are some oxcart accidents it should stand so the
perfect does not get in the way of the good.


Thanks for the facts Chairman,


Dale Korpi


19 Sep 2014, 07:29 AM


Perdix, Contributor
Chairman,


Each of these patents claim priority to application 60/106,261, filed in October 1998.


19 Sep 2014, 08:17 AM


IP Hawk, Contributor
The reexaminations will be terminated by collateral estoppel for the patent claims argued at trial. Virnetx has already
filed petitions at the patent office, which appear to be granted on 9/17/2014.


http://bit.ly/1uZz01F


The article is now moot.


19 Sep 2014, 07:24 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1033589

https://seekingalpha.com/author/perdix

https://seekingalpha.com/author/ip-hawk

http://bit.ly/1uZz01F

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1071278
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 7/14


chkecheze
Thanks for posting that IP Hawk. These misleading negative SA articles by authors who are short the stock
are just unethical. Thanks for for clearing that up. I can't wait to hear the authors response. How do we go
about trying to have SA remove this whole article based on that document you posted?


19 Sep 2014, 07:47 AM


Pink Sands Value Investor, Contributor
IP Hawk,


You are a treasure trove of information.


D


19 Sep 2014, 08:32 AM


Dale Korpi
IP Hawk,


Commendable and timely work, I see Perdix's comment as well and thank him for that. The two of you have
contributed fairly to the informed portion of the discussion on this matter.


I noticed the Breaking News post by SA on the author's prior article and it is cause for Eli and the entire
editorial staff to reexamine "the tease" in the Breaking News.


I will leave it up to the SA Community to discern and acknowledge that editors are presented with a
challenging task. (The eminent New York Times was duped by a writer - the stories were good but they were
fictional when the genre was represented as factual.)


I should note that over the past year earnest and fair contributors on this matter have been less than informed
on the nuances of damages in patent law and the impending sea change in damages in multi-component
products.


In addition, the same made predictions on outcomes, which Perdix has aptly questioned, of likely decisions by
judges at various levels of the proceedings in this matter. The nuances of civil procedure, although under the
moniker civil, are often times other than that and to speculate on them is a comfort to some but so is a
pumpkin donut.


Thanks


Dale Korpi


19 Sep 2014, 08:35 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I believe that you are misunderstanding the document that you have linked to and the
document in fact supports that these cases continue with the inter partes reexaminations at the PTAB. See
page 7 of the document which states (among other things) "petition to terminate reexamination of the
remainign claims of the '135 patent under reexamination, i.e., claims 1-9 and 13-18, in the '1679



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1071278

https://seekingalpha.com/author/pink-sands-value-investor

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1033589

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 8/14


reexamination proceeding is dismissed." The dismissal of a petition to terminate reexamination means that
the reexaminations are continuing with regards to claims 1-9 and 13-18. Since Apple was accused of
infringing claims 1, 3, 7 and 8 of the '135 patent, it remains likely that the PTAB will uphold its initial findings of
invalidity for these patent claims and that all of the patent claims which Apple was found to have infringed will
be invalidated. Upon such invalidation Apple would owe nothing.


19 Sep 2014, 08:47 AM


IP Hawk, Contributor
There will be a final decision on invalidity unless Apple files an en banc or SCOTUS request to delay the
process another few months. Once there is a final decision on invalidity at all court levels, VHC will file
additional petitions at the USPTO to terminate the reexamination proceedings for claims at issue with Apple.


19 Sep 2014, 08:52 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  This is incorrect. Because the CAFC remanded part of the case for further proceedings, the
case is not ripe for cert. Hence there will be no final judgment entered by the CAFC for any part of this case
(including validity) until cert is asked for by apple (and presumably denied). All of the following will need to
happen first: 1) New trial on FaceTime infringement, 2) New Trial on damages, 3) New appeal to CAFC, 4)
CAFC En Banc, 5) Appeal for Cert. During this time no final judgment will be entered by the CAFC and the
PTAB will retain its jurisdiction.


19 Sep 2014, 10:48 AM


chkecheze
I urge everyone to contact SA and try to have this article removed for complete misrepresentation and LIES.


http://bit.ly/1uZz01F


19 Sep 2014, 07:50 AM


Perdix, Contributor
So, the PTAB is going to invalidate patents that the CAFC has already failed to invalidate, when that decision is
available to appeal back to the CAFC?


The author doesn't know what he is talking about, and is either purposely or ignorantly ignoring information that
proves the conclusions in his article are incorrect. He is posting negative sentiment about things he does not
understand so that others that also don't understand patent law will panic.


Not only should this article be removed, but the author should have his article posting privileges terminated.


19 Sep 2014, 08:05 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/ip-hawk

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1071278

http://bit.ly/1uZz01F

https://seekingalpha.com/author/perdix

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 9/14


Author’s reply »  I suggest you read the Baxter case that I mentioned in the article and then explain why it is
not reasonable for the CAFC to uphold a finding of invalidity by the PTAB with regards to these four patents.
The VHC / Apple case has the potential to be an almost exact replica of that case where the patents were
found valid based on the high standards of presumption of validity and clear and convincing evidence that
must be shown to invalidate a patent via a lawsuit. The lower standards employed by the PTAB - no
presumption of validity and preponderance of the evidence - mean that the same evidence can lead to a
different conclusion at the PTAB vs in the courts. The CAFC subsequently applies the standard of evidence
used by the reviewing body (i.e. either the PTAB's standard or the court's standard) as applicable. So to
answer your question: Yes the CAFC has a high likelihood of invalidating these patents if they hear an appeal
that comes from an inter partes reexamination that finds the patents invalid.


19 Sep 2014, 08:35 AM


sonicthoughts
So effectively you are saying that the PTAB is going to overturn a Federal Appellate court decision that has
reviewed all the invalidity claims and denied them. Yes, that COULD happen, but extremely unlikely and
completely misrepresented here. Citing Baxter is just one reference. What about: SAP America, Inc. v.
Versata Data Development Group?  
SAP then tried to rely on the PTAB’s decision to vacate the jury verdict. The District Court refused, reasoning,
inter alia, that “[t]o hold that later proceedings before the PTAB can render nugatory that entire process, and
the time and effort of all of the judges and jurors who have evaluated the evidence and arguments would do a
great disservice to the Seventh Amendment and the entire procedure put in place under Article III of the
Constitution.


The Federal Circuit sided with Versata and determined that SAP’s effort to overturn the jury verdict was
“without merit.”


Sure this is possible, but you fail to establish any basis for likelihood. Its slim that IPR will have any merit
here.


I have to agree with many who are suspicious about your identity. Can you please tell us why you chose to be
anonymous ? Can you tell us what lawyer was consulted? Did they mention the Versata case?


19 Sep 2014, 09:26 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  It depends on the order of timing. In SAP there was a final judgment. There is no final
judgment here and I expect the PTAB to conclude before a final judgment is entered.


19 Sep 2014, 09:35 AM


sonicthoughts
Your article claims "High Risk". Based on the recent IPR dismissal (with claims 1-9 and 13-18) for '1679, are
you still arguing that they have high risk of this scenario??? Sure, anything can happen. How are you



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1089958

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1089958
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 10/14


characterizing "High Risk"? If it is not then please retract or modify your article to reflect the current situation
as it is entirely misleading.


19 Sep 2014, 09:43 AM


drray
Was the couort telling Apple their use of VHC patents was wqorth 29.00 per unit since the udate charge due to it was
29.00???? Interesting what is going on. Lies and BS abound in an attempt to destroy. May those who lie and cheat
remember what goes round comes around.


19 Sep 2014, 09:27 AM


Value Bulldog, Contributor
Good articles yesterday and today. I almost feel bad for the VHC bagholders, they are desperately trying to hold on to
hope and tune out the dissenting voices that have been correctly warning them for a long time now.


19 Sep 2014, 09:29 AM


liegh aulper
maybe you should revise your thoughts based on this today


ZEPHYR COVE, Nev., Sept. 19, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- VirnetX™ Holding Corporation (NYSE MKT: VHC), an Internet
security software and technology company, announced today that the USPTO has terminated partially certain inter
partes reexamination proceedings initiated by Cisco Systems Inc. In particular, the USPTO has terminated the
reexamination proceedings with respect to certain claims of VirnetX's U.S. Patent Nos. 6,502,135; 6,839,759;
7,418,504; and 7,921,211.


"We are pleased with the USPTO's decisions to terminate the reexamination proceedings at least partially and look
forward to validation of the rest of the claims of these patents," said Kendall Larsen, VirnetX CEO and President.


19 Sep 2014, 09:46 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  This press release is meant to mislead investors by specifying that "certain claims" were
dismissed from the proceedings. As detailed above, the claims that were dismissed are of no relevance to
Apple because the dismissed claims were not litigated. Instead, the claims that were litigated continue to be
under reexamination.


19 Sep 2014, 10:08 AM


liegh aulper
seems like 6,502,135 was one of the patents you said would be denied !


19 Sep 2014, 11:33 AM


zeleration



https://seekingalpha.com/user/165885

https://seekingalpha.com/author/value-bulldog

https://seekingalpha.com/user/114604

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/user/114604

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3452291
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 11/14


Your statement is very misleading - again! Please cite one case where the CAFC court after affirming VALID
patents has reversed itself without an enbanc hearing to dispute their affirmation on the patents. Apple would
NEVER try for en banc in this case.


Also saying things like "it is possible" is not constructive. It is also possible that I could win the lottery IF I buy
a ticket BUT not possible if I decide not to buy one.


Unless you have inside information on Apples legal strategy for an En Banc or SCOTUS review of this case
then please keep the possibilities to yourself. You are actively spreading FUD not to mention that Apple are
not the only company that may be interested in VHC - I think that was clear from todays conference call. The
quote from the CEO is that multiple parties haven an interest but they wanted the validity questions answered
by CAFC before they would consider licensing or partnerships.


 
"This occurs because the CAFC applies the same standards as the PTAB does when it hears appeals from
patent actions resulting from an inter partes proceeding whereas the CAFC applies the court's standards
when it hears appeals from lawsuits. Therefore, if in the future the PTAB finds that VirnetX's patents are
invalid, it is entirely possible that the CAFC will affirm the PTAB's finding of invalidity. In this case, the patents
will be treated as though they "never existed."


19 Sep 2014, 11:48 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I expect the claims from '135 that VHC asserted vs Apple to be invalidated by the PTAB


19 Sep 2014, 12:19 PM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Apple does not need to seek En Banc or Cert until the CAFC this case is ripe for a final
determination. Because parts of the case around infringement and damages have been remanded to be
retried, the case itself is not ripe for a final determination. There is no idea in the law of a partial final
determination on validity or something like that so in the meantime while we wait for the infringement and
damages cases to be reheard at the district level, the PTAB retains jurisdiction to invalidate the '135 patent
(and others). I expect that the PTAB will invalidate the patent, that this invalidation will be upheld, and the
CAFC will enter a final determination on it before there is a final determination on VirnetX v. Apple. In this
case, the patents will be treated as though they never existed and the case against Apple will be dismissed
with VHC getting nothing.


19 Sep 2014, 12:25 PM


IP Hawk, Contributor
You realize if the PTAB invalidates the claims it will then be appealed to the CAFC, which already has said
they are not invalid? Once there is a final decision at the federal level the reexaminations on the patent claims
will be dismissed.


This is an illogical circular discussion based on factual inaccuracies.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/author/ip-hawk
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 12/14


Consistently pounding the drum doesn't make the conclusion right.


I believe Perdix lives and breathes this stuff everyday at a much higher level than anyone else involved in this
discussion. He is dead on.


19 Sep 2014, 12:27 PM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  You seem not to understand that the CAFC applies different standards for validity depending
on whether it is hearing a case from the district court or the PTAB. I'll make my bets and you can make yours.


19 Sep 2014, 01:04 PM


Perdix, Contributor
Alpha,


You have some strong statements in your article: 
"we believe there is a high probability that they will ultimately be invalidated." 
"Ultimately, the above shows all claims on all four patents are on their way to being invalidated at the claims
office." 
"VirnetX's patents covering both FaceTime and VPN on Demand are on their way to being invalidated as
evidenced by the initial PTAB rulings of invalidity."


Have you done one iota of analysis on the grounds that the PTAB has provided for rejection? Do you have an
opinion on the evidence/argument that will ultimately lead to invalidation? Have you checked to see if the
CAFC's rulings on claim construction will impact any of these arguments? Have you checked to see if the
CAFC's rulings on the relevance of prior art presented at trial will have on the proceedings?


Good for you that you have taken a strong stance on exactly what will happen. What would be helpful to the
discussion is if you could demonstrate why you took such a strong stance.


29 Sep 2014, 08:38 AM


slowtoboil
i REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND MUCH OF THIS LEGAL CHATTER. aLL I KNOW IS THAT I LOST MONEY. BUT
HOW CAN A COMPANY LIKE APPLE USE SOME ELSES PATENTS WITHOUT PAYING FOR THE USE OF IT.
SIMPLE CASE GUILTY.


19 Sep 2014, 10:35 AM


LBI4EVER
Google Alpha Exposure and find out their "annonymous". Any one who has an opinion that they stand behind would
identify themselves to prove legitimacy. Your article is well written but filled with inacurracies, so the average retail
investor would panic. Your 41 articles that have been posted, in most part, appear to use the same "MO"....fear,
uncertainty and doubt. A true short and your one rah rah article focused on Senvest Investors a long/short hedge
fund. I would come out of the closet and stop hiding behind "annonymous" if your really worth your salt.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/author/perdix

https://seekingalpha.com/user/906914

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12572781
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 13/14


19 Sep 2014, 11:51 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Look at our track record on the Activist Shorts website - it is pretty good


19 Sep 2014, 12:26 PM


gray area
I find it sad that SA allows someone that is gambling on a company's failure to publish a severely one sided "the sky
is falling" article on here regarding that company. I find it infuriating that they would allow that same person to follow
up with a similarly one-sided and misleading article 2 days later.


19 Sep 2014, 12:47 PM


Dennis Baker, Contributor
How is taking one side of a bet any less gambling from the other?


This is a non company. It's a gamble based on their ability to pursue payments via litigation. Without
successful litigation they have nothing. You've bet on their success, he's bet on their failure. Might as well be
horses.


24 Sep 2014, 05:54 PM


Nealhugh Hurwitz
AS web site--- where? TY! Neal H. Hurwitz NY NY


19 Sep 2014, 12:47 PM


drray
Remember there are AH'S in all walks of life. Just part of living I guess. In old days it would end up in a gunfight and
loser die or be shut up forever. today we are much more civilized; not that it amounts to anything. Ethics mean nothing
dollar is supreme. anything less is useless. I have to live with myself and try to be constructive in what I do and say.
Let the DA's of the world go by and dream the impossible dream--be happy and love life. If you can be proud of
yourself and know you have no harm then you sleep well. quit worrying about the negatives. they may be right; but
hey the market is just a big roulette wheel and don't forget that. if you cannot afford to play stay out of the game. leave
it to the pros and even they screw up all the time.


22 Sep 2014, 06:54 PM


Blue Corn Investments, Contributor
The VirnetX '274 patent just had several claims invalidated today by the PTAB via IPR challenge by Apple. Apple is
now 2 for 2 against VirnetX in IPRs that have made it to a PTAB final decision.


First the '697 on 5/11/15 and now the '274 today.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7070121

https://seekingalpha.com/author/dennis-baker

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29594755

https://seekingalpha.com/user/165885

https://seekingalpha.com/author/blue-corn-investments
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 14/14


Next up by 9/3/15 is the '180 IPR decision and I anticipate Apple will be 3 for 3 since the '180 is very similar to the
'274.


VirnetX has a huge costly IPR/Reexam mess on its hands- I'll be amazed if any non-litigant licenses are signed.


Alpha Exposure has pretty much been on the mark.


29 Jul 2015, 08:24 PM
