5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 1/10


ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung
Aug. 26, 2014 6:47 PM ET16 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


ParkerVision is likely to destroy its licensing potential by suing Samsung.


The principle of First Sale Doctrine means there is little to be gained from suing
Samsung.


ParkerVision needs cash, and is likely to dilute shareholders in the next 6 months.


On August 21st, ParkerVision (NASDAQ:PRKR) announced that it had amended the
patent infringement claim it filed on May 1, 2014 against Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM)
and HTC (OTC:HTCKF) to also include Samsung (OTC:SSNLF). ParkerVision's decision
to add Samsung to the lawsuit was among the oddest actions we've seen in many years.
A basic tenet of patent law is that the patentee can only collect royalties on its product
once - a principle called Patent Exhaustion, or First Sale Doctrine. Hence, if a Qualcomm
chip in a Samsung phone is found to infringe on a ParkerVision patent, ParkerVision can
either collect a royalty from Qualcomm or a royalty from Samsung, but not from both. After
all, ParkerVision's patented technology was only used once - in the manufacturing of the
infringing chip. The sole benefit that ParkerVision would gain from suing Samsung as well
as Qualcomm is that ParkerVision can prove direct infringement against both, rather than
needing to prove indirect infringement against Qualcomm in order to collect a royalty from
Qualcomm. While this benefit sounds nice, it is largely theoretical, because it would be a
simple step for ParkerVision to collect royalties from handset manufacturers if it could
prove that prior lawsuits found that the chips being used infringed on ParkerVision's
patents.


While the upside of adding Samsung to its lawsuit is relatively limited for ParkerVision, the
downside is significant: it likely destroys the licensing business that the company hoped to
develop. ParkerVision has historically asserted that it would make money in two ways -
first through consensual agreements in the form of component sales and licensing
agreements, and second through litigation. Our prior articles have correctly predicted that
ParkerVision would be unsuccessful in its litigation against Qualcomm. We now believe
that adding Samsung to this new lawsuit has effectively shut off the other route to



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PRKR

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/QCOM

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HTCKF

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SSNLF
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 2/10


ParkerVision making money - that of consensual licensing. By suing Samsung,
ParkerVision has sent the message to all technology companies that even taking a
meeting with ParkerVision could land you in the defendant's chair.


By adding Samsung to its list of defendants, ParkerVision continues its practice of suing
companies with which it had prior negotiations. We know from the first lawsuit that
Qualcomm had met with ParkerVision to discuss a possible partnership. This negotiation
fell through, and years later, Qualcomm found itself in the defendant's chair. HTC's
relationship with ParkerVision is not quite as obvious to the casual observer. HTC
Corporation was co-founded by Cher Wang. Cher Wang also happens to be the co-
founder of VIA Technologies, which helped establish VIA Telecom. Starting in 2009,
ParkerVision worked with VIA Telecom in trying to get ParkerVision's products out into the
market place. As can be seen by the $0 in ParkerVision's revenue column, this
collaboration never amounted to anything. In March 2013, there was a key change in the
relationship between ParkerVision and VIA Telecom. This is outlined in ParkerVision's Q1
2013 10-Q, which states, "We have also devoted substantial resources to the
development of RF products that interface with VIA Telecom Inc.'s ("VIA's") baseband
processors. In March 2013, we entered into a development agreement with VIA for the
development and support of drivers between VIA's baseband products and our RF
chipsets and the ongoing support and maintenance of the custom interfaces between our
products. We anticipate that we will pay VIA an aggregate of approximately $1.3 million
under this agreement in 2013, provided that VIA meets all of the future development
milestones specified in the agreement..." This statement exhibits how in March 2013, the
new development deal called for ParkerVision to start paying VIA Telecom. This new
relationship, which turns VIA from a partner into a vendor, likely makes ParkerVision more
willing to alienate VIA Telecom. Evidence that the relationship with VIA Telecom has
turned frosty since the lawsuit can be seen by looking at the conference call transcripts.
Jeff Parker used to be very willing to speak about working with VIA Telecom. As recently
as the Q1 2014 call, Jeff Parker said, "Our relationship with Via Telecom continues, and
we are working together to complete the interface of our RF chipsets to their latest CDMA
baseband processor, which appeals to the broader global market." ParkerVision
seemingly made no reference to VIA Telecom in its second-quarter conference call, which
is the first time in many quarters that VIA Telecom was not mentioned. It seems logical to
conclude that the VIA Telecom relationship has been effectively destroyed since the filing
of the lawsuit.
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 3/10


As of last week, Samsung has suffered a similar fate. While Jeff Parker never explicitly
mentioned Samsung, Samsung's name has been mentioned as a potential customer in
both conference calls, as well as in analyst reports. For instance, the following exchange
took place on ParkerVision's Q3 2013 conference call.


Michael Cohen:


"My second question, I am not sure if you are going to be able to answer this or not,
but I might as well ask it, I was one of the ones that attended the entirety of trial and
during trial it sounded like you had activity with both Samsung and Microsoft. I was
wondering if you could give us any comments or details there?"


Jeff Parker replied:


"I can only say this. When I'm a witness on the witness stand, under oath and I am
asked questions, I want to answer those absolutely truthfully. Outside the courtroom,
I'm going to have to defer back to non-disclosure agreements we have in place and
certainly respect those. I think all I can really say to you is if you were there and you
heard a little bit about some of the conversations we're having with certain
companies, that's a nice advantage. As I mentioned to you guys on this call, we are
pursuing conversations with a number of companies. Michael, because you were
there, you might have a little bit more visibility into who some of those are, but I can't
really make further comments on that right now."


Jon Hickman at Ladenburg Thalman has mentioned Samsung in his reports on several
occasions. For example, on October 25th, 2013, he wrote: "Additionally, deployment of its
RF transceiver chip set with its OEM partner Samsung (SSNLF, $1,450.00, Not Rated) is
likely in the very near-term." Likewise, on May 5th, 2014, he wrote: "Additionally, we are
modeling for a modest amount of business from its partnership with Samsung and VIA
Telecom to utilize ParkerVision's transmitter technology in mobile devices for the Asian
market place." This was not the first time that Samsung was mentioned in this context in a
Ladenburg Thalman report. Similar sentences appeared in Ladenburg Thalman reports
that were issued on March 18th, 2014 and April 22nd, 2014. We find it hard to believe that
either Michael Cohen or Jon Hickman picked Samsung to mention at random. Now that
ParkerVision has made it clear that even meeting with it could result in a lawsuit, we
cannot understand why anyone would even take a meeting with the company for a
potential licensing deal.
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 4/10


When Samsung declined to license ParkerVision's technology, it demonstrated that
companies are not going to simply pay ParkerVision to go away. On the Q2 2014 call, Jeff
Parker said the reason why the lawsuit on May 1 was not served was because it was
thinking about adding defendants. Was Samsung added as a defendant because it
ultimately did not license anything from ParkerVision? It's certainly possible. It appears
likely that ParkerVision went to Samsung and threatened to make Samsung a defendant
in this lawsuit. It probably didn't take too long for Samsung to look at the evidence and
determine that it had not infringed, and that rather than encourage patent trolls, it would
take ParkerVision on in court.


Our current fair value for ParkerVision is $0.28 per share, which is almost 80% below the
current price. This valuation is based on our estimate that ParkerVision ends the year with
$13.8 million in cash. To get to $13.8 million in cash, we assume that ParkerVision burns
$4 million in cash in both the third and the fourth quarter, approximately the same amount
as it did in the second quarter. We then put a 2x multiple on the cash to get our valuation.
However, it is important to note that the $4 million cash burn that we saw in the second
quarter could represent a trough. The company is going to have much higher cash
expenses going forward, due to escalating legal fees for the appeal in the first lawsuit.
ParkerVision will also need to pay attorneys to fight the IPR filings by Dr. Mike Farmwald
and RPX Corp. (NASDAQ:RPXC), and to litigate the most recent lawsuit against
Qualcomm, HTC, and Samsung. We also expect a slew of new IPR filings from
Qualcomm, HTC, and Samsung on the patents asserted in the second case that
ParkerVision will need to defend itself against. Therefore, ParkerVision will likely need to
raise cash again before filing its 10-K, so it can avoid having to put a going concern
warning in its SEC filings. This will mean even further dilution for long-suffering
shareholders.


Disclosure: The author is short PRKR.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Editor's Note: This article discusses one or more securities that do not trade on a major
U.S. exchange. Please be aware of the risks associated with these stocks.


 Like this article



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/RPXC
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 5/10


Comments (16)


22877731
Desperation at its best. Good luck Alpha Exposure and to your team!


26 Aug 2014, 07:17 PM


Mike Farmwald, Contributor
Good article.


I would note that ParkerVision first announced it was working with Via Telecom in December 2007 ("unnamed" OEM
partner.) They later announced that the partner was Via Telecom.


So, nearly 7 years after announcing imminent cell phone shipments through Via (according to Jeff Parker), there still
is no revenue - from anyone.


And there never will be.


26 Aug 2014, 08:08 PM


buzzys70
When you refer to the litigation, and the decisions made therein, you imply that PRKR and\or Jeff Parker are making
the decisions regarding same. You are obviously in error as the finest, and most qualified patent litigator in America,
Doug Cawley is "calling the shots". You, and MF, may think you know more than Cawley, that your judgement is more
qualified, but you are sadly mistaken.


26 Aug 2014, 09:28 PM


buzzys70
Parkervision is represented by the brightest and best patent litigator in America, Doug Cawley. He makes the "calls"
and certainly is more well informed legally than you purport to be.


26 Aug 2014, 09:33 PM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I believe that the correct reply to you is: Scoreboard


27 Aug 2014, 08:39 AM


Robert Syputa, Contributor
Lawyers sell time or barter for a percent of the action. They are not malevolent witnesses to Parkervision's
patent validity or whether Qualcomm, Samsung or any other party that looks convenient to sue. You talk as if
because PV's attorneys have made a business from suing over patents that this gives PRKR an instant level
of authority that is beyond the need to be proven in the court.


Parkervision is desperate. The company has one last chance to build a case for selling more stock. None
should dance around the fast that this lawsuit is all about that.. the patents and companies are incidental to



https://seekingalpha.com/user/22877731

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mike-farmwald

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4508171

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4508171

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/author/robert-syputa
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 6/10


pursuit of lawsuits as the last vehicle for sponging more cash from the public through stock sales.


"While the upside of adding Samsung to its lawsuit is relatively limited for ParkerVision, the downside is
significant: it likely destroys the licensing business that the company hoped to develop."


I doubt that either Parkervision or its lawyers, as dutifully blind to the facts as they have irrevocably proven,
have a reasonable odds believe that they will win in court. They cannot calculate the odds any better than
about 20% based on court averages on appeal and given their tract record on the 1st case.


The tract record on the first case made a few things clear: Parkervision and its intertwined group of attorneys
like to win cases based on creating an emotionally charged story for the jury. Since Qualcomm has not
engaged in negotiations to use D2P similar to the story portrayal used in the first case, Parkervision, McKool
are at a loss for a strategy that can obscure the weakness, which I think is no less than invalidity, of the
patents en suite.


In other words, Parker and the lawyers think the best way to recruit more funds is to build a case strategy
similar to the first, temporarily winning jury bending case. Before the case proceeds, PRKR can hope to sell
stock, no doubt at a dilution of interest of current shareholders. I do not think that can work out for them. This
last hail marry pass will likely go down as a sack with no time left on the clock.


As far as Parkervision's hopes to license their technology: I believe Parker understands full well that no
company will buy their products or licenses. The technology has not proven, after several attempts and years
of PRKR and so called experts to sell licenses, no license has resulted in revenue. Contracts with VIA and
others appear to be 'pay-go', PV paying for VIA to go each step of the way in purported product development
that has never resulted in sales to VIA, their customers or anyone else.


Parker does not hope to license their technology because even those companies less able to defend
themselves have not succumbed to threats of costly lawsuits. Now that Parker has chosen to sue those it
talks with, even if during different times, and over use of different technology, and after PV has been dealt a
defeat court, no firm is likely to enter into talks to license.


27 Aug 2014, 08:02 PM


Keubiko, Contributor
Great article. However I think your $0.28 target price is way too high. Yes they will have some cash left but the odds
of shareholders seeing a dime of it in dividends or buybacks from Jeff Parker are virtually zero (which is my target
price, coincidentally).


Keep up the great work.


27 Aug 2014, 02:56 AM


moneymade
Alpha Exposure could be right. Robert Syputa could be right and Keubiko could be right as well. But there's a lot of
money not heading for the exit. Surely you can (and will) say they're misinformed or "suckers." But I doubt they all fit
into those negative categories. No, there are smart, well-informed investors who aren't leaving. Wonder why so many
shares have stayed put? We don't believe Mike Farmwald's case to the USPTO will go anywhere. We believe the



https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11352761
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 7/10


Appeals court will overturn a head-scratching decision by Judge Dalton. Why hasn't McKool-Smith or 3LP Advisors
headed for the exit? Both could make so much more elsewhere. And please don't tell us both of those groups can't
make more elsewhere....you know that's not the case. So why do they stay? Maybe they believe something positive is
going to happen.


Buy low. Sell high. Price is low and many believe the price will go up. We'll all wait and see -- won't we? Fat Lady is
not even on the stage even though you love to pound endlessly on the Parker obituary. But then, shorts have been
doing that since I got in 3 years ago. No-Hum, you say everything is so bleak for PRKR. Yawn.


Judge Dalton's ruling was a setback. Not a death-knell. All's that ruling did was create more of a wait. You drone on
endlessly about what's in the mind of JP. Please continue while I hit ignore.


Robert says PRKR is "desperate." No Robert, they took a hit and they're down. But desperate is not a word I'd use.
Long shares know a couple of new outcomes and the stock rises - rather dramatically too. I could get out now for just
a few pennies from where I got in. No. Not yet.


Too many possibilities for buy low, sell high to still be part of my experience. BTW, it could end up around .28 cents as
Kuebiko says. But with all of those short shares, wonder what the top price might be with a couple of positive
outcomes? Whoa Nellie. I'll pop more popcorn and continue to watch this.


27 Aug 2014, 09:14 PM


Robert Syputa, Contributor
Buy low, sell high is exactly what short sellers in PRKR have, on average, been able to accomplish. The
timing of selling vs. buying may be different than some of the longs, but the axiom still holds.


28 Aug 2014, 12:45 PM


Robert Syputa, Contributor
I say PRKR is desperate for many reasons besides the one's talked about. If we ignore the court cases
altogether and just consider Parkervision's financial position, cash burn rate and need to ramp up its legal
defense and prosecution, and lack of any revenue from sales, factoring in the company's repeated history of
failure to deliver on past promises, its clear that the business is desperate. The lawsuit against Qualcomm
was the last in a long string of failures. You can have the opinion that PV will reverse the lawsuit failure into a
success even though the odds of doing that from the perspective of the average of such appeals is not better
than ~20%. The IPR process is new but the tract record of it and prior challenge to patents shows that in over
50% of cases claims are reduced or the patents declared invalid, often due to the showing of prior art similar
to what is shown in this case.


All of the usual measures of investment place PRKR as a long shot bet: the company must not only win their
case but do so by winning an usually high award compared to what is typical for an embedded RF technology.
PV does not just need to win, they must win to an unprecedented degree of award that, in itself, extremely
unlikely. When I say 'unprecedented' I mean that - I cannot find a single case in which such an outside award
has been granted or agreed to out of court.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/robert-syputa

https://seekingalpha.com/author/robert-syputa
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 8/10


From the perspective of trading on the volatility of PRKR's stock to capture upside moves, that is not the
subject of this article. You may well be able to 'buy low, sell high' using astute timing as a trader. That skill is
not determined by outcomes of court cases or long shots such as sale of licenses or products. The only thing
I can see in common is that these would all be unprecedented events: playing a stock to the upside while it
has a ~10 to 1 long term downside bias, or Parkervision selling something for revenue, or PV winning a case
in court.


28 Aug 2014, 01:03 PM


22877731
moneymade, you thoughts on QCOM's brief?


11 Dec 2014, 04:28 PM


moneymade
Robert: 
And why pray tell, would anyone (but a short) want to "...ignore the court cases altogether."? I referred to "smart
money" staying long on this. That's because there are some who know this is revolutionary enabling technology.


Problem is, the stakes are high and unfortunately QCOM is a formidable competitor that many call a "Billion-Dollar
Bully." The anti-PRKR campaign is broad and deep with proxies to dismiss the technology and to cutoff funds and
investment.


I've seen it for years. Unrelenting. Even on financial posting boards. Beyond what I find on other boards. Not
convinced? Do you know of any other small company that has had a website, put up and maintained, with the sole
focus of dismissing a very small company's technology and spewing toxicity about the management group FOR
YEARS? Years in length? A constantly maintained website that went to great lengths to ensure there was fresh spew
- always updated? I'm not talking about the usual banter between longs and shorts. This is way different.


Court records, not heresay or opinion. We got just a taste of this in the email revealed at trial which appeared to
propose witness tampering. You can bet this will be fully explored / revealed in the months to come.


So, be sure many would like to just concentrate on what Qualcomm's been able to accomplish to keep PRKR out of
this and stop their legal protests. How dare they? Small frys are supposed to fold, or go away quietly, right? Especially
when there's a concerted effort by a Billionaire Bully to make sure that happens.


This is news?


The detracting statements against PRKR are much like a bikini, so much more about what it hides than what it
reveals.


28 Aug 2014, 02:15 PM


Robert Syputa, Contributor
You are tilting at windmills; hardly good advise to fellow investors is it? You seem to be a believer in a (lost)
cause rather than a dispassionate evaluator of the odds for PRKR among choices for investment.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/22877731

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11352761

https://seekingalpha.com/author/robert-syputa
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 9/10


If sticking to a point of view has value regardless of the odds, you win. Congratulations, don't spend all your
winnings in one place.


29 Aug 2014, 12:00 PM


moneymade
You're right Robert. I would seem as a long shot. But if the majority of the patent attorneys I talked to had said, "Ya,
what Judge Dalton did makes some sense" then I'd take my (small) loss right now and run.


But that's not what patent attorneys that I'm talking to are saying. They're scratching their heads as to why Dalton
ruled as he did, when he did. They don't believe it makes sense when ALL the evidence is considered (as was
weighed by the jury).


If even some of the "smart investors" (longs) were telling me "get out now" -- I wouldn't argue. I'd leave. But that's not
what they're saying. And these are not one-trick pony boys....just smart investors who have made good money on
other stocks and well as many being captains of business. PRKR is not their only investment, not by a long shot.
(sorry for the pun). It's not just my "point of view" -- there's also substance on this side of the street too.


Big risk, big reward. Still a lot of positives - enough to that I don't believe it's time to leave now. Implying PRKR's a
"lost cause" just shows your tilt. We'll have to see who ends up with the winnings, eh?


30 Aug 2014, 02:14 PM


Robert Syputa, Contributor
The majority of patent attorneys are generalists with no experience in RF circuits or the field of 'signal
acquisition and processing' used in communications or any other field. Just because a plaque can be hung on
the wall saying you've passed the law exam and you have experience processing patent applications, does
not make you right. That is anecdotal information imo.


The Supreme court has recently handed down a string of rulings, along with the IPR process and other patent
reforms, stand to tighten the type of abuse of the patent system Parkervision has mastered with the help of
the vested lawyers fighting on their behalf.


From Patently-O, Aug 28, 2014: "Over the past few years, the Supreme Court has uncovered a few glaring
errors in the patent records. Namely – hundreds of thousands of patent claims have issued that are – in fact –
not patentable. These problematic claims either lack eligible subject matter under the patent common law and
35 U.S.C. § 101; are indefinite under 35 U.S.C. § 112; or are obvious under 35 U.S.C. § 103. This results is
prompted by the recent decisions in Supreme Court cases such as Alice Corp. v.. CLS Bank International,
134 S.Ct. 2347 (2014); Nautilus, Inc. v. Biosig Instruments, Inc., 134 S.Ct. 2120 (2014); Association for
Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc., 133 S.Ct. 2107 (2013); Mayo Collaborative Servs. v.
Prometheus Labs., Inc., 132 S.Ct. 1289 (2012); and KSR Intern. Co. v. Teleflex Inc., 550 U.S. 398 (2007)."


I believe the majority of Parkervision's claims are invalid as covered by prior art and indefinite. Judge Dalton
ruled only on the issue of vagueness/indefiniteness of the patent en suite claims, you can dredge up the
sternly worded ruling in which Dalton chastised PV for being vague and not showing proof. These and prior
art will be issues in the IPR and any subsequent trail.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/11352761

https://seekingalpha.com/author/robert-syputa
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Big Mistake In Suing Samsung - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2452915-parkervision-big-mistake-in-suing-samsung 10/10


Devoid of a clear storyline similar to the first case, PRKR is forced to rely more on proof of infringement which
was the point of failure in the first case. On appeal or in the second case, this legal strategy will certainly fail. I
don't think its simply a matter of odds on appeal in such cases but has always been about the validity and
useability of PV's patents. It's been inevitable Parkervison's ability t ride a wave of the loose and overworked
patent office process would fail once subjected to the full rigors of the legal process and, furthermore, tests in
commercial markets.


31 Aug 2014, 08:46 AM


moneymade
Gee Robert, after 3 years of incessant short-bashing, your post really made sense. All those thousands of other short
cautions and warnings were not quite enough. But your post above. That did it. So erudite and with research context.
Wow. I will sell all of my shares and get out now.


NOT.


Sorry Robert. But please....get the last word in. I believe it will help you much more than it will help me. But you're
next post will convince me i'm "beyond help" since I didn't listen to you. Woe, woe is this long who failed to see.


31 Aug 2014, 04:06 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/11352761
