5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 1/20


ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock
May 19, 2014 3:10 AM ET47 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


Analysis of the May 1 court transcript reveals significant risks to ParkerVision.


ParkerVision faces high probability of losing the entire case due to Qualcomm's Non-
Infringement JMOL.


Even a best-case valuation shows ParkerVision is more than 100% overvalued.


While we have read several accounts of what transpired on May 1st during the
ParkerVision (NASDAQ:PRKR) and Qualcomm (NASDAQ:QCOM) court hearing,
everything that has been discussed to-date has been based on recollection and notes. In
order to provide a more complete overview of the hearing, we purchased the transcript.
This article will share our thoughts based on our analysis of the transcript. After reading
the transcript, we came to two important conclusions. First, ParkerVision's attorney may
have fatally blundered when presenting his argument regarding Qualcomm's JMOL for
non-infringement. Second, Qualcomm may have a non-infringing alternative that is close
to being shipped. These two observations should cause significant concern for the
ParkerVision bulls. In combination with ParkerVision's elevated valuation, we believe now
is an ideal time to short the stock.


After reading the transcript, we felt that ParkerVision's attorney, Joshua Budwin, made
potentially critical errors when he was unable to answer Judge Dalton's questions about
non-infringement. Judge Dalton makes it clear that he believes Dr. Prucnal's testimony
may actually show non-infringement:


THE COURT: Let's talk about -- let's move past Mr. Sorrells and let's talk about Dr.
Prucnal's testimony as it relates to the Magellan product. And again, I want to hear
everything you have to say, but I am interested in your view of why Dr. Prucnal's
concession that the broadband was created prior to the storage capacitor is not the
end of the case.


Qualcomm argues (and Judge Dalton appears to agree) that Dr. Prucnal's unrebutted
testimony that the baseband is generated before the storage capacitor and not after is
fatal to ParkerVision's infringement case. This is fatal to ParkerVision's case because the



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PRKR

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/QCOM
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 2/20


claim construction says that the capacitor or storage element must generate the baseband
signal. If instead the baseband signal coming out of the capacitor is in fact the same
baseband being generated before the capacitor, this should be a non-infringing
technology. Quite simply, it would be the end of the case because of the way the Markman
defined claim terms.


This is a very difficult quandary for ParkerVision because they are trying to say two
separate things in their arguments over infringement and invalidity. ParkerVision argued
that a prior art reference is not invalidating purely because the incoming signal to the
capacitor (in the reference) was a baseband signal, and hence the capacitor did not
"generate" the baseband. Since the claim construction is identical for both infringement
and invalidity, ParkerVision cannot have it both ways - either ParkerVision's argument for
invalidity was wrong or the new argument for infringement is wrong.


After Mr. Budwin speaks for a while, we can observe that Judge Dalton comes back to this
issue as he is unsatisfied with Mr. Budwin's previous explanations when he says:


THE COURT: How does that answer my question about what the frequency is when
it's a lower frequency signal than the one that went in?


MR. BUDWIN: Because he's using the term "baseband signal."


THE COURT: Well, and again, I don't know that it's productive for us to argue. I'm
trying to understand your argument which is, if I'm appreciating it correctly, it's that
the signal coming out of the capacitor is not the same signal as the one that went in
it.


MR. BUDWIN: Correct.


THE COURT: And that the one -- if the one that went into the capacitor is a
baseband signal, in order for your position to be sustainable, then the signal coming
out that's a baseband signal must be of a lower frequency.


MR. BUDWIN: Oh, I see.


THE COURT: So I'm trying to find out where in the record is there evidence that the
signal coming out of the storage capacitor is, in fact, a lower frequency signal than
the signal that went in, and I'm not going to call it a baseband signal because I know
that's in dispute.
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 3/20


Mr. Budwin advances what appears to us to be a new infringement theory, which was not
presented at trial. His explanation is that if the signal coming out of the storage capacitor
is of a "lower frequency" than in the signal going in, then there can be infringement. Judge
Dalton then repeatedly asked for evidence presented at trial that this was the case. Mr.
Budwin could come up with no such evidence, as his new theory is patently false - the
baseband signal that goes into the storage capacitor in the Qualcomm design is in fact the
same baseband signal that comes out of the capacitor - there is no "change of frequency"
because there is only one baseband signal. Once Mr. Budwin has concluded, Qualcomm's
attorney, Timothy Teeter, answers the judge's original question. He explains that when the
baseband is generated before the capacitor then there is no infringement according to the
judge's previous rulings.


MR. TETTER: Your Honor asked the crucial question during ParkerVision's
presentation, and this was with respect to where the low frequency signal is
generated, whether it's generated at the mixer or whether it's generated after the
capacitor. And I wrote down Your Honor's question. You said, "Where is the evidence
that that is a lower frequency signal after the capacitors and the TX filter than it is
before?"


Because our whole theory, as Your Honor correctly pointed out, is that the low
frequency signal is generated right after the double-balance mixer by the double-
balance mixer. That low frequency signal does, as Your Honor pointed out, cruise
right on by that line past the TX jammer filter. That's what the -- the filter is there to
get rid of the high-frequency TX jammer. It's not there to generate the baseband
which has already been generated.


So Your Honor picked up on that point correctly. And you asked where is the
evidence -- where is the evidence that the signal coming out of the capacitor is a
lower frequency than the signal coming in? And there was no answer to that
question because there's no evidence to that because that's not what happens.


Mr. Teeter clearly points out that Mr. Budwin couldn't point to any contrary evidence
because there is none, and none was presented at trial.


Of note, the judge made several rulings from the Bench on May 1st. We believe that the
judge ruled on all of the issues he had decided. Accordingly, if the issue of non-
infringement was decided, he would have likely ruled from the bench. The lack of a ruling
probably means that the judge is seriously considering granting one or both of
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 4/20


Qualcomm's JMOL's for non-infringement and invalidity. If Judge Dalton finds for
Qualcomm with regards to either of these JMOLs, the jury's judgment in favor of
ParkerVision will be thrown out.


The most important revelation of the day may have been relegated to just a few simple
sentences near the end of the hearing. Steven Neal, when arguing on behalf of
Qualcomm said:


Qualcomm is, in fact, developing a noninfringing alternative for the smaller 28
nanometer technology, and that's being -- that is work that is underway. And
Qualcomm is going to pursue that and is attempting to develop noninfringing
alternatives.


These two sentences carry a lot of weight when viewed through the lens of the following
press release, which announces a new transceiver. While Qualcomm has been using 28
nanometer process technology in their pure digital baseband since late 2011, the recently
announced chips are the first Qualcomm transceiver (i.e. analog) chips using 28
nanometer designs. These chips are expected to be sampled in early 2014 and ship in
commercial hardware in early 2015. The shipping of this new chip seems to fit well with
Qualcomm telling the judge during the injunction hearing that it would take three years to
design a non-infringing alternative. The design for this chip was probably started in mid-
2012, announced in Nov 2013, sampled in Spring 2014, will be shipped in late 2014, and
will be volume produced in 2015 - i.e. about 3 years from start to finish. We believe these
chips are meant to be a non-infringing alternative and will put an abrupt end to any
potential royalties for ParkerVision beyond mid 2015.


The above analysis shows that the bull case to ParkerVision, which holds that
ParkerVision will receive many years of royalties from Qualcomm, faces very serious
challenges. This bull case is especially important now that ParkerVision has revised their
pre-judgment interest request from nearly $200 million to around $24 million as can be
seen in court document 531 and 531-1. Now it appears that the whole the judgment for
ParkerVision is in peril if Judge Dalton decides to grant one of Qualcomm's JMOLs.


In thinking about the preceding analysis, we see two possible outcomes with regards to
valuation. If either of the JMOLs are granted, we believe that ParkerVision's stock is nearly
worthless. On the other hand, if ParkerVision is ultimately successful in having the jury's
verdict upheld all the way through appeals, we think that the stock is worth at most $2.11
per share at the time that the royalties are discontinued at the end of 2015. We calculate
this valuation as follows:



http://www.qualcomm.com/media/releases/2013/11/20/qualcomm-technologies-announces-fourth-generation-3glte-multimode-modem

http://www.scribd.com/doc/224589652/531-main

http://www.scribd.com/doc/224589681/531-1
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 5/20


Based on the above analysis, we believe that ParkerVision is grossly overvalued at its
current valuation of approximately $5 per share. We believe shorting the stock at current
levels carries a very favorable risk/reward.


Notes:


Since court reporters make part of their living selling transcripts, we cannot post a link to
the full transcript. However, the court reporter's contact information can be found on the
court's website so that you can also purchase a copy of the transcript and see just how
much trouble awaits ParkerVision.


Disclosure: I am short PRKR. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 6/20


Comments (47)


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  If you want to order the transcript, the person to contact is Sandra Tremel. Her contact information
can be found at the following link.


http://1.usa.gov/1qP4g5d


19 May 2014, 08:56 AM


buzzys70
It was easy to order the transcript after the 7 day Court order elapsed. How did you get a copy of it before the
7 day period ran? You had to have it, when only the parties were entitled to see same, because your article
was published at 4am prior to the time the motion to redact was filed.


25 May 2014, 10:54 AM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  To the longs, the transcript is only about $225, so there's no reason not to order it if you have a big
position


19 May 2014, 09:57 AM


IP Hawk, Contributor
My opinion is that PRKR risk/reward position is not very good from either side. There will be even more time for the
final judgment at district court and the eventual appeal at the federal level. Risk capital is going to be tied up heading
into complicated rulings and opinions with a lot of time in between.


You also wrote a similar analysis and recommendation to short back in October with shares in the high 2s. I would
hope that you covered shortly after your article otherwise a short position in the high 2s or 3s would be severely
under-performing with some hefty losses.


Interesting analysis but I would be careful drawing conclusions from these hearings. The PRKR contingent seems to
be fairly strong and could pump this right back up to the $5/6 range in a blink. I would imagine the wagons are already
circling to put together a counter argument.


IMO, shorting IP investments based on valuations has not worked very well. They trade on sentiment and perception.
You need a real fundamental event to be negative or perceived to be very negative to break the investment. Until that
time comes the overvalued / undervalued argument is tough to explain. There will always be someone to buy the
dream of big rewards until the window is completely closed.


No position in PRKR. Long QCOM.


BOL


19 May 2014, 11:25 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

http://1.usa.gov/1qP4g5d

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4508171

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/author/ip-hawk
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 7/20


Rick Berger
@Hawk:


"IMO, shorting IP investments based on valuations has not worked very well".


I don't agree, Hawk. Shorting SPEX or MGT, for example, at the right point of perceived over-evaluation
would put you in a new caddy today.


20 May 2014, 01:15 AM


Robert Syputa, Contributor
Parkervision case is apparently headed to a conclusion before reaching appeal. Parker's patents are as flaky
as the USPTO... fresh college grads and overworked patent examiners granting patents that has reached a
level of obscenity.


PRKR patent claims have been cast so widely they are invalidated by prior art. In this case, Parkervision
sought wide interpretation of claims and then used that to paint a story that Qualcomm infringed while failing
to prove how that takes place. The claims prescribe at least storage of energy to generate a received signal.
In court they argued that this produces a baseband signal through the use of the TX capacitor. The sum of
'evidence' was hearsay testimony of PV's CTO, Sorrells and expert witness Prucnal. It is hearsay because
neither provided evidence of transfer of energy to create any signal that converts to a baseband signal or any
usable higher or lower frequency signal occurs.


Qualcomm gave sufficient explaination, backed by expert witness testimony and evidence including
measurements of the Magellan circuit. Furthermore, there is no electronics theory that permits generation of a
baseband or derived signal through the bypassed TX signal path.


Frankly, I do not see how anyone versed in electronics can give any measure of likelihood for PV's case to
survive on appeals. "Are you daft!"


Apparently, Qualcomm won't have to wait for appeals. Parkervision has been floating a scam patent troll
operation for more than a decade.


24 May 2014, 12:42 PM


catch23
Mr. Syputa - In checking on your Linkedin, I noticed you don't state any EE degree, but on your professional
website you claim to have a BSEE. Even assuming the latter is correct, why are you more qualified to reach a
conclusion than the Doctor of Engineering, Doctor of Nursing, and Attorney who sat in the jury box and
listened to all the evidence? Also, you keep saying Qualcomm presented an expert on infringement at trial ...
however the record shows Qualcomm rested their case without calling such an expert. If you disagree, please
provide that person's name and the testimony to which you are referrring, as this identity and substance of
supposed testimony is noticeably absent in your comment above.


24 May 2014, 01:41 PM


Robert Syputa, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/3667691

https://seekingalpha.com/author/robert-syputa

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18552562

https://seekingalpha.com/author/robert-syputa
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 8/20


I have a BSEE and MBA. I'm qualified based on education and experience including in RF circuits . RF
measurements and R&M instrumentation, and over 15 years work in studying and providing consulting and
expert opinions, including in court cases, for wireless IP.


03 Jun 2014, 11:36 PM


Patent News, Contributor
doubt its worth nothing.


and not quite sure what makes you a legal expert? are you an attorney well versed ip issues and actual litigation?


19 May 2014, 12:48 PM


robertkassel
The article carries about the same weight as the article written by this same author who previously gave ten reasons
why the Markman was a sham and would result in no rulings by the court is Parkers favor. He was wrong on all ten
points. He also chooses to ignore that 3 of the infringement findings by the jury have nothing to do with the issues
raised at the hearing. The rules of the court are well established that all evidence of infringement found by the jury
must be looked at in the most favorable light by the judge to support the verdict when considering JMOL's. There is
more than ample evidence to support the jury's verdict in any light. There is also a striking similarity to the tone of this
article to those written by Mike Farmwald who is no longer around in this case. Farmwald has been muzzled by
Qualcomm due to being under subpoena in another matter with Parker where counsel for Parker will question him
about his relationship with Qualcomm and it's influence in assisting him in writing his articles. There is no doubt in my
mind that this article and others are fed to these writers by Qualcomm. It's bag of dirty tricks are legend and they
continue today. It is not coincidence that it's 51 year old CEO left after such a short time at the helm. I believe it was
because he was such a lose cannon and flagrant about sending incriminating emails that suggest he was trying to
buy testimony from prospective witnesses in the Parker case that the company was at risk of legal action if he didn't
resign. The new bribery investigation regarding China transactions has brought the SEC into the picture. The
Broadcom case where Qualcomm sued Broadcom and instead of winning any damages was forced to pay Broadcom
$1.2 billion, fired their lead counsel and the rest of the legal team was sanctioned. During the Parker trial Judge
Dalton constantly cautioned the jury not to listen to the lawyers rhetoric but to base its' decisions on the facts. Every
point fabricated by the author is based on lawyer rhetoric or better yet a "nod" from the judge. Great basis to draw
ones opinions. So far no one I've asked who was at the hearing saw any "nod". Any investor long or short who bases
his or hers investment opinion about Parkers prospects on this type of contrived nonsense should have his head
examined. By the way this new chip that is supposed to magically appear in 2015 comes after the head of chip
technology at Qualcomm stated during the injunction hearing less than a year ago that Qualcomm has no technology
to replace Parkers' and that it would take 3 years and 1000's of man hours to find a work around and further
suggested that he didn't think there was any way around Parkers' patents. Parkers engineers have verified that this
new chip uses Parkers rechnology. It's interesting to note that when Parkers' counsel subpoenaed this witness who
made these statements on the record to appear in front of the jury he was unavailable because he was conveinently
more the the required distance from the trial location for the court to enforce the subpoena and have him appear
which would have allowed the jury hear this devastating testimony. During the injunction hearing without the jury
present this witness magically appeared in the witness room next door to the courtroom. This article along with the
past articles by Farmwald are made up of a series of distorted fairytales promoted by Qualcomm and are nothing



https://seekingalpha.com/author/patent-news

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23935683
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 9/20


more but another form of dirty trick to frighten investors. It's my opinion that sooner or later Qualcomm will get
prosecuted by the SEC or the Justice Department for this type of conduct. Being the 800 pound Gorilla in the room
doesn't mean you can push everyone else around. Often times it just means your a big fat Gorilla. Remember Nokia,
remember Motorola and on and on.


19 May 2014, 01:53 PM


dj10
Terrific post!


19 May 2014, 02:51 PM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  We will see what happens when the judge rules on the outstanding JMOLs.


19 May 2014, 03:04 PM


1088781
spot on...


19 May 2014, 04:58 PM


silence_twain
I don't believe Qualcomm ever stated that they were not working on chips that would be non-infringing. What
they said was that it would take about 3 years and thousands of man hours. The basis for this 3 years may
have been that they started on the chips this author points to in 2012 and Qualcomm knew they would be
released in 2015. That would be 3 years. I don't believe that Qualcomm ever said that they had not started on
an alternative and or said from what starting point he was measuring those 3 years. Also 1000s of man hours
is not that much. If you have an engineer work 50 hours a week for 5 months, that is the equivalent to 1,000
hours. So putting 1000s of hours into something at QCOM would not be that hard since they have numerous
engineers.


Your assertion that this author is either Mike Farmwald or was paid by Qualcomm does not make any sense.
Did QCOM or Mike Farmwald pay this author to write on CLSN, UNXL, LEE etc. as well?


19 May 2014, 07:30 PM


robertkassel
Re: my comment on the Parker article. I am long Parker. I forgot to add that to the comment


19 May 2014, 01:53 PM


baytracker
I appreciate when shorts come out with negative posts on PRKR. It makes for a nice dip in the price and an
opportunity to buy more shares on the cheap. Keep up the good work!



https://seekingalpha.com/user/33115

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/user/10888781

https://seekingalpha.com/user/954931

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23935683

https://seekingalpha.com/user/500405
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 10/20


19 May 2014, 04:27 PM


buzzys70
Someone wiser than I said "a sin of omission is every bit as damaging as a sin of commission". The author, one of
over 25 million "shorts" has not only misled the truth of the arguments and testimony which took place on May 1st, he
has out right lied regarding the ENTIE testimony and the argument that took place during the trial. I attended the
entire trial, all of the hearings including the May 1st argument and KNOW this to be the fact. Having tried cases
myself for over 50 years I am well versed on the law and will state, with a reasonable degree of certainty, that the
Court would not have ordered the parties to confer re royalties if QCOMs JMOL was being considered. What is even
more interesting, is that the author failed to mention the 2nd law suit filed by PRKR against QCOM which has far
greater financial implications to QCOM than does the pending Court rulings.


19 May 2014, 05:00 PM


silence_twain
How do you place a value on a new lawsuit? It has no value. It may take years to get to court and PRKR may
lose. How is the author supposed to subscribe value to that. The author also didn't mention the Maxtak
lawsuit that was filed against ParkerVision. So the author also did not mention a lawsuit against PRKR.


19 May 2014, 07:32 PM


robertkassel
The new lawsuit should be looked at in light of the first lawsuit. Both litigants now know the legal positions on both
sides, the lawyers, their tactics, the likely witnesses and what they will testify too. In addition Parker now has the
advantage of knowing how Qualcomm uses and infringes on its' technology, who its customers are and how to
reverse engineer its products in order to determine how the technology is embedded in Qualcomms products. There
is no way Parker could possibly be going in front of the same judge in the same court without being absolutely sure
that there is infringement and the necessary supporting evidence to prove it. The value of the infringement is easy to
determine. You find Qualcomms products using the technology,that's easy, how much is being sold and the price of
each infringed component. It appears that the components involved in the second case have a value of at least of 5 -
6 times the products infringed by Qualcomm in the first case. Do the math. The combined royalties and damages from
both cases due to Parker is approximately $360 million per annum until 2025. Adding the damages from the first case,
costs and interest with the potential damages and royalties from the second case Parker should be a $60 stock. It
may take three years to finish all the litigation and appeals but an upside from $4.60 to $60 is as good as it gets.
Investors need not wait three years. The stock will move up in increments as Parker wins the JMOL's, the appeal, the
next Markman, trial, JMOL's and appeal. According to the allegations in the second lawsuit and the obvious
homework that was done to ensure winning this is the best story stock on the street today. Go long and strong. Could
be the biggest winner of your life.


20 May 2014, 09:56 AM


robertkassel



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4508171

https://seekingalpha.com/user/954931

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23935683

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23935683
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 11/20


P.S. The $360 million in recurring income includes the anticipated royalty and licensing deals expected to be signed
by Parker over the next 12 months. Taxes and operating costs have been built into this number.


20 May 2014, 10:14 AM


silence_twain
I am going to try and break down this reply the best I can, but I may miss a few things.


The first thing you are doing is valuing royalties that go to 2025 from both cases. So to collect those, you
need to survive the JMOLs and an appeal in one trial, win a second trial and appeal, and then also hope that
QCOM does not come out with a non-infringing alternative until 2025. You also need to collect a royalty rate
that makes $360 million plausible. That sure seems like a lot of hurdles to overcome. Meanwhile, this author
points to a potential non-infringing alternative that already exists. Just because you win one case does not
mean you will win a second. QCOM made a lot of errors during that first case. My guess is that they learned
from them and will do a much stronger job the second time around. Also once again, we see a bull talking up
the second lawsuit, but ignoring the risk in Maxtak. My guess on Maxtak is that it gets settled because I do
not think Jeff wants to be legally deposed in that case.


You also mention these anticipated licensing deals. People like to point out how 3LP is working with PRKR on
these. They ignore the fact that PRKR is paying 3LP. If you pay someone, generally they work with you. If I
recall correctly, 3LP was hired in November of 2012. How long do you have to wait for a deal? If the
technology was so vital and important, wouldn't deals have been made by now? I remember when people
made a big deal out of Wilson Sonsini being hired and now their involvement seems to have been lost in the
Bermuda triangle.


All the bulls seem to see is royalties that go on for many years, licensing deals, and court wins. There are a
lot of hurdles to get to these things and the bulls would be wise to heed the warnings because failure to jump
over one hurdle, could send the stock crashing down.


20 May 2014, 11:07 AM


robertkassel
Interesting analysis but not valid. You are correct that there are allot of hurdles before you can get to $60 but allot less
to get to $30. 3LP is getting paid a success fee only. If it produces no royalty agreements it does not get paid. That
says allot about the countries number one firms expectations for securing royalty and licensing deals for Parker.
Qualcomm stole Parkers customer base using Parkers technology for so long it takes time to work through each
customers back royalties that are due and converting them to becoming Parkers customers I can only assume that
during any negotiations with prospective customers 3LP has discussed the legal realities that may result if all parties
are unable reach agreement. Not only is Parkers technology vital and important the most recognized industry
association that ranks IP technology portfolios has ranked Parker in the top 5 in the world for the last two years.
That's one heck of an acheivement when you think of all the major technology firms are considered in making the
rankings. It receives no fees from the companies that it ranks. Wilson, Sunsini is still in the mix and works hand in
glove with 3LP. As far as the second trial is concerned once a litigant has been beaten in the first go around the
plaintiff almost always has the advantage in a second go around. The stage was set in the first trial and both sides are
familiar with each others tactics and tricks. Qualcomm can't change the facts, use surprise witnesses, hide key



https://seekingalpha.com/user/954931

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23935683
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 12/20


witnesses and experts. In other words no dirty tricks. McKoll is forwarned. Parker already knows Qualcomms modus
operandi and that is not likely to change.The infringement in the second case is even more flagrant and damaging
than the first. Just read the complaint. I'm sure Parker had the infringing products reversed engineeered before it filed
the suit and knows that it has to be spot on with it allegations of infringement. It covers seven key Parker patents as
opposed to four in the first case. Qualcomms position, as stated by its counsel during the May 1 hearing is that all that
matters is the baseband and that Parkers technology is just a minor unimportant part of the baseband. Well that will
turn out to be a huge mistake. Counsel has trapped Qualcomm by stating this position to the judge on the record. In
fact Cawley asked him to repeat this position several times. As it turns out the patents Qualcomm is currently
infringing on include receivers, transmitters and power amplification which are technologies in the baseband.
Qualcomm has put itself in a trick bag even before the pretrial motions and a Markman hearing. The chances of
Qualcomm developing new technology to replace Parkers is slim and none. Stern, Kessler did an incredible job
covering every conceivable claim in Parkers patents. The technology is foundational or "choke patents" as they are
called and impossible to get around. In addition Parker has been granted at least 25 additional patents that further
protect the key technology. The hurdles you mention are really Qualcomms not Parkers.


20 May 2014, 08:59 PM


Keubiko, Contributor
>>3LP is getting paid a success fee only. If it produces no royalty agreements it does not get paid. That says
allot about the countries number one firms expectations for securing royalty and licensing deals for Parker.<<


That is pure rubbish:


"Yes, yes. Those are in those -- in those, yes. Our arrangement with 3LP was to fund for the first year a pretty
small amount that would kind of help them with the expenses, half of which, by the way, is credited toward
coming off of any fees that they get from successes in their bringing in customers. And those are reflected in
what Cindy described, and I think its encouraging that 3LP feels enough confidence to operate on that basis." 
- Jeff Parker, May 12 2014


A "small amount" in Parkerspeak can be in the millions of dollars.


20 May 2014, 09:43 PM


Robert Syputa, Contributor
Check your facts... 3LP is paid 'costs' which includes unspecified amounts for billed time plus the success
payments. The agreement was modified.


Thus far, 3LP has produce zero in new licenses despite their lofty statements about the patents and how
winning initial rulings had led to licensing om the past. I think little of 3LP's credibility.. as paid shills they will
toe the line.


03 Jun 2014, 11:57 PM


catch23
"paid shills"; really? Mr. Syputa, have you ever been paid by Qualcomm? If so, why have you not disclosed it
with every post? And, once again, please tell us why you are more qualified to opine than the Ph.d of



https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/author/robert-syputa

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18552562
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 13/20


electrical engineering, who sat in the jury box and heard all the evidence?


06 Jun 2014, 12:20 AM


Mike Farmwald, Contributor
> than the Ph.d of electrical engineering, who sat in the jury box and heard all the evidence?


This is false, and easily show to be false. On day 1 of the jury trial there is clear statements by the juror in
question - he does not have a PhD, and he has no expertise in RF, but rather worked with power
transformers.


At least he probably understood how a capacitor works, which is more than the rest of the jury or you.


08 Jun 2014, 09:02 PM


catch23
Farmwald: Once again, misleading. We have each published conflicting transcripts. Assuming yours is real, I
believe it is more accurate. But what you and Syputa omitted every time you disparaged the "lay jury" was the
existence of this juror, and now that this juror, according to your transcript, does have an MSEE. You don't.
Syputa doesn't. I've also asked you if you have any RF experience, and you haven't responded.


08 Jun 2014, 09:43 PM


Mike Farmwald, Contributor
I was the one who said he had a MS in EE, not a PhD as you and Cawley claimed.


I have said multiple times since the trial began that there was a EE on jury, and have also pointed out that he
had no RF experience.


Yes, I have extensive experience in RF, and have close friends who are considered the best in the world in
RF design. We *all* think ParkerVision is completely and utterly in the wrong (on both D2D and D2P), and
that the patents are obviously invalid over massive amounts of prior art.


Whether this judge gets it right or it has to go to the CAFC, the patents will eventually be invalidated, and the
verdict overturned.


08 Jun 2014, 10:25 PM


catch23
Alpha Exposure: Which is it:


You said that Budwin made "critical errors" - implying QCOM does infringe, that there was a better answer to Judge
Dalton's questions, and the lawyer blew it.


Then you say: "the baseband signal that goes into the storage capacitor in the Qualcomm design is in fact the same
baseband signal that comes out of the capacitor" - implying that Qualcomm does not infringe and Budwin couldn't
have reasonably answered.


20 May 2014, 09:24 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/mike-farmwald

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18552562

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mike-farmwald

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18552562
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 14/20


Mike Farmwald, Contributor
> "the baseband signal that goes into the storage capacitor in the Qualcomm design is in fact the same
baseband signal that comes out of the capacitor" - implying that Qualcomm does not infringe and Budwin
couldn't have reasonably answered.


This is absolutely true as any EE (PhD or not) could tell you. A capacitor is a linear device - it does not "shift"
or create frequencies - it can only attenuate frequencies. If the baseband was not present before the
capacitor it can not be there after the capacitor.


So, yes, you're right, Qualcomm does not infringe according to ParkerVision's definition of "generating", and
Budwin so much as admitted this at the May 1 hearing.


ParkerVision is stuck - they want a definition of "generating" that doesn't make the patents invalid over prior
art, but this definition means that Qualcomm doesn't infringe (even worse, none of ParkerVisions
embodiments meet ParkerVision's definition!)


It's not so much that Budwin made a mistake at the May 1 hearing, as that the Judge has finally caught on to
ParkerVision's utterly inconsistent and false arguments on validity and infringement. Budwin knew that if he
lied outright it would make things worse with the Judge, so he hemmed and hawed and made up a
nonsensical story about a "different" baseband before and after the capacitor.


ParkerVision made ridiculous, false, and and inconsistent arguments in the JMOL briefings, and the judge
now seems to understand that. Let's hope he finally does the right thing and grants one or both of the
outstanding JMOLs.


08 Jun 2014, 08:56 PM


Mike Farmwald, Contributor
> You said that Budwin made "critical errors" - implying QCOM does infringe, that there was a better answer
to Judge Dalton's questions, and the lawyer blew it


I can't speak for Alpha Exposure as I am not the author. I can answer only for myself - Budwin's "critical
errors" were made in the briefs against the JMOLs. The judge called Budwin out on this on May 1, and
Budwin had no good answer and his answer only dug the hole deeper by admitting the inconsistencies and
creating a brand new "theory" on the fly. It would have required a far more accomplished "evader of the truth"
than Budwin to give convincing answers to the judge's questions.


Note that I am not saying that the judge will with 100% probability do the right thing and grant one or both of
the JMOLs, merely that he seems to understand the real issues and seems to be at least willing to consider
granting them.


I'm also hoping that ParkerVision filing a new lawsuit minutes after the ending of the May 1 hearing will give
the judge some reason to be unhappy. This judge would like the parties to settle - the new lawsuit did not help
this in any way.


08 Jun 2014, 09:14 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/mike-farmwald

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mike-farmwald
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 15/20


catch23
Farmwald, I suggest you stick to shorting in your area of expertise. I guess having an advanced degree in
computer science is more meaningless than I thought when it comes to understanding RF technology. My
guess is the juror with the MSEE didn't have this handicap, perhaps because that person has previously been
exposed to the jargon, even if they didn't work in RF.


When using a capacitor in direct conversion, for voltage measuring or d2d, the first step is converting the
carrier with switches to discrete time samples that include some of the carrier's energy. There is no noun in
the claim terms for this "Sample" (I'll call it), perfectly described by Prucnal several times in accordance with
the claim constructions. What he didn't have to do was give it a name.


Budwin's contention is that Prucnal didn't refer to the actual Sample in Qualcomm's real units as a baseband,
but if he did, it wouldn't be a problem, because the Sample fits the claim term Baseband, even though Prucnal
properly described it in detail and in accordance with the claim terms as an unfinished checkpoint in the
process of demodulating the carrier.


The judge asked if the frequency of the fully demodulated baseband exiting the capacitor was of a lower
frequency than the Sample, or the "baseband" Prucnal was allegedly referring to immediately after the
switches (Q's "dbl bal mixer"). Whether purposely or not, this was not a question that could or should have
been answered by any good attorney. The judge has a technical advisor who has or should explain that
Parkervision's claims call for a demodulated Lower Frequency Signal (including fully demodulated baseband)
at a frequency lower than the carrier, NOT the Sample.


Now here is where your lack of education in RF is apparently hurting you: It would be perfectly normal for an
RF EE to call a quadrature or in-phase Sample "baseband" - short for "Complex Baseband Equivalent of
Passband Signals" or "Baseband Equivalent" or several similar terms - any of which are more than a
mouthful, so the shorthand used by RF professionals is in fact sometimes the term "Baseband" - so in the real
RF world, there really are other basebands that are Samples, and are NOT the fully demodulated baseband
which exits Qualcomm's "TX Filter"


So there's no doubt that Qualcomm's defense is bunk. They infringe, period. What Budwin said was
absolutely correct - even if Prucnal was referring to the Samples as Baseband, it was within the claim term
definition and the only such noun claim term he could have used. It's also ordinarily called Baseband by real
RF EEs.


If you think Rader has even better resources than Dalton's technical expert, Egan, do you really think
Qualcomm can blow this by Rader: Confuse a Sample with a Lower Frequency Signal in the defined terms?
Because if you do, you have to at least admit your short thesis is entirely intellectually dishonest.


08 Jun 2014, 10:36 PM


Mike Farmwald, Contributor
> Confuse a Sample with a Lower Frequency Signal in the defined terms?


> so in the real RF world, there really are other basebands that are Samples, and are NOT the fully
demodulated baseband which exits Qualcomm's "TX Filter"



https://seekingalpha.com/user/18552562

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mike-farmwald
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 16/20


This makes not the slightest bit of sense, either technically or legally; furthermore it has no relationship to
what the judge asked or what Budwin said in the hearing. I don't know where you're going with this gibberish,
but you should know that you're making a complete fool of yourself.


I know full well what Baseband means, apparently you don't.


Furthermore, there is a a really simple fact that you don't seem to get which I will repeat - a capacitor is a
linear device. By the definition of a linear device, any frequency on the output of the capacitor *must* be
present on the input - the capacitor does not and can not shift frequencies or "create" new frequencies, it can
only attenuate (i.e. filter.) Thus if any signal (for any possible definition of baseband) is present on the output
of the capacitor, then it must have been present on the input. It's really very simple. ParkerVision's, Budwin's
and your arguments are simply wrong. The "baseband" signal is present on the input as well as the output of
the capacitor in Qualcomm's design, in ParkerVision's embodiments and in the prior art. By ParkerVision's
definition of generating, Qualcomm does not infringe. If ParkerVision's definition is wrong, then the patents
are invalid over the prior art used at trial, as the sole argument against invalidity by the PRKR's lawyers was
their definition of generating (not by their expert - they didn't put on a expert on validity!), and ParkerVision
was not allowed (by law) to use a definition of generating that differed from the judges Markman ruling - this is
reversible error - whether Judge Dalton reverses or the CAFC is yet to be seen.


Pick one - either the patents are invalid or they are not infringed.


The judge saw the dilemma but you apparently don't. You can't use one definition of "generating" for invalidity
and another, inconsistent definition for infringement - yet this is exactly what ParkerVision has done, and what
the judge was questioning Budwin about on May 1, and about which Budwin failed completely to give a
plausible answer.


08 Jun 2014, 11:24 PM


catch23
Farmwald: On generating you're confusing a comment Dalton made when denying Parker's msj with a claim
term. He simply pushed them away from trying to claim they patented voltage measurement downconversion
... if they were ever tempted, they took his admonition to heart and didn't "go there"


As far as you not addressing the definition of baseband for this lawsuit and my observations about "Complex
Baseband Equivalent of Passband Signals" or "Baseband Equivalent" - it's a de facto admission you are
wrong and being intellectually dishonest.


Finally, saying you have "friends" who are RF experts isn't the same as having a MSEE like the juror my
friend.


08 Jun 2014, 11:59 PM


Mike Farmwald, Contributor
I just had a feeling of intense deja vu - welcome back Roundermatt!


> As far as you not addressing the definition of baseband for this lawsuit and my observations about
"Complex Baseband Equivalent of Passband Signals" or "Baseband Equivalent" - it's a de facto admission



https://seekingalpha.com/user/18552562

https://seekingalpha.com/author/mike-farmwald
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 17/20


you are wrong and being intellectually dishonest.


How do I address something that is complete gibberish? These phrases have no meaning to anyone with any
expertise in RF, so I don't what what to say. Please read and understand my comments earlier, you seem to
be missing the entire point. There are *not* multiple basebands (in the same downconverter), there is only
one baseband signal.


> On generating you're confusing a comment Dalton made when denying Parker's msj with a claim term. He
simply pushed them away from trying to claim they patented voltage measurement downconversion ... if they
were ever tempted, they took his admonition to heart and didn't "go there"


ParkerVision precisely did "go there".Do you even slightly understand what the judge said in his denial of
ParkerVision motion for summary judgement? This is exactly the same issue. The judge said that
ParkerVision was not allowed to change the definition of "generating" just before trial, and contrary to his
Markman ruling. Just before the trial ParkerVision tried to pull the same crap about redefining "generating",
the judge slapped them down just before trial; ParkerVision did it again at trial and again in the motions
against the JMOLs; hopefully the judge is about to slap them again in his final ruling. This is clear, reversible
error. (Out of curiosity, do you even bother to read the rulings you quote? You clearly don't understand them.)


Finally, to anyone with a slight knowledge of RF, the meaning of "baseband" is unique and well-defined, once
you know the modulation scheme. AM gives baseband a precise meaning; FM another; SSB another; QAM
yet another (now with complex signals; i.e. I & Q), etc. The words you use don't really mean anything, or at
least nothing like what you think they mean; while "baseband" is very well defined. If the point of your
gibberish, made up phrases is that baseband has different meanings depending on the modulation being
decoded, we might be able to agree on something, but then it becomes obvious that, for a given down
converter, there is a single, well-defined baseband signal, and the capacitor can not "generate" using
ParkerVisions definition.


For any given design, there is only one "baseband" signal - the sole issue becomes what is the modulation
scheme that the baseband represents? This is why the answer given by Budwin (and that you are repeating
over and over) is such obvious nonsense.


09 Jun 2014, 12:27 AM


catch23
Farmwald: You really don't understand RF or Judge Dalton speaking the English language.


I don't know this roundermatt, but if you also found his posts frustrating, he must be a goodfellow.


1) You don't understand what baseband was defined as in this case. Look it up, or just read Budwin quoting
the claim construction accurately.


2) A "Complex Baseband Equivalent of Passband Signals" or "Baseband Equivalent" - often shortened to
"baseband" - as in the Qualcomm design documents - is in fact a quadrature or in-phase discrete time sample
of the carrier wave. Just call up your RF engineering friend to confirm.


3) Go back and read Dalton's msj ruling (don't make me post it); he flat out said Parkervision could avoid the
issue he used to deny by presenting generating at trial without invoking voltage measurement direct



https://seekingalpha.com/user/18552562
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 18/20


downcoversion and that is exactly what they did. Furthermore, Dalton's comments at the May 1st hearing on
standard of proof not being met for invalidity basically make victory on appeal impossible for Qualcomm,
because he correctly framed any alleged controversy as a factual issue; virtually impossible to challenge on
appeal.


09 Jun 2014, 12:55 AM


robertkassel
I don't know what you saw or read but I never mentioned Budwin or what he said or didn't say. Wake up.


20 May 2014, 10:40 PM


catch23
Maybe there's some confusion. Those quotes are from this article, and my question was specifically
addressed to "Alpha Exposure" - author of this article, not to robertkassel.


20 May 2014, 11:57 PM


robertkassel
I believe that 3LPS' covered expenses are minimal.


21 May 2014, 03:06 AM


Keubiko, Contributor
Notice JP said "kind of". This isn't photocopying charges, long distance, and hotel rooms. Given half of these
costs are creditable against success they must be bona fide fees.


Of course I don't believe a word out of JP's cake hole so anything is possible.


21 May 2014, 07:46 AM


robertkassel
Your resorting to name calling finally puts you in the unenviable category of stock basher without a shred of valuable
insight. Sorry you've lost on Parker but you still have a chance to buy in and get it back.


21 May 2014, 01:11 PM


silence_twain
Yes. Shame on Keubiko for saying that he/she does not believe anything Jeff says. How could he ever doubt
Jeff? I mean Jeff has brought us such gems on past conference calls as the following:


Q1 11: While I don't have an OEM order to announce to you today, we remain confident that we will realize
the commercial launch of our product in the very near future.


Q2 11: On the other part of our business, which is our transmit chip technology, we continue to also make
very good progress. As I mentioned in our call just a couple of weeks ago, we are seeing positive rapid
forward progress with a second OEM with regard to our CDMA-based RF chip product. We are determined to



https://seekingalpha.com/user/23935683

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18552562

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23935683

https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23935683

https://seekingalpha.com/user/954931
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 19/20


commercialize this technology in the most timely manner possible. And to that end, we have been actively
engaged in sales activities and product demonstrations with additional VIA customers as well. One of these
customers, a well recognized leading global handset OEM has shown significant interest in both our current
offering as well as our future product roadmap. This particular OEM started a fully funded internal program to
integrate and evaluate our product for a platform solution which could then be deployed across their product
lines for Asia-based CDMA mobile phones. The OEM has dedicated a team and resources to this effort, and
we also have a dedicated team, including personnel to provide on-site support at the OEM's design efforts
which are overseas. This OEM tends to move quickly and aggressively on new designs. We see both near
and longer term opportunities available to us with this OEM and our sales team continues to move forward
with other OEM and ODMs who are developing applications based on VIA baseband reference designs.


Q3 11: So with regard to our commercialization efforts, we continue to make solid progress with a significant
OEM customer. We have had teams working overseas on a regular basis over the last several months. As we
reported previously, our team along with teams from VIA Telecom and the OEM have been working on a
handset design that incorporates our transmit ICs. We have delivered an initial group of our chips, and the
OEM has readied the design of a handset board that incorporates these chips. We're all working to finish up
the software to integrate the final requirements for this design, which we anticipate can be wrapped up in the
coming weeks. After that, we expect the testing of these boards will occur, and we still expect this will lead to
our first order for this first model of our transmit components.


Q1 12: Six weeks ago, we reported good progress in both our d2p CDMA transmit chip commercialization
activities, as well as the status of our infringement litigation suit against Qualcomm. Progress in both these
areas has continued as expected. Moving toward commercialization of our d2p CDMA transmit chip, we
remain actively engaged with our colleagues at the Hampstead OEM. Our belief has been that our work with
them is leading to an order that incorporates d2p into one or more of their CDMA products, and our
interaction with them continues to support that belief. While it would be great to be at a milestone that
constitutes a material event to discuss with you today, we are not there yet, but we are pleased with the
progress we are making.


Q2 12: So now I'd like to turn the topic to commercialization of our intellectual property. In the area of our d2p
transmit technology, our team continues to work closely with an Asian OEM, who is a customer of our
baseband partner VIA Telecom. This OEM has requested that we provide additional detailed information on
our d2p components, which we have done, and for additional reference design work, which is in the process
of being completed. After completion of the reference design work, we anticipate moving forward with this
OEM to incorporate our d2p technology into certain handset programs and their associated products.


Q4 12: We, along with McKool Smith, engaged 3LP to enter into dialogue with companies that, based on
3LP's research, we believe would be interested in some form of business relationship with ParkerVision.
While there is no guarantee that these dialogues will result in any meaningful business relationship or that an
outcome will occur in any particular time frame, we are encouraged that there are a number of firms who are
now actively assessing their interest in some form of business relationship with ParkerVision. We are excited
to see that the innovations we developed and protected and that we believe would play a critical role in
shaping the wireless ecosystem are in fact doing so.
5/18/2018 ParkerVision: Read The Transcript, Short The Stock - ParkerVision, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRKR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2224503-parkervision-read-the-transcript-short-the-stock 20/20


Q1 13: Regarding our strategic intellectual property initiatives, I can disclose that a number of companies
have entered into agreements with ParkerVision in order to access the analyses created by Kevin Rivette and
the 3LP team on ParkerVision's patented innovations so that they can evaluate potential business
relationships. To move to this level of discussion requires stringent confidentiality and nonassertion
agreements typically approved only at the most senior corporate level and not entered into casually. We are
optimistic that the efforts required of these companies to both enter into such agreements and to then review
the large amount of information that 3LP has pulled together will ultimately lead to the options that
ParkerVision can consider for generating value from our patented innovations.


21 May 2014, 02:22 PM


buzzys70
How is it that the author of this article had access to same when only the parties were to have same, for 7 days, to
give the parties an opportunity to file for a redaction of the transcript? Is it purely coincidence that exactly 7 days after
the order was entered, Neal fil;ed a motion to redact same?


22 May 2014, 10:23 PM


buzzys70
How is it that the author had access to the transcript within 7 days when the Court order provides that only the parties
have access for 7 days so that a motion for redacting the transcript may be made within 7 days? Is it coincidence that
exactly 7 days after the 5/12 order; on 5/19 Neal filed a motion to redact?


22 May 2014, 10:29 PM


Alpha Exposure, Contributor
Author’s reply »  FWIW, I think the stock is now worthless. I would not cover here.


23 Jun 2014, 10:43 AM


Keubiko, Contributor
I agree. The only way they could salvage some value would be to put the company in liquidation and maybe
get 15-20 cents net to shareholders for the cash on the books and try to flog their other (demonstrably
commercially useless) patents. But I see zero chance of that. They'll need that cash to keep hope alive on
other lawsuits and to defend against the Maxtak lawsuit which to me looks like a slam dunk they will lose.


Great call, Alpha Exposure.


23 Jun 2014, 10:51 AM


Keubiko, Contributor
I actually think it's a much better short at $1.90 with this news than it was at $5.00.


23 Jun 2014, 11:14 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4508171

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4508171

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-exposure

https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko
