5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 1/13


Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff
Jul. 3, 2014 9:30 AM ET15 comments
by: Bleecker Street Research


Summary


GlassesOff is an intriguing concept, but expectations are currently too high.


With revenue of only $29k against a $70 million market cap, GlassesOff is an
attractive short.


GlassesOff will have trouble growing revenue, since its product is going up in price
and there are cheaper options.


GlassesOff, Inc (GLSO) is a developmental-stage company that seeks to improve your
eyesight through use of its iPhone app. The stock has been hyped by several overly
aggressive analyst reports, and I believe that investors will ultimately be disappointed by
the results of an investment in GlassesOff.


Background


GlassesOff is the result of a reverse merger with Autovative Products, Inc. Originally
named Ucansi, it changed its name to GlassesOff after the reverse merger, and began
trading on the OTC Market.


GlassesOff would like to have you think that it has an app that improves eyesight, and so
effectively that people will pay a substantial premium for it. The reality is much fuzzier, and
bulls should be asking themselves some questions.
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 2/13


(Source: Company website)


As you can see, GlassesOff suggests that with the help of its app, you will improve your
vision and no longer need to use glasses. From the 10-K, GlassesOff claims:


Our proprietary technology enables us to develop software product solutions
that enhance the image processing abilities of the brain and therefore improve
a person's near vision sharpness and reading capabilities. Our unique software
approach provides an alternative to existing solutions, which generally rely on
magnifying devices, typically reading glasses. The Company's technology platform is
based on advanced scientific research of image processing functionality, and our
solution utilizes the remarkable ability of the brain's plasticity (the brain's ability to
change), which constitutes the neuronal basis for "perceptual learning", that is,
repeated practice on a demanding visual task. Our founder's academic research into
the area of image processing functions during the last 20 years has yielded a
breakthrough in perceptual learning methodologies, which enhance visual skills by
improving image processing speed and efficiency in the visual cortex of the brain
without altering optical functions. The use of perceptual learning methodologies
improves both the processing speed and the sensitivity through repetitive exercise of
the brain's image processing function, resulting in improved near vision sharpness
and improved reading capabilities.


So GlassesOff claims to have an app that improves the image processing abilities of the
brains, and therefore (this part is important) it actually improves your near-vision
sharpness and ability to read. The academic paper that GlassesOff cites in several press



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/6818211_14039984640406_rId5.png
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 3/13


releases and on its website makes a somewhat different claim. This academic paper
suggests that in fact, perceptual learning can help improve vision in people with
presbyopia.


Our results, consistent with previous studies, show that perceptual learning can
improve visual acuity and contrast sensitivity in persons with presbyopia, and in
some cases, result in performance levels similar to the young control group.
Moreover, here we show that training also improves suprathreshold contrast
discrimination and reading speed for small letters. Our study is the first to show
conclusively that these improvements are not due to improved optical
performance of the eye (accommodation, pupil size or depth of focus).


More importantly, however, it also was the first study to conclusively prove that the
improvements are not actually due to your eyes being any better. If you take those tests
long enough, your eyes will likely train themselves to see what you need to pass the test,
but your vision in real life will likely not have improved at all. A well-respected
ophthalmologist agrees with my assessment, as Michelle Rhee expressed similar
concerns in quotes in an article on cbsnews.com. She said:


"Human vision quality is determined by the physical eye and the way the brain reads
the information that the eye captures. To think that we can reverse presbyopia or
reverse having to wear glasses for myopia and any of those different
prescriptions solely on neuroplasticity is just not accurate."


Where Is The App?


When you go to GlassesOff.com, there is a button on the top of the website which should
take you to the app on the app store. I was curious to see what the app looked like and
what the reviews were like, unfortunately, I was able to see neither. When I clicked on the
app store link, this came up.


(Source: Apple App Store)



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/can-an-app-help-you-ditch-your-reading-glasses/

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/28/6818211-14040063163632975-Bleecker-Street-Research_origin.png
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 4/13


If you can't see that, it says that the app is not currently available on the app store. The
same thing happens when you search for the app on the iPhone App Store. It would
appear that the company is having trouble with keeping the app on the app store. I
contacted the company with my concerns, and they responded very quickly, saying that
the app was still available but that it was just not showing up in the Apple App store at the
moment. This is relatively unfortunate timing, as it was reported that GlassesOff was in the
middle of a marketing campaign to increase awareness for the app. This doesn't appear to
be the first time that GlassesOff has had issues keeping the app on the app store; in
January, a comment was written on an article here on Seeking Alpha about GLSO. This
comment suggests that it was not on the app store in January.


(Source: Comment on Seeking Alpha)


I spoke again to someone at GlassesOff, and they said that the problem was due to them
changing developers, and that the problem would be resolved shortly. They offered kindly
to give me access to the app, which I declined, as I have near-perfect vision and the
quality of the app is not material to my opinion on the stock. As of July 2nd, the app is
back on the app store, available for download. Given that this is the second time that
GlassesOff has had issues keeping the app on the app store, it is something that one
should keep an eye on.


Bulls Misunderstand The Stock


A quick glance through Seeking Alpha shows that there are many bulls on the stock.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/29/6818211-14040566577709954-Bleecker-Street-Research_origin.png
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 5/13


(Source: Articles on Seeking Alpha)


I believe that bulls fundamentally misunderstand the situation. They suggest that
GlassesOff will be able to capture a significant part of the eyeglass market. Zacks analyst
Jason Napodano writes,


As shown in Table 2, our revenue base case assumes peak market capture of 3.0%
(1.26 million) of these potential customers in the fourth year of sales, and mean
revenue of $120 per customer ($60 for the basic improvement program and 7.5
months of follow-on care at $8 per month). After accounting for a 30% distributor fee
and small annual price increases, this corresponds to $97million in 2016 net sales.


I believe that this is an extremely high penetration rate to assume, given some statistics.
First of all, the app is extremely expensive. At $60 for the initial download, that will be a
steep asking price for someone used to downloading free or $.99 apps. Bulls will suggest
that it is cheap compared to LASIC, but LASIC is a medical procedure which has been
tested by the FDA and is performed by doctors. Asking people to pay $60 for an app, no
matter how good it is, is like asking people at the Dollar Store to pay $60 for an item. Even
if it is worth $60, that item will not sell well. Studies have suggested that 3% of users make



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/29/6818211-1404056744582725-Bleecker-Street-Research_origin.png
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 6/13


up for 20% of all app spending. Likely much of that is spent on games and by younger
people. How many people over the age of 40 are willing to spend $60 on an app? I think
the answer will disappoint bulls.


This app is competing with cheap reading glasses that cost between $1-$10 at places like
CVS and Family Dollar. While the app might actually help improve vision, it will never get
any reach if the cost remains that high.


Consider this, GlassesOff only did $28k in revenues in the first quarter, even though the
app was used by over 50,000 people, according to Mr. Napodano.


The company had set a goal of 10,000 registered users; this number was selected
because it would represent a significant number of users to get feedback from, but
would most likely not overload the servers and interfere with the customer
experience. Based on larger-than-expected media coverage, the company far
surpassed the 10,000 registered-user mark, and in fact, ended up with
approximately 67,000 total registered users.


Given that he is essentially the only analyst covering the stock, he is largely driving the
expectations of investors. In his most recent article, he suggested that the app had done
exceptionally well for a "soft launch." But this was no soft launch. Just look at these press
releases:


(Source: Company website)



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2235043-glassesoff-ready-for-prime-time

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/29/6818211-14040835965757465-Bleecker-Street-Research_origin.png
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 7/13


Comments (15)


Regardless of whether it intended it to be or not, having your app at the top of its category
does not make it a soft launch. Despite only charging $9.99 for the app, it generated $28k
in revenue. So at a much lower price point of $9.99, there was only about a 5.7%
penetration rate. How low would that rate fall if the app was 6x more expensive, which it
will be? Additionally, that group of people was already presented with the app, it is only
natural that a percentage of them will purchase the upgrade, since they are already
familiar with it. How many will seek something like that out on the app store and download
it when there are cheaper options available?


Conclusion


While the app might work, it's a prohibitive cost compared to other apps. For example,
there is an app called ULTIMEYES on the app store, which claims to do similar things as
GlassesOff, but only costs $6. A market cap of $71 million and revenues of $21k in the
last quarter, when they were giving their product away at much lower prices, does not give
me confidence in this name. I think it is an attractive short if you can get the borrow, as
expectations are simply too high at the moment. I do not believe that GlassesOff is ready
for prime time, and I think that bulls should open their eyes.


Disclosure: The author is short GLSO. The author wrote this article themselves, and it
expresses their own opinions. The author is not receiving compensation for it (other than
from Seeking Alpha). The author has no business relationship with any company whose
stock is mentioned in this article.


Editor's Note: This article covers one or more stocks trading at less than $1 per share
and/or with less than a $100 million market cap. Please be aware of the risks associated
with these stocks.


 Like this article


RockieK, Contributor
The company has been wildly successful since the beginning of the year. They filed an S-1 in early January, providing
a way for employees and early investors to realize gains and privately placed 4MM shares in May.


Not so much for retail investors though....


03 Jul 2014, 10:48 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/rockiek

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12866801
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 8/13


zubbub
Thank you for your article. I do not, however, find it very convincing.


1. You suggest that the claims about improving vision are mainly hype, quoting an ophthalmologist in support.
However, the complaint seems primarily to trade on an ambiguity about phrases such as "improved eyesight". You
seem to think that the scientific study published in Nature is making some kind of fatal admission in stating that the
improvement in visual performance comes from training of neural processing as opposed to anything about the optical
organ per se. So what? That's the whole point about neuroplasticity. Sense perception is a combination of the
functioning of the sense organ AND brain processing. This program works on improving the latter, and if the claims in
the published paper, which you do not dispute, are to believed, some subjects were able to improve so much as to
perform on a par with the young control group. That is remarkable, and why should it be a problem if the improvement
is neural rather than strictly optical in some narrow sense? It's the performance which counts. Just as blind people
apparently develop enhanced hearing, presumably because of neuroplasticity rather than any change to the actual
ear, vision can apparently be improved with appropriate training of brain processing of visual images.


2. Relatedly, you claim that while the training may enhance performance in the little tests and games of the app, that
enhanced performance has no bearing on visual functionality in real life. On what do you base this claim? You seem
to confuse it with the previous point that improved performance is neural rather than strictly optical, but that obviously
cannot determine the truth of your claim - it might be that simple tasks such as reading are indeed improved by the
program. You offer no reason whatsoever to doubt this, and if the games and tests present tasks relevantly similar to
reading I see no reason to doubt that the improvement would manifest itself in "real life" tasks.


3. You claim that : "At $60 for the initial download, that will be a steep asking price for someone used to downloading
free or $.99 apps. "


These are two completely different markets, rendering the comparison irrelevant. The GLSO app is NOT aimed at the
millions of adolescents who spend their leisure playing online games. It is aimed at people, nearly all older and who
might never go near these other games, who want to improve or inhibit deterioration of their eyesight. You think
people will not spend $60 to get rid of reading glasses that can be purchased for $1 to $10. Then why do you think
people spend $5000 for laser surgery to rid themselves of $150 or $200 eyeglasses? Think about it: people pay
$5000 for quasi-invasive surgery - that sometimes goes wrong - to improve their vision and no longer require
eyeglasses. And you don't think people would pay $60 for a non-invasive, non-medical, entirely risk-free training
program that improves eyesight (in the relevantly broad sense) and could free them from reading glasses? People
undergo even complicated orthopedic surgery to get rid of a $10 cane; why shouldn't they spend $60 to get rid of
requiring $10 eyeglasses?


4. You cite ULTIMEYES as a competitor offering a similar product for a tenth of the price. I might be mistaken, but my
quick glance at its website seems to indicate that ULTIMEYES is for myopia, not presbyopia. Also, there are zillions of
diet pills on the market, but not many with proven long-term results published in respectable journals. If you have
useful research about competitor products you should make it available; in the meantime unsupported claims by a
short seller are unlikely to be taken seriously.


05 Jul 2014, 04:00 PM


morrisonfr



https://seekingalpha.com/user/12866801

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4257661
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 9/13


I've just purchased the upgrade at full price after using the app for 3+ months. I can only speak from my own
experience, but the app does everything it says it will to improve near vision, and more - my distance vision has also
improved. I no longer need reading glasses for the newspaper and I can read the fine print on any label on a grocery
store item (very handy). The app is available from the Apple Store if you use an iPad to access. I have not been able
to find the app in the Store using my desktop computer, possibly because the app cannot be used with a desktop
computer (desktop screen resolution is not adequate). I downloaded and read the GlassesOff 2013 annual report, and
the company is forthcoming about the business risks of the next year, even to the point of saying that their auditors
expressed doubt about their long-term viability. The biggest risk I see, apart from price point, is that benefitting from
the app requires a time commitment of several months and consistency in training. Some may not want to make that
effort. I am grateful for what the app has done for me and hope the company will thrive.


07 Jul 2014, 10:58 AM


zubbub
Thanks for that comment. I'm not too worried about long-term viability. Given the proven record of its phenomenal
product, the company is significantly undervalued right now and is a prime candidate for a take-over.


08 Jul 2014, 11:44 AM


BearCrusher
"...phenomenal product..."??? And how many people over the age of 45 have been able to throw away their
reading glasses after using the method. Proof is in the pudding, right? I read some of the papers filled with all
sorts of impressive technical jargon, but NOWHERE could I find a published blinded and controlled study
demonstrating the percentage of people who completed the program and actually were able to toss away
reading glasses.


Not to mention 15 minutes, THREE times a day looking at little gray images flying across an ipod screen? For
three MONTHS? Seriously? On top of which, you may need periodic "booster" sessions. I saw last quarter
earnings were around $27,000 -- I'm surprised there were even that many suckers.


09 Aug 2014, 06:32 PM


zubbub
Apparently, according to studies of the highest scientific standard, and testimony of users, the improvement rate is
100%, and most subjects are indeed able to discard their reading glasses after completion of the program.
http://bit.ly/1omz4c1 
describes one such study.


You say you couldn't find a blinded and controlled study. I don't know what you mean by that, and suspect that neither
do you. Do you mean you would like to see a second group of people in a study use a fake product - not the real app -
for three months, to then see whether they also test better in vision examinations? That would be both infeasible and
unnecessary: the vision tests after the training period are sufficient to determine accurately the degree of
improvement, and it is not obvious how you could get people to use a fake app for three months, nor what you could
prove by doing so.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/12866801

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24209943

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12866801

http://bit.ly/1omz4c1
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 10/13


Anyway, your trolling the message boards with silly objections are quite familiar by now; good luck.


10 Aug 2014, 01:06 AM


BearCrusher
An EASY blinded and controlled study -- 50 volunteers with presbyopia.


Pretest by having them read, at normal arm length, books with increasing point size and measure the point size where
reading 25, 50, 75, 100 per cent without reading glasses is possible.


Suitable phones are then randomly distributed. The twenty five phones that constitute the experimental group will
generate whatever alleged training the app is supposed to impart. The other twenty five that form the control group
has a training program is visually similar -- little grey letters in various forms, etc -- but the sequence is just randomly
generated as opposed to the alleged "perception training" sequence -- in other words, the user doesn't know it's a
"fake" app.


At the end of three months, repeat the pretest and see how well they do. Apply some statistics and generate some p-
values and - voila! -- you can state the probability that any improvement in visual acuity is due to the app. I'm willing to
bet right here, right now that there wouldn't be one iota of difference.


Anyway, pretty simple, huh? But have they done that yet -- as opposed to the convoluted BS about "Contrast
detection," "Contrast discrimination," etc, in that article you linked. After all, no one cares whether their "contrast
threshold" is improving -- they want to know what the chance is that they can toss the reading glasses and for how
long. Are they going to be stuck doing "perceptual training" every other month or what? Oh, I got an idea! Why doesn't
"glassesoff" just offer a money back guarantee if not satisfied? After all, it's just a stinking app, right? It's not like
there's huge overhead or anything -- right?


.


10 Aug 2014, 08:47 AM


zubbub
" I'm willing to bet right here, right now that there wouldn't be one iota of difference."


And you talk about BS?


11 Aug 2014, 10:23 AM


BearCrusher
How so? I'm simply trying to emphasize that I consider GLSO and its idiotic app a bunch of nonsense. I even
offered a fairly simple experimental design to prove it. Of course, they won't do it since it won't allow them to
use transcendental ophthalmic jargon to impress naive investors, not to mention proving the app was useless
for treating presbyopia. But you didn't address my question about giving a money back guarantee if not
satisfied guarantee. Like I said, it's just a lousy app -- strong on the "lousy" -- with basically no overhead, so
why not?


11 Aug 2014, 10:54 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/24209943

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12866801

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24209943
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 11/13


rinsev
GLSO may not be a great investment (I am long, however), but they in no way claim to cure or even treat presbyopia.
They are very clear about that . Attacking the company because it's product doesn't do what they do not claim it does
makes no sense.


Three things are attractive. 1) It is an app. Americans love apps. 2) It is a sort of a game, and millions are spent on
games every day. 3) It offers hope of treating a vision problem. This is very nearly the "Lincoln's Doctor's Dog" of best-
seller fame. And the CEO is accustomed to being successful.


12 Aug 2014, 01:38 PM


BearCrusher
"...they in no way claim to cure or even treat presbyopia."??? They don't? Well, the first thing I see when I open their
website:


http://bit.ly/1lSZ8WH


...is: "FREE YOURSELF FROM DEPENDENCY ON READING GLASSES!"


Now, I presume they must do SOMETHING to "free" people from their glasses and where I come from that is called
"treatment." Granted, they don't claim to do anything that affects the physiological/anatomical basis of presbyopia --
that would be too obviously bogus. I love the way they say the app "enables users to enhance visual skills by
improving the visual cortex’s image-processing speed and efficiency without altering optical functions of the eyes." In
other words, phrased in a more straightforward fashion, they claim to "train" the brain how to understand blurred
images. I'm sure people will be thrilled to know that the letters will remain just as blurred as before but -- after training
15 minutes three times a day for 3 MONTHS -- they MIGHT actually be able to understand what the blurry things say!
Of course, silly brains don't realize this and will insist on trying desperately to bring those blurred images into focus so
that, after only a little while, a person's eyes feel like they're going to explode, their temples are throbbing, and their
tension scale is about up to the "kill" level. Yessir! Great app!


"Americans love apps."??? Oh, indeed, they do! As of April, 2014, there were 1,191,917 apps in google play, alone.
But according to:


http://bit.ly/1lSZaOa


..."59 percent of apps don't break even, and 80 percent of developers can't sustain a business on their apps alone..."
So I think I'd be a little hesitant to depend on the popularity of "apps" for success in the market.


..."It is a sort of a game..."??? Seriously? Have you actually seen it? Calling it even "sort of a game" is being
generous. Basically you have these little grey letters where you have to decide on whether the orientation is correct
and click appropriately; the time you have available to make your decision gets shorter and shorter. Fifteen minutes,
three times a day for three MONTHS. Yum! Sounds like more fun than a barrel full of monkeys!


The methodology was actually discovered about twenty YEARS ago and attempts were made to use it to treat
amblyopia ("lazy eye") and people even came up with gameboy type gizmos. Studies still come out about it but for all
practical purposes, no one uses it.


"...CEO is accustomed to being successful."??? Hmmmmm:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/562186

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24209943

http://bit.ly/1lSZ8WH

http://bit.ly/1lSZaOa
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 12/13


1999-2006 Alleged "Managing Partner" at "P.O.C. Management Consulting" -- an Israeli company -- "a management-
consulting firm that offers solutions for formulating and executing strategic planning processes" -- whatever that
means. The company's website is dead, so i'm inclined to believe that maybe the company wasn't all that big a
"success."


2006-2009 "Co-founder" of "re:bar" -- a "Functional juice bar chain." I can't imagine what a "dysfunctional" juice bar
would look like. In any case, the company has a website but hasn't released any news in three YEARS, so I'm
inclined to think business hasn't exactly boomed. During this same period, he was also "VP Strategic Alliances" of
"888.com" -- an online casino! Given he worked there only three years, I guess his "gamble" didn't "pay off"! Oh, I
made a joke! Ha-ha!


2009-present Founder and CEO of "imind brain training" and CEO of "glassesoff." 
Hoo-boy! Now there's a "success" story! NOT! Four years effort and glassesof REVENUES last quarter were like
28,000 dollars -- you could earn almost as much on a Ford assembly line! And "imind"? I'm thinking that's just another
app:


http://bit.ly/1lSZ8WI


Say what:


"We have not received enough ratings to display an average for the current version of this application."


Says it all, doesn't it?


12 Aug 2014, 09:45 PM


rinsev
Presbyopia is a condition of the eye. Glassesoff's claim is to train the mind to rework the signals received from the
eyes so as to be able to process the information inspite of the presbyopia. The claim indeed is that people can throw
their reading glasses away, but not as a result of treating the eye condition. That is an important distinction.


15 Aug 2014, 06:45 PM


BearCrusher
"....Glassesoff's claim is to train the mind to rework the signals received from the eyes so as to be able to process the
information inspite of the presbyopia..."??? I'm pretty sure that's what I said:


"In other words, phrased in a more straightforward fashion, they claim to "train" the brain how to understand blurred
images. I'm sure people will be thrilled to know that the letters will remain just as blurred as before but -- after training
15 minutes three times a day for 3 MONTHS -- they MIGHT actually be able to understand what the blurry things
say!"


Like I said, however, your brain will STILL try to make those blurry images come into focus, and that will likely result in
eye strain, headache, etc, etc...given the choice I bet most people will prefer to keep their reading glasses.


15 Aug 2014, 09:29 PM



http://bit.ly/1lSZ8WI

https://seekingalpha.com/user/562186

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24209943
5/18/2018 Bulls Should Open Their Eyes And See The Real GlassesOff - InnoVision Labs, Inc. (OTCMKTS:INVS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2298265-bulls-should-open-their-eyes-and-see-the-real-glassesoff 13/13


zubbub
"Like I said, however, your brain will STILL try to make those blurry images come into focus, and that will likely result
in eye strain, headache, etc, etc...given the choice I bet most people will prefer to keep their reading glasses. "


You have no clue what you are talking about, and as usual, not a shred of evidence for your allegations and
insinuations. Well, we know you already from other threads - debating with you is like debating with a Holocaust
denier: overwhelming evidence contrary to your thesis is blithely dismissed, while idiotic allegations with no evidence
whatsoever are upheld as true or probable.


GLSO's claims are supported by studies published in the most prestigious scientific journals. So of course, their
remarkable findings are immediately dismissed by you as "jargon", or as lacking credibility because they didn't include
a control group using a fake app for three months (which is utterly ridiculous to anyone who pauses to reflect on it for
five seconds). Meanwhile, absurd allegations about how much users will supposedly suffer are asserted as fact with
utterly zero evidence whatsoever.


If a company (OTCQB:DRIO) offers a device FREE with a one year guarantee, you demand dramatically to know (on
another thread) why they don't offer a three year guarantee. The sheer stupidity of your comments seem neither to
embarrass nor bother you. GLSO is now supposed to be suspect because it doesn't offer a money backed guarantee,
as if investors should be sorry that the company doesn't have to deal with endless fraudulent claims.


As one SA writer said, it's too bad one can't simply ban time-wasting trolls like you, but in the meantime debating with
you is most definitely a waste of time.


17 Aug 2014, 12:02 AM


BearCrusher
"If a company (OTCQB:DRIO) offers a device FREE with a one year guarantee, you demand dramatically to know (on
another thread) why they don't offer a three year guarantee."??? How did DRIO -- another scam Israeli company --
enter the picture?  
By the way, none of the glucometers is "free." To entice new customers, basically ALL the glucometer manufacturers
offer the first one free -- but if that one breaks, what then? If you look at the various DRIO distributors websites, you'll
see a prices as high as 79 euros -- close to 100 bucks.


"...users will supposedly suffer are asserted as fact with utterly zero evidence whatsoever."??? I'm not saying that
using the app will cause users to "suffer" -- except financially of course -- but the app won't stop the brain from
TRYING to do everything in its power to make those little letters on a page come into focus. And that effort involves a
LOT of muscle strain and a LOT of eye strain which will NECESSARILY -- unless the app is able alter human
physiology -- result in headaches, tired and bloodshot eyes, etc, etc.


BUT -- a SIMPLE and inexpensive blinded, controlled experiment like the one I described above, could prove me
wrong. Wouldn't take but three months -- right?


Not that it matters anyway. It's pretty clear that the volume of suckers falling for the spiel is near zero -- at least
judging from GLSO's last two 10Qs.


18 Aug 2014, 09:31 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/12866801

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/drio

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24209943

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/drio
