5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 1/14


HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV
Oct. 2, 2014 8:23 AM ET4 comments
by: RH Analytics


Summary


Our analysis indicates that HCI may be using aggressive tactics to limit claims, and
uses unorthodox methods of calculating reserves.


We believe that HCI's loss ratio is unrealistically low and should rise to more
normalized levels, drastically reducing profitability.


Understated reserves imply that operational leverage is higher than stated and book
value lower, in our view.


Introduction


This is the fourth of a multi-part series of RH Analytics' short thesis on the HCI Group
(NYSE:HCI). In it, we continue our discussion on why we believe the company's business
model is deeply flawed and the stock significantly overvalued.


In earlier pieces, we outlined Florida insurance HCI's business model, we analyzed the
financial impact of takeouts and what happens when takeouts stop, and we conducted a
detailed analysis of HCI's reinsurance program, illustrating how it gives the appearance of
coverage while generating profits - both of which may prove illusory.


In this installment, we examine HCI's loss ratio and unpaid loss reserves. Losses and the
reserve liability include estimates that are dependent on input assumptions and
management judgment. The subjective nature of the estimates makes the measures
vulnerable to poor judgment and subject to manipulation - long-standing issues in the
insurance industry. Indeed, both Federated National (NASDAQ:FNHC) and Universal
Insurance (NYSEMKT:UVE) have had issues with their reserves in the past.


We believe there are numerous strong indications that HCI's program of limiting losses are
aggressive and its methods of calculating reserves lax. According to Florida data, HCI's
decline in loss ratio has been accompanied by a skyrocketing complaint ratio. Similarly,
complaint information in the press and with the Better Business Bureau also points to
aggressive tactics.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2497285-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2504335-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-ii

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FNHC

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UVE
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 2/14


Unpaid loss reserves are likewise problematic, in our view. HCI's statutory actuary
qualified his opinion regarding the adequacy of reserves, stating that there is a risk of
material deviation. Additionally, HCI substitutes generic U.S. data from A.M. Best for
historical loss experience in calculating its reserves. We consider HCI's exclusion of
company loss experience a material departure from standard industry practice. In our
view, generic data is unlikely to prove accurate, given the risks particular to the Florida
market. We have not found another company that uses A.M. Best data in place of
historical loss information.


Understating losses and reserves has two principal effects. First, it implies that income
statement profitability is overstated: HCI is less profitable than it appears. Second, if the
reserve liability is understated, then equity is overstated. In this case, statutory leverage
ratios are even higher they appear - and with gross premiums written to policyholders'
surplus of 3.9x, compared to an industry average of less than 1, they are already very
high. Second, lower equity also implies that current price-to-book valuation multiples are
understated and the actual valuation is higher.


Problematic Loss Expenses and Reserves


The takeout terms with Citizens allows HCI to assume policies without claims in
November after the majority of storm risk and loss risk has passed for the year. This
creates a 6-month period where assumed policies have a low probability of loss, which
makes it very profitable in the short term. However, over time, as the book of business
ages, claims rise to natural levels. This phenomenon of rising claims is what the Office of
Insurance Regulation, OIR, referred to in its financial exam report on HCI as a "maturing"
book of takeout policies.


Loss reserves are accounted for on the balance sheet as the "losses and loss adjustment
expenses" liability. Changes in the balance sheet account, which include costs incurred in
the year, as well as adjustments to costs from prior years, flow through as the losses and
LAE expense line on the income statement.


Between 2010 and 2012, HCI's income statement loss ratio and balance sheet reserve
ratio were stable. In 2013, both ratios declined materially. Income statement losses to
gross premiums earned, GPE, declined to 19.3% from 28.4%, increasing margins by
9.1%. Likewise, the balance sheet liability declined to 13% of GPE from 17.6% in the prior
year. HCI's loss and reserve ratios are now industry outliers, the lowest of the DFIs we
examined.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 3/14


Coincidentally, in 2013, HCI dismissed its long-standing accountant. The company fired
the small firm of Hacker, Johnson & Smith PA, replacing them with Dixon Hughes
Goodman LLP. Hacker, although smaller than Dixon, had a clean bill of health from the
latest Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) examination. Not so with
Dixon. Dixon Hughes' August 2013 PCAOB examination revealed significant deficiencies
in 5 of 8 audits reviewed.


We have no evidence connecting the auditor switch with any disagreements or change in
accounting methods, but given the magnitude of the changes in loss ratios, it is a
coincidence worth mentioning.


We suspect that HCI's low reserves and related loss ratios are, at least in part, based on
aggressive claims handling policies and the assumptions used to create reserve
estimates. We endeavor to highlight and explain qualitative information and financial
analysis that supports our contention that HCI is under-reporting losses.


1. Estimating Losses and Reserves


P&C insurers estimate two types of reserves: Case reserves, which are estimates
associated with open claims that are adjusted as they mature, moving through the
resolution process. Incurred but not reported, IBNR, are bulk estimates of losses based on
claims that have not yet been made, but are expected to be incurred.


Case reserves are likely to be influenced by the tactics or approach to dealing with
customer claims. For example, they could be suppressed by a number of factors,
including denial of valid claims or pressuring customers to accept low settlements.
Anecdotal evidence presented in the section below suggests that HCI has aggressive
tactics to limit claims.


IBNR reserves are pure estimates, and are driven by assumptions and methods of
calculation. The assumptions and methods HCI uses to calculate reserves give us pause
and lead us to believe reserves are understated.


P&C carriers use several methods to estimate a range of possible loss outcomes, from
which the company can generate a "best estimate" of losses. HCI, Federated and United
all use four methods to estimate ultimate loss; Universal uses six methods. The common
theme among them is that, in accordance with industry best practices, the loss reserves
blend outcomes from the company's historical experience and expected exposure to reach
the estimate.



http://pcaobus.org/Inspections/Reports/Documents/2013_Dixon_Hughes_Goodman_LLP.pdf
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 4/14


A key assumption in the estimation of losses is that past experience is the most reliable
estimate of future events. Historical data is used to generate a multiplicative factor to
estimate losses. For example, a simplified model may be multiplying the factor derived
from historical losses with net premiums earned to generate the ultimate loss estimate.
Clearly, the method by which management generates the factor is highly influential on the
outcome.


All DFIs except HCI use historical data in generating IBNR estimates. HCI's 10-K states
that because of "limited loss history", it substitutes generic industry data found in A.M.
Best's Aggregates and Averages - Property/Casualty - United States & Canada.


The unique perils in Florida insurance are not likely to be reflected in generic industry loss
data for the U.S. and Canada, in our view. We think the use of generic data probably leads
to understated loss estimates.


HCI has 7 years of historical data, plus all estimate revisions. It is difficult to believe that
this is not enough historical experience to generate valid reserve estimates.


To the best of our knowledge, HCI's use of generic U.S. data in place of its own
experience constitutes a material departure from standard industry practice. We consider
it a critical weakness in the company's reserve calculation methodology, and it leads us to
question the validity of the estimates.


HCI's actuary did not respond to our email inquiry about the reliability of using A.M. Best
figures and whether other companies used the method; nor did the actuary of another
Florida insurer we contacted with similar questions, which did not cite HCI specifically. We
searched SEC filings, and were not able to identify another insurer that used A.M. Best
data in place of historical loss experience.


1. Qualitative Information on Loss/Reserve Tactics


HCI's filings provide some qualitative information that supports our contention that losses
and reserves are underestimated. A risk disclosure on page 17 of the 10-K, which we
have reproduced below, suggests that the company employs aggressive tactics to limit
losses.


Policy Conditions
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 5/14


Source: HCI 2013 10-K


Our interpretation of the disclosure is that the company believes it may be both
aggressively excluding elements of coverage and limiting the timing of claims in ways that
may not hold up to legal or regulatory scrutiny.


HCI's actuarial statement on its reserves from the 2013 statutory statements raises
questions regarding the adequacy of reserves. The actuary concluded that HCI's reserves
met the requirements to qualify as a reasonable provision. However, the opinion was
qualified in the "significant remarks" section of the letter, which we show below.


Reserve Comments from HCI's Actuary


Source: HCI 2013 statutory statements


We believe the qualification that there is risk of a material adverse deviation supports our
contention that HCI is likely under-reserving, particularly when viewed in the context of the
risk disclosure discussed above. We contacted the actuary by email asking for clarification
and detail regarding the qualification, but did not receive a response.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/10/27754143_14122330004750_0.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/10/27754143_14122330004750_1.png
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 6/14


Data filed with the state of Florida show a dramatic increase in complaints at the same
time the loss ratio declined. In our view, the deterioration of the complaint ratio suggests
that there may have been a change in practice. The table below shows HCI's complaint
ratio.


HCI Complaint Ratio


Source: FLOIR and estimates


In 2013, there was one complaint for every 834 policies, indicating that the rate of
complaints more than doubled from one complaint per 1,906 policies in 2012. The
complaint ratio also compares unfavorably to other DFIs, as indicated below.


DFI Complaint Ratio


Source: FLOIR and estimates


HCI's complaint ratio is lower (worse) than FNHC and UIHCs, and higher (better) than
only UVE's extremely low 684.


HCI has also been accused by customers of not paying claims and attempting to settle the
claims using aggressive tactics. ABC Action News in Tampa Bay did a story on HCI in
early 2013. The story quotes a customer who filed a $2,000 claim with HCI that was
denied; HCI subsequently cancelled his policy.


The Better Business Bureau has several complaints logged against HCI. Though the
sample size is small, the tone and actions indicate denial of small claims following
customers' refusal of what they view as low-ball settlement offers. One complaint alleges
that HCI's claims manager stated that if they don't accept the settlement offer, HCI will
"send out an engineer who will most likely find enough to deny your claim".


Lastly, the OIR's financial examination report released in 2012 noted that HCI did not
maintain a claims procedure manual with proper claims handling protocol for each type of
claim. Nor did the company maintain a complete and accurate complaint log, as required.



http://www.abcactionnews.com/news/local-news/i-team-investigates/i-team-homeowners-choice-is-a-hot-stock-but-the-tampa-insurer-worries-an-industry-watcher

http://www.bbb.org/west-florida/business-reviews/insurance-companies/homeowners-choice-property-and-casualty-insurance-company-in-tampa-fl-90055574/complaints
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 7/14


HCI's risk disclosure in its 10-K, combined with complaint information suggests that the
company is using aggressive tactics to reduce losses. Further, the OIR report indicates
the company has had issue with claims procedures in the past.


The actuarial notation that there is a risk of a material deviance from stated reserves,
combined with the company's non-standard reserve calculation methodology suggests to
us that loss reserves are likely low. In total, we think that there is ample qualitative
evidence to support our contention that HCI's losses and reserves are understated.


The skepticism we express on HCI's loss expenses and reserve ratios derived from
qualitative data are further supported by financial analysis.


1. Loss and LAE Expenses


Between 2010 and 2012, HCI's income statement losses as a percentage of gross
premiums earned were comparable to other DFIs. That changed in 2013, when the
company's loss ratio declined substantially, as indicated in the chart below.


Losses/Gross Premiums Earned


Source: Company filings and estimates


The table shows that HCI's loss ratio was both stable and comparable with the peer group
between 2010 and 2012. In 2013, HCI's loss ratio declined to 19.3% from 28.4% in 2012.
The 19.3% loss figure appears an outlier when compared with both HCI's historical
average losses of 31.1% and the industry average of 30.4% for the year. Comparing the
ratio indicates that HCI's losses per every $100 in gross premiums are -36.5% less than
the industry average.


HCI's 2013 loss statistics are not merely better than average, in our view; rather, they are
an order of magnitude better. It strikes us as suspicious not only because of the vast
differential with the industry, but also because conceptually, HCI should have a higher-
than-average loss ratio. Recall that HCI has the highest concentration of business in the
tri-county zone, which has higher losses and significantly higher severity ratios than the
rest of the state. It is incongruent that HCI would have a riskier book of business than
other DFIs, yet have materially lower losses.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 8/14


Viewing HCI with UIHC is an instructive comparison. In 2013, HCI had the highest tri-
county exposure with 35.6% of total insured value, TIV, in the area. In contrast, UIHC had
the lowest exposure at 23.3%. One would think that HCI would have a higher loss ratio
than UIHC, given it has a riskier book of business. That was the case in 2010 through
2012; however, the relationship broke in 2013, when UIHC's losses increased (due to
water-related damage, according to the 10-K) but HCI's plunged.


The discussion of losses in HCI's 2013 10-K provides no information to explain the rapid
change in the ratio. The 10-K addresses absolute dollar amounts. In this respect, it notes
that losses declined to $65.1 from $66.3M, due to a relatively minor positive $2.5M
development on 2012 losses. It also notes that there was $3.5M of tropical storm-related
damage in 2012. The implication seems to be that 2012 losses were unusually high, but
that was not the case. Even with the $3.5M, the loss ratio was 28.4%, below 2011's
33.6%; and excluding the $3.5M in 2012, the loss ratio would have been 26.9%, still far
above the corresponding figure for 2013.


Discussion of losses in absolute dollar terms is meaningless when premium growth is
high. The $1.2M, or -1.7%, decline in losses between 2012 and 2013 is not significant in
dollar terms. However, the dollar decline looks stunning in light of premium growth In
2013, gross premiums increased 44.3% to $337.1M from $233.6M in 2012. Despite
extremely high premium growth, the losses declined. We are deeply skeptical that the
correlation between losses and premiums could become unhinged to such a degree.


In our view, financial analysis of HCI's loss ratio is indicative of under-reporting losses. It
seems highly improbable that a company insuring some of the riskiest properties in the
state would experience a dramatic break with its own loss history and that of the industry
without a corresponding change in business practice.


1. Loss Reserves


HCI's loss reserves, like loss expenses, declined markedly in 2013 as a percentage of
gross premiums. The table below shows unpaid loss reserves GPE in two versions.


HCI's Unpaid Loss Reserves


Source: Company filings and estimates
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 9/14


The first measure shows HCI's initial reserve estimate as a percentage of GPE; the
second figure is the latest re-estimate for the loss year taken from the company's loss
development schedule in the 10-K. In 2010 and 2011, there have been only 3 years and 2
years, respectively for the loss development, yet both have been re-estimated higher than
the initial estimate. 2012 has only one development year, and was revised down -$2.4M in
2013.


HCI's 2013 initial reserve estimate of 13% of GPE is -29.6% lower than the 2010-2012
average estimate of 18.4% of GPE; it is -34.3% less than the average re-estimated figure
of 19.7% of GPE. In our view, the 2013 reserve estimate seems improbably low, if
company history is any guide.


There is no discussion in HCI's financial filings that we are aware of that explains the
dramatic reduction in relative reserve measures in 2013 compared to prior years.


HCI's 2013 reserve to GPE ratio is an outlier in the industry, as shown in the table below.


DFI Reserves to GPE


Source: Company filings, OIR, and estimates


HCI's reserves to GPE, like the income statement ratio, is by far the lowest in the group.


We have also examined HCI's reserves per policy relative to the average value exposure
per policy. The results are shown below.


DFI Reserved Value


Source: Company filings, OIR, and estimates
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 10/14


HCI typically insures properties on the lower-end of the value spectrum, as is indicated by
TIV per policy of $271,038. This, in part, explains the lower absolute number for the
reserve per policy. However, the reserves as a percentage of TIV, 0.10% per policy, is at
the bottom of the range along with United Property (NASDAQ:UIHC).


While the measure may appear on first view to indicate HCI is comparable with peers, the
right-most column indicates that as of 2013, HCI has the highest portfolio exposure to the
risky tri-county zone. In fact, excluding HCI, our reserved value calculation follows the
percentage of TIV in the tri-zone measure. UIHC has the lowest tri-county exposure and
the lowest reserve value; UVE has the highest (Ex-HCI) tri-county exposure and the
highest reserve value. Although a small sample and not definitive, conceptually it makes
sense.


It is also interesting to note that the two companies with the highest reserved value -
FNHC and UVE - have had problems with reserves in the past. FNHC settled a class
action suit alleging under-reserving. In current SEC filings, FNHC provides a great deal of
careful detail on loss and reserve calculations, perhaps in response to historical problems.
In a recent OIR market examination, UVE was cited for inadequate reserve and claims
handling policies.


HCI is the outlier of the group: the company has the highest tri-zone exposure, yet is tied
for the lowest reserved value. Further, recall from the reinsurance section that HCI's
reinsurance costs per dollar of premium are the highest of the group. So, while HCI has
the highest exposure to the riskiest geography, which is reflected in high reinsurance
costs, the risk is not reflected in losses reserves. To us, this incongruence casts great
doubt on HCI's reserves.


HCI's book of business is most comparable to UVE's, in our view. Although UVE is not a
takeout company, per se, it has been described as underwriting policies side by side with
Citizens. Additionally, UVE also underwrites policies for structures with lower values, and
has the most comparable portfolio in terms of tri-zone concentration. While the portfolios
may be comparable, UVE's reserve value of 0.15% is far above HCI's reserved value of
0.10%. We believe HCI's reserve values, like its book of business, should most closely
resemble UVE's.


1. Pro-forma Loss Expenses and Reserves


To calculate our pro-forma 2013 results earlier in our report, we used a flat 30% of GPE as
the loss ratio. It is generous in that it is still below HCI's longer-term average and slightly
lower than the DFI average. At the same time, we think a 30% loss ratio is a more realistic



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UIHC
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 11/14


assumption from which to estimate the return potential of the company.


The table below shows the impact of our adjustment on HCI's 2013 financials.


HCI Actual and Estimated Loss Ratio


Source: Company filings and estimates


Changing the loss ratio from the reported to pro-forma estimate has a dramatic impact on
pre-tax income, causing margins to decline -35.95 to 18.9%.


We have calculated pro-forma reserves to adjust for what we believe are HCI's reserve
deficiencies using a range of values for two different measures. In one measure, we take
a top-down approach and estimate loss reserves based on a percentage of gross
premiums earned, using HCI's 2010-2012 average initial reserve estimate and its 2010-
2012 average re-estimated reserve figure. The averages for initial and re-estimated
reserves are 18.4% and 19.7%, respectively.


We take a bottom-up approach in our second method. Starting from the policy level, we
estimate the TIV reserve per policy and then scale it to the total book level. We generate a
range for our TIV reserve per policy estimate by using 0.13% - above FNHC and UIHC -
as a lower bound, and UVE's 0.15% measurement as the upper bound. The results of our
estimates are shown below.


HCI Pro-Forma Reserves


Source: Company filings, OIR and estimates


HCI's reported reserves were $43.7M in 2013. Our pro-forma range is $57.7M to $66.5M.
The average of all our estimates is $63.1M, which equates to 18.7% of 2013 GPE and a
TIV reserve value per policy of 0.14%.


Our adjustments to HCI's income statement loss ratio and balance sheet reserves are
presented below.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 12/14


2013 Loss Expense/Reserves: Reported and Estimates


Source: Company filings and estimates


Our pro-forma estimates for both the loss ratio and the unpaid loss reserves bring HCI's
figures closer to its historical figures, as well as those of other DFIs.


Our loss ratio was used in our pro-forma estimates to adjust HCI's 2013 results. We use
our pro-forma reserve estimate to adjust the balance sheet liability, primarily in our
valuation section. Our reserve estimate of $63.1M increases the balance sheet liability by
$19.4M, which means that equity decreases by the same amount. The implications are
that HCI's statutory leverage ratio of GPE to policyholders surplus is understated. In our
reinsurance section, we noted the ratio was 3.9x. The ratio is already high compared to
the industry average of less than 1x, but is likely understated. Likewise, the lower equity
figure implies that the company's price-to-book valuation is understated as well. We will
address the valuation issue later in our analysis.


Conclusion


Loss estimates for P&C insurance companies are highly subjective. Much of the process
is one of judgment and is subject to debate. That said, in our view, there is ample
evidence that HCI's loss-limiting tactics are aggressive and reserves understated. We
believe that the loss ratio will rise to what we consider normalized levels, which will
dramatically impact profitability. Investors should consider this when estimating HCI's
future profitability and return potential, which we believe will be defined by a shrinking top-
line and increased expenses.


Under-reserving for losses understates the balance sheet liability. Adjusting the liability
implies both higher leverage ratios and reduced book value. At the statutory level, higher
leverage ratios due to a smaller surplus is indicative of hidden operating leverage. A
reduction in shareholders' equity at the holding company indicates a lower book value and
additional downside risk in the equity.


Disclosure: The author is short HCI.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 13/14


Comments (4)


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Greg Porter
Does the recent announcement of another takeout of 69,000 additional policies affect your thesis?


03 Oct 2014, 10:09 AM


caupachow
A few more months this could be a great short.


04 Oct 2014, 12:17 AM


Bluegrass Holdings
I made 1000% on these guys warrants back when the stock was under $10 and then owned the stock and then
owned UIHC stock which tripled after I purchased it. I don't believe you know enough about how all of this works.
Comparing all these companies and their ratios makes no sense at all since they are completely different. True they
all have large books of business in FL, but those books are different, as are the rest of their policies. Just in the
instance of UIHC, they now only get about 50% of their business from Florida. They are a regional-going-national
story. You also have not taken into account when and where storms hit over the period you're analyzing. A lot of HCI
policies are just wind related and much of the damage has been water related. I think FNHC insures automobiles in
Alabama or something also. Basically you've missed the boat on a lot of things. It's a nice thorough analysis and
would be great if it were actually correct.  
And like Greg mentions above, doesn't their takeout of 69,000 policies a week after you said they "will not take out
any policies this year" kind of shoot down some of your argument. All in all, these guys are not crooks. They're very
intelligent business people and yes this arbitrage of Citizens take-outs which they essentially discovered and started
the bull-run on will one day end, but it's kind of silly to bet against these guys. Under the umbrella of HCI they also run
a nice little real estate operation and a software company that I'll venture to say, since we're all going out on a limb
here, will add more value. AND in addition to that, they've just started the new business of the flood insurance which
is yet another arbitrage due to government meddling in the system, this time the Feds.  
Good luck out there!


04 Oct 2014, 04:01 AM


Yicheng Lin, Contributor
Great comparison analysis. I think you might be analyzing a bit too much into the loss reserve tho comparing to other
parts that you have written about HCI. That being said, I still love the way you do your analysis although I have no



https://seekingalpha.com/user/399365

https://seekingalpha.com/user/566777

https://seekingalpha.com/user/815700

https://seekingalpha.com/author/yicheng-lin
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part IV - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv 14/14


position in the company.


06 Jan 2016, 09:22 PM
