5/22/2018 HCI Group: Caveat Emptor - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2682965-hci-group-caveat-emptor 1/4


HCI Group: Caveat Emptor
Nov. 14, 2014 1:06 PM ET4 comments
by: RH Analytics


Summary


HCI's Q3'14 conference call displayed weak financial results and troubling
management practices.


The conference call was censored, as HCI actively excluded a number of investors
from participating in the Q&A session.


Numerous questions posed by sell-side analysts were not answered clearly or
directly, giving the impression management was evasive, in our view.


Poor underwriting results, a censored call, unanswered questions, and immense
risks were the hallmarks of this quarter.


Quarterly earnings calls typically focus on the numbers and the outlook. The recent call of
the HCI Group (NYSE:HCI), turned what should be a routine event into something of a
farcical conference call, where management failed to answer simple questions regarding
the business. Yet, despite all the equivocation, some analysts continue to support the
company with a buy rating.


We expected weak financial results, as we noted in our preview article, so we weren't
surprised when decreasing revenues met with increasing costs to compress profit
margins. However, we were surprised by the way the call was handled.


The first item of note is that the conference call was not open. Only pre-approved
participants were allowed to ask questions. The deck was stacked to censor the call.


The screenshot below shows an outtake from HCI's 11/6 press release.


HCI Q3'14 Press Release Outtake


Source: HCI press release 11/6/14



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/11/27754143_14158228476076_0.png
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Caveat Emptor - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2682965-hci-group-caveat-emptor 2/4


What the release did not mention is that some investors and analysts would not be
allowed to ask questions. Given our recent publications on HCI, we thought that it may
have been directed at RH Analytics. However, we know of two parties that were not
allowed to participate. In all likelihood, there are others. What appears to most listeners to
be an open forum is nothing of the kind - the call only gives the impression of an open
dialog, while actually attempting to suppress it.


Questions Without Answers


One would assume that a call limited to only friendly parties would go smoothly, but the
reality was different. In our opinion, management fumbled the Q&A badly, primarily by
failing to supply direct answers to simple questions.


Firstly, we found it both laughable and infuriating that management said they don't have
the exact policy count. This is hardly a believable assertion. Yet, every quarter
management attempts to evade the most basic insurance question there is. The analyst
who asked this quarter did not get a straight answer, just as he did not get a straight
answer when he asked the question on the Q4'13 conference call. This particular analyst
also asked how significant a part of investible assets real estate could become, and the
rationale for it. Like his previous question, this too was not answered directly.


Another analyst asked a few interesting questions regarding the wind-only policies. He
inquired as to why did the company choose to go into wind-only now, when it is an area
typically avoided because of the enormous risks. The question of how profitable these
policies are was also put forward. Again, in our opinion, both questions were not answered
satisfactorily.


With respect to the reasons behind getting into wind, management essentially cited their
"secret sauce", stating that it takes time to get the policy selection algorithms correct. The
answer made it sound as if HCI has been toiling long and hard to build the model, and it
happened to get it right just when Citizen's multi-peril pool was becoming exhausted. That
would certainly be fortuitous, but it is extremely improbable, in our opinion. We believe a
lack of quality policies and perhaps other issues have essentially forced the company into
wind-only if it was to keep the profit illusion going.


The company was asked easy, basic questions: How many policies do you have, how far
will you go in real estate and why, why are you taking wind-only policies and how
profitable are they? It is stunning that management should attempt to avoid and/or evade
answering them. Even more bewildering is that the some analysts continue to support the
stock with a buy rating, despite the fact that their questions were brushed aside.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Caveat Emptor - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2682965-hci-group-caveat-emptor 3/4


Comments (4)


As far as we know, one analyst downgraded the stock following the call - a logical and
sensible action, in our view. Others, though, are content to support the company, despite
the lack of open dialog and the immense risk associated with carrying the proposed $1.4B
PML takeout book without reinsurance until June.


Conclusion


The stock sold off sharply after the call. Poor underwriting performance was a factor.
However, that was only part of the story, and perhaps even a minor part. There are a
whole host of factors that are beginning to come to the surface. It may take time for
information to be digested, but the process is clearly underway, and the HCI illusion is
fading.


A section of our initial report on HCI was titled "Obfuscate and Inveigle". We believe that
actions surrounding the Q3'14 call show that it is still happening. As a strategy, it may
work for a time, even a long time, but eventually investors demand sensible and lucid
answers to direct questions. Uncomfortable facts are the elephant in the room; everyone
knows it even if management will not discuss them. Not even censorship will keep them at
bay.


Disclosure: The author is short HCI.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


New Capital, Contributor
Great insights. Thanks!


14 Nov 2014, 03:32 PM


dickgren
Why does Florida allow this company to write policies when it appears they don't know what they are doing


15 Nov 2014, 10:40 AM


glong1234



https://seekingalpha.com/author/new-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1474651

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2269721
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Caveat Emptor - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2682965-hci-group-caveat-emptor 4/4


You must take all of this with a grain of salt...the author has acknowledged that he is short HCI.


15 Nov 2014, 11:16 PM


Uncommon Profits
"You must take all of this with a grain of salt...the author has acknowledged that he is short HCI."


In that case you might as well disregard most of the articles on this website.


29 Dec 2014, 03:14 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/32111455
