5/22/2018 HCI Group: You Can Have Your Donut And Eat It Too - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3127456-hci-group-you-can-have-your-donut-and-eat-it-too 1/5


HCI Group: You Can Have Your Donut And Eat It Too
May 1, 2015 8:25 AM ET4 comments
by: RH Analytics


Summary


Decent 1Q15 results mask a troubled company below the surface.


A financial disconnect suggests gross premiums may decline more than expected in
2Q15, setting the stage for 3Q15 margin compression as cost structures shift higher.


Management appears intent on acquiring its way out of a disappearing business
model, but we think success is unlikely.


In our view, the stock has considerable downside as business erodes and the
catastrophe season starts.


The HCI Group's (NYSE:HCI), 1Q15 financial results were decent on a headline basis, but
there is a deeply troubled company with a disappearing business model. We think
management will likely try to counteract negative business trends by increasing risk and
making a hope-inspiring, if not profitable, acquisition. In our experience, eroding
businesses are seldom saved by Hail Mary passes. We see material downside risk in the
stock - and the storm season still lies ahead.


We would like to highlight what we consider the two key topics of the quarter: the
disconnect between policy count and gross premiums and HCI's highly uncertain future
plans.


Mr. Patel, HCI's chairman and CEO, seemed to race through commentary on the policy
count as if it were a topic to shun. Unlike last quarter, when policy count was given
precisely, he reverted back to his approximate policy count, which he put at 175,000. The
count was lower than we expected. Churn, adjusted for the 4,700 gross policies assumed
in the quarter, was -4%. We expect 2Q15 churn of -3% to -4%.


The lower than expected policy count clashed with what we considered the higher than
expected gross premiums earned. The table below shows average policies, gross
premiums and gross premiums per policy.


Gross Premiums Per Policy



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI
5/22/2018 HCI Group: You Can Have Your Donut And Eat It Too - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3127456-hci-group-you-can-have-your-donut-and-eat-it-too 2/5


Source: Company filings and estimates.


We have seen spikes on the GPE/Policy measure in the past during quarters in which HCI
makes assumptions, notably in 4Q13. That said the $622 in this quarter is the highest we
have seen. The q/q growth of 10.6% is probably inflated because the assumption occurred
very late in 4Q14. However, the 6.6% rise on a y/y basis is significant. The impact on the
financials was particularly strong when coupled with the -7.2% decline in losses per policy,
which was probably driven by the newly acquired wind only policies. Together, these
factors padded profitability in the quarter.


We think there are two possible explanations for the dramatic increase in gross premiums
per policy. First, price increases on renewing policies. We view this as highly unlikely given
HCI's customer base and its propensity to return to Citizens when pricing changes.
Further, the current environment in Florida is one of price decreases not increases. The
more likely scenario is that HCI assumed many policies near expiration.


There could be a third explanation that we have not considered, but if we are correct,
rapid policy expiration may combine with natural churn to drive revenues lower in 2Q15. In
2014, 2Q revenues were roughly flat on a q/q basis; this year we may see a decline in
premiums earned of some magnitude. More ominously, investors may be in for a nasty
surprise in 3Q15 when churn continues to eat away at the policy base and expiring
subsidies trigger a rise in the cost structure. Recall that HCI estimated that it would cost
67% to reinsure the wind only policies. Investors should keep in mind that current levels of
profitability are temporary.


Given that HCI's core business is in decline, the 1Q15 results are a sideshow to the real
issue, which is what the company will do in the future. Much of the conference call was
devoted to the topic. Unfortunately, for HCI shareholders, management does not know.
Management considers M&A the path out of its troubles, but the only acquisition criteria
seems to be a "good business that is fairly priced." Regarding opportunities, Mr. Patel
noted that management thinks "something will come."


Mr. Patel's statement does not inspire confidence, particularly as management seems to
be willing to purchase any kind of business, including as Mr. Patel noted, a chain of donut
franchises. While thoughts of Krispy Kreme (KKD) and Dunkin' Donuts (NASDAQ:DNKN)



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KKD

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DNKN
5/22/2018 HCI Group: You Can Have Your Donut And Eat It Too - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3127456-hci-group-you-can-have-your-donut-and-eat-it-too 3/5


certainly give us the warm and fuzzies, it should send shivers down the spine of HCI
shareholders.


In our view, the profound lack of focus with the M&A strategy has a whiff of desperation.
To our minds, if the core business is eroding, the best strategy for HCI shareholders may
be for the company to pay off the debt (it has used to buy back shares that destroy book
value), distribute the cash, and wind down. That may be the best strategy for
shareholders, but management seems intent on spending the cash (and saving their jobs),
and we expect them to do so.


Conclusion


HCI's financial performance in the quarter was decent. That said, it doesn't matter. The
results represent direct and indirect subsidies transferred from state taxpayers to HCI
through Citizens. Over the next two quarters, the subsidies will end and HCI will
experience margin compression, which may be more than expected given the high cost of
reinsuring wind-only policies.


Mr. Patel alluded to a strategy, which would mitigate the profit reducing impact of churn
and higher reinsurance costs. It seems HCI may consider "retaining some risk in
Claddaugh," as Mr. Patel put it. In other words, HCI may buy less reinsurance from third
parties and increase the amount of self-insurance. Buying less reinsurance would
obviously make HCI more profitable provided claims remain negligible. However, an active
storm season would generate losses that would make the strategy appear foolish and
shortsighted, which it is, in our view.


Mr. Patel also seems to be preparing shareholders for an acquisition that may not
generate earnings. Twice on the call, he referred to short-term earnings volatility
associated with "diversification." We would suggest that investors interpret "short-term
volatility" to mean "less," so be forewarned.


In our view, HCI is nearing the end of the line. HCI's takeout driven business model is
disappearing. The future will likely be defined by business erosion and a rising cost
structure. It appears as if management is determined to try to acquire its way out of the
problem. Whether it works or not is anyone's guess, though HCI's current investment
record argues against success. In our view, the downside risk in the stock is enormous -
and the storm season hasn't even started.


Disclosure: The author is short HCI.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: You Can Have Your Donut And Eat It Too - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3127456-hci-group-you-can-have-your-donut-and-eat-it-too 4/5


Comments (4)


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


christian nyberg
I think you gonna loss much money today when the market opens after HCI`s Q1 :) its going up up up !


01 May 2015, 08:46 AM


Sir Falstaff
Thanks for the article, I agree with your conclusions. These last two conference calls should be a clear indication that
all is not well with HCI. Best of luck.


01 May 2015, 12:32 PM


New Capital, Contributor
Thanks for the update. 
I think higher GPE/policy was mainly driven by higher premium on the assumed wind-only policies. These are more
risky ones so its natural to expect the premiums also to be higher. As you suggest when these policies expire we
should see a sharp drop in GPE/policy


04 May 2015, 05:06 AM


Bluegrass Holdings
Repost - July 16 (I was correct on Q2 earnings beat):


I've been in and out of this stock since 2011, when I first bought warrants that went up 1000% in 3 months and then
rode the stock up another 100%. 
It got fairly valued at one point and I moved on. Happy to come back and find it severely undervalued again and still,
obviously from the short comments, very misunderstood. This is about the easiest company I've ever analyzed and I
know middle schoolers that would realize this is a no-brainer.


The third quarter is normalized earnings for these "4th quarter takeout" companies and with no storms, my back of the
napkin math shows HCI can make $1.60ish/share in the third quarter (they'll easily beat the current Q2 estimate, FYI.
And did one of these shorts put in the estimates for Q3 or something? Total joke.). I haven't studied the new
reinsurance contract, but I'm comfortable this management did the right things and so the costs are similar to last
year.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/15029692

https://seekingalpha.com/user/36966996

https://seekingalpha.com/author/new-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/815700
5/22/2018 HCI Group: You Can Have Your Donut And Eat It Too - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3127456-hci-group-you-can-have-your-donut-and-eat-it-too 5/5


Multiply that by 4 and you get annual earnings of $6.4/share. A conservative investor pays 10x earnings. A huge
storm would wipe out one year of earnings (the shorts don't seem to understand reinsurance), so maybe a real
stickler would pay 8-9x for this. But with the way this management always seems to find growth and the fairly
consistent, temporary earnings from any takeouts 10x is reasonable.


I'll see you around $60 if Mother Nature is good to us again this year!


07 Aug 2015, 01:58 AM
