5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 1/9


The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio
Sep. 18, 2015 7:34 AM ET8 comments
by: RH Analytics


Summary


HCI's loss ratio has been persistently lower than average for an extended period of
time.


The company's loss ratio bears no resemblance to either the pool from which
policies were drawn or those of competitors.


We believe evidence indicates there is something amiss and HCI's losses are likely
understated.


We have been skeptics about the HCI Group's (NYSE:HCI) loss expenses and reserves
for some time. As the company is moving from assuming multi-peril to higher-risk wind-
only policies, we think it is a topic worth revisiting. The book of business was built by
assuming homeowner's policies from Florida's carrier of last resort - Citizens Property
Insurance and failed carriers. However, HCI's loss ratio bears no resemblance to either
the pool of policies from which it was drawn or comparable companies. For the last
several years, the company has maintained a loss ratio 20% to 30% below competitors
without supplying any explanation.


Assuming policies from Citizens is an increasingly competitive process. We believe the
probability of one company obtaining books of business that are significantly more
profitable than both the pool from which they are drawn and those obtained by competitors
is almost non-existent. Yet, that is precisely the case with HCI. Logic dictates that HCI's
losses are more likely than not understated.


The Loss Ratio


The extent to which HCI's income statement loss ratio deviates from industry norms is
evident when comparing it to those of competitors.


The table below compares HCI's GAAP loss ratio with those of Citizens and Heritage
Insurance (NYSE:HRTG), another publicly-traded Florida takeout company. Takeout
companies build their books of business by assuming subsidized policies from Citizens.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2536005-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iv

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HRTG
5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 2/9


Heritage and HCI are almost identical in size geographic exposure and strategy. In fact,
Richard Widdicombe, president of Heritage, served as HCI's Risk Manager. As such, he is
likely privy to any special policy pricing skills HCI might possess.


Comparative Loss Ratios - GAAP


Source: SEC filings for HCI and Heritage. Citizens website for Citizens data. 1. Citizens
2015 data is statutory as the gap figures are not yet available.


Surprisingly, the policies of all three companies that come from the same pool have
significantly different loss ratios. HCI's loss ratio has ranged between 17% and 22%,
which is 20% to 30% below comparable carriers. On Heritage's 2Q15 conference call,
when questioned on losses, the CEO stated that losses for residential policies are
approximately 30% of gross premiums, a number that has been consistent over
time in the business. Residential policies were specified, because Heritage underwrites
certain commercial policies that have much lower loss ratios, which explains why he cites
a higher average loss than is evident in the 26.5% figure for the quarter.


Interestingly, during Citizens' August 2015 rate hearing, Chief Risk Officer, John Rollins,
spoke about rising loss rates. He described water related claims as being 'out of control'
and specifically singled out Miami-Dade county as the center of the problem. Citizen's
presentation from the meeting contains a slide showing average water claims paid in the
South East Region moving from $664 in 2012 to $936 in 2013 and $1,452 in 2014. The
phenomenon of skyrocketing water claims typically associated with assignment of benefits
was noted on the 2Q15 conference calls of both Heritage and Federated National
(NASDAQ:FNHC). It was not a topic discussed on HCI's call, despite the fact that as of
1Q15, the company had the highest tri-county exposure of all public insurers. 38.4% of
policies and 39.9% of the total dollar value of exposure, respectively, were located in the
tri-county area. This is another instance where HCI's extremely low losses contradict all
other information coming out of the industry.


We find it incredible and extremely improbable that while HCI and Heritage take their
policies from the same pool, HCI's long-term loss ratio is approximately 1000 basis points
below Heritage's at 20% of gross premiums earned.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FNHC
5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 3/9


The fact that HCI's loss ratio is improbably low is also illuminated when comparisons are
extended to private takeout companies. The table below compares the 2014 loss ratio of
HCI's statutory insurance company with statutory loss ratios from other Florida takeout
companies.


Comparative Loss Ratios - Statutory


Source: Citizens Insurance from Citizens website; others from statutory statements from
the Florida Officer of Insurance Regulation.


HCI's ratio is 310 basis points below Citizens' and much further below the other
comparable companies. The average loss ratio of the other three carriers is 32.7%. HCI's
loss ratio is 880 basis points or 27% below the average loss ratio for the group.


Assuming policies from Citizens is a highly competitive process. The probability of
one company obtaining books of business that are significantly more profitable
than the pool as a whole and those obtained by competitors is extremely low. We
consider it a virtual impossibility that a company is able to do so year after year,
which appears to be the case with HCI.


HCI's 2011 assumption of a troubled book of business further fuels our skepticism of the
company's low losses. HCI acquired Homewise, a failed carrier, through an assumption
process helped by the state of Florida. At the time HCI assumed the company's book out
of receivership, Homewise was the third company with that particular book of business to
fail due to excessive losses. The assumption roughly doubled the size of the company. We
are skeptical that Homewise's book of business could prove the foundation for another
company with one of the lowest loss ratios in the industry.


HCI's book of business is derived from a single pool of the most risky policies in Florida.
That risk is reflected in the consistent and similar loss ratios of Citizens and HCI's takeout
compatriots. HCI spends a comparable or higher percentage of gross premiums reinsuring
policies relative to competitors. However, the risks endemic to the policies are
conspicuously absent from HCI's loss statistics, which bear no resemblance to either
competitors or Citizens.


The Loss Reserves
5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 4/9


HCI's loss ratio is, in part, a reflection of the way in which the company calculates its
ultimate loss estimate. Standard industry practice dictates that P&C insurance companies
use their actual loss experience to develop a loss factor, which is used in conjunction with
models to estimate incurred but not reported (IBNR) losses. HCI departs from industry
practice in this regard.


As noted on page 43 of the company's form 10-K filed with the SEC on 3/10/15, "because
of our limited loss experience, we select loss development factors based on industry data
found in A.M. Best's Aggregate and Averages - Property/Casualty - United States and
Canada."


HCI has been operational for nearly 9-years, and as such, has a substantial amount of
loss data. HCI chooses not to use its own loss data to generate a loss development factor.
We could not identify another insurance company that substitutes industry average data
for company loss experience. HCI appears singular in this respect.


As further evidence of unusually low losses and reserves, HCI's actuarial statement on
reserves has had a qualifying remark for several years. The actuary states that HCI's
reserve levels are such that there is a risk of a material adverse deviation. The actuary did
not respond to our attempts to contact him to discuss HCI's reserves.


Attempting to Explain the Gap


We believe there are two main possible explanations for HCI's extraordinarily low loss
ratio. In assuming policies from Citizens, HCI has managed to obtain books of business
that have been overlooked by competitors, yet are less claim prone and more profitable
than average year after year. In our experience, it is highly unlikely that one company in a
competitive, commodity-like business is able to consistently outperform its peers. The
case against continued outperformance is particularly strong, given that all the companies
we have referred to obtain policies from the same pool.


The other explanation is that HCI's losses are or should be comparable to those of
competitors, but are understated and/or absent from the income statement for some
reason. As discussed above, HCI clings to non-standard practices of calculating losses,
which may help keep losses and reserves low. This is further supported by the actuaries'
continued qualified opinion of the company's reserves. Indeed, the theory that losses are
understated on the income statement would also explain why HCI is at once one of the
most profitable company's in Florida but a consistently poor performer where cash flow is
concerned. The table below illustrates the cash flow conundrum.
5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 5/9


High Profit Margin, Low Cash-flow Margin


As indicated above, HCI's net margin exceeds that of Heritage, but the cashflow margin
lags Heritage's by a substantial margin.


Profitability and Executive Compensation


HCI's above-average profit margins have a direct impact on executive compensation.
Paresh Patel, HCI's CEO, is one of the highest paid insurance executives. In an article we
cited in our piece regarding corporate governance Institutional Shareholder Services
recommended investors withhold votes for all nominated directors, in part due to
misaligned pay for performance, noting that Patel's 2014 pay was 592.4% that of the next
highest paid executive.


Mr. Patel receives an annual cash bonus based on EBITDA. This was not always the
case. The company's 2012 proxy statement notes that Mr. Patel was paid a bonus of
$1.6M with the completion of numerous successful transactions cited as the reason. The
incentive plan with a bonus based on a EBITDA was implemented starting in 2013, the
same year, HCI's loss ratio declined -31.9% to 19.3% from 28.4%. Mr. Patel was awarded
a bonus of $3.6M in 2013.


Maintaining a low loss ratio is critical for obtaining bonuses and influencing their size.
Losses are one of the two largest expense items for Florida carriers, the other being
reinsurance, and as an estimate, more prone to mistakes and/or manipulation.


Adjusting HCI's loss ratio illustrates how significantly it contributes to EBITDA. We
calculated the difference in Mr. Patel's bonus attributable to the low loss ratio. To do so,
we used the 30% loss figure cited by Heritage's CEO as the baseline and calculated the
difference between HCI's loss ratio and the baseline. We then use the figures the estimate
the gain to EBITDA attributed to the low losses and the subsequent increase in bonus.


Estimated Impact of Low Loss Ratio



http://www.bizjournals.com/tampabay/blog/morning-edition/2015/06/tampa-attorney-wins-another-stint-on-hci-board.html

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3275125-hci-group-is-management-disregarding-shareholder-votes
5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 6/9


Source: SEC filings and estimates.


We estimate that HCI's low loss ratio contributed $35.85M and $29.52M to EBITDA for
2013 and 2014, respectively. The lower loss ratio increased Mr. Patel's 2013 bonus by
$1.16M or 48.6%. In 2014, the hurdle rate to obtain a bonus was $62.5M in EBITDA, thus
a loss ratio slightly above average, 31.15% or higher, would have negated the bonus
entirely. In our example, HCI's lower than average loss ratio increased Mr. Patel's bonus
by $960,000 or 44%.


Conclusion


One would reasonably expect competitors in a commodity-like business such as Florida
insurance to have comparable cost structures. The expectation is even stronger for the
takeout business, because all policies are taken from the same pool. While we would
expect 'good' and 'bad' individual risks, the laws of statistical averages should prevail with
large-scale assumptions over multiple years. HCI's continued outperformance defies this
reasonable expectation. On first view, it would appear that HCI is able to consistently
make large-scale assumptions of books of business with above-average profitability.
Further, it is done without provoking a reaction from competitors. If HCI did, indeed, select
the best policies, one would expect competitors to attempt to replicate the selection
process, but this does not seem to be the case. It appears as if HCI's competitors are
indifferent and allow the company to assume the most profitable policies year after year.


This represents a highly improbable scenario. It is statistically much more probable that
HCI's business is closer to what the averages suggest and the losses are understated.
The evidence and our analysis support this theory. We think comparison with competitor
loss ratios, non-standard methods of loss calculation, cash flow analysis, and the impact
of low losses on executive compensation all point to understated losses.
5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 7/9


Comments (8)


We do not have a full explanation for HCI's persistently low loss ratio, though our current
working theory suggests something is amiss. As we move forward with our efforts, we
encourage industry insiders to continue to contact us with information and counsel.


Disclosure: I am/we are short HCI.


I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is
mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


russwise@aol.com
You never came out and said it. Hci denies legitimate insurance claims? Hmmmmm


18 Sep 2015, 07:41 AM


Keubiko, Contributor
More great work. HCI is a bug in search of a windshield.


18 Sep 2015, 07:47 AM


Hugh Beaumont
If a Company under-reserves, eventually it has to manifest itself on the Annual Statement's Schedule P - Loss
Development. The only way to get away with understating losses (long term) is to out and out falsify the claim payouts
until you're caught. (of course, the number snowballs) Also, if the premium is constantly increasing year after year in
lump sums (as in a takeout), maybe the losses never quite "catch up" until you stop increasing, or even start
decreasing premium volume.


18 Sep 2015, 08:54 AM


Cheasehead
Analyzing reserving is very difficult and the peer comparison while clearly raising questions is not definitive that under-
reserving is occurring. I am not saying I have a strong belief that under reserving is or is not occurring but rather the
approach being presented is not sufficiently robust.


Here are some of the complications that could invalidate the conclusion that undeserving exists: (1) reinsurance.
Buffet has come to the conclusion the reinsurance markets are too aggressive and as such an opportunistic
reinsurance program may be able to transfer an inordinate amount of risk for the premium paid. Reinsurance
programs can be unique to a company and be a real differentiating factor even when the underlying risk portfolio is



https://seekingalpha.com/user/33315245

https://seekingalpha.com/author/keubiko

https://seekingalpha.com/user/31772875

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39997106
5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 8/9


the same; (2) abnormal interest rate levels for the past seven years and an uncertain number of years in the future. All
other things equal low rates should require more day one dollars in a reserve because low rates will result in less
investment income adding to reserves over time before the claim is paid. Low rates are bad for investment income but
they also suggest that inflation will be low and therefore future loss severity assumptions should be restrained
lowering reserving needs; (3) strategy. Most property risk can be diversified by geography. Unfortunately Florida
hurricane / wind risk is not a property risk that the insurance industry will cross subsidize (average). If one does not
diversify by geography a common alternative is to temporally diversify. Some loss groups may have patterns where
multiple years produce loss events and then multiple years occur without loss events. If such a pattern would exist a
strategy to stop writing new business after the first loss year could curtain or limit the "full lifetime loss reserving"
needed for a complete cycle and (4) improved building codes. Loss potential can be dramatically different between
between properties and while I don't suspect it can represent a substantials portions of any differential between the
company and peers underwriting can produce some differential.


18 Sep 2015, 10:24 PM


chiwind1290
Agreed. But none of the four reasons could explain the consistent difference in loss experience.


20 Sep 2015, 01:14 PM


Bluegrass Holdings
As Cheasehead pointed out, barely scratching the surface for an analysis like this is quite close to just being
conjecture.  
Comparing two cashflow numbers is the most obvious example of this as the laundry list of items that can swing
cashflow numbers from year to year from company to company is miles long. If you go back 3 years, HCI had
something like income of $40M and cashflow of $100+M and that can swing the complete opposite direction in any
other year because of any number or adjustments. Any simple difference in the way one of the companies manages
it's reinsurance, for example, makes that a completely incomparable number. Nevermind that HCI is starting a real
estate venture within an insurance company as well. 
Also, it could be entirely possible that HCI has a better book of business than the rest of these considering they were
first to the takeout table and HRTG just started a couple years ago and now gets only scraps. Keep in mind you're
whole analysis is based on a ratio. HCI's ratio of good policies to bad policies could quite easily be better than others
since they got to pick first. 
On the Homewise book, insurance companies don't go belly up simply because they have a policies with big losses,
it's also a factor of the premiums they get for those risks. It could very well be that HCI charges higher rates, which
make the ratio of losses lower (once again, it's a ratio). And this is indeed the case since right after HCI took over that
book, the Florida regulators allowed double-digit price increases for several years in a row. That was when Florida
insurance finally became very profitable again and HCI was in the sweet spot and eventually now everyone else has
followed. 
And finally, using historical industry loss ratios makes perfect sense when you've never been through a major storm
and your company is only "nearly 9-years" old. Insurance losses are very long tailed and if you look at HCI's schedule
of loss development, they're still figuring out what total losses will be from 2008 and this is standard for the industry.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/16303842

https://seekingalpha.com/user/815700
5/22/2018 The 'Mysterious' Case Of HCI's Loss Ratio - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3519746-mysterious-case-hcis-loss-ratio 9/9


So if a company that has been in this business for two years, such as HRTG, thinks they have a handle on their loss
factor, then they're the ones blowing smoke.


I'm not going to do all the analysis that it would take to really answer your question either, so this essentially boils
down to whether you trust the management or not. Obviously you don't and want the stock to go down for any
possibly reason you can think of (I think you've written about 10 that still haven't come to fruition).  
I'm on the other side of the coin and these guys made me and a few other smart people a ton of money early on when
the made a half billion dollar business from scratch, so it's hard for me to imagine they decided to now become crooks
for an extra couple $mil.  
It's entirely possible, but your "analysis" here proves nothing, once again. Makes for a decent conversation though.


29 Sep 2015, 03:01 AM


RH Analytics, Contributor
Author’s reply »  We would like to thank everyone for taking the time and contributing to the discussion. In our view it
boils down to whether one believes in statistical improbabilities (miracles, management) or not. We are of scientific
bend.


30 Sep 2015, 02:22 PM


Bluegrass Holdings
You actually seem to be short on your statistical understanding by claiming that HCI would have to be consistently
picking winning policies year after year. Probably has something to do with you and all the other shorts
misunderstanding of attrition in insurance books of business. There seems to be some misconception that there is like
100% annual turnover in HCI's book of business. How often do you change insurers???  
A majority of HCI's policies are from years ago when they were the first ones to be picking policies from Citizens. So
even if they were now just picking average policies and HRTG just started this game after the good policies were
picked over, then HCI's overall book would continue to be better than average.  
Simple mathematics.


02 Oct 2015, 01:13 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MIL-USD

https://seekingalpha.com/author/rh-analytics

https://seekingalpha.com/user/815700
