5/22/2018 HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked 1/8


HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked
Nov. 6, 2014 10:41 AM ET6 comments
by: RH Analytics


Summary


We expect HCI to report weak Q3'14 results. Policy churn and increasing costs will
erode underwriting margins.


Projections suggest that the assumed book of business is unlikely to be profitable
long-term.


We consider the proposed takeout a massive leveraged bet that is unlikely to work
out in the end.


After the close today, HCI Group (NYSE:HCI) will report Q3'14 results and discuss its
pending assumption from Citizens. We expect financial results to show declining
premiums due to policy churn, higher loss expenses, and eroding profit margins.


We consider the current takeout pure folly. Documents filed with the OIR[1] indicate that
the Q4 assumption layers immense amounts of catastrophic risk on what is probably
barely adequate levels of reinsurance to assume policies that are unlikely to be profitable
long-term.


We expect the company will "fly naked" for the 5-month period between the assumption
and new reinsurance year, thus carrying an approximate $1.4B in unreinsured exposure. If
an off-season storm occurs under those circumstances, HCI may not survive. In our view,
this assumption looks like a massive leveraged bet.


Results and Expectations


HCI surprised investors on October 2nd when the company announced it was participating
in a December 2014 assumption. It was a surprise because in the months prior to the
announcement management suggested that a takeout was not likely. The composition of
the takeout was also a surprise. Over 50% of the assumption are risky wind-only policies,
which have been largely avoided by private carriers.


Setting risk aside for a moment, the takeout will surely fortify near-term financial results
starting in Q4'14 assuming no off-season storms. The subsidies will provide a welcome
respite from the natural premium erosion we expect will be evident in weak Q3'14 results.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked 2/8


HCI provided financial projections for its statutory company in the takeout proposal to the
Florida Office of Insurance Regulation or OIR. We built on their projections to generate
forecasts for Q3'14. The table below contains the summary results of our estimates.


HCI Q3'14 Estimate Summary


Source: OIR filings and RH Analytics estimates.


We expect net premiums to decline to $58.1M from $62.6M in Q2'14. The estimate implies
9.8% growth in net premiums on a year-over-year basis. However, we expect underwriting
income to decline in a range of -8.5% to -14.5% due to increases in both expenses and
losses. On a sequential basis, we expect a -7.2% decline in premiums, flattish expenses
resulting in -20% to -25% decline in underwriting profits.


We consider financial erosion a primary characteristic of the company's business model.
Absent assumptions, premiums decline and negative operating leverage rapidly erodes
profits.


Although Q3 results may be sobering, we think that reaction to the quarter will be largely
determined by how investors interpret the recently announced assumption.


Wind-Only: Bottom of the Barrel


Wind-only policies have low attritional losses, but large catastrophic losses. They are also
extremely expensive to reinsure, even in the current pricing environment. So, while they
tend to be the most risky, least profitable policy type long-term, they can appear profitable
in the short-term. These dynamics coupled with the expected post-assumption cost
benefits should improve HCI's margins in Q4'14-Q2'15. Profitability will collapse on the
assumed book when either reinsurance costs are included or a storm arrives - whichever
occurs first.


We have seen commentary from some analysts dubbing wind-only a "new avenue of
growth" for HCI. We consider this a gross mischaracterization of the situation. Wind-only
policies are not new. The issue is that they are typically the most risky, mispriced policies
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked 3/8


in Citizens' book. This rate inadequacy is probably why Citizens' wind-only policy count
has changed so little over the past few years, despite an increasing appetite for takeouts.
The table below shows changes in Citizens policy counts since December 2011.


Citizens Policy Portfolio


Source: Citizens filings.


The only other large scale wind-only assumption we are aware of is Weston Insurance's
2013 takeout. Weston's application was for 31,000 policies; we believe they assumed just
below that figure.


As the table indicates, since December 2011, the number wind-only policies declined by
50,415 or only -17.7%. Weston's assumption is roughly 50% of the total. This compares to
446,883 policies removed from the PLA account, which equates to a -44.5% reduction in
policy count.


In our opinion, the lack of takeout activity suggests that carriers do not have an interest in
wind-only policies. The historical lack of interest is in all likelihood driven an unfavorable
risk/reward profile.


Old Vulnerable Structures in Risky Areas


There are two primary property characteristics that determine vulnerability to hurricanes:
age and location. The information provided in OIR documents indicates that HCI's
December assumption is largely composed of aging structures in vulnerable coastal
zones. The tables below shows the age profile of structures, location and the total in force
value they represent.


Aging Structures Tri-county Exposure


Source: OIR documents.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/11/6/27754143-14152865210729885-RH-Analytics_origin.png
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked 4/8


The table on the left indicates that the takeout selection is composed largely of aging
structures. 50.8% were built before 1969 and a full 84.2% built prior to the building code
improvements that were implementing following the massive losses caused by Hurricane
Andrew in 1992. As the table on the right shows, 44.4% of proposed takeout TIV is
located in the high-risk tri-county zone in southeast Florida.


Driving an Already High PML to the Stratosphere


A critical aspect of the takeout process is evaluating how an assumption changes the
carriers risk profile as expressed as probable maximum loss or PML. Documents filed with
the OIR shed a bright light on HCI's risk profile. The table below summarizes PML
estimates for HCI's existing book, the takeout selection, and HCI post-assumption.


HCI Probable Maximum Loss Estimates


Source: OIR and HCI company filings.


The state of Florida has several approved hurricane models. HCI provided the OIR with
the output from two of them: RMS v13 and AIR v15. While both models are approved,
they produce materially different estimates.


HCI's current projected PML ranges from $677M to $1.5B depending on the model. HCI
stated in its 8-K filed on 7/8/14, that the 2014/2015 reinsurance program provided $980M
of first event coverage, which equates to coverage for a 1 in 182 year storm. As indicated
in the table, the HCI's $980M of coverage sits at the upper end between the 100- and 200-
year storms in the column representing the low-end RMS estimate. However, according to
the AIR model, coverage is significantly less than 1 in 100. HCI's $980M of coverage is
only 66% of the AIR model's PML.


PML estimates for the takeout selection indicate how much risk is embedded in the book.
The 100-year PML ranges from $587M to $2.4B for an average of $1.4B. Looked at
another way, on a per policy basis, the PML of each takeout policy is 1.7x to 3x the PML
of HCI's existing book. Additionally, although the PML per policy is larger, the majority of
policies are wind-only not multi-peril.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked 5/8


HCI's post-assumption PML is expected to rise to a range of $1.3B to $3.6B
depending on the model used, or an average of $2.4B.


The probability of an off-season storm is approximately 6% according to our research. If
there is a storm while HCI is carrying $1.4B of uninsured exposure, the company's $138M
surplus could easily be wiped out.


A High Cost Low Margin Book


OIR documents indicate that HCI projects that it will cost approximately $142.4M to
reinsure its existing book and $96.9M to reinsure the takeout policies for a total cost of
$239.3M.


The absolute cost of reinsurance in itself is not the primary issue, rather it is the cost of
reinsurance relative to premiums collected. Reinsurance costs drive the basic financial
model, which we define as the percentage of gross premiums absorbed by each of the
three key expense lines - reinsurance, losses and administration.


According to OIR documents, HCI expects assumed policies to generate $145M in
premiums. In other words, using HCI's $96.9M figure, 67% of premiums will go toward the
purchase of reinsurance. The expected 67% rate is stunning given that private
reinsurance prices have collapsed and the rate also contains heavily subsidized
reinsurance from the state.


The underwriting business model looks dismal with a 67% reinsurance cost. The table
below represents the underwriting business model for the takeout selection using figures
in the OIR documents provided by HCI. To illustrate the sensitivity of margins, we also
include pro-forma figures assuming 5%-10% increase in reinsurance rates.


Takeout Selection Statutory Underwriting Business Model


Source: Company filings with OIR and estimates.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked 6/8


Assuming zero losses, HCI expects a total expense ratio of 92% or an underwriting
margin of 8%. We think that reinsurance costs could be lower than stated, but the point is
that the book is extremely expensive to reinsure leaving very little margin.


Even the small 8% expected margin may be difficult to maintain. As we illustrate, the
underwriting margin will decrease to 4.6% and 1.3% if reinsurance rates increase merely
5% or 10%, respectively. Note that the margins still assume zero losses.


We believe the takeout book will be unprofitable long-term. Even under ideal conditions
with extremely low reinsurance prices and zero losses, HCI expects the book to be only
marginally profitable. Almost any increase in reinsurance or any loss rate above zero will
make this book unprofitable. We are absolutely certain that the losses on these policies
will not remain zero.


Given the profoundly unfavorable financial dynamics of the takeout selection, we are not
surprised that wind-only assumptions are a very rare occurrence, even in the current
environment of takeout-mania. Carriers do not assume them because rate inadequacy
makes them unprofitable for private companies.


Given all the evidence that HCI's takeout selection is a risk-laden, marginally profitable
book under the best of circumstance, the following quote from HCI's October 2, 2014
press release on the topic rings particularly hollow:


"We minimize our underwriting risks by selecting from Citizens only those policies that
meet our strict selection guidelines" - Scott Wallace, President


Conclusion


On the Q2'14 conference call, discussions around growth through takeouts suggested that
HCI would not participate in the Citizens assumption process in 2014. Although there was
not a firm statement either way, CEO Paresh Patel stated that growth "is not the be-all and
end all", noting that growing policy count in a way that is "detrimental to a well-performing
business does not make sense". Richard Allen, HCI's CFO, followed Mr. Patel's comment
by stating that "we are a lot more cautious about growth than some of our brethren would
be." Further, it is our understanding that during meetings with institutional investors
following the conference call, management continued to de-emphasize takeouts, noting
that it was focusing not on growth but on maximizing cash flow from the existing book.


Management behavior is particularly odd given that OIR documents indicated that in early
August HCI was planning on participating in the November assumption, which was
delayed until December for reasons not evident in the file. We find the lack of congruence
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked 7/8


Comments (6)


between what management was telling investors while proposing a takeout puzzling. It
leads us to believe that there may have been behind the scenes machinations that
created uncertainty around the ability of the company to complete the assumption.


Then, after management's jaw-boning, HCI announced an assumption dominated by wind-
only policies, a policy type that has been available in the past, but presumably avoided
because of the risks involved.


In our opinion, the general lack of interest in wind-only takeouts combined with the high
cost of reinsurance indicates that the book represents what the industry generally terms
"uninsurable risks".


We expect the stock to be driven by interpretation of the assumption. If the potential short-
term impact is deemed more important, investors will applaud. If investors focus on the
long-term reality of the assumed book, the stock should suffer.


To quote a phrase made popular by the economist Milton Friedman, "There is no free
lunch". There is always a cost to every opportunity. In the case of HCI's 2014 takeout, the
potential for near-term profitability is overwhelmed by the immense long-term risks and
costs associated with the book.


We view HCI as analogous to a highly levered hedge fund. It generates outsized returns
as long as nothing goes wrong. But something always goes wrong in the end.


[1] The document packet delivered by the OIR is less than perfect, to say the least. This
probably stems from the fact that the original proposal was for a November takeout of
57,000 policies, rather than the December takeout of 69,000 policies. As an example,
documentation on the structures refers to 57,000 policies, while PML estimates refer to
69,000. We do not think that issues with the documents have a material impact on our
analysis.


Disclosure: The author is short HCI.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Q3'14 Results And Flying Naked - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2649535-hci-group-q314-results-and-flying-naked 8/8


New Capital, Contributor
Good call! Q3 results exactly as you suggested.


06 Nov 2014, 04:38 PM


PU83jw
Too Funny --- the results just released were very solid and exceeded Street concensus by 12% !!! You fellows
need to peddle your little bicycle a little harder to attempt to protect your short-position. What a bunch of
goons.


06 Nov 2014, 04:45 PM


New Capital, Contributor
Tomorrow's share price reaction will show whether results were good or bad. In my opinion underwriting
results were a terrible and just prove that company is unable to sustain high ROE or combined ratio going
forward. Market is too competitive and HCI's policies are too risky.


06 Nov 2014, 04:53 PM


walie
No kidding New Capital article didn't event know the months of the hurricane season, their understanding of
the season in his article " Florida Hurricane season runs from Jun-Sep " these guys are a hoot. They also
claim that the HCI stock buy back was a bust when they actually bought on average of $37 a share pretty
good return if you ask me...


06 Nov 2014, 05:20 PM


Stirling Capital Management, Contributor
great call guys, this stock is going much lower imo. Valuation is absurd and the economics of what they are
doing seems clearly unsustainable to me.


07 Nov 2014, 12:54 PM


rukm
Oops! Funny when you don't understand the market.


07 Nov 2014, 12:57 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/new-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/142626

https://seekingalpha.com/author/new-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/800425

https://seekingalpha.com/author/stirling-capital-management

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1817721
