5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 1/16


HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III
Sep. 24, 2014 2:40 PM ET1 comment
by: RH Analytics


Summary


Reinsurance is a critical aspect of HCI's operations, as it is for all Florida insurers.


We believe that HCI's reinsurance program is designed to create the impression of
strong coverage while generating accrued, non-cash profits that may be reversed.


Examination of HCI's reinsurance documents indicates that catastrophic exposure is
greater than many believe, the reinsurance program more expensive, and the
company less covered.


Reinsurance deals with companies related to management raise numerous issues,
including the early release of collateral, which is the most serious red flag as it
potentially compromises HCI's reinsurance program.


Introduction


This is the third of a multi-part series of RH Analytics' short thesis on the HCI Group
(NYSE:HCI). In it, we continue our discussion on why we believe the company's business
model is deeply flawed and the stock significantly overvalued.


In our first piece on HCI, we delved into the peculiar Florida Homeowner's insurance
market and DFI business models. We put special emphasis on explaining how HCI's
particular implementation of the takeout business model creates something of a financial
mirage. Our second piece, focused on the financial aspects of HCI's takeouts, illustrating
how they fortify financial results with embedded subsidies. However, the benefits of
assumptions are temporary and eventually the true economics of the business model
emerge generating materially lower returns, even in today's very accommodative Florida
insurance environment.


In this, our third installment, we examine HCI's reinsurance program in depth. Our analysis
is based on the company's 2013-2014 reinsurance year program, not the more recent
2014-2015 program. We believe that they are substantially similar and differ largely in
amounts rather than structure.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2497285-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2504335-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-ii
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 2/16


We requested and received HCI's full 2013-2014 reinsurance filing with Florida's Office of
Insurance Regulation (OIR), despite being designated a 'trade secret' by the company.
Unfortunately, our request for the 2014-2015 package was not honored. This means that
one must initiate a judicial review to challenge the trade secret status. If successful, the
documents would then be released. We did not initiate the legal process.


Most analysts appear to use SEC filings and discussions with management to assess
reinsurance programs. This approach is wholly inadequate, in our view. SEC filings,
including the 8-K devoted to the reinsurance program, do not contain the depth of
information required for complete analysis. Understanding reinsurance programs in a
meaningful, detailed way requires one to read the substantial stack of documents
submitted to the OIR and reconstruct the program to see how the pieces fit together. It's
complex, time-consuming work, for sure, but the devil is in the details, as our analysis with
HCI's program shows.


Extensive review of HCI's reinsurance documents reveals that catastrophic exposure is
greater than is generally thought, reinsurance still expensive despite price declines, and
coverage less comprehensive than the company's 'reinsurance tower' suggests. Lastly,
related party reinsurance deals bring up other issues.


Investors like to focus on probable maximum loss, PML, as a single number. The definitive
nature of a single point PML may give a sense of comfort, but it is the wrong way to view
the risk. Maximum loss is defined by a range of possible outcomes. Documents show
HCI's PML ranged from $640M to $1.3B depending on the model used. The range
provides context for HCI's reinsurance coverage. In its 6/1/13 8-K on the 2013-2014
season, HCI stated that the company had $850M of first event coverage, which equated to
a 1 in 150 year storm. Perhaps the statement may be true using the RMS v.11 model PML
of $640M; however, the AIR v.15 model indicated a $1.3B PML. By that measure, HCI had
inadequate coverage of only 65% of a 1 in 100 year event.


Our analysis further shows that HCI's reinsurance cost is the highest of all Florida insurers
we examined; the rate on line, ROL, is over 3x that of the ASI Group, a highly rated
Florida insurer. Further, the lower layer coverage has an eye-popping 87% ROL if there is
a hurricane, significantly higher than the comparable layers of other DFIs we examined.


HCI's June 2013 8-K also states it has an $11M retention, which is technically true, but is
dependent on the situation. Unlike most reinsurance contracts, the lower level coverage is
for named hurricanes only. Damage from tropical storms, for example, is not covered. As



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1400810/000119312513291287/d569419d8k.htm
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 3/16


such, retention under certain circumstances is not the stated $11M, but $31M - a material
percentage of HCI's statutory insurance company's surplus.


We consider the related party reinsurance vehicles to be particularly nettlesome.
Management and affiliates own and control two outside, related party companies -
Oxbridge Re (NASDAQ:OXBR) and Moksha Re. To the best of our knowledge, neither are
disclosed as related parties to the OIR, though they are disclosed in SEC filings. This
strikes us as odd given that HCI received a minor fine from the OIR for not disclosing a
related party reinsurance contract in the past.


HCI's dealings with OXBR illustrates one way in which non-arm's length transactions can
become problematic. HCI's June 2013 8-K referenced earlier also states that "all our
private reinsurers are AM Best rated 'A-' or better or have fully collateralized their
obligations to us." Similarly, OXBR states on page one of its prospectus, that it "writes fully
collateralized policies." Yet, it would seem the statements of both companies are not quite
true.


On page 11 of OXBR's Q1 2014 10-Q, the company states that $1.7M in collateral was
released by the ceding insurer. We assume the ceding insurer in question is HCI, since
HCI was OXBR's only significant contract according to the S-1.


It would appear that HCI allowed an unrated, related party reinsurer to release collateral
from the trust prior to the end of the contract. Although we are neither regulators nor
lawyers, it is our belief that unrated reinsurers must collateralize 100% of the obligation for
the duration of the contract.


Collateral and a reinsurer's ability to pay claims are the corner-stone on which the Florida
homeowners insurance industry and DFI business models are built. Thus, we think any
action that compromises the integrity of reinsurance, such as the early release of
collateral, is a serious issue.


Reinsurance - Still Expensive and Inadequate


1. No Real Surplus - The Only Thing between Bankruptcy and Storms is
Reinsurance


Policyholders' surplus (PHS) or equity, is the foundation of every statutory insurance
company. As the risk bearing entity, it maintains and grows its surplus in order to pay
claims to policyholders as they arise. HCI and other DFIs have very limited surpluses.
Using the Insurance Regulatory Information System, IRIS, ratios as a guide, insurers who



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OXBR

http://insurancenewsnet.com/oarticle/2010/03/19/florida-fines-homeowners-choice-over-its-reinsurance-plans-with-affiliate-a-173094.html#.VBrdNPmSxqV

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1584831/000119312514110034/d626304d424b3.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1584831/000119312514196980/d711304d10q.htm
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 4/16


had a premiums-to-surplus ratio below 3 were seen as adequate. While that has been a
historic measure, most insurers today look for ratios below 2 and on average the property
casualty insurance industry is writing premium at a ratio below 1.


Total Insured Value, Premium and Surplus Ratios


Note: Company data as of Sept 30, 2013, Industry data as of Q4 2012. Source: OIR, SEC,
and US Treasury filings and estimates OP


As the table above illustrates, HCI leverage ratios are very aggressive compared not only
to the national insurance averages but also to those of its Florida competitors. We have
chosen the ASI Group of property insurers operating in Florida (American Strategic
Insurance Corp., ASI Assurance Corp., ASI Preferred Insurance and ACA Home
Insurance Corp.) as a comp because of the group's highest rating for a Florida-based
private company 'A' from A.M. Best. Federated National Holding Co. is also a DFI but
unlike HCI, the company has pursued only very limited takeout business in the past and
focuses instead on writing voluntary business.


We have included HCI Proforma estimates, which incorporate the effect of the significant
November 2013 policy assumption. We believe the comparisons to be illustrative of the
difference in business models, strategy and company-specific risks.


As the table indicates gross and net premiums ratios are well over 2x industry leverage in
the longest hurricane-free period on record. That, in our opinion, is not an indication of a
sustainable business model. The leveraged surplus is all the more troubling given the lack
of storm coverage at the low level of HCI's reinsurance tower. The company's $21.4M
retention represents 24% of our pro-forma surplus. In our estimation, the wind does not
need to blow particularly hard to impair the company.


2. Despite Phenomenal Price Declines - Expensive Risk to Reinsure


Despite the very soft reinsurance pricing over the last couple of years, coverage for a
portfolio of $37B of total insured value focused on "Hurricane Alley" and resting on a tiny
surplus is not cheap. According to our estimates, HCI spent 47.5% of its GPW on its



http://www.stormrisk.org/sites/default/files/2nd%20Annual%20Insurance%20Market%20Rpt-FSU%20Storm%20Risk%20Center.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/9/24/saupload_saupload_27754143-1411477529368151-RH-Analytics_origin.png
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 5/16


reinsurance program for the 2013/2014 season. That number is significantly higher than
other DFIs like ASI Group (33%), FNHC (38%) and UIHC (36.4%). The company also has
the highest price of reinsurance as measured by the rate on line . A summary of the
findings is presented below.


Gross Premiums Written, Gross Reinsurance Premium and Rate on Line


Notes: Data as of Q3/2013; ASI Group's numbers include only policies with wind exposure
and only reinsurance relating to Florida; Gross Cost of Reinsurance includes private and
FHCF treaties as well as reinstatement costs not accounting for any profit and commission
share agreements


Another way of quantifying the risky nature of HCI's portfolio is through CAT modeling risk
measurement analysis. The following table summarizes the company's Average Annual
Loss, AAL, compared to those of its competitors. The AAL is the mean value of a loss
exceedance probability (EP) distribution. It is the expected loss per year, averaged over
many years based on a CAT model output distribution.


DFIs Ratio of AAL to TIV and GPW


Note: All data as of Q3/2013 except HCI RMS v.13, which is of Q2/2013
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 6/16


As the table illustrates, different companies use different models and model versions,
which can create vastly different results. HCI's AAL almost doubles using the newer RMS
13 version compared to RMS v.11. The newest AIR v.15 model quadruples the exposure.
The main takeaway is that HCI has higher level of expected AAL compared to its
competitors when adjusted for the exposure of the company. HCI's AAL as a percent of
total insured value is almost four times as high as that of the ASI Group using the same
AIR model. Further, the company is not compensated for the higher risk through pricing.
The AAL/GPW ratio reveals that a higher portion of the gross premium written is
necessary to cover losses compared to its competitors.


DFIs 1 in 100 Probable Maximum Loss


Note: All data as of Q3/2013 except HCI RMS v.13 which is of Q2/2013; ASI Group total
reinsurance coverage is $1.28B per event, we include only an estimate of the Florida
portion


HCI's reinsurance program can be viewed as either barely adequate or woefully deficient
depending on the CAT model used. HCI only has 1:100 coverage if using the oldest model
estimate. According to documents filed with the OIR, HCI's exposure as of September
2013 to a 1 in 100 year storm was a PML of $640M based on the RMS v.11, $906M based
on the RMS v.13 and $1,338M based on the AIR v.15 model. In any case, the reinsurance
program provides less coverage than those of competitors and again highlights the point
that the GPW are not commensurate with the risks of its portfolio.


Additionally, it would be helpful to evaluate the tail value at risk (TVAR) on these PML
estimates, however, the data is not available. The 1 in 100 PML estimate merely states
that there is a 1% chance of experiencing the PM or higher. The severity of losses in the
tail end of the distribution can be quite astounding. For example, FNHC's tail conditional
expectation of the $400M 1 in 100 PML is $810M, meaning that if at least $400M loss
occurs, the average severity will be $810M. What is even more astounding is that such
staggering catastrophic losses ($2B in case of HCI) can be underwritten by a company
with surplus of $116M.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 7/16


1. Quantity, Quality and "Self Reinsurance"


HCI's reinsurance program has a higher level of counterparty concentration compared to
those of other DFIs. We have identified a couple of issues with HCI's reinsurance
contracts: high level of self-reinsurance, a couple of interesting structured finance
contracts and what appears to be the case of the "missing reinsurance contract." Last but
not least, there are retrocession contracts from the captive reinsurer Claddaugh to entities
controlled by or related to HCI's CEO Paresh Patel on terms that we don't believe are
available in the marketplace.


A historical analysis of the company's reinsurance coverage reveals the magnitude of the
price declines in reinsurance rates over the last few years.


HCI Reinsurance Programs' Cost and Coverage


Source: FLOIR and company filings.


As the table shows, the company's expense as a percentage of gross premium written has
declined by almost 5% despite the fact that starting with the 2012/2013 program, HCI has
had to replace the subsidized FHCF insurance at the LAC and TCIL layers with more
expensive private or self-reinsurance. The company has definitely had the wind at its
back. We would estimate a "normalized" cost of reinsurance of the book to run at between
55% and 58% of GPW.


HCI's Reinsurance Tower
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 8/16


Source: Company filings and estimates.


HCI has been "creative" in structuring its reinsurance contracts particularly on the low end
of the reinsurance tower. The LAC Replacement and the Working Layer reinsurance
contracts are examples of structured reinsurance that involve partial premium rebate. The
question is how much risk transfer is really taking place at ROL pushing 90% and very
specific contract coverage terms.


A. LAC Replacement Reinsurance Contract


For those unfamiliar with the Florida insurance lingo, LAC stands for Limited
Apportionment Company. Those are companies that were part of the Florida capital build
up program that run from 2006 to 2012 and provided reinsurance for their low layer (above
retention) by the FHCF (Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, please see our industry
report).
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 9/16


The current replacement is a 3-year contract that commenced in 2012/2013 reinsurance
year and is shared 50%/50% between Claddaugh and National Liability and Fire
Insurance Company (NLFI), a Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary. It has a limit of $20M after
HCI's retention of $11M for the 2013/2014 year with one reinstatement and a premium of
$17.4M or 87% ROL. For comparison purposes, the ASI group's and FNHC's ROL for
their bottom layers are 51% and 72% respectively.


Perhaps the most interesting feature of the contract is its definition of a "Covered event"
which in this case includes only named Hurricanes by the National Hurricane Center
leaving any storms, including tropical storms which are much more likely to occur and
cause damage at such low retention levels completely uncovered. Also despite its one
reinstatement, which reaches the contract year's limit of $40M, there is a contract limit for
the 3 years of $80M, which limits the coverage. The contract provides for a profit
commission calculated as a difference between the deposit premium paid and the net loss
and loss adjustment expense ceded to the contract, adjusted with $24M to be retained by
the reinsurers.


The contract doesn't expressly mandate the establishment of a trust account to
collateralize the obligation though Claddaugh's unrated status makes such collateral a
requirement under Florida's insurance regulations. The lack of the trust account
arrangements (unless they are dealt with in a supplement not filed with the OIR), makes
us believe that the parties do not really view HCI and Claddaugh as different entities
establishing a clear transfer of risk.


In the final analysis, the LAC Layer Reinsurance contract transfers limited scope of risks
to the reinsurers at a very high price while allowing HCI to keep part of the profit in
hurricane-free years. It raises questions as to how much real protection it offers at the
lowest end of the reinsurance tower.


If one or more tropical storms affect the company, it will have to rely on its aggregate layer
of reinsurance of which Claddaugh currently takes 22% while most of the remainder (more
than 90% of total) is covered by unrated Bermuda segregated accounts companies.


B. The Case of the Missing Reinsurance Contract


An aggregate layer provides valuable flexibility within the context of a reinsurance
program. However, insuring reinsurance is critical to the proper functioning of the
contracts through the prevention of losses with higher probability at the lower layers of the
reinsurance stack. For example, all the aggregate level contracts (original and two
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 10/16


extensions) have a low retention of $7.5M despite the relatively modest ROL of 23%. The
reason for that is the requirement spelled out in the contracts that HCI maintains certain
levels of reinsurance coverage to insure for the benefit of the aggregate layer.


We have noticed that the lowest coverage, specified in all the aggregate contracts is
missing from HCI's filing with the OIR. The company has to maintain a $3.5M over $7.5M
(the attachment point of the aggregate programs) with one reinstatement. However, such
a contract is not part of HCI's reinsurance program based on the official filings. The
absence raises a number of issues. Firstly, given the 87% ROL on the LAC replacement
layer, it is possible that a coverage like that will need to be priced at an even higher level.
Secondly, if the coverage doesn't exist, that either invalidates the aggregate contracts or
puts the participating reinsurers first in line in case of an event loss.


2. The Claddaugh/Moksha/Oxbridge Merry-Go-Round


Total Claddaugh and HCI 1st Event Exposure Before Retrocession


Source: SEC and OIR filings and estimates


There is a problem with self-reinsurance. It piles too much risk onto HCI. The thinly
capitalized company can ill afford such a level of risk as evident in the loss to surplus
ratios before the November 2013 assumption.


HCI has found a solution. The company has created a construct that allows it to both
retrocede the risks from Claddaugh and book some profits. The creative structuring is a
touch of reinsurance magic and is accomplished through retrocession contracts between
Claddaugh, the captive reinsurer, and related-party reinsurers Moksha and Oxbridge that
include retrospective provisions for profit commissions. Simply put, Claddaugh transfers
the risk to Moksha but if the wind doesn't blow, they pay back some of the money as profit
commissions. There are a number of issues with said arrangement stemming from lack of
arm's-length transactions including collateral coverage and adequate pricing.


A. Moksha Re


Moksha is a private reinsurer created in 2012 and funded by Paresh Patel & family (17%),
Sanjay Madhu (2%) others (81%). Mr. Patel and his family put roughly $1.6M into the
vehicle. In its second year of operations it assumed 70.13% and 75% of Claddaugh's
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 11/16


exposure to the First and Aggregate Layers of HCI's reinsurance program for the
corresponding portion of the premium. However, two elements of the deal stand out. First,
Claddaugh prepays the entire premium in essence lowering the collateral requirement for
Moksha. Second, unlike other reinsurers that participate on those layers (including
Claddaugh and Oxbridge) of the program, Moksha agrees to pay a profit commission back
to Claddaugh in case of no events in a retrospective profit sharing agreement equal to
about 35% of premium.


HCI's 2013 10-K filings discloses the transaction and asserts that "Moksha assumed
approximately $15,400 of the total covered exposure for approximately $4,300 in
premiums, a rate which management believes to be competitive with market rates
available to Claddaugh." We question the validity of the last statement given that the
Moksha investors were the only ones asked to cede as much as 35% of the premium they
receive on the First and Aggregate layers back to Claddaugh.


Reinsurance Economics: Moksha


Source: Company filings and estimates


The table above summarizes the economics of the retrocession deal. Due to the
retrospective profit commission, the premium Moksha receives (and correspondingly
Claddaugh pays) is lowered by about 35% for a rate on line of 18%. The independent
reinsurers who are participating on those layers received an average ROL of 28.2%. The
prepayment cures some of that big discrepancy but Moksha still bore the full risk of the
exposure. The overriding conclusion is that the transaction transforms some risk into
earnings for Claddaugh at the price of an immediate cash outlay. The fact that Moksha
has no other clients (that are disclosed) and therefore should have a cost of capital much
higher than a well-diversified reinsurer is not apparent in the rates it is able to get from
Claddaugh.


B. Oxbridge Re
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 12/16


In April 2013, HCI management founded another Cayman Islands based reinsurer -
Oxbridge Reinsurance Ltd. In a June 2013 private placement Oxbridge (OXBR) issued
units consisting of a share and three warrants to a group of investors and raised
$6,692,100. The executive directors of the company (Paresh Patel, Sanjay Madhu,
Krishna Persaud, Ray Cabillot, Allan Martin and Mayur Patel) and their families
contributed 51% of the capital with a group consisting largely of extended family and
business acquaintances contributing the rest. A large part of the investments were
channeled through segregated Moksha cells. Mr. Patel (Chairman of the Board of
Directors) and his wife invested $894K and Mr. Madhu (President, CEO and a director)
$606K (a person who is disclosed as related to him in other filings Stacy Madhu
contributed $102K).


In a March 27th, 2014 IPO, Oxbridge raised an additional $26.4M. The units offered
consisted of a share and a warrant with substantially the same pricing and terms as the
June 2013 private placement. However, the private placement participants got 2 more
warrants per share for their investment. It is interesting to note that the biggest investor in
the IPO was a group of funds called Farnam Street Entities. Farnam entities have been
involved and are a large holder of the HCI Group. Mr. Raymond E. Cabillot, Chief
Executive Officer of Farnam is a director of OXBR and both he and Mr. Peter O Haeg,
President & Secretary of Farnam have participated in the pre-IPO private placement as
individual investors. Farnam Street, however, only bought in the later, more expensive
round.


Post IPO, Mr. Patel and his wife control only 2.48% of the shares of OXBR but due to the
much more generous private offering warrants deal - 5.43% of its warrants. In comparison,
the Patels own a much more significant 8.3% share of HCI group (and still significant 4.7%
after accounting for his 400,000 restricted shares).


OXBR just like Moksha has only one real client, Claddaugh, although the company signed
a tiny $250K deal with a Texas insurer. Unlike their Moksha brethren, the OXBR investors
are not asked to cede back any additional profit commissions with the exception of the
ones already in place in the original Claddaugh/HCI contracts.


However, OXBR shareholders are burdened with fees related to an underwriting
consulting agreement between the company and E.W. "Ted" Blanch. Mr. Blanch is
described in his Advocate Reinsurance Partners' bio as the "Dean of Reinsurance
Intermediaries" which might explain the brainpower behind the complex and inventive HCI
reinsurance arrangements. Advocate has been HCI's reinsurance broker since 2012 and
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 13/16


based on our calculations, has received at least $8.5M in brokerage commissions last
year. Advocate is also the broker for Claddaugh and as such it received a 10%
commission on some of the retroceded business to OXBR.


Under the terms of the underwriting agreement, Resonant will provide "underwriting
consulting services from time to time in connection with reinsurance contracts that we
propose to enter into." It will be paid a 5% advisory fee on gross premiums net of any
profit commissions paid to OXBR. In addition, Resonance will be paid a 10% profit fee on
each reinsurance contract on which an advisory fee has been paid.


Given that OXBR is just reinsuring Claddaugh exposures, it is unclear what the value add
is of an additional underwriter consultant on captive contracts. However, based on the
example of fees calculation provided in OXBR's S-1/A filing, Resonant will collect around
10% gross premium after contingent profits are paid back to the retrocendant. In addition
to Advocate's 10% brokerage commission, the total payments to entities related to Mr.
Blanch can amount to almost 20% of gross premiums.


The OXBR S-1/A document further cautions that: "because of these relationships and
interests, situations could arise in which Mr. Blanch's interests are different than our
interests, which could have an adverse effect on the benefits and services that we expect
to receive under our relationship with Resonant." Of course situations like that might arise.
Caveat emptor.


The most significant red flag associated with the OXBR retrocession contracts is the fact
that the company released collateral before the expiration of its reinsurance contracts
therefore exposing the related parties (Claddaugh and HCI) in case of a covered event.
OXBR assumed one full and two partial Claddaugh contracts effective June 1, 2013. The
limit under those contracts is $10.118M and the company received the full premium of
$4.9M on July 9, 2013. According to OXBR's S-1/A filing: "trust agreements with the
ceding reinsurer and a trustee require the Group to maintain collateral in excess of the
limit of liability, less unpaid premium." That requirement was fulfilled as of December 31st,
2013 with OXBR's balance sheet showing restricted cash of $10.118M custodied with
Bank of New York Mellon (NYSE:BK).


However, OXBR's 10-Q filing reveals that as of March 31st, 2014 the company only held
$8.865M of restricted cash in trust. The company revealed that: "During the period ended
March 31, 2014, the ceding insurer released collateral amounting to $1,660,000 to the
Company under the terms and conditions of the Company's reinsurance contract and trust
agreement with the ceding insurer." Given that the limit exposure has not changed and



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BK
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 14/16


OXBR have already been paid the full premium under the contract it is rather puzzling why
it is allowed to release collateral in Q1 given that the contracts run till May 30th. It is also
noteworthy that OXBR paid $267K of dividends on Feb 14, 2014.


We think that the trust agreements with related parties should be made public since the
whole reinsurance system of related party contracts rests on the quality and amount of
collateral available to fully cover insured events. We further think the practice to prefund
those accounts with the whole yearly premium therefore decreasing the collateral
requirements is not available in an arm's length reinsurance transaction.


Lastly, as always is the case with related party transactions, there are questions about the
controlling managers' motivation and embedded interest. As the SEC pointed out in its
comments to OXBR S-1 filing, "We note that… throughout the registration statement that
because your initial business is with HCI Group, you expect that your interests will be
aligned. However, as you and HCI Group's captive insurance company are on the
opposite side of your reinsurance contracts, it is not appropriate to say that your interests
will be aligned. Please replace the "alignment of interests" language throughout the
registration statement with disclosure that explains that, as a result of doing business with
each other, a conflict of interest exists in that the contracts may not be as favorable as
those you might be able to negotiate with non-affiliated parties. "


3. Related Party Retrocession and Conditional Profits


HCI 2013/2014 Reinsurance Program, Exposure and Commissions



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/9/24/saupload_saupload_27754143-14114782052595665-RH-Analytics_origin.png
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 15/16


Source: OIR and SEC filings and estimates


As the table above illustrates, the retrocession to related parties significantly lowers HCI's
exposure to the first two catastrophic events from $47M to $21.5M. Additionally, the
company is able to claim $24.7M of retrospective profit commissions ($1.5M of which
directly linked to retrocession contracts) for the June 1, 2013/May 30, 2014 reinsurance
year. The company booked $12.5M as a reduction in ceded premiums from profit
commissions on its fiscal year 2013 statements essentially lowering its reinsurance costs.


However, most of those profit commissions are based on multi-year contracts (3 and 5
years respectively) and loss events in the following years can completely wipe them out.
In its 2013 10-K, the company itself admits that ($12.5M) "would be charged to earnings in
the event we experience a catastrophic loss that exceeds the coverage retention limits
provided under such agreements." We can call it "conditional earnings." Claddaugh's
profits combined with these commissions comprise over 16% of HCI's EBIT for fiscal
2013. Mr. Patel's contract awarded him a 3.25% cash bonus of HCI's EBIT subject to
minimum earnings of $30M. He collected $3.56M in 2013 of such bonus far outweighing
his investments in both Moksha and OXBR.


The related party retrocession solution is flawed on a number of levels. To begin with
these companies have only one client, Claddaugh, thus putting the concept of risk
spreading on its head. Further, the related party control of the entities eliminates the
natural system of checks and balances that ensures the proper functioning of the market
transfer of catastrophic reinsurance risks. These issues become apparent in the pricing of
some of the contracts with generous retroactive profit commissions flowing back to
Claddaugh, the brokerage and underwriting fees awarded to related parties and most
importantly through the release of reinsurance collateral before the expiration of the
contracts.


These flaws raise the question on the validity of the construct and the regulatory oversight
available over the transactions. In 2010, the company was fined for failing to provide
information of a reinsurance agreement with its affiliate Claddaugh. On April 7, 2010, HCI
signed Consent Order 109670-10 in which it agreed to submit all affiliated transactions for
the Office's approval. However, we failed to see either Moksha or OXBR mentioned in any
filings with the OIR discussing the company's reinsurance program. While not captive, we
argue that they are controlled and affiliated entities related to management of HCI and as
such should be within the purview of the Florida insurance regulatory oversight. Hopefully,
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part III - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2518355-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-iii 16/16


Comments (1)


Moksha and OXBR investors have enough financial sophistication to assess the risks of
investing in undiversified and risky reinsurance layers sometimes at prices lower than the
markets.


Conclusion


Investors like to think of reinsurance as something of a science: define the probable
maximum loss, determine how much you can risk (retention) and create a stack that will
cover the company in the event of a catastrophe. If it were only that simple. Constructing a
reinsurance program is an art that involves numerous decisions that offer trade-offs.
Programs can be constructed to provide strong coverage of some scenarios and less of
other. As HCI's program shows, companies can even construct reinsurance programs that
create impressions. HCI has structured their reinsurance to give the appearance of low-
retention with a high-quality reinsurer. At the same time, the program's financial structure
generates accrued profits in non-storm years that will be charged-back if a catastrophic
event occurs. Creating the impression of strong coverage while generating profits does
not come cheap, though. HCI pays a high ROL and must pre-pay the related parties,
costing the company precious cash-flow.


Disclosure: The author is short HCI.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Yicheng Lin, Contributor
Very good analysis. Deep and thoughtful. A little bit too deep for me to understand especially the details regarding
reinsurances. The fact that the CEO and other executives have founded other entities to cheat investors are
absolutely stunning. I am very surprised that no one has caught up to this yet.


Isn't this breaching fiduciary duties for the CEO at the minimum?


06 Jan 2016, 08:42 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/yicheng-lin
