5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 1/25


Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges
Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out
Dec. 10, 2014 10:15 AM ET6 comments
by: The GeoTeam


Summary


We believe serious regulatory risks and disclosure omissions that loom over Bio-
Reference haven’t been adequately priced into the stock by the market.


The company’s last 10-Q does not disclose ongoing litigation with a company called
HunterHeart, who is suing BRLI for fraud and punitive damages relating to fraud.


Bio-Reference seems to have an internal culture of risky behavior and “convenient”
mistakes, as proven by comments we obtained from ex-employees – and by recent
clinic shutdowns in Connecticut.


Unlike competitors, BRLI’s “anti-kickback” laws are listed as a lengthy risk factor in
the company’s 10-K and the company states there is “no assurance” it can comply
with these laws.


The company seems to have an “elephant in the room” with its growing billing
collection problem. Despite top line growth, cash flow and margin are both under
pressure.


This idea was discussed in more depth with members of my private investing
community, GeoInvesting Micro Insights.


By now, some of the extremely obvious risks to investing in Bio-Reference Laboratories
(NASDAQ:BRLI) have been in the public domain for a while. Questions have been raised
about ties to organized crime, stuffing envelopes full of cash for executives, abused
expense accounts, unnecessary testing, double billing and questionable disclosures. In
addition to those risks, which we'll reiterate - we have five new major concerns of our own
that we'll present today:


1. The company's last 10-Q filing doesn't include a reference to ongoing litigation with
HunterHeart - who is suing BRLI for fraud and punitive damages relating to fraud, in a
suit filed August 12, 2014, in Santa Clara County (Docket #114CV269255). A copy of
the complaint can be read here. In addition to this case, past filings seem to not
individually acknowledge any previous whistleblower complaints against the company,



https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=the-geoteam&source=mp_marketing_text_top

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BRLI

http://www.thestreetsweeper.org/undersurveillance/Bio_Reference__BRLI___Loads_of_Dirty_Laundry

https://www.slideshare.net/secret/DRLI4jKTDX8tj8
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 2/25


but do seem to readily admit that the company has been receiving government
subpoenas more often than we are comfortable with.


2. We believe BRLI has a corporate culture of risky behavior. We obtained comments
from several ex-employees, one of whom we readily admit was terminated by the
company. One conversation detailed frequent recurrent gifts to physicians,
questionable diagnosis billing code changes, and excessive write-downs of patient
deductibles. In addition, eight Bio-Reference clinics had been recently suspended
in Connecticut due to operating without a license.


3. Kickbacks to doctors, which are now illegal per the Federal Government, seem to have
been the norm in the laboratory business across the industry. We note that Bio-
Reference incorporates "anti-kickback" laws into its annual report risk factors with a
lengthy warning while Quest makes only a brief mention of it and LabCorp does not
include it as a risk factor - today we ask: what practice is Bio-Reference currently
engaging in that makes it necessary specifically for them to list these illegal practices
as a lengthy risk factor, to which they make "no assurance?" Risk factors can often
be written off by investors as simply obligatory legal jargon, until investors are
forced to look at them in hindsight after something has gone wrong.


4. Bio-Reference is suing Horizon, a revenue producing source, and alleging that they're
perpetrating a conspiracy-like fraudulent scheme against the company; a move that we
believe to be an act of desperation from a company seeking to bring in cash.


5. We have some interesting fundamental questions with regards to the company's
financials. Last quarter's report, despite cheery "first glance" headlines about esoteric
testing growth, obviously gave the market a reason to be cautious. We believe that
under the surface, waning cash flow and increased DSO shows trouble brewing under
the positive sounding headlines.


Third party reports are also surfacing claiming that the company's former esoteric darling,
GenPap, was in fact a test that was simply bought and used under license from a Korean
company, Seegene. GenPap's growth has fallen off, giving way to GeneDx as the
company's main esoteric testing driver. We believe GeneDx is difficult to collect on and is
part of the culprit behind the company's margin and cash flow pressure. We believe this
can lead to future uncollectable revenue and that GeneDx accounting should move to a
cash basis. We also believe that sell-side analysts have begun to look at the company
through a more skeptical lens.


We reached out to Bio-Reference and their investor relations department told us they
were unable to schedule a call with management. When they suggested we e-mail them
our questions and we did, they offered us a response to only one of the ten questions we



http://www.healthlawyers.org/hlresources/Health%20Law%20Wiki/Anti-Kickback%20Statute.aspx
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 3/25


sent along.


Up until its recent earnings report, one would hardly notice any suggestion of risk being
priced into the company. Into the last earnings report, the company was trading at a robust
18x forward P/E and is now still trading with a forward P/E near 16x. At these multiples,
you'd be expecting steady growing cash flow, sustained growth in testing numbers, high
margins, and very few "obvious risk factors."


We believe that competitors Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings (NYSE:LH) and Quest
Diagnostics (NYSE:DGX) have far better financial stability and less regulatory overhang
than BRLI. Both are trading at a forward P/E near 15. We believe a forward P/E of 10x is
extremely generous for BRLI, given its appearance of regression and serious regulatory
overhang. That would put a price of about $19.20 on Bio-Reference stock.


The market wasn't buying the earnings headline that BRLI posted for its last earnings
report, and we believe that recent skepticism could be just the beginning of a much bigger
downside for BRLI.


GeoInvesting's 5 Main Concerns with Bio-Reference Laboratories



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LH

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DGX

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/12/360252_14181491796438_0.png
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 4/25


1. Disclosures seem to leave out key legal proceedings and readily admit that the
company has been receiving subpoenas "related to billing activities."


We have gone back and referenced the "Legal Proceedings" portion of the company's 10-
K for each year going back to 2005 and noticed a couple of interesting items.


To preface, we have reviewed 4 copies of notable lawsuits where BRLI is the named
defendant. These suits were filed on April 6, 2005 (Berlin vs. Bio-Reference), August 28,
2012 (Howard vs. Bio-Reference), April 3, 2013 (Greco vs. Bio-Reference), and August
12, 2014 (HunterHeart vs. Bio-Reference).


The most recent lawsuit filed in Santa Clara County on August 12, 2014 (HunterHeart Inc.
vs. Bio-Reference Laboratories and DOES 1 through 10) has yet to be disclosed
individually in any company filings, including the last 10-Q. We were shocked by the
content of this suit and we feel it needs to be disseminated and recognized publicly due to
its bold allegations. This lawsuit, generally unacknowledged by the public thus far, alleges
that:


BRLI conducted fraudulent business acts
BRLI reneged on an agreement between the two companies relating to BRLI's
purchase of HunterHeart assets
BRLI failed to properly bill all tests performed for HunterHeart
BRLI failed to collect on the amounts that it did bill
BRLI failed to pay monies owed to HunterHeart derived from customers in Northern
California
BRLI failed to provide the information necessary for HunterHeart to perform an audit in
order to determine cash collections
BRLI refused to consent to the release of $4M in escrow, despite the fact that
HunterHeart claims that they've met the terms and conditions laid out in the presiding
agreement


The lawsuit also alleges that BRLI failed to regularly review billing code changes before
reporting results and, as a result, "corrupted reports were sent to physicians" for six
months. For a six-month period when BRLI was to be transitioning and interacting with
HunterHeart customers, the lawsuit also alleges:


failures and refusals to competently service HunterHeart accounts
multiple billing issues and mistakes
"gross lack of responsiveness to client concerns"
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 5/25


According to the complaint, the suit alleges that after the six-month "servicing period"
between the two companies had ended, BRLI went after HunterHeart's client base - some
of whom had been with HunterHeart for up to 6 years - and told them that HunterHeart's
services would no longer be available. Finally, the complaint alleges that Bio-Reference
delivered cardiovascular specific reports to clients outside of Northern California on forms
that were formatted for OBGYN purposes. This action, if true, is consistent with reports
that we have heard from former employees of BRLI with regard to risky behavior being the
company culture at all times.


If we had any doubts about whether or not the corporate culture behind the scenes at Bio-
Reference has changed since it's been under scrutiny, it would certainly appear to us that
it hasn't. If any one of the allegations that the HunterHeart case is alleging are true, it's a
snapshot into a company that we believe is extremely careless in a business where HIPAA
requires that you be extremely careful, calculated, and compliant in the way you conduct
your business.


The HunterHeart suit was not mentioned in the "Legal Proceedings" section of Bio-
Reference's 10-Q filed in September of 2014 (source 6). When we had HunterHeart's
counsel Jon Michaelson on the phone, he assured us that the case is "still active, was
filed in state court in California, and BRLI removed the case to Federal Court." He finished
our brief conversation by stating that the case is "active and will continue to be active."


In 2013 and 2014, while examining the "Legal Proceedings" section of the company's
annual reports, we noticed a startling addition. First, this is how "Legal Proceedings"
looked in 2012 (emphasis added):


"At October 31, 2012 and at the date of this Report, we were not involved in
any material legal proceedings, and management believes that established
reserves and present insurance coverage are sufficient to cover any estimated
exposures. However, the clinical laboratory testing industry is subject to extensive
and evolving regulation and increasing enforcement activity, making such estimates
uncertain, and potential violation of these extensive and changing statutes and
regulations could result in adverse judgments, including substantial monetary
settlements, significant fines and penalties, as well as injunctions or other relief,
such as the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations. There can be no
assurance, therefore, that applicable statutes and regulations will not be interpreted
or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would
adversely affect the Company, and that estimates regarding potential losses
associated with such claims will prove adequate."
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 6/25


Compare that with how the disclosure looked in 2013, and how it looks now:
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 7/25


"2013- In the normal course of business, we have been named, from time to
time, as a defendant in various legal actions, which may include lawsuits
alleging negligence or other similar legal claims, which could involve claims
for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for
indeterminate amounts of damages, and could have an adverse impact on our
client base and reputation. We are also involved, from time to time, in other
reviews, investigations and proceedings by governmental agencies regarding our
business, and as a health care provider and in connection with health care billing-
related products, the Company may also be named from time to time in suits brought
under the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act and comparable state laws in
which allegations may be made that the Company has submitted or cause to be
submitted false claims in connection with claims for payment from federal or state
health care programs. In addition, the Company has, from time to time, received
subpoenas from state agencies and from the Office of the Inspector General of
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services seeking documents
relating to the Company's billing-related activities. These types of legal
proceedings could result in adverse judgments, including substantial monetary
settlements, significant fines and penalties, as well as injunctions or other relief."


"2014 - In the normal course of business, we have been named, from time to
time, as a defendant in various legal actions, which may include lawsuits
alleging negligence or other similar legal claims, which could involve claims
for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for
indeterminate amounts of damages, and could have an adverse impact on our
client base and reputation. We may also be involved, from time to time, in other
reviews, investigations and proceedings by governmental agencies regarding
our business. In addition, as a health care provider and in connection with health
care billing-related products, the Company may also be named from time to time in
suits brought under the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act and comparable
state laws in which allegations may be made that the Company has submitted or
cause to be submitted false claims in connection with claims for payment from
federal or state health care programs. In addition, the Company may, from time to
time, receive subpoenas from state agencies and from the Office of the
Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
seeking documents relating to the Company's billing-related activities. These
types of legal proceedings could result in adverse judgments, including substantial
monetary settlements, significant fines and penalties, as well as injunctions or other
relief."
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 8/25


It looks like something caused the company or its securities lawyers to amend and
significantly beef up the legal proceedings part of its annual report between the
2012 and 2013 reports.


In the 2013 disclosure, the company admitted ("has, from time to time received") to
receiving subpoenas from the government. The unsettling thing is that when The Street
Sweeper confronted the company about said subpoenas, the company reportedly e-
mailed them back on February 25, 2013 that they had "no knowledge of any government
subpoenas" about their billing practices.


Then, the question becomes, who did the company make a potentially material
misstatement to - its shareholders or The Street Sweeper?


We find ourselves wondering why the company discloses what we believe to be the bare
minimum regarding litigation and government subpoenas.


2. The company seems to have a corporate culture of risky behavior, based on
conversations we had with ex-employees and the fact that eight Bio-Reference
clinics in Connecticut had recently been shut down due to operating without
licenses.


In the last 4 months, we engaged in conversations with several former Bio-Reference
employees, one of whom we readily admit is a self-proclaimed "disgruntled employee" of
the company. One employee that we spoke to told us about several alarming actions the
source witnessed and participated in while working for Bio-Reference.


The first alarming thing that was brought to our attention concerns the company writing
down patient deductibles. Our source told us that they had been involved in numerous
cases where up to "20 or 30" times a week, patients' deductibles were being written off as
insurers continued to pay their portion of patient services with no knowledge that their
subscriber was not paying. The same ex-employee told us that they were told by
management to sell doctors on the fact that they could adjust patient's deductibles to zero
as a reason to bring Bio-Reference services into their office. The same employee told
us they personally have "hundreds" of e-mails between them and a woman named
"Theresa" in billing, who would adjust patient's deductibles to zero upon request.


The problem with this practice is several-fold:


1. It is illegal. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the
Inspector General, "It is unlawful to routinely waive co-payments, deductibles,



http://www.thehealthlawfirm.com/uploads/Waiving%20Co-pays%20Unlawful%20-%20OIG.pdf
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 9/25


coinsurance, or other patient responsibility payments." (67 Fed. Reg. 72,896 (Dec. 9,
2002)


2. Engaging in this practice doesn't hold up the lab's end of the bargain with insurance
companies, and the insurance companies have no knowledge of the practice. Our
source said to us, "insurance companies have no idea this is happening."


3. This practice results in the patient's deductibles going down, thereby costing the
insurer money while the patient pays nothing out of pocket.


It was also brought to our attention that the corporate attitude towards expensing items in
order to keep doctors, office managers, and other office employees happy was very
liberal. "There was no accountability…it was all a farce," our source told us.


Our source told us that items like wine, liquor, cologne, and low denomination gift cards
were frequently expensed without question. We were told stories of a lavish thousand
dollar dinner with doctors and hundreds of dollars of liquor being expensed at a time. They
also told us while they never personally used cash for kickbacks, they "knew it still goes
on." The employee detailed a story to us about a woman who had the routine of leaving
cash inside of the specimen collection boxes, until she was inadvertently caught in the
act. To BRLI's credit, we were told that this employee was terminated for her actions.


In addition to gifts, our source detailed another method in which Bio-Reference kept its
doctors "on the hook" to perform as much testing as possible. Bio-Reference would, in
states where legal, put its company-sponsored phlebotomist into doctors' offices, thereby
eliminating the office's need to pay the expenses related to having their own in house
phlebotomist. We were told that doctors would be told by BRLI sales representatives that
they currently meet volume parameters to qualify for a lab sponsored phlebotomist.
Sometime later, we were told, doctors would be informed that the same volume was no
longer enough to keep the benefits of the phlebotomist. According to our source, doctors
were expected to run expensive tests like allergy panels on as many patients as possible -
including patients that didn't necessarily need the test. We were told that if a particular
office didn't meet a quota of testing that the company was happy with, the company would
threaten to pull the phlebotomist out of the office. Our source said, "It was almost
extortion."


According to our source, this leverage came in handy when a sales representative for Bio-
Reference needed testing codes to be changed in order to ensure insurance
reimbursement, a practice we were told routinely occurred. We were told this didn't have
to be done by doctors themselves and that it was often performed at the behest of a Bio-
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 10/25


Reference salesperson by an office manager or assistant that could have themselves
been receiving gifts from the sales representative. These codes were often changed on
"white sheets" that required no doctor's signature.


In fairness, we consulted a physician who works with both LabCorp and Quest. He
indicated that while most of what we described to him about Bio-Reference's practices are
disturbing in nature (especially the part about waiving deductibles), the practice of code
changing may not be as uncommon as one would think. He told us that although this
practice could be used for legitimate purposes, it could also be easily abused.


Similar stories of a poor working environment have surfaced on websites where past and
present employees can anonymously review the company. Also, accounts of waiving
deductibles and co-pays can be found on message boards where users have detailed
their experiences with Bio-Reference dating back to 2011. While we don't consider
message board posts to be the authority on any topic, we do feel that the posts in
aggregate could provide us additional color on Bio-Reference's business.


It was reported on September 22, 2014, that Bio-Reference was ordered by the state of
Connecticut to suspend operations at eight of its blood collection outlets. They were
suspended by the State Department of Health after a cease and desist order was issued
for "operating satellite offices without a license (source 7)."


An article published earlier in September (source 8) points out the alarming circumstances
around the company's suspension in Connecticut:


"All blood drawing facilities that do not have a certificate have been shut down," DPH
spokesman William Gerrish said. "The department is continuing to investigate this
matter."


In the order, BioReference agreed to stop operations at those locations until it
obtains a license or certificate. The company, which bills itself on its website as the
third-largest chain of full-service clinical diagnostic labs in the United States,
admitted in the order that it had operated the eight labs without a license.


It also agreed that if it were to fail to comply with the cease and desist order, that
would be sufficient grounds for DPH to suspend its license to operate in Connecticut.


Richard L. Faherty, a senior vice president at BioReference, said the company is
cooperating with DPH. He verified that it has closed the eight phlebotomy stations."



http://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Employee-Review-Bio-Reference-Labs-RVW5190745.htm

http://www.cafepharma.com/boards/showthread.php?t=460526
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 11/25


The company offered us this response, when we inquired about these closings via e-mail:


"BioReference Laboratories has stopped operations at some of its phlebotomy
stations in the State of Connecticut. These phlebotomy stations are provided solely
as an accommodation to patients to have their blood drawn for testing and no testing
is performed at these sites. This matter, which is based on commencing phlebotomy
operations prior to formal notification being received from the State, is an ongoing
matter; the Company is cooperating with Connecticut State Department of Health to
resolve the situation and is unable to make any further comment at this time."


In mid-November, Bio-Reference was fined $200,000 by the CT State Department of
Public Health in relation to this incident. As part of a settlement, Dr. Marc Grodman, Bio-
Reference's President, entered into a consent order where he agreed to five years'
probation. In the order, the company admitted to operating for the unapproved
centers for "months at a time," including one branch that had operated from
November 2012 through August 2014 - nearly two years of operating without proper
licensing.


According to our sourced article, the centers remain closed pending new certificates of
approval to re-open them.


These circumstances lead us to call into question:


1. Why is this company, operating since 1981 and public since 1986, having issues
relating to something as simple as operating licenses?


2. If this is the set of standards set by the company's compliance team, what can we
expect from clinics around the rest of the United States?


3. Why was the Connecticut cease and desist order, received by the company on August
29, 2014 (source 8) not disclosed by the company or mentioned in its last 10-Q,
filed on 9/4/14? The only mention of loss of license is the boilerplate statement that
occupies the company's forward-looking statements disclosure.


We find it concerning that a company with a history of being under the microscope is
having trouble executing small fundamental tasks like applying for and maintaining the
proper licenses.


3. Bio-Reference incorporates "anti-kickback" laws into a long, detailed section in
its risk factors while both Quest Diagnostics and LabCorp mention these laws only
briefly - and we might have an idea why.



http://ctwatchdog.com/health/company-fined-200000-by-ct-for-operating-unapproved-blood-collection-centers
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 12/25


Kickbacks and operating practices have been in question with Bio-Reference dating back
to the company's whistleblower lawsuits years ago. In addition to that, questionable
business practices and Federal Investigations are starting to surface throughout the
laboratory industry. Our conversations with some people in the industry point to the fact
that labs violating these laws could be the "norm" across the industry.


While all three major public companies in the space (Quest, LabCorp, and Bio-Reference)
seek to define and make shareholders aware of the new Federal anti-kickback laws, only
Bio-Reference actually lists the potential not to be able to comply with this law in its own
long, lengthy "Risk Factor." Other companies simply make a small mention of the laws in
their annual reports.


What is the issue, according to this "Risk Factor?" Bio-Reference might be "subjecting
itself to risks under federal and state laws."


The language seems, to us, to be purposefully placed and alarming to read:



http://www.healthlawyers.org/hlresources/Health%20Law%20Wiki/Anti-Kickback%20Statute.aspx
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 13/25


"Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws
prohibiting "kickbacks" and other laws designed to prohibit payments for
referrals.


Federal and state anti-kickback and similar laws prohibit payment, or offers of
payment, in exchange for referrals of products and services for which
reimbursement may be made by Medicare or other federal and state healthcare
programs. Some state laws contain similar prohibitions that apply without regard to
the payor of reimbursement for the services. Under a federal statute, known as the
"Stark Law" or "self-referral" prohibition, physicians, subject to certain exceptions,
are prohibited from referring their Medicare or Medicaid program patients to clinical
laboratories with which the physicians or their immediate family members have a
financial relationship, and the laboratories are prohibited from billing for services
rendered in violation of Stark Law referral prohibitions. Violations of the federal
Anti-Kickback Law and Stark Law may be punished by civil and criminal
penalties, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs,
including Medicare and Medicaid. States may impose similar penalties. The
Health Care Reform Law significantly strengthened provisions of the Federal False
Claims Act and Anti-Kickback Law provisions, and other health care fraud
provisions, leading to the possibility of greatly increased qui tam suits by relators for
perceived violations of these laws. There can be no assurance that our activities
will not come under the scrutiny of regulators and other government
authorities or that our practices will not be found to violate applicable laws,
rules and regulations or prompt lawsuits by private citizen "relators" under
federal or state false claims laws."


No assurance? What kind of a compliance program does this company have in place that
it must inform its shareholders that there is no "assurance" it can abide by the law -
especially when we fail to see similar language in the filings of Bio-Reference's main
competitors?


From this, we have a couple of questions:


Why is Bio-Reference incorporating this, at length, into its risk factors when the two
largest players in the space only make quick mentions of it?
What kind of practice is the company engaging in that would queue its securities
lawyers to make sure that this language was in the annual report?
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 14/25


While we acknowledge that the company may just be acting in a more proactive manner
(than Quest and LabCorp) by going into more detail about this caveat, we find the
statement that there is "no assurance" to be extremely alarming. Risk factors can often be
written off by investors as simply obligatory legal jargon, until investors are forced to look
at them in hindsight after something has gone wrong. We believe that we could see this
risk factor easily morph into a real issue for the company and its shareholders.


4. Bio-Reference is suing presumably one of its biggest payers and alleging BC BS
Horizon of concocting a fraudulent scheme against the company.


This lawsuit is certainly an interesting part of this saga.


In a complaint that was filed on December 18, 2013 in the Superior Court of New Jersey,
Bio-Reference alleges that Horizon Healthcare Services in NJ had perpetrated a scheme
specifically to defraud Bio-Reference of funds that would otherwise be due to it. We've
read the complaint and Horizon's response, and we believe Horizon has the upper hand.


This suit raised a couple of questions:


What does it take for you to sue one of your sources of revenue, a major name like
Horizon? Does it say anything about the position the company is in?
Based on reading the complaint and answer, we do not believe that Horizon is at fault.
Also, if Horizon did actually skirt the rules specifically to avoid paying Bio-Reference,
what does that say about the way Bio-Reference bills insurance companies?


The suit is long and tiresome and basically is a result of an argument over semantics -
whether NJ Direct, a state-sponsored and mandated healthcare coverage program, is
officially a "managed care" program or a "PPO" program.


Bio-Reference makes some bold claims in its complaint, alleging that Horizon has
purposefully mislabeled the entire NJ Direct program, but Horizon's response seems to do
a great job clearing things up and putting into perspective the apparent absurdity of Bio-
Reference's claim. Horizon succinctly states:


"State law and Bio-References own documents incorporated into the Complaint
place the NJ DIRECT plans squarely within the Managed Care Exclusion. There is
no reason to inquire any further. BioReference's Complaint should be dismissed with
prejudice."
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 15/25


As you can see from this slide from BRLI's September 21, 2009 Global Life Sciences
Conference presentation, BRLI clearly acknowledges that it does not work with Horizon for
managed care ("MC") cases. Our notes are in blue.


Not only do we believe Horizon to be the party with validity concerning this suit, we
question Bio-Reference's intentions for such a brazen complaint to be filed for what seems
like paltry damages "in excess of $20M" when compared to the $715M the company
posted for 2013 revenue. Surely, at some point, the cost associated with this suit as
Horizon defends itself is going to prove to be counterproductive for BRLI. Why sacrifice a
relationship with a major insurer like Horizon for "excess of $20M?"


5. The financials - namely the cash flow and DSO - show a troubled company
underneath the cheery-looking headlines.


When we look at the company's financials from the previous quarter, they appear on the
surface to be fantastic. The company posted a 19.8% gain in revenues, 19.6% gain in
gross profit, and a 4.1% gain in net income after taxes. However, once we dug a bit
deeper, we immediately noticed operating expenses up 23.1% and we started to have
some other very real questions - namely:


Why aren't the margins improving with esoteric testing growth?
Why is cash flow as a percentage of net revenue declining as revenues grow?



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/12/360252_14181491796438_1.png
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 16/25


Why is the DSO continually increasing?


The company's esoteric testing as a percentage of revenue has increased - yet gross
margin Y/Y was actually down 6.16bps from 46.2% to 46.1%. This may not seem like a
significant decrease, but for a company where esoteric testing is growing so quickly, flat to
lower margins don't make sense to us.


Esoteric testing used to be fueled by the company's GenPap sales. GenPap was pushed
by the company as a more complex testing method for patients that were more sexually
active. GenPap now finds itself with stunted growth, with BRLI's GeneDx tests taking over
the role of fueling esoteric testing. Analyst reports that we've obtained seem to point out
that Bio-Reference has a "detection kit for 25 pathogens causing STDs" contract with
Seegene, a Korean company. From this, combined with other third party reports, we
assume BRLI's former cash cow in its GenPap test was actually another company's test
used under license.


From Seegene's history on its website:


There is no mention of Seegene in the company's 2011, 2012, or 2013 annual reports.


Putting GenPap and GeneDx aside, we can look at the esoteric segment as a whole.
Assuming that esoteric testing has the loftier margins, and the esoteric business still grew,
why is there flat to downward pressure on gross margin?


Bank of America seemed to share this wonder about margins - they downgraded BRLI on
August 28th, citing caution on Q4 that was a product of higher administrative spending
and lowered guidance due to legal demands. The bank's main thesis was that it saw "no



http://www.seegene.com/neo/en/introduction/history.php

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/12/360252_14181491796438_2.png
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 17/25


upside for the shares on lower profit margin leverage and a recently reduced near term
earnings forecast." The Bank of America note also cites cash collection issues as a
potential red flag. We agree.


Here's what we've noticed:


1. Employee related expenses seem to help drag down the gross margin % YOY.
2. The company's DSO number, while down slightly sequentially (106.02 vs. 104.30), is


still up significantly YOY (94.39 vs. 104.30). If this number doesn't come down, we
believe it's one of a few indicators of a growing problem with cash collection for the
company.


3. On a per patient basis, esoteric business was 68% of revenues for the quarter versus
64% in the same quarter the prior year (source 9). Again, this leads us to ask why
gross margin is down.


4. Esoteric testing is supposed to fuel the company's growth, but continued expansion of
GeneDx is questionable at best - and the company seems to be having collection
issues related directly to this test.


5. Total contractual adjustments and discounts are up both YOY and sequentially. These
contractual discounts as a percentage of total gross A/R are at a 3-year high and could
be indicative of the write-offs that we heard about from one of the company's ex-
employees.


So while BRLI's gross margin is uncharacteristically higher than those in the industry:


Bio-Reference's DSO numbers have been consistently double that of LabCorp and Quest.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/12/360252_14181491796438_3.jpg
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 18/25


(source: internal calculations based on public filings)


Simply put, these two metrics should raise flags in and of themselves. BRLI may appear,
to investors looking at gross margin, to be a better company. However, in digging into the
DSO numbers, it becomes clear that Bio-Reference isn't executing from the same
playbook as Quest and LabCorp.


The cash flow numbers are even more alarming. The company's catalyst has been its
GeneDx test - which is again expected to more than double volumes in the 12 months. As
this test continues to surge, the company's cash flows are heading in the wrong direction
on extended outstanding sales that haven't been collected on.


GeneDx tests, which can sometimes cost in the thousands of dollars, are more likely to
run into insurance issues because of their cost. Because these tests are fueling Bio-
Reference's growth, we believe they could also be part of the issue contributing to Bio-
Reference's again-growing collection issues. We believe Bio-Reference should switch to
cash accounting for GeneDx - at least until it can reasonably predict the reimbursement
rates for the test.


The company's recent shareholder letter from the president states the following:


"Payments to us for genetic testing, as more of these tests are billed to commercial
payers, are now taking longer with more claims being reviewed, often requiring
additional clinical information to support the reimbursement claims. This is, of
course, possible but time consuming."


Our suggestion to perhaps switch to cash accounting makes sense when you look at the
GAAP guidelines for revenue recognition on an accrual basis:



http://www.itbusinessnet.com/article/GeneDx-Growing-Array-CGH-Testing-Volumes-to-100000-Tests-a-Year-Relies-on-Cartagenia-Bench-Lab-CNV-Platform-for-Automated-Variant-Assessment-and-Reporting-3558550

http://www.bioreference.com/letter-from-the-president/

http://smallbusiness.chron.com/generally-accepted-accounting-principles-require-accrual-basis-accounting-55778.html
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 19/25


"Much like revenue and expense, the conservatism of accrual accounting prescribes
different thresholds for gains and losses. Companies are prohibited from recognizing
gain contingencies, even if the gain is probable and estimable. However, loss
contingencies must be recorded in the financial statements if the loss is probable
and at least reasonably estimable. If management determines that the loss is not
probable but is at least reasonably possible, the contingency must be disclosed, but
the accrual does not have to be made."


An ex-employee that we spoke with told us their location had an approximate 22%
collection rate on testing performed there. The ex-employee stated to us that they didn't
know how the company could report the revenue from all tests when the company, as a
whole, has a "standard" of collecting on around 30%.


Although the company's free cash flow from operations hit a four period high in this
previous quarter, it still remains 26% below the two-year high. The cash flow seems to be
getting pressured due to long collection periods. If worse comes to worst, this could
eventually lead to debt charge-offs, which could significantly impact the bottom line.


So, we're witnessing revenues up significantly (20%) and free cash flow down 26% from
its two-year high.


In addition, for the last seven quarters, we see weakness in the cash flow from operations
compared to the company's net income. As you can see from this chart, the company's
net income was significantly higher this last quarter versus Q1 2013, yet cash flow from
operations was flat and CFFO as a % of revenue was 126bps lower.
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 20/25


We note that bad debt (per the income statement) as a percentage of net revenues for
BRLI has been between 8.08% and 8.60% for the trailing six quarters. Both LabCorp and
Quest's figures for the same metric for all six trailing quarters have been no lower than
3.6% and no higher than 4.7%. We believe the bad debt expense not to be a product of
revenue growth, but rather the company's inability to collect on balance billing.


BRLI's 10-K language is very strong in identifying the issue of bad debt as being a product
of the company performing tests and reporting results regardless of whether or not it has
the correct billing information.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/12/360252_14181491796438_5.png
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 21/25


"Our bad debt expense is not the result of credit-related issues, as is the case in
most industries. Our bad debt expense is due primarily to missing or incorrect
demographic and billing information on our requisitions. We depend on the
healthcare provider to supply us with this information. We perform the tests and
report the test results as requested on the requisition regardless of whether
the demographic and billing information is correct or even missing altogether.
We then attempt to obtain missing and to correct incorrect information. This adds to
the complexity, slows the invoicing process and generally increases the aging of our
accounts receivable. In addition, we perform all tests requested by the healthcare
provider even though all of the tests ordered by the healthcare provider may not be
reimbursed by the payor; it is our obligation to provide all tests requested by the
healthcare provider. When all issues are not resolved in a timely manner, the
item is written-off to bad debt expense through the allowance for doubtful
accounts. Other items such as pricing differences and payor disputes also
complicate billing. Adjustments to receivables as a result of these types of matters
are accounted for as revenue adjustments and are not written-off to bad debt
expense."


Investment Thesis: Valuation is Robust


We think that the valuation of the company's common stock doesn't impede on the short
thesis at all.


At about 15x forward earnings, the company may not appear - on the surface - to be fully
valued. However, when you consider the declining returns on capital and negative
incremental margins over the past 3 quarters - combined with some of the questionable
practices surrounding BRLI's business - we believe this to be a very rich valuation.


Aside from the very real regulatory risk, to gauge BRLI's future prospects and valuation we
believe that the company is best looked at through a free cash flow lens, due to the fact
that it seems to be having a lack of operating leverage and a DSO problem that may not
go away any time soon.


There is an implied thought with the way the stock is priced that the company has a long
runway of uninterrupted cash generation ahead. With questions like the ones we've raised
in this piece, we're far from assured that the company is going to be able to continue on its
current path.
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 22/25


From an earnings perspective, BRLI is certainly anything but "deep value cheap." We do
not believe the potential for regulatory action, potential for loss of accounts like Horizon, or
potential for the general public to catch on to the company's questionable business
practices have been priced in.


We reached out to Tara Mackay of Bio-Reference Investor Relations and tried to set up a
call with management. We were told that management wasn't available to speak at any
point during the week that we e-mailed her. When we asked about the following week, we
were told there wasn't an opening in management's schedule yet. She recommended we
e-mail her our questions, which we did. She answered one of the ten questions that we e-
mailed her with the company's statement on operations in Connecticut located near the
beginning of this report. The other nine questions asked about subpoenas, regulation on
the industry, margins, anti-kickback laws, and the DSO issue. For these nine questions,
we were offered this one line:


"Your other questions and all material disclosures have been addressed in the
Company's public filings or conference calls with investors that are open to the
general public and are available in the public domain."


We think there could be significant downside here and a great potential for a short.


From a technical perspective, we're watching two things:


1. The company has been continually testing - and looks to have breached - its 200DMA
and 50DMA near $28.40 - which could be the beginning of a bearish technical move.


2. The key $24 support level has been held time after time dating back several years. We
believe if BRLI loses $24, there is an additional downside toward our short-term target
of $19.20.
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 23/25


We believe that BRLI's financial growth could be a partial illusion; we believe the
intangible risks are not priced in here, and we urge caution to investors considering an
investment in Bio-Reference.


Cited sources:


1. FBI.gov
2. Boldride.com
3. Justice.gov
4. Law360.com
5. Medlr.com
6. Bio-Reference Form 10-Q
7. Republican American
8. nhregister.com
9. Bio-Reference Press Release


Disclosure: The author is short BRLI.



http://www.fbi.gov/newark/press-releases/2013/clinical-laboratory-president-and-new-jersey-doctor-others-charged-with-company-in-multi-million-dollar-cash-for-referral-scheme

http://news.boldride.com/2014/08/muscle-car-collection-auction/54612/

http://www.justice.gov/usao/nj/Press/files/Breihof,%20Peter%20et%20al%20Pleas%20News%20Release.html

http://www.law360.com/health/articles/568742/aetna-hits-indicted-medical-lab-with-15m-fraud-suit

http://medlr.com/blog/2013/10/18/phlebotomized-a-doctor-scam-that-costs-you-

http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=84759&p=IROL-secToc&TOC=aHR0cDovL2FwaS50ZW5rd2l6YXJkLmNvbS9vdXRsaW5lLnhtbD9yZXBvPXRlbmsmaXBhZ2U9OTc5MDU1NSZzdWJzaWQ9NTc=&ListAll=1&sXBRL=1

http://www.rep-am.com/Business/831066.txt

http://www.nhregister.com/health/20140905/connecticut-health-department-shuts-down-3-greater-new-haven-blood-collection-centers

http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=84759&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1961354&highlight=

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/12/360252_14181491796438_6.png
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 24/25


Comments (6)


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Stock Doctor, Contributor
Seems like a bunch of little things trying to be made to look like something bigger.


10 Dec 2014, 10:50 AM


jibjib
this article contains mostly old misinformation which the shorts seem to bring out once a year. it will be refuted by the
company especially when they turn in a quarter that beats expectation. currently an activist in the stock may get the
company to maximize shareholder values by selling the company for close to $40.00 per share.


10 Dec 2014, 04:47 PM


labinvestor67
You referenced and provided a link to a three year old Street Sweeper article - in which they disclose a short interest
in the company and profited mightily from the ensuing stock drop. That same Street Sweeper article cited
cafepharma.com, an anonymous bulletin board disgruntled employees, competitors, and trolls use to post anything
they want about a particular company. Not exactly Pulitzer Prize winning sourcing and fact checking... The credibility
of your article, that was otherwise thoughtful and well written, just went to near zero.


BRLI may have also beefed up its anti-kickback language because of the below article based on a WSJ (pretty
credible source...) expose on the billing practices of cardiovascular testing labs - primarily HDL. All other clinical labs
would be wise to do the same.


http://bit.ly/1vV8yt4


There is some valuable insight in this article, but some of the info is dated and the sources suspect.


11 Dec 2014, 11:38 AM


printedit
Another total BS article for the shorts - give up!


12 Dec 2014, 11:47 AM


liuyisa
Thanks for urging my caution. But the technical analysis mentioning "Reaction to Last Quarter's Earnings" is not very
sound. Why did you omit the "Reaction to The Quarter Before Last's Earnings"? On 06/05/2014, BRLI rose 22% in
one day, with volume three times of the volume of "Reaction to Last Quarter's Earnings".



https://seekingalpha.com/author/stock-doctor

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3888811

https://seekingalpha.com/user/35053795

http://bit.ly/1vV8yt4

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2035181

https://seekingalpha.com/user/551748
5/23/2018 Bio-Reference Laboratories Tested: Undisclosed Lawsuit Alleges Fraud, Ex-Employees Speak Out - Bio-Reference Laboratories, Inc. (N…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2745195-bio-reference-laboratories-tested-undisclosed-lawsuit-alleges-fraud-ex-employees-speak-out 25/25


12 Dec 2014, 01:33 PM


Edward J. Roche, Contributor
BRLI bought out at a very large premium by OPKO.


Bad advice/analysis in this article.


04 Jun 2015, 10:05 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/edward-j-roche
