5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 1/46


Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share
Jul. 31, 2015 6:45 AM ET29 comments
by: Prescience Point


Summary


In this report, we release new evidence that reinforces our short thesis that ANFI is
fabricating its SEC financial statements and that its financial condition is unraveling.


Amira has yet to file its audited financials for FYE March '15 with the SEC,
presumably due to heightened scrutiny of the company's accounts by its auditor,
Deloitte.


Deloitte should find useful the interview transcripts provided, in which several former
Amira insiders either aired their concerns or told how to unearth malfeasance at the
company.


The recent plunge in Basmati and paddy prices has reduced Amira's credit
availability, potentially resulting in a liquidity crunch and heightening the risk of
bankruptcy.


We believe Amira is hoodwinking investors and has no intention of providing a return
to shareholders; we think ANFI stock is worth $0.00/share and should be de-listed
from the NYSE.


Introduction


On February 9, 2015, Prescience Point published a research paper on Amira Nature
Foods (NYSE:ANFI) ("Amira"), entitled "A Collection of Lies with Leverage on Top" (the
"Initiating Report"). The report summarized evidence gathered over a 5-month period
suggesting ANFI is fabricating its SEC financial statements, and demonstrated its striking
resemblance to fraudulent US-listed Chinese RTOs we exposed in the past.


ANFI continues to hold our interest for 4 reasons:


1. The company has yet to file its FY'15 (fiscal year ended 3/31/2015) audited financials
with the SEC, presumably due to heightened scrutiny of Amira's accounts by its auditor
Deloitte. We believe Deloitte may find great use in the new information shared in this
report, much of which comes directly from former insiders.


2. Amira has yet to directly address or refute in a public forum the droves of evidence of
malfeasance presented in our report. The few vague responses it has provided seem



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ANFI

http://www.presciencepoint.com/reports/ANFI_Report_2-9-2015.pdf
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 2/46


meant to confuse and mislead. The release of new information is necessary towards
exposing the truth.


3. The more we look, the more we find; we are continuing to unearth new evidence that
reinforces our thesis that ANFI's financials are a fiction.


4. We believe that ANFI's drawing power has fallen and it is potentially navigating a
liquidity crunch, a result of the recent plunge in Basmati and paddy prices (which
suggests that its reported inventory values are highly inflated). The company's
successful courting of investors has become a matter of survival. Yet, we are intrigued
by the audacity of Karan Chanana, who is unwavering in his intent to siphon off
investor funds. ANFI's FQ3'15 earnings presentation states that the company remains
intent on transferring $30m into his pockets, in what amounts to a sham real estate
transaction.


To be clear, we believe Amira Nature Foods is fabricating the financials it is filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We hope that ANFI's shareholders
and those considering investing in ANFI debt or equity at what appears to be a
fundamentally low valuation familiarize themselves with the risks we have
addressed. There are many more we have not. We also hope that law enforcement
authorities, regulatory agencies, and Deloitte take the necessary precautions in
protecting investors.


Because we believe Amira is hoodwinking investors and has no intention of providing a
meaningful return to public foreign shareholders, we think ANFI stock is fundamentally
worth $0.00/share and should be de-listed from the New York Stock Exchange.


Interviews with Several Former Insiders All Point To...


We queried every ANFI former employee, executive, and director we spoke with as to the
validity of the red flags we were unearthing over the course of our investigation. Not one
of them defended Amira's integrity or dismissed our general concern. Instead, each
seemed to agree that we ought to be concerned, hint at or corroborate aspects of
malfeasance, and/or direct us as to where to look to find the improprieties.


"Again... you should focus on the disclosure detail, because that's where you'll find issues, not on the


structure and holdings and companies".


The Whistleblower... ? Former Insider Says Focus on Clients, Suppliers and
Volumes to Find the "Issues"
The below extract is from our conversation with Rahul Nayar. Nayar:


[1] [2]
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 3/46


Is CEO Karan Chanana's brother in law.
Is a former UBS banker with an extensive capital markets background.
Architected and ran Amira's US IPO, and was paid a success fee of 2% of the total
size of the IPO (~$2m) upon its successful completion.
Served as Amira's director of Global Communications and Strategy from October 2012
to March 2013.


Not only does he not refute that ANFI is inflating its financials, he seems to hint that it is
and tells us where to look for proof.


Nayar repeatedly suggests that investors should focus on Amira's top 10-20 customers
and suppliers, paying close attention to:


1. whether they are independent;
2. how their contracts were won; and
3. the sizes of their businesses relative to how much in goods they're buying from /


selling to Amira, to assess whether the sizes in which they are transacting make
any sense at all.


He repeatedly told us that investors should also focus on volumes


Nayar repeatedly emphasized that:


Amira's level of disclosure is inadequate.
Analysts are missing the boat and are not asking the right questions.
The US investing public doesn't care to verify company claims, so long as it is
reporting strong revenue growth... that is, until the company goes "south". (He
repeated this sentiment several times over the course of our call: US investors are not
asking the right questions; all they focus on is top-line growth.)


He left us with the following thought: "Again... you should focus on the disclosure detail,
because that's where you'll find issues, not on the structure and holdings and
companies. There's nothing there, trust me".


PP: We've spoken to a lot of people on the ground [in India], tried to survey the industry to


get to know it better. [We spoke with many] experts, other exporters, etc. They [all] seem to


say it's common for companies in this business to inflate their turnover 25-30%. [Doing so] is


necessary, they say, to obtain adequate financing. Most of the exporters, they say, are pretty


stretched financially, and so, it's common practice that that's done. Is that your general


experience as well?
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 4/46


RN: ... at the end of the day, I think investors should definitely spend more time looking at the top 12-


15 clients, right, and how those contracts were won, you know, with Kuwait and Saudi and other


places they go to - because it's a bidding process - and how they won. Who are your top 15 clients?


And in the same way, because what you are implying is that they sell to somebody, which is a fake


sale and that guy in the future sells it back to them or something like that, right?


So I think if you look at the top 10-20 clients of the company and then look at the top 10-20 providers


of product, and make sure they are independent, that should either give you a good or bad answer, I


would think. And I don't think people have asked.


PP: Yes, I don't think Amira discloses this type of information to its investors.


RN: ... you know, in the US the [investing] public, as long as you show good revenue growth, you


know, no one bothers you until you go south, right?


PP: Sure, nobody bothers you.


RN: So I think that's an area, for sure, where people should spend some time and get comfortable or


not as to who the customers are, how the contracts are won, you know, are these guys


independent? If not, what is the size of the business, right? Are these clients big or small compared


to what they're buying from the company? All that stuff, I think people have done, even the analysts


have done, you know, zero job on, zero.


PP: I think… so basically, what you're saying is figure out who the top customers are and


then …


RN: Yes, look, I'm answering your question and I'm saying I [thought] that too for Indian rice


companies, right? How do they do it? I mean, are they over-invoiced, or do they sell to somebody


else and, you know, stuff it in the channels and get it back later? You buy it back later, you know, you


sell something and buy it back, and sell something again. You have this kind of virtuous circle.


But I'm saying the only way you can know whether that's true or not is to look at the top 20


customers, right? Because, I mean, at the end of the day, the top 20 customers' sales need to match


to the overall sales, or at least a large part of your overall sales, right?


PP: Yes, they're definitely not disclosing that, the top 20.


RN: On an annual basis, they've got to. I know the IPO, they did. If you look at the IPO prospectus,


it's in there.


PP: They absolutely do not. They do not disclose the names of the top 20 customers.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 5/46


RN: In the IPO prospectus, you should check... unless maybe the banks did the work for the


diligence and then, you know, did not disclose it, but those are things which, you know, that's our


lack. You know, they ask you things like volume. You know, they should disclose volume, right?


...


and I'm surprised no one has asked. I'm just shocked that no one on the Street has asked for the


volume numbers. That just boggles my mind.


PP: They do not disclose volume.





RN: I know that, and that's one issue that I had with them. That's why I am not part of that thing at


all, and we had not a very good way to exit, because there were very simple things which they


should disclose, which they did not want to as IR. I said, "If you can't disclose this, then I can't be


involved", right?


PP: Right.





RN: But at the end of the day, I think those are the questions which... those are very simple


questions people should be asking.


... But at the end of the day, I think if you focus on the end clients - I think you should - and volume


are two ways to look at the numbers. I mean, for example, if they are saying that their numbers


volume is a million tons, while the overall in the market is only two million tons, then you know that's


incorrect, right?


PP: Yes…





RN: Look, you should definitely get a handle, as an analyst, whether the company, you know, on


volume, right? What are volume sales? You should definitely get a handle on the top 20 customers


or top 30 customers in India also and, you know, the top 20 providers of rice paddy, raw materials,


right?


Are they independent? How big are they? How small are they? You know, these are very important


things for disclosure, and I'm surprised people haven't asked for it.


Again... you should focus on the disclosure detail, because that's where you'll find issues, not on the


structure and holdings and companies. There's nothing there, trust me.


Former Audit Committee Member Relays Concern, Confirms Largest Customer was
Undisclosed Related Party
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 6/46


The below is an extract of our conversation with a former Amira independent board
member. He has an extensive capital markets background, and served on each of Amira's
Compensation, Corporate Governance, Nominating, and Audit Committees. He stepped
down from Amira's board in September 2013 due to issues with his back (to our
knowledge, he continues to serve on the boards of other companies).


He was concerned about high CFO turnover at Amira, agreeing it is a red flag.
He said Amira was still doing business with Karam Industries (an undisclosed related
party) when he stepped down from the board, and indicated Karam was the company's
largest customer.
He is concerned by the potential related party issues.


PP: I see, I got you. Yes, you know, in conducting our research of the company, we've just


come across so many different red flags, including accounting red flags… and I was just


wondering whether you noticed anything while you were there that caught your attention and


made you second-guess your [board] position?


Former Audit Committee Member**: While I was there - I'm not sure that's still the case - the turnover


at the company was relatively high, and that always creates questions in my mind... if you're seeing


red flags, that would definitely be something that would worry me personally... if you have concerns


over the financials, I would definitely be very cautionary how I go forward.


PP: As you mentioned, there's been a lot of turnover in the CFO role, right? So, there's like


four different CFOs in a span of three years… that's a huge red flag…


Former Audit Committee Member: Absolutely.


PP: And I know you were on the audit committee. Were you aware, you know, are you aware


of all these different related parties that exist? There are tons of companies, some of which


operate in the same business as Amira that are or were stationed at Amira's own


headquarters…


Karam Industries is known to be owned by Chanana's father. Going into Amira's IPO in 2012,


that entity appears to have injected funds into Amira [after a shipment of its Amira rice was


seized by the Philippines government], receiving no effective value in exchange; Amira


turned around and booked those funds as revenue, enabling it to tout growing sales. There's


another one called Amira Enterprises. Amira Enterprises is [owned and] controlled by Karan


Chanana. Official records show that it is the same business as ANFI, and is based at Amira


India's headquarters.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 7/46


What is your take is on this kind of information?


Former Audit Committee Member: ... the two issues that you're raising, which would certainly cause


me pause, if you believe that the numbers are inflated, and then if you believe that there's all of


these inter-company... [I think] the concerns that you're raising... are certainly valid...


PP: Karam Enterprises, this company used to display on its website that it is Amira's sole


distributor in the Middle East and some African nations. Is that still the case?


Former Audit Committee Member: It was when I stepped off the board. Is it still the case today? I


don't know.


PP: In claiming that it is Amira's sole distributor to the Middle East and to these specific


African nations, does that basically mean that Karam was Amira's biggest customer - that it


would buy all this rice from Amira and then distribute it to the end-customer. That's what that


means, right, sole distributor?


Former Audit Committee Member: I believe that's correct, yes.


**Former ANFI independent Director, member of Audit, Comp, Corporate Gov, and Nominating


committees


Then, completely unprompted, as we were ending our call, he reinforced his concern:


Former Audit Committee Member: ... coming back to what you were saying in terms of the financials


and the turnover, that really does concern me.


PP: The related party stuff?





Former Audit Committee Member: Yes, yes.


Former Lower-Level Employees Corroborate Existence of Transactions with
Undisclosed Related Parties


Per our Initiating Report, our investigative team in India surveyed rice industry experts,
grain exporters, and current and former Amira employees. Per the interview summaries
provided in our initial report, our investigators were consistently told that it is standard
practice for Indian rice companies to inflate sales by 25-30% in order to meet funding
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 8/46


requirements. Former Amira employees said that the company is no different in this
regard, and that related party dealings among Amira group companies made it difficult to
keep track of transactions within the group. (Our summaries of these conversations can
be found in our Initiating Report, which can be downloaded from our website.)


Former Amira CFO Corroborates the Role of Undisclosed Related Party
Transactions to Inflate Revenue


The below extracts from our conversation with one of Amira's former CFOs ("CFO1") were
included in our Initiating Report. He corroborated that Amira is inflating its revenue; he
also claims it forges its inventory count to its bank loan officers. While these acts can be
played off as "standard practice" in an emerging economy, they are not legal acts in the
United States.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 9/46


PP: What are your thoughts on these [claims as relayed to us]? What about the claims of


inflating turnover by 25-30% being standard industry practice, and that Amira must also be


inflating [its turnover]?


CFO1**: Yes, that is very much true, and that's something that the industry does... let's say for


inventory, let's say that they have 50 million inventory, they get financing of at least 25% extra. That's


because they inflate that inventory number, and that is an industry practice...


PP: Got it. And again, the former junior executive with [Amira's] export team, he said Amira


has a host of companies in its group that deal among themselves, as well as third parties.


The source, he felt that it was difficult to keep track of the transactions within the group. Is


that how it's inflating its turnover? Is that how it's done?


CFO1: Yes, that is how they use this to work on numbers, as well as transferring funds across


businesses for use for a particular purpose...


PP: We've identified many, many other companies that seem to be based in Amira's corporate


headquarters or share its registered address. How are we to think about that?


CFO1: This is typical of an Indian company, where they try to open up new company setups for


various reasons. One is sometimes to have related party transactions to show loss in one entity and


profit in another entity... I would say that it is more of a deliberate attempt to - not specific to Amira,


but sometimes a lot of companies do that - and then they try to open up these separate entities to


either continue doing business [via the new entity], and have the "real" company close down


sometimes. So that's a very typical kind of way in which some of them are involved with themselves.


PP: Could this be a deliberate attempt to manipulate the financial statements?


CFO1: To manipulate the routing of funds... So it is their method of moving funds around... If you


look at it purely from a transfer pricing perspective, that is where they can mess around. That's how


they work around.


How you build arm's length transactions is a very important definition there, and so how you build the


transfer pricing mechanism. So [they can play with] that particular stuff, an auditor can do [a check


showing that something] is not right, but if he's not sure, then he will say, "Okay fine. I'm not


so sure about that". So that's how it'll work out. It's an area of gray, not white or black, so that is


how they will try to structure those transactions.


**CFO1 is a former CFO at ANFI
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 10/46


Interviews with KRBL's CFO Point to Fabricated Financials at Amira


In our Initiating Report, we estimated that Amira is vastly overstating its India branded
Basmati revenue, based off of statements made during conversations with KRBL's CFO.
KRBL is the #1 branded Basmati company, with 30% and 25% shares in the branded
Basmati domestic and export markets, respectively. Specifically, KRBL's CFO told us that
the company doesn't see much in terms of brand visibility from Amira in India. He cast
doubt on Amira's revenue claims, and stated that Amira's market share "is much less than
5%".


Rather than issuing a detailed refutation of our analysis, about a week after our report was
published, Amira issued a press release, in what appears to be a wholesale attempt at
discrediting it. According to the press release, KRBL Limited Chairman and Managing
Director Anil Kumar Mittal denounced our report and expressed shock at "the false and
misleading statements attributed to KRBL". Further, Mittal is said to have doubled down,
claiming "we did not enter into making these factually inaccurate statements that have
been attributed to KRBL".


The press release amounts to smoke and mirrors. Mittal's refutation covers what he calls
"irresponsible and factually inaccurate statements" that Prescience Point "attributed to
KRBL". Note that he isn't refuting anything specific from our report, and he is in no way



http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20150217006154/en/KRBL-Support-Amira-Nature-Foods-Denounces-Factually#.Vbn0evlVhBc

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/7/31/saupload_1.jpg
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 11/46


blessing Amira's financials. And Mittal is not KRBL's CFO, whom we spoke with
extensively and quote in our report.


In response, we are releasing more from our conversation with KRBL's CFO. Per the
below, he refers to Amira as a "show-off business" with a "market share [that] is much
less… than five percent", that is "not making money", and "will very soon go broke like REI
[Agro] did". He indicates that, because Amira does not have a significant branded
presence, and because it does not have significant market share in Basmati, it may be
generating revenues from trading in non-Basmati "just to gain numbers".


PP: When you are out in the field, conducting business and competing, do you feel Amira's


presence, and to what degree? How strong is Amira's brand, you think, in the Indian market?


KRBL: They have a presence only in the metro cities, like in Delhi, Mumbai, those kinds of cities,


and mostly in the malls only... But not anywhere else, and that too, they are more kind of show-off


business. You know, they spend too much money in buying the space in the stores to display their


product. No, no, we don't believe in that story. We see that customer pull has to be there. Displaying


your product is not going to help you.


So they spend a lot of money on those kinds of things, which we don't. So there you can see their


presence in some of the stores and see that they are players, but it does not mean that demand is


created. The product has to be good, they have to compete. Their market share is much less, less


than five percent here. We don't perceive them as a threat at all. They are spending a lot of money


so that... but only in the metros, and then only in the high-end retail chains.


... Since they're not making money, how long will they sustain? They will very soon go broke like REI


did. So it doesn't make a difference to us.


PP: Less than 5%? Amira reports having generated $224m of branded sales in India in FY'14.


We estimate $170m of that was from branded Basmati. (Note: KRBL in FY'14 generated


~$230m from and has a 30% market share in branded Basmati in India.)


KRBL: That is where we are surprised. Where are they selling? At $220m - that is Rs 1,500 crore -


Amira is reporting almost the same level of sales as KRBL, maybe a little more. But where are they


selling? We have a 30% market share, and they have less than 5% market share. Where are they


selling? That's where we are concerned.


...
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 12/46


They may be trading into non-Basmati business. They may be doing some trading business, they're


buying and selling and doing without much profit. They're not into the branded segment that much.


Their presence is not that much. Their market share is not there in Basmati, so maybe they're doing


some trading in non-Basmati just to gain numbers.


PP: No, well, they tell investors Amira is primarily a Basmati business. Specifically, they say


that Basmati was 65% of revenue in FY'2014. That includes domestic and international


business. So, on Amira's reported revenue of $550m, that equates to $357m of Basmati sold.


KRBL: I have no comment, because we don't find them so much.


Note that KRBL's CFO compares ANFI's fate to that of REI Agro, which was one of the 3
largest Basmati companies in India:


REI took on significant debts "in a bid to enhance Basmati processing capacity and
setting up warehousing and packaging facility" (similar to ANFI's desire to do so
today).
As discussed extensively in our Initiation Report, the Indian rice industry is rampant
with fraud. Per KRBL's CFO, "REI, you know, the business model of REI was not,
there were no real sales of REI and the business model was not sustainable so they
have defaulted, as such, the banks... [are] having deep problems".
This recent Bloomberg article discusses how investors ended up after lending to REI
Agro. The owners of that company may have conned investors using undisclosed
related parties, what the article refers to as a "web of sham rice-trading companies".


REI Agro - this is the company that KRBL's CFO thinks of when relating to ANFI.


ANFI Backs Itself into a Corner - Evidence of Revenue Fabrication Appears
Conclusive


We believe ANFI to be vastly overstating its reported revenue. In our Initiation Report, we
ballparked that a full 52.6% of ANFI's sales are suspect - indicating potential revenue
overstatement of >100% - by conducting 2 assessments:


1. A comparison of ANFI's reported Indian Basmati sales and an estimate for the same
we derived based on a market share assumption for ANFI suggested by the CFO of
KRBL.


2. A comparison of ANFI's claimed international Basmati sales and data for the same on
record with India's Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development



http://www.dnaindia.com/money/report-banks-look-at-reviving-rei-agro-as-basmati-biggie-turns-npa-1992849

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-01-20/credit-suisse-sues-rei-agro-in-singapore-over-alleged-loan-fraud
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 13/46


Authority (APEDA), which indicated Amira overstated its Basmati export sales by
~145% in FY'13 and ~117% in FY'14.


In the sub-sections to follow, we provide a more conclusive validation of our analysis in
light of APEDA data, which we believe amounts to smoking gun evidence that ANFI is
fabricating its revenues. We also evaluate the company's responses to our allegations;
ANFI issued "never-before-seen" disclosures about its sources of revenue that amount to
a material shift from how it has historically described its own business. We anticipated the
response given, as prior to the release of our report, Rahul Nayar predicted it for us.


We conclude that:


If the "sources of revenue" disclosures the company consistently provided prior to the
release of our Initiation Report represent its reality, Amira's international Basmati
revenue should closely correspond to the export data APEDA reports. That it
does not correspond amounts to smoking gun evidence that ANFI is fabricating
revenues.
If the never-before-seen "sources of revenue" disclosures ANFI provided within a
month after release of our Initiation Report (and which, we should note, conflict with
previous representations made with consistency since ANFI's IPO) represent its reality,
Amira is recording sales made by third parties in its name; this would not only
amount to violation of IAS 18 (Revenue Recognition), but also revenue
fabrication.


In either case, we believe that ANFI has backed itself into a corner.


Recap of Findings from Initiation Report - ANFI International Basmati Revenues
Grossly Inflated


The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) is
the governing body overseeing agricultural exports in India. As such, APEDA issues
permits for, oversees, and keeps official record of all Basmati shipments leaving India. It
compiles an annual export statistics table that ranks the top 20 Indian exporters of
Basmati by export volume and discloses their Basmati export turnover.


APEDA ranks ANFI's primary operating subsidiary Amira Pure Foods Private Limited
("Amira Pure Foods", or "Amira India") as India's 14th-largest Basmati exporter, with
Basmati export turnover of ~$68.6m in FY'13 and ~$87.4m in FY'14. In contrast, using
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 14/46


assumptions blessed by company management, we estimate the ANFI claims in its
financial reports to have generated Basmati export revenue of ~$168.4m in FY'13 and
~$189.5m in FY'14 - over 2x the turnover on official record with APEDA.  Accordingly:


Amira overstated its Basmati export sales by ~145% in FY'13 and ~117% in FY'14.
The company overstated its Basmati exports by ~$100m in FY'13 and ~$102m in
FY'14, implying that at least ~24% and ~18.7% of ANFI total sales in FY'13 and FY'14,
respectively, were fabricated.


APEDA Data Reliably Represents All Basmati Exports Made by Amira Pure Foods
("Amira India")


APEDA data reliably represents all Basmati export turnover generated by Amira Pure
Foods. According to ANFI's FY'14 20-F, Amira Pure Foods is ANFI's sole Indian
subsidiary. It houses all ANFI's India-based assets, including its manufacturing facilities
and warehouses, and is described to have the principal activity of "processing and selling
packaged Indian specialty rice, primarily Basmati rice and other food products".


APEDA issues permits for, oversees and keeps official record of all Basmati
shipments leaving India.


[3]
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 15/46


APEDA is the governing body overseeing agricultural exports in India; it is the sole
regulator responsible for registering exporters, issuing licenses and ensuring product
quality. According to Section 12 of the APEDA Act and requirements mandated by
APEDA, every exporter must register with APEDA and obtain an allotment for the
quantity intended to be exported, after which the exporter may be granted a
Registration cum Allocation certificate (RCAC). An RCAC is essential for any shipment
to leave the port.
We spoke with an APEDA-authorized representative, who confirmed that any exporter
who wants to obtain an RCAC (an allotment for the quantity to be exported) must
submit an executed export contract. An export contract represents a sale deed or other
document reflecting transfer of title to goods to a party outside India.


PP: … We have gone through Sec.12, which talks of the registration of exporters. I'm just


seeing that an exporter needs to obtain a RCAC in order to export Basmati rice?


APEDA representative: Right, right. The exporter is required to submit his application for registration


of export contract for export of Basmati rice to APEDA, and we shall issue after registering the


contract, an RCAC, that is, Registration cum Allocation certificate, (which) means a particular


quantity is allocated to him.


APEDA records the export in the name of the exporter who holds the RCAC and ships
in its own name (i.e., who owns and is transferring the title to the goods). Also, APEDA
captures the FOB (Free on Board) value of Basmati exported.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 16/46


FOB value, as per the Indian Customs Act, represents the sale value or market value
of goods of Basmati as it leaves port. As discussed below, the value of Basmati FOB
on a ship leaving India should closely correspond with revenue generated when it is
later sold on the international market.


Amira Pure Foods Ships All ANFI international Sales of Basmati∴ ANFI International
Basmati Sales Should ≈ APEDA Data


As demonstrated in this section, according to statements made by Rahul Nayar and
current ANFI management, all Basmati sold internationally by ANFI is sourced from
and exported by Amira India. As a result, the export value of all the ANFI's
international Basmati sales should be reflected in the name of Amira Pure Foods
(Amira India), as per APEDA data.


Rahul Nayar confirms that all ANFI Basmati sold internationally passes through and
is exported by Amira India.


According to Rahul Nayar, all ANFI international sales of Basmati are shipped from
India by Amira Pure Foods (refer to below text box). Nayar explicitly mentions that the
billing may go through Amira DMCC as a matter of business, but all the rice comes
from India itself. We would like to place emphasis on this statement, since ANFI
appears to be using this nuance to misdirect investors as to the comparability of
"international sales" with the APEDA data (as discussed in a following section).


PP: How do the company's international sales work? Does Amira India export rice to Amira


DMCC, which then distributes it? Is that basically how it works?


RN: ... all the goods are shipped from India directly, right? I mean, [Basmati] rice is only made in


India, and then it's shipped directly to the client... I mean, Basmati rice can only be made in India, so


it has to be shipped from India by Amira Pure Food to the customer directly. The billing may go


through Amira DMCC as a matter of business... But all the rice actually comes from India itself,


right?


Nayar's statement clarifies that while the Basmati export turnover is generated by
Amira Pure Foods (the export value of which would be recorded by APEDA), ANFI's
financial reports might reflect these exports as "international Basmati revenue" of an
international subsidiary (DMCC in this case) and not Amira Pure Foods.
Regardless of billing and reporting of ANFI, since all of the Basmati that ANFI sells
internationally is exported by Amira India, the APEDA data should closely correspond
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 17/46


with ANFI's consolidated international Basmati sales.
Amira management's consistent stance on processing, outsourcing and sale of
Basmati rice, exported by Amira India.
Before Prescience Point called attention to the variance between Amira's international
Basmati revenue and APEDA data, Amira was consistent (dating back to its IPO) in
describing its -


1. sources of revenue; and
2. relationships with outsourced third parties.


Specifically, according to the statements made by Karan Chanana and Bruce Wacha
(quoted below), all of Amira's rice exports will pass through its Indian facility, and Amira
Pure Foods has control over the product, including rice processed by third parties.
Specifically, they state:


66-70% of ANFI's rice revenue is from rice that is processed or finished in-
house by Amira Pure Foods.
33-35% of ANFI's rice revenue is from rice that is processed using
outsourced capacity, but which is still owned/controlled by Amira Pure Foods.


Hence, there should be no, or insignificant, variance between ANFI's international Basmati
sales and Amira Pure Foods' Basmati export turnover, as published by APEDA.


CEO Karan Chanana's statements


Karan Chanana states that (at least) 66-70% of ANFI rice sales are sourced from
its Indian facility.
Quoted below (in the text box) are several public statements made by CEO Karan
Chanana, wherein he consistently describes the sources of ANFI's rice revenue and its
relationship with third-party outsourcing.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 18/46


To support our growth, we're expanding capacity... Currently, we process on a completely integrated


basis 1/3 of our sales. For another 1/3, we have reprocessing capacity where we buy semi-finished


and semi-aged product. And for the balance, we use co-packers and wet lease facilities. So when


we increase capacity to come on-stream a year from now by Feb-March next year, we're going to


bring in some of the margin we currently leave on the table, because the sales for the increased


capacity already exists.


Karan Chanana, Earnings Conference Presentation (6/25/2014)


We're increasing our capacity to support our growth, over 2x... We currently process on a fully


integrated barley to rice business 1/3 of our sales. For another 35%, we buy semi-finished rice and


semi-aged rice. So we do in-house almost 70%. In addition to that, we have 3 wet lease facilities and


we use go co-packers. So now, with our expansion of capacity, 2 things will happen. One, the sales


for increased capacity already exist. Two, we're going to bring in some of the margin, which we


currently leave on the table. When we doubled capacity in 2010, the following year, we brought in


170 basis points on an increased revenue base.


Karan Chanana, Citi 2014 Global Consumer Conference (5/29/2014)


Currently, we process 1/3 of our sales in an integrated paddy to rice manner. We process another


1/3 in a reprocess manner, where we buy semi-finished rice and semi aged rice. We bring it in-house


to the same plant and homogenize it with our production. We have wet - in addition to that, for the


balance, we have 2 wet lease facilities, and we'll use some co-packers... we were going to bring in


some of the margin we currently leave on the table for the third-party processors...


Karan Chanana, UBS Global Consumer Conference (3/12/2014)


Chanana states that Amira's sales are from finished product processed in 1 of 3 ways:


1. 1/3 of sales is from rice processed on a fully integrated basis at its facility;
2. 1/3 of sales is from semi-processed rice that has been finished at its facility; and
3. 1/3 of sales is from rice processed/finished on an outsourced basis by third parties (co-


packers and wet lease facilities).


CFO Bruce Wacha statements


Bruce Wacha confirms that Amira retains OWNERSHIP on goods, which are
outsourced to third parties for processing (30-33%).
Wacha also elaborates on ANFI's relationship with these third parties, confirming that
they only act as service providers, and Amira is basically renting the processing
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 19/46


equipment. In other words, Amira India retains ownership of goods outsourced to the
third parties and exports them in its own (Amira) name.


PP: … I didn't understand what wet-lease facilities are. What are co-packers and wet-lease


facilities?


Wacha: It's almost like a co-packer arrangement. So, basically, you're dealing with a third-party mill,


but it's your product, as opposed to buying something from somebody else after they [process it].


PP: Okay, so they package the product for you? 





Wacha: In other words, they have a mill, and we're running it through their system because we don't


have enough capacity in ours.


PP: So it sounds like, then, that that doesn't pass through your processing facility, or does it?


Do you take ownership?


Wacha: It just depends on certain stages, but some portion of that, you're actually purchasing that


rice in raw stage, and we have a trust relationship with a guy who has a mill that doesn't want to lay


out the working capital and doesn't have the organization, that we're basically renting the processing


equipment from him.


He also confirms that at some point all of Amira's exports will pass through its Indian
facility, and Amira Pure Foods has CONTROL of the product.


PP: I really just wanted to kind of understand how you're getting the product, and then, how it


moves to your domestic and then international clients. What I'm hearing is that the Indian


subsidiary acquires all the raw materials, all the inventory, all of which passes through your


processing facility, and then you sell the rice to either Indian distributors or Indian


supermarkets through your warehouses or to your international subsidiaries - there's a


transaction there - and then ship them the rice [or you] distribute it to the end-customer. Is


that accurate?


Wacha: That's a pretty good assessment.


PP: So all the rice, all the Basmati and I guess most of the other rice is passing through the


facility?


Wacha: Yes, we're going to have control, we're going to touch it at some point. It's just, like I said,


where in the lifecycle.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 20/46


In sum, as per Wacha's statements, all of Amira's Basmati passes through and is
shipped from the Amira India facility. As such, 100% of ANFI's Basmati exports will be
reflected in the data reported by APEDA; as a result, there should be no, or
insignificant, variance between ANFI's international sales of Basmati and APEDA data
for Amira Pure Foods.


Even if after being exported, some rice is sold internationally with a margin over
and above export value, the variance is too large to explain.


It is possible that ANFI performs incrementally value-add activities outside of India
pertaining to final finishing and/or packaging of exported Basmati product, then sells
the finished Basmati at a higher price (than the export price). In such a case, APEDA
Basmati export data will reflect a slightly lower value than international Basmati sales
bookable by a consolidated ANFI; however, the variance from the APEDA data would
be minimal.
FOB value is computed in accordance with provisions of the Indian Customs Act and
Sec.14 of the Indian Customs Act, which specify that: 
 
"For the purposes of the Customs Tariff Act... or any other law for the time being in
force, the value of… export goods shall be the transaction value… that is to say, the
price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold… for delivery at the time and
place of exportation".
Since FOB value represents the sale value at the time of exportation, and most of the
value-add is in the processing of Basmati, even if ANFI adds incremental margin via its
international subsidiaries, the company's reported international Basmati sales would
still very closely tie up in value with the APEDA export data for Amira Pure Foods.
Given that all Basmati product passes through Amira India's facility, it is safe to
assume the variance on account of differences in sales prices booked by the
company's international subsidiaries and Amira India (on the export) cannot be
significant. On this basis, the sizeable variance of ~117% between ANFI's FY'14
estimated international Basmati sales and export data on record with APEDA cannot
be justified.


The former CFO of Amira confirms that Amira's International Basmati sales should
match with APEDA data


** CFO1 is a former CFO at ANFI
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 21/46


PP: We're having a hard time reconciling a lot of the numbers when we take a deeper look at


the company. We're seeing large discrepancies between data Amira reports to investors and


corollary data collected by APEDA… For example, in FY'13, Amira reports international


Basmati sales of ~$168m; APEDA, on the other hand, shows Amira to have generated only


~$69m of Basmati export turnover. So Amira's number is 2.4x the official data.


CFO1: If [APEDA] is saying $69 million is paid out, then I don't know [why Amira] will show this as


$158 million. There is no reason why Amira should show that. So I can't comment on why they would


show that, really.


PP: Got it, because it should be pretty straightforward [in comparison]?


CFO1: Right, the revenue is a straightforward number, $69m; if it is the number, then that's the


number that Amira should show.


On inquiry, the former CFO of ANFI confirmed that a sizeable variance between ANFI
Basmati sales and the APEDA export number should not exist, and ANFI should report
export sales in line with APEDA data.


Reputable Competitors Report Basmati Export Sales Comparable to Data on Record
with APEDA


We note that non-fraudulent Indian Basmati exporters report Basmati export sales
comparable to the export data compiled by APEDA.


Per the table below (pasted from our Initiation Report), KRBL and LT Foods are the
dominant players in ANFI's industry. They have the #1 and #2 market shares,
respectively, for the sale of branded Basmati in India. KRBL also has the #1 export
share for branded Basmati. Their export numbers line up with APEDA's.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 22/46


Nayar predicts ANFI's justification for the variance with APEDA data amounts to
Revenue Recognition Violation


Before publishing our Initiation Report, Rahul Nayar gave us a lead on how Amira, if
confronted, might attempt to explain the enormous mismatch between its international
Basmati revenues and the export data as per APEDA reports.
Nayar reiterated ANFI's statements (as mentioned in previous sections) that Amira
outsources some of its production to third parties. He stated that Amira might claim
that these third parties ship the product directly to the customer in their (the third
party's) name, which would explain the variance to the extent of product sourced from
these third parties. We noted that Amira had never before described its outsourcing to
third parties in this manner.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 23/46


PP: Okay, so on that note, I do have an interesting figure for you. I just want to pass this by


you. We pulled some data from APEDA. APEDA says that Amira Pure Foods exported 58,000


metric tons of Basmati rice with a dollar value of $68 million in FY2013. We estimate the


revenue from Basmati exports claimed by Amira in its SEC filings to be $168m.


RN: Yes, yes, look I think these are large numbers; if I were you, I would ask the question on a call,


right?


... you know the company only manufactures a part of its rice, right? [The remainder] is outsourced,


so did they have [the outsourced third party] ship it to the client in [the 3rd party's] name? If they did


that, then [Amira] can't count it as international sales, can they, right?


So I mean, you know, that would be an answer "somebody" would give, "Oh, but I outsourced it".


"Yes, but if you outsourced it, then it's not international sales to you; it is, instead, sales for


that manufacturer or outsourcer". Right? So I think that's a very valid question, and there were


some things I struggled with before when I was there. But I don't think the US market cares as long


as the revenue numbers are what they are.


Accounting implications: Both IFRS guidance and APEDA regulations require the
recognition of revenue on export sales in the name of the entity exporting the goods.
Hence, in case a third party is shipping products in its own name, the revenue should be
recorded by the third party, not Amira.


APEDA: Since the third-party outsourcer is exporting the Basmati in its name, APEDA
will allot the RCAC and record the export in the third party's name.
IFRS: Allotment is granted by APEDA based on the export contract, which represents
the transfer of the title to goods. IAS 18 mandates the transfer of significant risks
and rewards associated with the ownership of goods as one of the criteria for
revenue recognition. In this case, since exports are made by third party in its name,
export contract will be in third party's name, and consequently, the transfer of
ownership (and risks and rewards) is also made by the third party. Hence, it is
conclusive that the sale is made by the third party. Amira recording these sales
made by third parties would not only amount to violation of IAS 18, but also
revenue fabrication.


ANFI Responds as Nayar Predicted - It Appears to have Cornered Itself into
Admission of Revenue Fabrication
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 24/46


Less than one month following the publication of our research, we noticed a never-
before-made, ambiguous disclosure in ANFI's Q3'15 earnings results presentation that
is in line with the Rahul Nayar's statements. On a slide titled, "A Deeper Look at ANFI's
Sources of Revenue", Amira states, "Sales recorded outside of India includes product
sourced from Amira India, as well as from 3rd parties in India and internationally".
To our knowledge, ANFI has never before, in its history as a public company,
stated that sales recorded from outside India are sourced from third parties,
neither in its SEC filings, nor on publicly accessible conference calls. This is new
language that appears to contradict how management has described Amira's business
consistently and without waiver since ANFI's IPO.
As Nayar suggested, it appears to amount to a tacit admission of malfeasance -
a violation of IAS 18 and fabricated financial statements.


That ANFI is retroactively introducing new language - finding a "new way" of explaining its
business model - within a month after the release of smoking gun evidence about the
company is inflating its financials seems a failed shot in the dark attempt at sweeping the
evidence under the rug.


Even if these new disclosures represent ANFI's reality, they provide insufficient cover to
explain away the sizeable variance between ANFI's international Basmati revenue and the
APEDA export data. The variance is simply too large to be rationalized away with adaptive
disclosures.


For example, in a recently issued response to the class action suit against ANFI, the
company states: 
Amira has disclosed that it purchases Basmati rice on the international market and
resells it internationally… Plaintiff does not-and cannot-explain why these types of
international sales should be reflected in APEDA export data".
In the same document, Amira also states that, "... approximately one-third of the rice it
sells is processed by third parties" (in line with its previous disclosures), meaning two-
thirds of rice is processed by Amira India.


Assuming that the Basmati "sourced from third parties" does not pass through
Amira's facilities (which again contradicts Bruce Wacha's guidance, as previously
quoted), or that it is "bought on the international market for resale", the remaining
two-thirds of Amira's Basmati exports are processed in and are shipped from its
facility. This means that two-thirds of ANFI's Basmati exports would be captured in
the APEDA data.



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1552448/000114420415013256/v403290_ex99-2.htm
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 25/46


§ In any case, the variance of ~117% (based on ANFI's FY'14 estimated international
Basmati sales) with APEDA data is too large to explain away.


Furthermore, if the company is claiming that significant percentage of its Basmati sales
are sourced from third parties (in India or internationally), we believe that ANFI's gross
margins should be far lower than those reported.


§ Even before these disclosures were made, we asserted that ANFI's revenue and
margins seemed impossible in light of those reported by competitors that have larger
processing capacities, greater brand recognition (both in India and internationally), and
significantly greater financial and operational resources. Per our Initiation Report:


"Amira is generating the most revenue on the least processing capacity of any
of its peers. ANFI sales exceed KRBL's, yet Amira has little more than a tenth of
KRBL's processing capacity. Of all comps, KRBL has the most processing capacity,
and it is widely known as the largest branded Basmati company in India.
Furthermore, Amira reports the highest gross margin in the peer group. Amira's
gross margin is higher than KRBL's".


It is common knowledge that gross margins are higher for businesses that process
Basmati on a fully integrated basis than for those involved in trading finished Basmati.
(This is evident in management's own statements indicating that by increasing ANFI's
production capacity and in-housing more processing, the company's margins would rise.)
If Amira is indeed sourcing a significant percentage of its sales from third parties (in India
and internationally), the incremental gross margin it could generate from such trading
activity would be a fraction of that generated by its fully integrated processing peers.
Hence, we believe that ANFI's reported gross margins also indicate that our analysis is in
right direction, and that the company is overstating revenue.


Additional Indications of Fabricated Financials



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/7/31/saupload_5.jpg
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 26/46


UAE Market Share is Impossible


"…focus on the end clients … and volume... I mean if they are saying that their numbers


volume is a million tons, while the overall in the market is only two million tons, then you


know that's incorrect, right?"


- Rahul Nayar


Rahul Nayar repeatedly warned us to focus on Amira's sales volume claims; he
specifically directed us to pay attention to Amira's claims of volume market share, implying
that simple math might show they are impossible. The company does not disclose
volume-related data, but it does disclose revenues derived from its largest geographic end
markets annually in its 20-F. Our analysis indicates that Amira's reported sales to UAE are
impossible.


We focused on its reported revenue for UAE, where Amira is reporting explosive growth
far in excess of its overall growth rate.


This is also a market for which Amira can easily fabricate sales, given its relationship with
Karam Industries.


Amira reported UAE revenue of ~$114m in FY'14. According to APEDA, India exported a
total of ~$197m of Basmati rice to UAE in 2014. If Amira sells only Basmati into this
market, these metrics suggest that the company is monopolizing the UAE Basmati market,
currently having a ~58% market share. The thought is preposterous, especially in light of
disclosures by KRBL and Tilda (a company owned by Hain Celestial), two of the largest
and most reputable branded Basmati players:


According to KRBL's 2014 annual report, "KRBL is the largest branded basmati player
in Saudi Arabia, UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman & Lebanon".
According to Tilda marketing documentation, "In the UAE alone Tilda has the highest
value market share (Basmati) in the organized retail segment (Supermarkets)".


[6]



http://agriexchange.apeda.gov.in/indexp/country_description.aspx?ctry=11419

https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0CB8QFjAAahUKEwiPntGJzeHGAhXMGpIKHasuClE&url=http%3A%2F%2Fuae.superbrandsmena.com%2Fpdf%2Fpdffile1404820025.pdf&ei=SqmoVY_RO8y1yASr3aiIBQ&usg=AFQjCNGvQOWxbCBiKFzsjQ8ENvUKxZafMQ&bvm=bv.98197061,d.aWw
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 27/46


Even if we to assume Amira also sells non-Basmati to the UAE, the revenue it claims in
this market seems impossible. According to APEDA, India exported a total of $116.5m of
non-Basmati rice to UAE in 2014. In sum, India exported a total of $313.6m of Basmati
and non-Basmati rice to the UAE. Amira's reported UAE revenue implies a 36% share of
the total market for rice in the UAE.


High-Level Indications of Unviable Business Model and Fabricated IFRS Profits


Since 2010, ANFI has reported cumulative Earnings of $127.1m.
Meanwhile, the company has burned cumulative pro forma free cash flows (i.e., CFO -
capex - cash interest) of -$144.8m and raised cumulative net capital and debt of
$202m, suggesting it has never earned a cash-on-cash return on invested capital.
Put another way, the immense wealth generation represented by ANFI's historical
IFRS profits is not observable in the company's cash flows - it appears to be "paper"
wealth generated from accounting gimmickry.
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 28/46


ANFI's Gross Margins Disconnect from Collapsing Basmati Spread


We would expect non-fraudulent companies whose businesses are driven by the
realization spread for a finished good versus its raw material to report financials that
reflect movements in that spread. ANFI's business is driven by the realization spread for
wholesale Basmati; in this section, we demonstrate that the company's financial results
are increasingly disconnecting from the spread that drives them.


Narrowing Paddy-Basmati Pricing Spreads to Lead to Gross Margin Contraction


ANFI buys Basmati paddy during the harvest season, stores it and ages it; ~1 year passes
from the time of paddy purchase to the time of sale of the Basmati. Over the course of that
period, ANFI is exposed to the movement in the wholesale spot price of Basmati. The
below are extracts from the Risk Factor disclosures in ANFI's FY'14 20-F:



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1552448/000114420414045161/v384841_20f.htm
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 29/46


Any decline in the market price of Basmati rice while held by us for aging may harm our


results of operations and financial condition


The Basmati rice industry is cyclical and is dependent on the results of the Basmati paddy harvest,


which occurs for only seven months in the year (September to March)... Our Basmati rice is sold at


least 10 to 12 months after harvesting and generally commands a price premium. As a result, we


typically allow our Basmati paddy to age from six to eight months and our processed Basmati rice to


age for an additional four to six months before we sell it. If there is any fall in the price of Basmati


rice during the time we hold it for aging, we may not be able to recover, or generate the same


margins from, our investment in Basmati paddy or processed rice, which may harm our results of


operations and financial condition.


The price we charge for our Basmati rice depends largely on the prevailing wholesale market


price; lower market prices may harm our results of operations and financial condition.


... Any prolonged decrease in Basmati rice prices could harm our results of operations and financial


condition. Currently, we are not able to hedge against such price risks since Basmati rice futures do


not actively trade on any commodities exchange.


In other words, the gross margin ANFI can earn is based on the spread between the price
of paddy at purchase and the wholesale price of Basmati at time of sale (the "Basmati
realization spread", or "Basmati spread"). Pricing data is readily available for both paddy
and finished Basmati. NNS Grains publishes indices for each that can easily be tracked
from a Bloomberg terminal. The paddy price can be found under "ATARBASM Index", and
the wholesale Basmati price can be found under "KAGRBARI Index".


Using inventory holding period assumptions based on ANFI disclosures, we calculated the
Basmati realization spread available to the company, based on available pricing data. The
graphic below details our month-by-month calculation. Note that since reaching a high of
70.1% in FQ4'13, the Basmati spread has fallen in every quarter but one, hitting a multi-
period low of 22.5% in FQ1'16. The spread, or margin available to Amira on the sale of
Basmati, has declined by 68%. (Amira has yet to report FQ1'16 results; continued collapse
of the Basmati spread in FQ1'16 should result in continued gross margin deterioration
from FQ4'15 levels).
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 30/46


Q3 and Q4'15: Results Indicate Amira's Financials have Disconnected from
Economic Reality


Amira's reported gross margin has come unhinged from its fundamental drivers.
The divergence between reported gross margin and the Basmati realization spread
lacks economic substance and is not sustainable; we believe it is another indicator
of fabricated financials.


The below analysis relates ANFI's reported gross margin to its fundamental driver (i.e.,
the Basmati spread) by plotting the ratio of the two measures. Growth in the ratio
means ANFI's gross margin is diverging from its driver; the larger the ratio, the more
dislodged ANFI's reported results from their economic realities.
ANFI's gross margin declined -770 bps year-over-year to 18.3%. The Basmati
realization spread declined -2,938 bps to 32.1%. The ratio of Gross margin-to-basmati
realization spread increased 34.8% year-over-year to 0.57 - the highest level since at
least Q1 13.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/7/31/saupload_saupload_ANFI_8.jpg

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/7/31/saupload_9.jpg
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 31/46


Absent Material Manipulation, ANFI Should Report Significant Contraction in FQ1'16
Gross Margin


Amira has yet to report FQ1'16 (i.e., quarter ended 6/30/15) results. The Basmati
realization spread continued declining during this period, signaling ANFI's gross margin
should fall to its lowest point since the company IPO'ed.


Absent material manipulation of financial results, we expect ANFI to report another
significant, sequential contraction in gross margin.
We expect ANFI to miss the consensus gross margin estimate of 18.65% by a
wide margin .
If it does not, the case for fabricated financials is further solidified.


Substantial Price Declines, Margin Shrinkage and Inventory Overvaluation Point to
a Liquidity Crisis


We believe ANFI's financial position is rapidly unraveling beneath the weight of an
overwhelming debt burden. It continues to hemorrhage cash while navigating a cash
crunch, and gaming its accounting to mask an increasingly fragile financial profile. The
plunge in the value of Basmati and paddy prices suggests a concurrent plunge in ANFI's
inventory collateral values, suggesting it is closer to tapping out on bank borrowings.


[7]
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 32/46


Absent a successful capital raise, the company's lenders are likely to force a debt
restructuring, as was recently the case for two of ANFI's peers based out of India -
Lakshmi Energy and Foods and REI Agro.


Several red flag warning signs hint that ANFI's financial position is stressed:


The company is not generating sufficient cash flows to cover its debt service payments
and fund its operations. As a result, it must continually raise new debt simply to cover
debt service payments on existing debt - it is caught in a debt spiral.
In FY'15, Amira's capital expenditures declined by 28.6% to $2.4 million - $11.1 million
below the midpoint of the guidance range of $12-15 million.  With negative cash from
operations for three TTM periods, Amira has to finance its capital expenditures with
debt. We believe the company's inability to service any additional debt led to it
delaying current capital expenditure plans.
In FQ4'15, Amira appears to have stopped and/or slowed payments to vendors, as
evidenced by the $17.6 million spike in trade payable; had it not, the net debt levels
would have been even worse.
Per ANFI's 6-k for FQ3'15 results, the company is paying interest at a fixed rate of
21% for late payments made on trade payables for the period April '13 to December
'14, potentially indicating it's tapping out its working capital loans.
In FQ'15, ANFI appears to have pulled on various accounting levers to inflate its
financials, enabling it to meet guidance and beat expectations (presumably to spark
investor interest).
Despite the prolonged and recently accelerated collapse in Basmati and paddy prices,
ANFI has not taken any inventory write-downs, in violation of its inventory accounting
policy and IFRS (IAS 2). Also, almost the entirety of ANFI inventory book value has
already been pledged as collateral to the existing working capital credit facility.


ANFI Does Not Generate Sufficient Cash Flow to Fund its Operations and Service its
Debts


ANFI's IFRS profits do not represent its economic realities: The divergence in cash
from operations and reported earnings suggests that the company's earnings are
unsustainable and not representative of ANFI's economic reality.


Operating profit has increased significantly in each of the last 4 years.
Adjusted Cash Flows  from operations has been negative in each of the last three
years (less than negative $20.0m).


[8]


2



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1552448/000114420415013256/v403290_6k.htm
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 33/46


FCF performance was worse than reported after pro forma reclassification of
interest payments: IFRS allows interest payments to be classified under either financing
or operating cash outflows. Amira classifies these amounts as financing outflows (which is
not permissible under US GAAP); including these payments as operating cash flows
provides a more accurate picture of the firm's true FCF, especially given that the vast
majority of the borrowed funds are utilized to finance working capital. As such, in FQ4'15,
pro forma FCF was negative $24.3 million. In addition, the twelve-month period ended
3/31/15 marked the twelfth consecutive TTM period of negative pro forma FCF.


Amira has no option but to resort to additional financing to meet existing debt
service obligations; a greater percentage of its debt/equity proceeds is being used
to cover interest payments:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/7/31/saupload_12.jpg
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 34/46


Persistent negative free cash flow (FCF) has compelled the company to cover interest
payments from proceeds of debt and equity issuance.
Specifically, interest payments amounted to 62.9%, 92%, 83.9% and 74.2% of the total
proceeds from debt and equity issuance for the TTM periods ended 06/30/14,
09/30/14, 12/31/14 and 3/31/15 respectively, representing year-over-year changes in
this percentage at 3,748 bps, 6,860 bps, -12 bps and 289 bps, respectively.
For the TTM ended 09/30/14, cash interest payments amounted to 92% of debt and
equity proceeds, representing a 6,860 bps year-over-year increase and the highest
level since FQ1 13. As more financing inflows are required for debt service, less cash
is available to cover the company's operations and substantial working capital needs.


ANFI Cannot Support its Current Debt Load Given Lack of Cash Flow, Is Caught in a
Debt Spiral


Debt levels build due to the company's inability to generate cash: In Q4 15, net debt
(net debt represents ST and LT debt net of CCE) increased 11.5% to $164.2 million, the
highest level in at least three years.


Had the company not stopped and/or slowed payments to vendors, as evidenced by
the $17.6 million spike in trade payable, its net debt levels would have been even
worse.
Given the current debt spiral (borrowing money just to pay interest on existing debt),
the net debt levels are likely to continue to build.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/7/31/saupload_13.jpg
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 35/46


Amira forgoes capital investment due to a lack of cash flow: In FY'15, Amira's capital
expenditures declined 28.6% to $2.4 million - which is $11.1 million below the midpoint of
the guidance range of $12-15 million.


With negative free cash flows (after interest) from operations for consecutive twelve TTM
periods, Amira has to resort to additional debt to finance its capital expenditures. However,
any additional debt for capex will further deteriorate its cash-generating ability, and in light
of increasing net debt levels, the company likely delayed its current capital expenditure
plans.


ANFI is Running Out of Liquidity


Amira will soon exhaust its liquidity if cash burn continues at the current rate:


As of FQ3'15, the company had $27m in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, in the
FQ3'15 6K, Amira disclosed that it had another $21.6m available in the form of undrawn
credit facilities, meaning Amira's total liquidity at a consolidated level, as on December 31,
2014, was $48.6m. (Note: This liquidity is subject to sufficient collateral values pledged
against it.)


[9]
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 36/46


Amira's interest burden has averaged ~$25.97m per annum over 6 TTM periods ending
12/31/2014, and negative free cash flow (before interest) has averaged ~$21.8m per
annum over 10 TTM periods ending 12/31/2014. Carrying these levels forward, Amira will
consume its total liquidity close to the end of FQ3'16 (12/31/2015). (This estimate does not
take into account the company's capital expansion plans).


This analysis is valid only if ANFI's drawing power has not fallen in reaction to the plunge
in the market values of the company's inventory collateral (discussed below).


The Plunge in Inventory Collateral Values Also Points to a Liquidity Crisis


The Basmati industry is in a state of turmoil, with Basmati and paddy prices having
plunged by 40-50% in FY'2015, and the decline accelerating in FQ3'15 (quarter ended
12/31/2014) and FQ4'15 (quarter ended 3/31/2015).  We believe that like many of its
peers, Amira is in the midst of a liquidity crunch.


40-50% Decline in Basmati/Paddy Prices Causes a Decline in Inventory Collateral
Values and Tightening of Liquidity


As Basmati processors typically fund their operations using working capital financing, the
plunge in inventory values has resulted in lenders pulling back credit facilities and forcing
leveraged companies into debt restructuring. Two of Amira's comps, Lakshmi Energy and
Foods and REI Agro, were recently forced by their bank consortium lenders to restructure
their debts. According to Lakshmi, in a filing submitted to the National Stock Exchange of
India on May 29, 2015, its restructuring was forced as a result of a plunge in market prices
for rice and paddy, which led to a decline in the valuation of its inventory, and
consequently, a shortfall in its drawing power.


[10]



http://www.dnaindia.com/money/report-banks-look-at-reviving-rei-agro-as-basmati-biggie-turns-npa-1992849

http://lakshmigroup.in/downloads/SEupdate.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/7/31/saupload_15.jpg
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 37/46


"market price of paddy and rice has plummeted by about 40% from the beginning of
the season and up to 50% down with comparison to last year... All institutions
including Banks, government, APEDA... [and] different States and export
organizations are well aware of the phenomenon of downward trend in prices of
paddy/rice. Reduction in market price of paddy/rice led to substantial fall in the
valuation of Inventory and consequently shortfall in DP (drawing power) in
respect of CC/PC (cash credit/packing credit) limits availed from different
Banks in consortium. During the course of series of consortium / joint lenders
forum (JLF) meetings 'restructuring of debt' emerged as the only acceptable
corrective action plan by consensus...".


Similarly, REI Agro was also forced into a restructuring scheme as a result of "poor
working capital management and funding of projects, which have absorbed significant
loans. It has been setting up three projects... in a bid to enhance basmati processing
capacity and setting up warehousing and packaging facility". According to this article,
"higher interest rates added pressure to the company's cash flows, resulting in reduction
in margins and slowdown in receivables".


ANFI at Risk of Significant Decline in Drawing Power, and is at Risk of Shortfall


Amira's primary source of funding is in the form of working capital loans, which represent
credit lines from banks, with renewal periods not exceeding one year. Amira pledges
PP&E, trade receivables and inventories as collateral to these WC credit facilities, with
inventories serving by far as the major source of collateral for this debt. As of FQ3'15, 98%
of ANFI's inventory book value was already pledged to WC loans.


The Company's Financial Solvency at Question; Assets and Inventory Values are
Likely Highly Inflated


As per SEC filings, Amira's inventory accounting policy is to carry inventory values at the
lower of cost or net realizable value. This is in line with IAS 2 Inventory Accounting, where
net realizable value represents market value. However, to our knowledge Amira has never
written down the value of its inventory. Despite the fall in Basmati and paddy market
prices, Amira reports in its quarterly filings for FY 14-15 that, "No inventory write downs or
reversals are recognized". Given ANFI's finished goods inventory turnover is >100 days as
of FQ3'15, the decline in Basmati and paddy prices does not appear to have been
reflected in its inventory book values. Not writing down the inventory to net realizable



http://www.dnaindia.com/money/report-banks-look-at-reviving-rei-agro-as-basmati-biggie-turns-npa-1992849

http://www.financialexpress.com/article/industry/banking-finance/rbi-detects-fraud-in-rei-agro-cbi-probe-likely/57464/
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 38/46


value amounts to a violation of IFRS regulations (IAS 2). Further, ANFI's inventory balance
represents ~60% its total assets as at FQ3'15, suggesting the company's asset base is
likely significantly lower than that reported in SEC filings.


Even if ANFI's inventory is continued to be carried at cost, since it has already
pledged the majority of its liquid assets against its working capital facility, the
company's drawing power is potentially in decline and at risk of being in shortfall.
Consequently, ANFI might be approaching the point of tapping out its working
capital facilities. Given its inability to generate cash from operations sufficient to
support its debt burden and working capital needs, and no signs of recovery in
Basmati and paddy prices, ANFI is at heightened risk of a forced restructuring.


Recent Results Evidence Growing Desperation to Inflate Financials and Hit
Guidance


ANFI's desperation to spark investor interest seems evident in the window-dressing of its
reported FQ4'15 results. The company appears to have pulled on various accounting
levers to inflate its financials, enabling it to:


report being "on course" to meet growth and guidance targets and beat estimates;
tout "record full year and quarterly revenue, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS,
which represents eleven consecutive quarters of double digit revenue and profit growth
as a public company".


Revenue Likely Pulled Forward to Beat Estimates, as DSOs Surge in Q4 15


"Indian rice companies, right? How do they do it? I mean, are they over-invoiced or they sell


to somebody else and you know, stuff it in the channels and get it back later. You buy it back


later, you know, you sell something and buy it back, and sell something again. You have this


kind of virtuous circle… But I'm saying the only way you can know whether that's true or not


is to look at the top 20 customers, right?"


- Rahul Nayar


Days sales outstanding surge: In Q4 15, days sales outstanding (DSO) increased
29.8% year-over-year to 51.8 days, the highest reported level in at least four years. On
its Q4 15 conference call on 07/16/15, the company indicated there was "nothing out of
the ordinary" about receivable levels, and the year-over-year increase was "nothing to
worry about".


[11]
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 39/46


The receivables build suggests Amira could have engaged in channel stuffing to boost
its revenue and margins. This would easily be accomplished, given a related party
distributor relationship that we believe the company is likely to have with Karam
Industries.
Regardless, sales benefited materially from the increase in receivable levels. Amira
reported revenue growth of $34.4m quarter-on-quarter and accounts receivable
balance growth of $31.3m quarter-on-quarter; the surge in receivable levels resulted in
the ENTIRE revenue surprise for Q4 '15. As there are de minimis costs associated
with these incremental revenues, Amira's profitability metrics were also beneficiaries.


Anomalous Declines in Expenses Boost Profitability Metrics


Freight, forward and handling expenses fall off a cliff: In Q4 15, freight, forwarding
and handling expense declined 66.5% to $2.5 million, while revenue increased 21.6% to
$226.8 million. It is confounding that freight, forwarding and handling expense as a
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 40/46


percentage of revenue declined 290 bps to 1.1%, the lowest level in over three years, as
revenue reached its highest mark in Amira's history!


Equally confounding, Amira explained that Q4's robust revenue growth was "driven largely
by volume gains as we build out our distribution around the globe and capitalize on the
continued demand".


Volume gains skyrocket as freight, forwarding and shipping expense plummets?
The wholesale market price for Basmati, which dictates the prices at which Amira
transacts, collapsed by 40-50% year over year, while Amira reported sales growth of
21.6%, implying a massive surge in volume sales. It is hard to fathom a collapse in
freight, forwarding and handling expenses at the same time that sales volumes were
multiplying. If it sounds impossible...


Coincidentally, the decline in freight expense accounted for all reported growth in Adj.
EBITDA and the EBITDA margin:


[12]
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 41/46


In FQ4'15, ANFI reported Adjusted EBITDA increased by $6.6m, or 25%, to $33m; its
reported Adj EBITDA margin increased to 14.5% from 14.1%.
Had freight, forward and handling remained a constant percentage of revenue, Amira's
FQ4'15 reported EBITDA would be lower by $6.6m - the precise amount by which it
rose year-over-year. ANFI would have reported 0% growth in EBITDA and a (248
bps) decline in EBITDA margin to 11.6%


Notes:


[1] ANFI FQ3'15 Results presentation


[2] Refer to our Initiation Report for background information


[3] Note: Refer to our Initiation Report for source data, detailed derivation of estimates,
and ANFI management's validation of our assumptions


[4] As per the revenue recognition principle set forth in IAS 18, an entity can recognize
sales only when it,


§ "transfers significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods"


§ "retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with
ownership nor effective control over the goods"


[5] Master case No. 2:15-CV-00957-FMO-PJW, Document 65-1, dated 1 July 2015


[6] Undisclosed related party; refer to our Initiation Report


[7] Per CapitalIQ, 7/29/2015


[8] Karan Chanana, Q3 2014 Earnings Call, Feb 25, 2014.


 Adjusted cash flows represent cash flows from operations after interest burden


[9] Karan Chanana, Q3 2014 Earnings Call, Feb 25, 2014.


[10] Lakshmi Group


[11] Q4'15 earnings results press release, dated 7/16/2015


[12] Q4'15 earnings results press release, dated 7/16/2015


Disclosure: I am/we are short ANFI.


2



http://lakshmigroup.in/downloads/SEupdate.pdf

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/amira-nature-foods-ltd-announces-115100880.html

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/amira-nature-foods-ltd-announces-115100880.html
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 42/46


Comments (29)


I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is
mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


SLV Fox
Why is it that the analysts at the big firms - who are eminently more qualified than we are (and who don't have a
conflict of interest with a position) - continue to reach a different conclusion on this stock? This short selling attack
worked short-term last time and, fortunately, I took the opposite side of the trade; so, maybe we both made a killing on
it. I really can't see it working again but, if there is a dip again today, I will be backing up the truck to fill up on ANFIl


31 Jul 2015, 08:36 AM


CS917047
The first Prescience Point report came out on Feb 9, when the rebate rate was 90%, share price declined almost 50%
in the following week and so did the rebate rate, finding a base at almost 35%. 
At the end of May, rebate rate started going up again, resulting in a rebate rate of 124% at its highest level this week.


Let's see if the rate drops like it did last time.


31 Jul 2015, 08:47 AM


garycd
Good to see another opportunity.


31 Jul 2015, 09:04 AM


jvandoorn
I think its time a class action suit is initiated against Prescience Point. A lot of unnamed sources here! And a lot of
product moving through Costco.


Hey, Prescience. Care to name the majority of your sources? Or do some of us longs have to ask a prominent law
firm to depose you for them?


31 Jul 2015, 02:33 PM


garycd
If Prescience Point's credibility was a stock, we should be shorting it. Unfortunately for me, I was hoping another dip
today to sell strike price 10 puts, but since stock went up, taking no action on this. I think PP's impact on this stock
has played out somewhat. Have to look for some other opportunity.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/12730711

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12631301

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9490991

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12563541

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9490991
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 43/46


31 Jul 2015, 04:10 PM


zorlu
couldn't agree more..there is always a chance for another dip, average investor is like a sheep that loves to
be lured away, but i figure it is less likely after this point for ANFI..it seems like people learned their lesson on
this stock..but hey thanks for PP, i was waiting for a pull back around $12, but was given $11.40..cant beat
that, this stock is screaming short squeeze and last card was played by shorts, they are now desperate..it will
only go up, with a rebate rate of %119, good luck with shorting..i am long on this one by the way..


31 Jul 2015, 04:34 PM


bobtcat2
Jesus I hope you weren't selling those 10 puts naked. That's a good way to go under.


18 Aug 2015, 03:24 PM


Apostolic Financier
I didn't even have enough sense to get puts lol


20 Aug 2015, 10:56 AM


the grublet
Any idea why the collapse in the basmati realization spread has left KRBL's shares largely unscathed?


(I don't really follow the Indian markets, but I figured that the collapse you mentioned would have hammered the India-
traded basmati rice producers, and I was mildly surprised to see that KRBL has more than doubled in the past year...)


31 Jul 2015, 05:51 PM


Pierre Wideman
The analysts covering ANFI are all very much aware of the business conditions in which ANFI must navigate,
yet none mentioned anything about any problems with basmati rice or had any concerns. See for yourselves
in the last earnings report.


31 Jul 2015, 11:36 PM


TheAbyss16
You cam attack the author of this report, but If I was long ANFI I would take some of the observations serious.  
- You can't trust the reported gross margins of ANGI, given the price dynamic of Paddy and Basmati over last year.
Prescience can't influence the market price of those or can they?  
- The amount of interest paid and the weak balance sheet especially the ST debt, makes this business extremely
vulnerable.  
- The export data doesn't match ANFI numbers. 
- Related party activities are not best in class corporate governance, and here there is plenty.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/40227986

https://seekingalpha.com/user/372189

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40756965

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12512531

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11658991

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7043621
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 44/46


Don't have a position, but if I would, it would be short position, preferably via put options.


31 Jul 2015, 06:24 PM


Pierre Wideman
Were you there when the first report hit? I found many anomalies myself after hours of research. I had sold
my stock but bought it back without loosing too much after I felt confident again about the company. Some
more qualified people did the full research and ultimately also held on to their stock. http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf


My point is, if so much of it is easily proven inaccurate, then the whole article is untrustworthy and the author's
intentions our brought to light.


Example. They use the word Bankruptcy as a scare word. But look at this discussion between Bruce Wacha
and an analyst at the most recent earnings.


Akshay Jagdale


Okay. And just one last one. Can you give us an update on the balance sheet and the debt side, where you
stand with your Indian consortium in terms of availability etcetera? It's never been an issue, obviously your
leverage numbers are outstanding in a good way. Can you just talk about what the availability is, if anything is
changed there and what the game plan as going forward?


Bruce Wacha


Sure. So first one, we continue to have the pretty conservative balance sheet. We are about two times debt to
EBITDA, 1.6, 1.7 on a net debt basis with plenty of interest coverage. We are obviously always looking to
optimize our cost to capital but we are quite happy with the balance sheet that we have today.


They use information and manipulate it.


01 Aug 2015, 12:04 AM


zorlu
Well, lets say you should always have a benefit of doubt, but you should also know the history of that report
and why they keep coming.. Well anyways since you dont have a position, never mind, in case you really are
interested w the answers of your questions: http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf


02 Aug 2015, 07:41 AM


Pierre Wideman
These guys write for one reason and that's to scare the individual investors into selling and pushing the price down.
Just look at the choice of words. But I think investors know better now and the market is shrugging the biased short
report off. #2 as if #1 wasn't enough. The sell off on attack #1 was huge but not this time.


You should be ashamed of yourselves as ANFI doesn't deserve this nor does their shareholders. Just move on to
your next victim, you over did it and now few are taking you seriously.


31 Jul 2015, 11:15 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/11658991

http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40227986

http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11658991
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 45/46


yarf01
ANFI up 4% friday. Shorts are bumming as Prescient Point was hoping for more fear to drive the stock down. Instead
shorts will now have to try and cover their behinds. This should go back to the 13- 15$ range over next week. Another
great earnings report as this small cap stock continues a great growth story!


01 Aug 2015, 08:32 PM


Pierre Wideman
I agree, based on the stock action and volume Friday. (Volume was low) It looks like it could be game over for
shorts. Short report #2 only moved 600K shares or so in 4 hours. And the next day was business as usual
with a very nice up trend. We could definitely see 14-15$ again in a few days.


The only thing I don't understand is why they didn't cover when they had the chance between 7.5 and
10$/share. It was a decent profit.


01 Aug 2015, 11:59 PM


HaroldRamis
whooppps


03 Aug 2015, 01:15 PM


Pierre Wideman
Yeah... whoopps...


08 Aug 2015, 01:27 AM


zorlu
If one is having a benefit of doubt about margins, revenue and export numbers or other issues, all were responded
back then, check http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf.. This, i can take it serious, on the other hand never give credit to fear loaded
hate article with an obvious agenda..


02 Aug 2015, 07:49 AM


Ian Bezek, Marketplace Contributor
Nice call Prescience


03 Aug 2015, 03:05 PM


carl_hindman@cox.net
Talk about disclosure when is Prescient Point going to disclose the hedge fund behind them???????


03 Aug 2015, 04:01 PM


TheAbyss16



https://seekingalpha.com/user/15568382

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11658991

https://seekingalpha.com/user/35513315

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11658991

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40227986

http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf

https://seekingalpha.com/author/ian-bezek

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=ian-bezek&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3239681

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7043621
5/22/2018 Amira Nature Foods: The Short Case Redux, Price Target $0.00/Share - Amira Nature Foods (NYSE:ANFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3381285-amira-nature-foods-the-short-case-redux-price-target-0_00-share 46/46


I think not able to file your annual report is a healthy sign... Not. Seems that there is more credibility in Prescience
report than thought.


03 Aug 2015, 05:28 PM


User 11812181
This article seems almost a repeat of what was published back in February. Few Analysts and the company seems to
have commented on that older article as well and just mid last month, one of the analysts have reiterated their ratings
as well. Here is a blog from zacks.com.


http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf


04 Aug 2015, 10:46 AM


User 11812181
http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf


04 Aug 2015, 10:53 AM


Pierre Wideman
So what happens now? Are we just waiting for some announcement from Amira tomorrow?


16 Aug 2015, 11:55 PM


TheAbyss16
I think Prescience just completely nailed it big time!


19 Aug 2015, 07:04 PM


maza jmc
Shame on prescience


11 Nov 2015, 01:48 AM


Pierre Wideman
There are still 3 million shares short, are we in for a short squeeze?


11 Nov 2015, 03:28 AM


Ezedub58
Prescience what do you have to say now or are you playing Tar Baby?


08 Apr 2016, 02:43 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/11812181

http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11812181

http://bit.ly/1CXe0jf

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11658991

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7043621

https://seekingalpha.com/user/15880782

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11658991

https://seekingalpha.com/user/42661956
