“It is easier to fool people than to convince them that they have been fooled.” 


- Mark Twain 
 


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES ONLY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research 
opinions at your own risk. This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such.  You should do your own research 
and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the securities covered herein. We have a short interest 
in Ozner and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of Ozner’s stock declines.  Please refer to our 


full disclaimer on the final page of this report. 
 














In honor of April Fools’ Day, Ozner Water International (HK: 2014) (the “Company” or “Ozner”) 


recently published its second clarification (“Clarification #2”) to our detailed investment opinion (the 
“Report”) of February 16, 2015.


1
  In our opinion, both of Ozner’s clarifications make a mockery of the 


listing rules.  Take the following statements, presented verbatim from Ozner’s clarifications:  





“the statement in the prospectus referring to the independent third party status of Shanghai 
Haoyang was not entirely accurate.”   


- Clarification #1, p. 12 
 
“The inconsistent disclosure [in the statutory financial statement] were made … before 


“enhanced internal control measures were implemented throughout the Group.” 


- Clarification #2, p. 2 
 


“the probability of the Group being sanctioned or penalized by competent local tax authorities 


for the inconsistent disclosure of revenue recognition policy in the historical statutory financial 


statements is remote.” 
- Clarification #2, p. 2 





“the disclosure on page 224 of the Prospectus was true but was not inclusive of all changing 
scenarios that occurred during the Track Record Period…” 


- Clarification #2, p. 3 
 


By the Company’s own admission, it has issued statements in its prospectus or statutory filings which 
have been “not entirely accurate,” “inconsistent,” and “not inclusive of all changing scenarios.”   





According to Main Board Rule 2.13 (GEM Rule 2.18) issued by Hong Kong Stock Exchange,
2
 


“information contained in the Prospectus must be accurate and complete in all material respects and not 


be misleading or deceptive.”  


                                                
1
 Ozner published its first clarification (“Clarification #1”) on March 25, 2015.  The next day, we responded with our Rebuttal 


(the “Rebuttal”), available here: https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/03/GlaucusResearch-Rebuttal-
to-Ozner_Water-HK_2014-Strong_Sell_Mar_26_2015.pdf.  
2
 http://www.hkex.com.hk/eng/rulesreg/listrules/listguid/iporq/Documents/gl41-12.pdf  


COMPANY:    Ozner Water International Holding Limited │ HK: 2014 


INDUSTRY:    Water Purification  
 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/02/GlaucusResearch-Ozner_Water-HK_2014-Strong_Sell_Feb_16_2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/03/GlaucusResearch-Rebuttal-to-Ozner_Water-HK_2014-Strong_Sell_Mar_26_2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/03/GlaucusResearch-Rebuttal-to-Ozner_Water-HK_2014-Strong_Sell_Mar_26_2015.pdf

http://www.hkex.com.hk/eng/rulesreg/listrules/listguid/iporq/Documents/gl41-12.pdf
2 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


In our opinion, Ozner has admitted in its clarifications that its prospectus contained false statements, that 


its statutory financial statements contained false statements (which necessitated improved internal 
controls), and that its prospectus contained statements that did not present a complete or accurate picture 


of its business during the track-record period.   





Why should Ozner be permitted to materially contradict its listing document?  Furthermore, why should 
investors ever trust a company which admits to so many incomplete or false disclosures? 





I. SAIC Filings Indicate Material Exaggeration of Sales, Production and Profit.   
 


a. Profitability and Revenues from Leasing Purifiers Much Less than Reported   


In our Report, we noted that according Ozner’s statutory SAIC filings, annual rental fees from leasing 


water purifiers to end users were 54% less than reported in Ozner’s prospectus for 2012 and 2011, 


respectively, and that such entities generated far less profit than the Company claimed in its prospectus.  


In Clarification #1, Ozner responded that for the purposes of its statutory SAIC filings, “rental income 


reported to the local tax bureau in SAIC filings was recognized when relevant invoices were issued to 


principal distributors” and not on a straight-line basis over the one-year term of the lease, as the Group 
does under the IFRS for its Hong Kong prospectus.


3
   


In our Rebuttal, we noted that this explanation is directly and explicitly contradicted by the very 
statutory SAIC filings upon which Ozner relied to exonerate itself.  The statutory SAIC filings of Ozner’s 


primary rental subsidiary, Shaanxi Haoze, state explicitly that rental income and related costs generated 


by operating leases (a category which include rented water purifying machines) is recognized “on a 
straight line basis during the operating term” and thus revenue was not (nor could be) recognized on 


an invoice basis as the Company claimed in Clarification #1. 





Source: 2012 Shaanxi Haoze SAIC Filings – Note to Financial Statement 4.22 





                                                
3
 Clarification #1, p. 5.
3 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


Ozner was caught: its explanation was directly contradicted by statutory filings which were signed and 


filed by the Company and reviewed and approved by Ozner’s local auditor.    


Yet in Clarification #2, Ozner spectacularly backtracked, stating that “rental income recognition in 


statutory financial statements was impacted by the progress of invoice issuance during the Track Record 
Period and in reality not on a straight-line basis as the statements indicated.”


4
  In short, Ozner is now 


saying that the revenue recognition statements in the statutory SAIC filings were false.  Not to worry, 


Ozner promises investors that “the probability of the Group being sanctioned or penalized … for the 


inconsistent disclosure … is remote.”
5
 


Is this a joke? In Clarification #1, Ozner relied on the statutory SAIC filings to supposedly exonerate 


itself.  When we pointed out that the statutory SAIC filings clearly and directly contradicted Ozner’s 
excuse in Clarification #1, Ozner used Clarification #2 to backtrack and state that the statutory SAIC 


filings upon which it had previously relied were in reality false statements. 


Statutory SAIC filings are reviewed and stamped by an auditor.  They are required to be filed by PRC 


law, and an officer or legal representative of the Company must sign such statutory filings and attest that 


they are complete and accurate. 





Source: 2012 Shaanxi Haoze SAIC Filings 


                                                
4
 Clarification #2, p. 2. 


5
 Clarification #2, p. 2.
4 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


Why should investors trust a Company that admits something as crucial as the revenue recognition policy 


on its statutory filings was false?  If those statements were false, what else has the Company filed which 
was false?  


Ozner’s only excuse seems to be that “the inconsistent disclosure was made when the subsidiaries were 
private corporate entities and before enhanced internal control measures were implemented throughout 


the Group.”
6
 So the Company is admitting to a weakness in or lack of internal controls during the track-


record period.  Were such weaknesses disclosed to investors in its prospectus? No.   


Does that mean that the rest of Ozner’s disclosures regarding the track-record period about its business, 


revenues, profits, and operations could be false because of such weaknesses in internal controls?  


Ultimately, Ozner’s only excuse for the discrepency between SAIC filings and its prospectus is that it 


issued false statements in its statutory filings.  We continue to believe that the most likely explanation, 


and the one supported by our understanding of Chinese law, general accounting practices, and even 
Ozner’s own description of its own accoutning practices, is that the statutory filings recognized rental 


income on a straight line basis, meaning that in reality, Ozner’s leasing of water machines was far less 


profitable than Ozner claimed.   


b.   SAIC Filings Indicate Real Production Figures are 90% Less than Reported.   


In our Report, we presented the SAIC filings of Shangyu Haorun Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. 
(“Shangyu Manufacturing”), Ozner’s only manufacturing subsidiary, which showed production costs 


which were 90% less than the costs of raw materials and components reported in Ozner’s prospectus. 


 
In Clarification #1, Ozner made the excuse that its only manufacturing subsidiary was in reality an OEM 


for other subsidiaries, and thus did not incur the procurement or production costs of manufacturing the 


machines because it did not take title to the machines.       


 
In our Rebuttal, we pointed out that this directly contradicted Ozner’s prospectus, which stated that 


Shangyu Manufacturing took title to the machines before transferring it to other subsidiaries.
7
   In turn, 


this means that the manufacturing subsidiary must have taken title to the materials and components 
required to assemble the machines, its statutory filings should reflect both the costs and revenues of 


taking title to such inputs and machines before sale to other subsidiaries, and its taxes paid should reflect 


the VAT owed from such production and subsequent transfer.   
  


In Clarification #2, Ozner backtracked again.  This time, Ozner claimed that “the disclosure on page 224 


of the Prospectus was true but was not inclusive of all changing scenarios that occurred during the 


Track Record Period…”
 8
 





In our view, Ozner was caught again.  Ozner’s excuse in Clarification #1 was directly contradicted by the 


Company’s statements in its prospectus.  Yet this time, Ozner’s only way out was to claim that its 
prospectus, was true but under inclusive, and thus not a complete (nor an accurate) description of its 


business during the track-record period.   


 
This should sound familiar, because confronted with damning evidence, in Clarification #1 Ozner 


sheepishly admitted that a statement in its Prospectus was “was not entirely accurate.”
9
  Clarification #2 


takes the same approach.   


                                                
6
 Clarification #2, p. 2. 


7
 Ozner Prospectus, p. 224. 


8
 Clarification #2, p. 3.
5 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 





Should investors believe Ozner’s prospectus or its recent clarifications?   
 


According to the Main Board Rule 2.13 (GEM Rule 2.18) by Hong Kong Stock Exchange,
10


 “information 


contained in the Prospectus must be accurate and complete in all material respects and not be 


misleading or deceptive.”   
 


Is Ozner not admitting in Clarification #2 that the description of its business during the track-record 


period was neither accurate nor complete?  
 


But the joke continues.  Because even if Ozner’s latest excuse is taken at face value, the math does not 


add up.  Ozner claimed in Clarification #2 that “Shangyu Haorun was in charge of the procurement of raw 
materials and components during the first quarter of its operation in 2011” and thereafter did not take 


title to the machines.
11








Yet Ozner unequivocally stated in its prospectus that it had VAT receivables related to the “transfer of 
titles to water purifying machines from Shangyu Haorun …which is in charge of machine 


manufacturing,” to the rental subsidiaries in charge of leasing.  If it was the case that Shangyu Haorun 


ONLY held title to the machines in first quarter of 2011, how did the transfer of title from Shangyu 
Manufacturing to the other subsidiaries generate input VAT receivables of RMB 20.9 million, RMB16.7 


million and RMB20.0 million in 2011, 2012 and 2013 respectively? 





 
Source: Ozner's Prospectus p. 224 


Why should we believe Ozner’s Clarification #2 when the prospectus so clearly states that Shangyu 
Manufacturing held title to the machines in 2011, 2012 and 2013? Furthermore, if Shangyu Haorun 


ONLY held title to the machines for one quarter in 2011, how did transfer of title from the manufacturer 


to other subsidiaries generate output VAT payables of RMB 21.4 million, RMB 18.9 million and RMB 


20.0 million as of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively? 
 


 
Source: Ozner's Prospectus p226 


                                                                                                                                                       
9
 Ozner Clarification, p. 12. 


10
 http://www.hkex.com.hk/eng/rulesreg/listrules/listguid/iporq/Documents/gl41-12.pdf 


11
 Clarification #2, p. 3.
6 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


If Shangyu Haorun did not own the title of water purification machines for 11 of the 12 quarters during 


the track-record period, why did the prospectus so clearly state that it did?  How else can Ozner explain 
the generation of VAT payables and receivables, when the prospectus clearly states that such payables 


and receivables were generated by the transfer of title from Shangyu Haorun to other subsidiaries in 2011, 


2012 and 2013?  To transfer title it must have title.  In our view, Ozner is caught again.   


 
We continue to believe that the most likely explanation is not that Ozner lied in its prospectus, but that in 


reality, Ozner did not incur the production costs (and thus did not have a business of the scale) reported to 


investors in its prospectus.  Perhaps the larger question is why should investors trust a company with such 
material inconsistencies between its prospectus and subsequent clarifications?   





II. Why Doesn’t Ozner Pay Taxes? 


In our Report and our Rebuttal, we noted that Ozner paid less than RMB 3 million on total income taxes 


from FY 2011-2013, despite recording a liability for income tax payable at FYE 2013 of RMB 64 million.  


That means that in three years, Ozner only paid 4.5% of the taxes it supposedly accrued.  


Ozner’s response in Clarification #1 was that such taxes were not paid because it did not issue invoices to 


its distributors.
12


  Clarification #2 ignored the issue, presumably because the Company’s answer makes no 
sense.   


Are investors to believe that in three years Ozner only invoiced its distributors for 4.5% of 
outstanding payments?  Ozner’s distributors must also pay taxes on income collected from end users – 


why would they tolerate a multiyear delay in invoices from Ozner?   


Investors should also use common sense.  What business is allowed to recognize revenue, profits and 


RMB 68 million, RMB 150 million and RMB 306 million in cash flow from operations in FY 2011, 


2012 and 2013, respectively, without paying taxes? If simply delaying invoices was all it took to avoid 


taxes, would not all businesses do it?  


The Company complains that it is in compliance with regards to its tax obligations, but does that not just 


reinforce our original investment opinion that Ozner did not generate meaningful profits?  


III. Undisclosed Related Party Transactions 


In our Report, we identified a significant undisclosed related party transaction.  In the prospectus, Ozner 


unequivocally stated that Shanghai Haoyang Environmental Technology (“Shanghai Haoyang”) was an 


“independent third party” and went so far to say, in no uncertain terms, that “none of Shanghai 


Haoyang or its directors or shareholders had any past or present relationship, including without 


limitation, employment or financing relationship with [Ozner] or our … shareholders during the 


Track Record Period.”  This turns out to have been false.  SAIC filings show that Xiao Jianping, an 


Ozner shareholder and director of one of its operating subsidiaries was in fact the controlling 
shareholder of Shanghai Haoyang since 2010.   


In Clarification #1, Ozner admitted that “the statement in the prospectus referring to the independent 
third party status of Shanghai Haoyang was not entirely accurate.”


13
  This was another way of 


saying that the statement was false.  Ozner then downplayed the connections between Shanghai 


Haoyang and its subsidiary, calling them immaterial.   
 


                                                
12


 Clarification #1, p. 14. 
13


 Clarification #1, p. 12.
7 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


In our Rebuttal, we pointed out that statutory SAIC filings showed a host of overlapping connections 


between Shanghai Haoyang and Ozner subsidiary Shanghai Haorun Environmental Works 
(“Shanghai Haorun”).  Indeed, statutory SAIC filings showed that the supposed independent third 


party shared three total individuals, one auditor and one registered office building in common with 


Ozner subsidiary Shanghai Haorun. 


 
In Clarification #2, Ozner made a number of excuses, including that some such persons were 


independent parties or service providers, and that the fact that its subsidiary’s office was situated in 


the same building as the supposed independent third party was simply a coincidence.   
 


Perhaps the most ludicrous explanation was the statement that Ms. Chen Jie, who was a director 


and legal representative of Ozner subsidiary Shanghai Haorun in November 2010, acted on 
behalf of the professed independent third party, Shanghai Haoyang, at the same time, “in her 


personal capacity.”
14


  So, to clarify, when Ozner director and legal representative signs on behalf of 


a supposed independent third party, she is only acting in her personal capacity?  





Shanghai Haorun Environmental Works 


(Ozner Subsidiary) 


Shanghai Haoyang Environmental Technology 


(Supposed Independent Third Party) 


Chen Jie (陈洁) 





Ozner expects investors to believe that Chen Jie’s signature on the right, where she asserts that she is 


the named receiver of supposed independent party Shanghai Haoyang, was personal, and not 


professional in nature?  This fails the smell test.  It appears (obviously) that she, along with Xiao 
Jiangping, are acting on behalf of both entities in their professional capacity.  Making the entity a 


related, not independent party.   





                                                
14


 Clarification #2, p.4.
8 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


Ultimately, our point was that a director of an Ozner subsidiary was the controlling shareholder of a 


professed independent third party, which by the way, shared an office building, an auditor, and three 
other individuals in common with the Ozner subsidiary in question.   





Ozner’s prospectus stated directly that “none of Shanghai Haoyang or its directors or shareholders 


had any past or present relationship, including without limitation, employment or financing 
relationship with [Ozner] or our … shareholders during the Track Record Period.”  We believe that 


this statement is obviously false.  We believe that this falsehood discredits Ozner, because it shows 


that the prospectus contained false statements to a relationship we believe was material.  We further 
believe that this statement clearly violates the Main Board Rule 2.13 mentioned above.   





Why should Ozner be allowed to issue a prospectus which contains such false statements? Why 
should investors trust Ozner ever again?  





IV. Conclusion 


In our previous rebuttal, we cautioned investors to think critically and seriously about our Report, our 


rebuttal and Ozner’s clarification.  Upon further reflection, we no longer believe that Ozner’s statements 


deserve to be taken seriously.  In our opinion, they are a joke.  By the Company’s own admission, their 
statements have been “not entirely accurate,” “inconsistent,” and “not inclusive of all changing 


scenarios.”  It is April Fools’ Day and this year, the joke is apparently on investors.
9 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


DISCLAIMER 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is Ozner. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If 


you are invested (either long or short) in Ozner, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We,  


like everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the 


publication of our opinions and the underlying basis for such opinions is in the public interest. 


You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Ozner stock declines. This report 


and all statements contained herein are solely the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of 


fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available facts and evidence collected and 


analyzed, which we set out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public 


information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any 


piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own 


homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law. 


As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) 


(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 


investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands 


to realize significant gains in the event that the price of Ozner’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group  California, LLC’s 


research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with 


respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be 


construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind. 


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, 


short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to 


buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be 


unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 


accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not 


insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality 


to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to 


ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to 


support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented “as is,” 


without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, 


LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high 


value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international 


organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO. 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 
completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 
subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or 


supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and 
independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive 
jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or 
applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in 
California; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 
use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 
barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer 


shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent 
jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as 
reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
