5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On
Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study
Mar. 4, 2015 9:30 AM ET20 comments
by: The GeoTeam


Summary


A 60 Minutes investigative report on Lumber Liquidators, tipped off by short seller
Whitney Tilson, appeared to show dangerous levels of formaldehyde in the
company’s laminate wood.


Lumber Liquidators, per their 8-K released on March 2nd, is contesting the methods
in which the testing was performed.


After reviewing California standards for formaldehyde testing and methods which
were used by 60 Minutes and Tilson, we conclude that the test results are likely
authentic and accurate.


Lumber Liquidators’ cash position, per the 2014 10-K, is an anemic $20.3 million in
cash and $47.3 million left on a revolving credit facility. We think the company needs
cash.


Our investment thesis is decidedly bearish and we think significant risk exists for LL
to move much lower.


This idea was discussed in more depth with members of my private investing
community, GeoInvesting Micro Insights.


When a company is accused of something as egregiously illegal and potentially harmful
as what 60 Minutes and Whitney Tilson have accused Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) of,
it's always a race to try and find facts to support or debunk the argument in the crucial first
few hours and days subsequent to the news breaking. It not only helps determine a clear
objective case for a 3rd party viewer, but it also helps in forming an investment decision
moving forward. Many times when companies are mired by bad news, traders see
opportunity and bargains. Other times, when companies are accused of illegal conduct,
the "falling knife" never seems to stop falling.


Such was the case with Whitney Tilson's Lumber Liquidators short. Mr. Tilson's short case
against Lumber Liquidators has consisted of an array of arguments, but most recently it
has centered on the allegation that LL's laminate hardwood contains levels of



https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=the-geoteam&source=mp_marketing_text_top

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


formaldehyde that far exceed California (and soon to be national) standards.
Formaldehyde is a known carcinogen.


We had no position in LL going into the report on Sunday night, nor were we partial to one
side of the argument. Our interest in the story piqued on the Monday after the 60 Minutes
report, while trying to find out what the investment case was going to be for LL moving
forward. While Mr. Tilson has been short since 2013, the story really grew legs when it
was featured on 60 Minutes last Sunday. It left traders debating on Monday and Tuesday
as to whether or not shares were just too cheap to ignore, or whether Mr. Tilson and 60
Minutes nailed the story, which could potentially drive LL much lower than current levels.


We're not going to spend a significant amount of time in reiterating the content of Tilson's
original thesis. You can view his original Power Point from 2013 here and you can view the
60 Minutes segment here. In addition, here are some of the videos and documents from
Monday and Tuesday:


Tilson's phone interview with CNBC
An article, "Lumber Liquidators May Fail, Analysts Were Asleep"
NBC News, "Lumber Liquidators 'Stands by Every Plank - Should You?"
A Forbes article, "Whitney Tilson Has Made $1.4 Million Shorting Lumber Liquidators"
A profile at The Street.com "Who Is Whitney Tilson? Buffett Disciple Shorts Lumber
Liquidators"


The company's official rebuttal can be found in an 8-K filed with the SEC on March 2,
available here. Their rebuttal to the story was relatively simple: Tilson and 60 Minutes
used the wrong testing methods.


After spending the better part of two days looking through debate online, coupled with
researching both Tilson and LL's response, it seemed to us that the key "potential crack"
in Mr. Tilson's story was that the testing being performed by LL was different than the tests
performed by Mr. Tilson and 60 Minutes. Was there some type of California Air Resource
Board ("CARB") compliant testing being done at LL that Tilson and others didn't know
about? Could Mr. Tilson and 60 Minutes have performed the testing incorrectly? Therein,
we believe, lays the biggest threat to Mr. Tilson's short case. We wanted to dive further
into this one topic, which remains the lynchpin in the crux of the short case. Theoretically,
if LL can come out and show that CARB testing requirements are different than the
methodology used by Mr. Tilson and 60 Minutes, there could be an opportunity to the long
side.



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LL.pdf

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations/

http://video.cnbc.com/gallery/?video=3000358449

http://www.thestreet.com/video/13064479/lumber-liquidators-may-fail-analysts-were-asleep-whitney-tilson.html

http://www.nbcnews.com/business/consumer/lumber-liquidators-stands-every-plank-should-you-n315826

http://www.forbes.com/sites/nathanvardi/2015/03/02/whitney-tilson-has-made-1-4-million-shorting-lumber-liquidators

http://www.thestreet.com/story/13063898/1/who-is-whitney-tilson-buffett-disciple-shorts-lumber-liquidators.html

http://app.quotemedia.com/data/downloadFiling?webmasterId=101533&ref=10114619&type=HTML&symbol=LL&companyName=Lumber+Liquidators+Holdings&formType=8-K&dateFiled=2015-03-02
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


Instead, every single piece of evidence that we've uncovered over the past two days has
led us to our conclusion: we support Mr. Tilson and 60 Minutes' side of the story. Upon
even further review, we are skeptical of Lumber Liquidators' ability to continue operating in
any sort of capacity resembling its past operating results. We believe that the worst case
scenario of significant loss in LL is very much on the table.


The purpose of this piece is to address the testing methods used and how they compare
to CARB standards and methods used by Lumber Liquidators.


Testing Done by 60 Minutes and Mr. Tilson Both Seem to be Correct and CARB
Compliant


First off, we think it's imperative to lay out the documentation we used to draw our
conclusions that Mr. Tilson and 60 Minutes performed the correct, CARB-compliant, tests:


Source (1) - California Environmental Protection Agency: Standard Operating Procedure
for Finished Good Test Specimen Preparation Prior to Analysis of Formaldehyde
Emissions from Composite Wood Products (2013) - linked here


Source (2) - Final Regulation Order: Airborne Toxic Control measure to Reduce
Formaldehyde Emissions from Composite Wood Products - linked here


Source (3) - California Environmental Protection Agency (ARB) Formaldehyde Test
Methods (2014) - linked here


These documents are, essentially, the governing documents in question with regard to
California state methods for this type of testing. We'll support these documents with
excerpts from the transcript of the 60 Minutes piece, an interview with Mr. Tilson, and a
recent article by NBC News.


The main question raised about testing in Lumber Liquidators' wood used in these studies
revolves around whether or not the CARB-compliant way of testing is to "deconstruct" the
wood and take the sample from the "core". Finished wood products have a veneer on the
surface which can cover the glues that contain the formaldehyde. For this piece, we talk
about two types of testing:


1. Testing performed on the "surface" veneer (i.e. the top of the laminated surface of the
product)


2. Testing performed on the medium density fibreboard "core" of deconstructed laminate
flooring



https://www.slideshare.net/secret/4758dqnt2Tu05H

https://www.slideshare.net/secret/N6H4E8cPc1UyOr

http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/compwood/outreach/testmethods.htm
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


This is what Mr. Tilson is talking about when he speaks about taking a sander to the wood
samples in order to get at the "core". Part of LL's defense seems to be that this method is
somehow improper, but our findings tell us otherwise.


The California Environmental Protection Agency: Standard Operating Procedure for
Finished Good Test Specimen Preparation Prior to Analysis of Formaldehyde Emissions
from Composite Wood Products document (source 1) that we sourced from the official CA
site on testing methods (source 3) tells us specifically that deconstruction is a key part
of the process.


Section two of the standard operating procedure document (source 1) clearly notes this
under "Summary of Method," where it calls deconstruction a "key activity":


And, just for good measure, the document even shows us how to operate a drum sander:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/360252_14254449026012_1.jpg
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


Parts of this document link to the approved small scale and CARB testing methods as
determined by the California Environmental Protection Agency Air Resources Board.
Those methods can be found on CA.gov, using this link.


60 Minutes used both "core" and "surface" testing methods. In this part of the 60 Minutes
story, Anderson Cooper speaks with Tom Sullivan, LL's founder and chairman, who
seemingly claims that 60 Minutes was wrong to do the "core" test because it's not "a real
world test." [Our notes are in brackets]:


But when we took those test results to Lumber Liquidators' founder and chairman
Tom Sullivan, he refused to accept the methodology as valid and points out the
company is not required by law to test their finished products like we did.


Tom Sullivan: It's not a real world test of the laminate - it's not the way it's used.
[Geo: We believe he's implying that the "surface" test is the proper method]


Anderson Cooper: You say you don't believe in this test, but what you believe
doesn't really matter. It's what CARB believes. And they believe in this test. [Geo:
The deconstructive "core" test]


Tom Sullivan: We will do whatever the regulations are.


Elsewhere in the 60 Minutes story, Anderson Cooper shows Dr. Philip Landrigan the
results of the 60 Minutes tests using the "surface" method - and even using this method, in
which the formaldehyde is partially sealed in, Dr. Landrigan expresses grave concerns
about the formaldehyde levels:



http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/compwood/outreach/testmethods.htm
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


Dr. Philip Landrigan: It's not a safe level, it's a level that the US EPA calls polluted
indoor conditions.


Anderson Cooper: Would you want that in your home?


Dr. Philip Landrigan: No.


Dr. Philip Landrigan of N.Y.'s Mt. Sinai Hospital, specializes in environmental
pediatrics and exposure to toxic chemicals. He's talking about the results of another
kind of test Drury and Larson conducted measuring the concentration of
formaldehyde emissions coming off the laminates into the air of a typical home [Geo:
Meaning "surface" rather than "core" testing].


Dr. Philip Landrigan: I would say long-term exposure at that level would be risky
because it would increase the risk for chronic respiratory irritation, change in a
person's lung function, increased risk of asthma. It's not going to produce symptoms
in everyone but children will be the people most likely to show symptoms at that sort
of level.


Additionally, an NBC News story that was published yesterday, linked here, confirms that
60 Minutes performed both tests (our emphasis added):



http://www.nbcnews.com/business/consumer/lumber-liquidators-stands-every-plank-should-you-n315826
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


CBS said the testing it had performed on behalf of '60 Minutes' followed the protocol
set by the state of California. That state's formaldehyde regulations, known as CARB
2, are the strictest in the country and will be mirrored by nationwide regulations
expected to go into place this year. CBS also had the labs administer the
California Department of Public Health test, which measures the concentration of
formaldehyde off-gassing from the laminates.


To test the floorboards for CARB compliance, the outer layer or layers of material
such as veneer are removed to expose the core, which is where formaldehyde-
containing glue would be used.


"The method of preparing the sample [entails] removing what's not composite," said
Stanley Young, spokesman for the California Air Resources Board. "If it's laminate,
removing the laminate… You have to take all of those materials off."


"The CARB regulation very specifically requires that if you're fabricating a
laminated floor you test for compliance by removing the face," Kip Howlett, president
of the Hardwood Plywood & Veneer Association, a trade group for domestic
producers and one of the labs that tested samples for CBS. "CARB has a very
specific method… We removed the face according to the CARB method and tested
the underlying core."


CBS found a single sample out of 31 that came from across the country - Virginia,
Florida, Texas, Illinois and New York - in compliance. Many samples had
formaldehyde levels many times over California's legal limit.


To add to this, you can clearly see this being addressed by Tilson in this TheStreet.com
video. Tilson addresses the testing about three minutes in. He says that there's testing
that goes on in China, which he calls a "sham". He then says that the "real testing" in the
U.S. should have picked up the problem. The standard for testing laminated wood, he
states, is taking the laminated wood to sand off the top layer to expose the "core" which is
where the formaldehyde is. It's based on that testing that CARB sets the "safe or unsafe"
levels.


He says that LL claims that the "surface" test is what's reasonable because people at
home aren't taking belt sanders to their floors and may assume that the formaldehyde is
sealed in the wood. But this is only partially true, as formaldehyde leaks out the sides of
the flooring pieces and can be released by the normal wear and tear of usage.



http://www.thestreet.com/video/13064479/lumber-liquidators-may-fail-analysts-were-asleep-whitney-tilson.html
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


Irrespective of this argument, however, Tilson states that the "core" test method is the
industry standard and how everyone does it. He says that LL is using their own methods,
which "no one else uses." To compare formaldehyde levels measured by the "surface" test
with the safe levels CARB has established is, Tilson says, "apples and oranges". Our
research on the matter has us agreeing with Tilson.


This is a copy of a press release issued by Global Community Monitor, whose Executive
Director Denny Larson was interviewed by 60 Minutes, that addresses several key issues,
namely:


Why formaldehyde testing is important
Why the CARB tests matter
The standards CARB uses
The testing method & results
The methodology behind the three labs that did the testing


Our analysis of this press release and the corresponding results reaffirms our view that
Tilson and 60 Minutes are correct about the proper testing protocols.


Negligence Clues from the 10-K?


As part of our research, we examined LL's 10-K to try and address the concept of how
much visibility the company has over its overseas operations. Let's start with what the
company notifies us about performing CARB testing domestically. First, they tell us that
they "expect to begin operating" a CARB-certification lab in Q1 of 2015:


In the first quarter of 2015, we expect to begin operating a 1,500 square foot lab
within our new East Coast distribution facility. The lab will feature two temperature
and humidity controlled conditioning rooms and two emission chambers correlated to
a California Air Resources Board ("CARB")-approved Third Party Certifier. This
equipment mirrors the capabilities of CARB and other state-of-the-art emission
testing facilities. We believe no other flooring retailer has comparable facilities. This
new lab will complement and augment the capabilities of the facilities we operate in
Toano, Virginia and in Shanghai, China, as well as those utilized by our suppliers.


We find it interesting that the company is seeking out their own CARB approved Third
Party Certifier and that they may not have access to these types of facilities as of yet,
unless something has changed materially since the time the company's 10-K was filed.



https://www.slideshare.net/secret/NHfhEAbrJxZDDD

http://app.quotemedia.com/data/downloadFiling?webmasterId=101533&ref=10099135&type=HTML&symbol=LL&companyName=Lumber+Liquidators+Holdings&formType=10-K&dateFiled=2015-02-25
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


Then, when talking about "Supplier Relationships," the company points out some facts
that lead us to believe that they have total or near-total visibility as to what takes place in
the mills they buy from. Specifically, the company notes that they are "on-site at certain
mills" and that the "long-term relationships" they engage in "challenge the structure of
each relationship, ultimately producing best combination of quality and value."


We are able to set demanding specifications for product quality and our own quality
control and assurance teams are on-site at certain mills, coordinating inspection
and assurance procedures. We believe the advantages a mill gains by working with
us attracts interest from around the world. As a result, we have diversified our
purchases across approximately 130 domestic and international mills.


We seek long-term, core relationships with mills committed to our demanding
product specifications, sustainable supply and regulatory compliance. As a result,
our top 20 suppliers accounted for approximately 62% of our supply purchases in
2014 and our largest mill partner represented approximately 7%. Outside of the core
group, we seek mill diversification and utilize sourcing initiatives which challenge
the structure of each relationship, ultimately producing the best combination of
quality and value at the lowest cost.


Additionally, when speaking about the quality of their products in the 10-K, LL reveals that
it is often a mill's largest customer, which seemed to be the case with the mill in which 60
Minutes took hidden camera video. This is consistent with what LL says in its 10-K, that it
has visibility and command over what happens in these mills:


Quality. We invest significant resources to design and produce products of the
highest quality, including our flagship Bellawood brand. We source directly from mills
all over the world, and often are a mill's most significant relationship. Proprietary
brands allow us greater control over product design and production, which we
monitor through an expansive network of experienced quality control and
assurance professionals.


Investment Thesis: LL Has Extremely Limited Upside


Prior to our research, we tried to be objective in drawing conclusions about whether or not
Tilson and 60 Minutes' testing was accurate. We felt the company was going to have a
very rough future ahead of it regardless. Now that we have satisfied our internal questions
about the method of testing used, our investment thesis leans decidedly bearish.
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


These types of mishaps generally require a "war chest" of cash to deal with. According to
LL's latest 10-K, the company finished 2014 with $20.3 million in cash and $47.3 million
left on a credit facility, which may or may not be accessible moving forward in light of this
news.


We think the worst case scenario of LL's stock potentially going to single digits - or even to
zero - is still very much on the table and, accordingly, we are short LL. Here's what we
believe:


The first problem that LL is going to have to deal with is dealing with customers who
have purchased their products (not just laminate wood) that are going to want flooring
removed and refunds at no cost to them. Many of LL's past customers will undoubtedly
be gravely concerned that they and their families are being exposed to a dangerous
known carcinogen and will demand that LL pay for testing their flooring, which is very
expensive. This is going to throw the profit engine into a swift reverse and will likely
have an adverse effect on the company's financials going forward.
The second problem that LL is going to have to deal with is lawsuits: lawsuits from
customers, class action lawsuits from shareholders, and potential lawsuits from the
government. We don't believe the company has the cash position necessary to deal
with these lawsuits.
The third problem is going to be that victims and potential victims are going to start
coming forward in troves. They're going to be angry and they're going to tie up
company resources. Anyone who's been exposed to LL's products (customers, guests,
installers, etc.) who develops any type of medial issue associated with formaldehyde
exposure, ranging from a simple cough to various types of cancer, will likely blame LL's
flooring (whether justified or not) and sue to have LL cover their medical bills, pain and
suffering, etc. These costs bankrupted most companies with any association with
asbestos - and we foresee a possible similar outcome for LL. This is also going to cost
a lot. So much for those growing gross margins.
The fourth problem will be dealing with regulators who are going to be very interested
in finding out what the company knew about this situation and when they knew it. LL
was raided by Federal agents in September 2013 for possible violations of the Lacey
Act (buying hardwoods that may have been illegally harvested by the Russian mob in
an environmentally protected area of Siberia), which has been expensive and time-
consuming for the company, so we can only imagine how much more time and money
the much more serious formaldehyde problem will consume. As Tilson said, this is
either negligence or outright fraud. Regardless, either situation could result in an
unceremonious end to tenure for the company's officers and directors.
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


The fifth problem is going to be raising much needed capital. As a few articles pointed
out on Tuesday, the company's balance sheet is in no position to deal with a massive
crisis like this. LL is going to need tons of cash to throw at this problem and raising
money with a giant risk hanging over the head of the company here is going to be
extremely difficult. The concept of bankruptcy has been tossed around on social media
and taking a look at the company's balance sheet, we understand why.


In summary, Lumber Liquidators potentially faces enormous headwinds and costs that the
company may not be able to withstand, with only $20 million of cash in the bank and little
prospect of raising additional capital while so many clouds hang over it.


On top of the testing results, 60 Minutes also had hidden video from one of the Chinese
mills that LL uses. We saw firsthand that mill employees were clearly showing boxes that
were labeled CARB 2 compliant and telling investigators that the wood inside wasn't
CARB 2 compliant. Those that are familiar with our work know that we have a lot of real
world experience with hidden camera video in China. It's been our experience that people
like these millworkers generally have no reason to lie in these types of situations. We find
the evidence that 60 Minutes presented to be very compelling based upon our real
experience in China over the last 5 years.


Even if LL somehow unexpectedly exonerates itself and makes it out of this crisis
operating as it used to (which we sincerely doubt), it's going to have a fundamental
business problem to deal with.


It then becomes somewhat of a self-fulfilling prophecy as the company's customer base
begins to dwindle. 60 Minutes has a huge audience and the story has been picked up
widely by other media, so millions of potential future customers have undoubtedly heard of
the formaldehyde problem and will be thinking twice about buying anything from LL.


These types of potentially disastrous scenarios are not conducive to a company trading
near 15 times its former estimates for next year. LL could easily be cut in half before we
even hear the next update from the company. The fallout of lost business and a tainted
brand name as a result of this crisis tells us that LL may not ever recover to be the growth
giant it once was - or recover at all.


Disclosure: The author is short LL.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


Comments (20)


 Like this article


Judicious, Contributor
Now we'll have to wait until the March 12 "business update" for LL to admit they can't invalidate 60 Minutes/Tilson.
RIP Lumber Liquidators


04 Mar 2015, 09:38 AM


makattack
Thanks for such a well written and researched article. After having been long LL, I am certainly happy to have sold out
at $42. There is legitimate risk that the mgmt knew about the illegal sourcing activities (both the Russian Oak and the
Formaldehyde issue)


04 Mar 2015, 10:03 AM


The GeoTeam, Marketplace Contributor
Author’s reply »  Thank you. We hope the piece does well to inform the public about these alarming findings.


04 Mar 2015, 10:06 AM


coy7174
Victims coming forward in "troves" ? Interesting use of the word given the conditions.


04 Mar 2015, 11:18 AM


User 720731
I think LL's potentially liability here is larger than their market cap. Im not sure they have the cash to survive. They
bought up $50 million in much higher priced stock last year which represented all of their operating income, and they
really need that money now. They are in an environment where they are not going to be able to raise cash through the
equity or bond markets, are going to have to write down inventory, and their images is so tainted that they could go
into a negative cash flow situation due to decreased sales. Not to mentioned even the Feds are all over them now. It
could get ugly.


04 Mar 2015, 03:19 PM


EnerSavr, Contributor
This is a good piece about not much. Formaldehyde is used in many products and it easily evaporates in air. The
laminate business is only 25% of LL business and from that only a small portion comes from China. That being said,
no one sands their floors on a daily basis. Once the flooring is aired out (about 10-15 minutes) after taken out of the
box, it does not emit formaldehyde unless it is somehow destructively disturbed. This is not much more than a scare



https://seekingalpha.com/author/judicious

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13810432

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-geoteam

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=the-geoteam&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/user/759140

https://seekingalpha.com/user/720731

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


tactic and unfortunately people run first.  
There is more formaldehyde concentration in a cigarette than a piece of laminate wood will ever have and one would
have to smoke it for years to have a cancer effect. So unless you are planning to make the laminate board, the
chance of one getting cancer from the formaldehyde in a laminate board is the same as the sun exploding next week.  
Even though LL does not have much of a cash position, do not forget, if they do not have to replace anything or pay
large fines, counter lawsuits are very powerful tool and many will lend them money based on the result of those
litigations.


This is like the Radon scare few years back and many lost their homes by panicking, when all they had to was to put
simple ventilation system in.


The sad part is that is wall street and many make their money through scare tactics and misinformation and rely on
the ignorance of many investors.


04 Mar 2015, 04:54 PM


wacman57
Interesting points. Where did you find the amount of Chinese product under suspicion ?


I am also wondering if Wilson ought to be looked at more closely. His motive is so obvious


05 Mar 2015, 06:13 PM


FrankArabia
whats the point of the standards then?


if its so unimportant, why have standards for it? why lie about adhering to the standards?


05 Mar 2015, 11:51 PM


Robert 7809591
Use a drum sander to get the laminate off?? How is that relevant to how the product is used?? This is along the same
lines as the FEMA trailer controversy after Katrina when it was revealed the air in new trailers was thick with
formaldehyde fumes. The trailers were not meant to be used as long term homes and even the sales literature said to
air out your trailer before use. So how much risk is there really?? Nobody sands down the laminate in their home. If
sanding raises the risk then the government test procedure is not valid. I am not saying the product is good I am just
saying the test should follow real life.


04 Mar 2015, 06:45 PM


57seagull
After reading that the author is "short" LL stock, this article lost much of its credibility in my mind. Fortunately, I do not
own LL stock or any LL products.


04 Mar 2015, 08:21 PM


SeekingWorldlyWisdom



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5804031

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4119491

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7809591

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1036546

https://seekingalpha.com/user/117673
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


Please, please long LL. I'm short and may not need to cover.


04 Mar 2015, 11:27 PM


WIIFM
I'm long as of yesterday so you have your wish. Short squeeze here we come!


05 Mar 2015, 08:48 AM


Matt Brice, Contributor
This is good analysis of the major issue and until LL comes out and discuss this difference, they are in trouble with
their customers, regulators and investors.


05 Mar 2015, 09:54 AM


Kevieboy
"Those that are familiar with our work know that we have a lot of real world experience with hidden camera video in
China." 
What is your ..."lot of real world experience with hidden camera video in China."???


05 Mar 2015, 10:21 AM


Ivan Gault
Great analysis - Thanks.


I agree with the bear case, but wonder how the market will respond to the March 12 update. The stock could rally if: 
- Don't try to defend their current position like they did on 60 Minutes, 
- They apologize to consumers, 
- They have their CARB 2 testing facility up and running, 
- Will test all products before selling them going forward, 
- Pull all Chinese products from their shelves, 
- Offer to replace anyone's flooring bought from LL, 
- Put doubt in the minds of consumers whether their competitor's products are as safe.


LL is saveable providing management is smart about it.


05 Mar 2015, 10:25 AM


FrankArabia
The main issue here is, did they sell a product that had false certification. From all of the evidence as it stands, they
most certainly sold CARB2 compliant products that were not compliant.


The result of this is their business will take a massive hit on their reputation and finances. To alleviate the problems,
the company will have to fend off lawsuits and sell a superior product at a below market rate, both of which has the
probability to completely bankrupt the business.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/13467072

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38310546

https://seekingalpha.com/user/17018382

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4119491
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


This is not a business enriched in cash. Its already a commodity business with low margins that is set to get lower.
This is truly a sad tale of a business gone awry in pursuit of profit.


05 Mar 2015, 11:56 PM


User 720731
I tend to agree with you FrankArabia, and they are in trouble. However, the company did say that they used
third party testers and "as recently as late 2014" 100% of the samples tested were CARB compliant, from the
same mills that 60 minutes went to. That is the interesting part of the story to me. Who are these
"independent testers" and are they incentivized to provide "good data" about LL's products? I cant reconcile
the 100% pass rate of the "independent testers" and the virtually 0% pass rate of 60 minutes, unless the
testing is done differently, but there should only be one test.


06 Mar 2015, 10:04 AM


Tiger Research
I must say after I read the multitude of short thesis online I was very concerned and borderline scared as a consumer.
So I decide to call the California air resources Board and ask them some relevant questions. As you could imagine
they were absolutely swamped with calls, but they returned my phone call two or three days later. The person that
called me back was very helpful. I'll try to relay some of the key points of my conversation with her.


The first thing she said is that the laminate product that was tested was from an East Coast store. Isn't it odd that they
didn't test CA product? Maybe they did. And it didn't support their point of view.


she said that the 60 minute expose was totally unnecessary.


she also brought up the point why didn't anyone ask if the product was unsafe to use as intended.


she also thought that the testing that lumber liquidators has on their website was legit.


she also said that after they talked to the consumers that called them, they began to understand and there's really not
anything to sue over.... i'm sure lawsuits will come, but we live in a litigious society.


just to be clear, I called them as a consumer. Because I have bought products from lumber liquidators over the years.
Including over 1000 square-foot of a laminate product a year and a half ago. she asked me if there were any signs or
symptoms, and I said no. And she goes well there you have it. If I was going to have any problems with the product it
would've shown up in the first days.


I encourage other concerned parties to check with California air resources Board for themselves. There is much
speculation and conjecture or on this topic. For me, it just made the most sense to talk to CARB myself. 
GL


10 Mar 2015, 10:01 AM


Martin Vlcek, Contributor
I used the short squeeze to initiate a short position.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/720731

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9011961

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-vlcek
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


Not based on this controversial formaldehyde issue which I can't prove right or wrong myself, but because of the low-
margin commodity business, still relatively high P/S ratio, probably low sales growth going forward, low cash flow and
multiple problems emerging while competitors will use this to take LL's market share.


Even if I didn't believe the formaldehyde story, where there is smoke, there is usually fire. Especially if the smoke is
coming from several places of LL: Siberia hardwood issue investigated by the FBI and now the formaldehyde issue. I
wonder if there is more to be uncovered, for example in accounting, etc.


10 Mar 2015, 09:12 PM


i^2 = j^2 = k^2 = ijk = -1
Never heard of GeoInvesting, but conclusion is WRONG.


60 Minutes and Tilson ignored the S.O.P. and chose to read only what they wanted to read, and this article even
outlines the wrong sentences in the SOP, and within your article itself is the proof the 60 Minutes tests were incorrect.


READ CAREFULLY THIS:


"For finished goods that consist of a laminated product in which ONE SIDE is NOT laminated or coated, the product
may be cut and tested as a panel with a surface coating on one side (SEE SOP for composite wood panels)"


Question 1: Flooring, is it laminated on BOTH sides, or just ONE SIDE?


Question 2: See question 1. Read the SOP as if your life depended on being correct.


There is a logical reason for why 60 Minutes and Tilson screwed up these tests, it's bc formaldahyde may not be in
the boards, nor the veneer, but it may be in the glue which is trapped under the veneer and filtered by the core of the
boards such that formaldahyde cannot easily leak out under any condition other than a period of decades OR a
hurricane which destroys and soaks the boards.


LL is trying to hide anything, they are correctly doing the tests. 
CARB 2 didn't get it wrong either, they created this sentence above because they realize that "real world" conditions
don't merit digging into flooring to get to the glue to see if it has formaldahyde, BECAUSE ITS NOT HARMFUL
THERE.


Do you get it? California allows the glue to have formaldahyde, not bc they are evil or even negligent, they allow it
because in real world use it's not coming out at any levels which are even remotely harmful to human beings. Even if
California assumed the glue is LOADED with formaldahyde, this is taken into account by one of the tests, which is is
one of the two tests LL conducts (and passes), and is ALSO taken into account by the limit itself. The ppm LIMIT IS
NOT ZERO FOR A REASON. It is not zero, bc formaldahyde in consumer products is not outlawed like other toxic
chemicals might be.


60 Minutes is wrong. 
Tilson is wrong. 
now something called Geo-Investing is wrong.


CARB is correct. 
LL is correct.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/346372
5/23/2018 GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study - Lumber Liquidat…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study


LL has the best gross margins, bc (perhaps surprisingly) they sell the most FLOORING vs their competitors who're
bigger in total sales (HD, etc....) and therefore can get the best prices from suppliers ON BEHALF OF THE
CUSTOMER.


13 Mar 2015, 04:37 PM
