5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In
HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia
Mar. 9, 2015 3:50 PM ET31 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


Sangamo has a 20-year track record of drug development failure.


Sangamo’s market capitalization of $1.2 billion grossly overestimates the likelihood
of success of the HIV and thalassemia pre-clinical programs.


Sangamo’s purportedly ground-breaking results in HIV with SB-728 do not stand up
under close examination.


Sangamo’s approach to B-thalassemia is flawed.


Sangamo BioSciences (NASDAQ:SGMO) was founded in 1995 ostensibly to
commercialize zinc finger nuclease technology. Twenty years have passed since its
founding and there hasn't been a single drug approval nor is one imminent. In twenty
years, Sangamo hasn't even advanced a drug past phase 2. What it has done is treat its
investors to a steady diet of insider sales, misleading press releases, and dilution.


To find evidence of a Sangamo executive stock purchase you have to go back to August
2010, when CEO Edward Lanphier and CFO Ward Wolfe dug deep to purchase 10,000
and 9,000 shares at $3.00. That pales in comparison to $20.5 million in stock sales from
the pair ($17 million for Lanphier and $3.5 million for Wolfe). Sangamo executives have
excelled at selling company stock as well with 6 secondary offerings since it became a
public company.


Throw in 19 consecutive years of losses since inception and one would think this would be
enough to send investors running to the hills. Instead, Sangamo proves P.T. Barnum
correct with a market capitalization of over $1.2 billion. Let's explore why Sangamo's
approach to genetic therapy is fundamentally flawed. First we will examine its efforts in B-
thalassemia. Then we will deconstruct Sangamo's purportedly successful results in HIV
with its SB-728 therapy.


Zinc Finger Nuclease in hemoglobinopathies



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SGMO
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Sangamo and partner Biogen are developing a zinc finger nuclease (ZFN) based
approach to the treatment of sickle cell disease and B-thalassemia. These programs have
not yet entered the clinic. Both diseases result from mutations in the proteins that form
hemoglobin - the oxygen carrying component of red blood cells. To understand the folly of
Sangamo's approach we'll need a brief review of hemoglobin synthesis.


Hemoglobin is a tetramer that typically contains two alpha chains and two beta chains.
Each individual has two copies of each gene; one from each parent. A mutation that
renders one of these proteins defective is generally asymptomatic. This is the so-called
heterozygous or carrier state. A mutation in both copies of either gene leads to disease.


Fetuses use a slightly different form of hemoglobin which consists of two gamma chains
and 2 alpha chains. Fetal hemoglobin has a higher affinity for oxygen and facilitates the
transfer of oxygen from the mother's blood to the fetus. Fetal hemoglobin is generally
present at <1% in adults unless they have a hemoglobinopathy such as sickle cell disease
or thalassemia in which case it may be present at greater concentrations. Higher
concentrations of fetal hemoglobin may ameliorate some of the symptoms of thalassemia
because fetal hemoglobin is not mutated in these patients and it is capable of carrying
oxygen. We say "may" because even though some patients with hemoglobinopathies
have higher levels of fetal hemoglobin, there has never been a trial to demonstrate this.
This is simply an observed correlation.


The fatal flaw:


Assuming that one could introduce DNA into a cell, the most obvious approach to treating
thalassemia is to introduce a normal (wild type) copy of the defective gene. This is exactly
the approach being taken by Bluebird bio (NASDAQ:BLUE). While there is no guarantee
that this approach will work, it is direct and Bluebird is conducting proper studies to test it.


To call Sangamo's approach to the treatment of thalassemia indirect is an understatement.
Sangamo has decided rather than attempting to fix the underlying problem - namely, a
mutation in the beta globin gene - it will attempt to ameliorate the symptoms it causes by
increasing the amount of fetal hemoglobin produced. Since fetal hemoglobin is normally
repressed in adults, Sangamo's strategy involves "de-repressing" fetal hemoglobin by
inactivating its repressor protein BCL11a.


Sangamo has engineered a zinc finger nuclease that can be introduced into red cell
precursors. This ZFN is designed to cleave and inactivate the BCL11a gene. Of course,
inactivation of one copy of BCL11a is not enough. Instead, both copies of the gene must



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BLUE
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


be inactivated for this to have any chance of working. After confirming that BCL11a has
been inactivated, SGMO will re-introduce the modified cells back into the patient.


The barrier to gene therapy is not selecting the right construct. The scientific community
understands what gene is mutated and knows how to create a wild type copy for
introduction into the cell. The barrier to gene therapy has long been successfully
introducing the expression construct into the cells and effecting persistent gene
expression. If one solves the problem of introducing DNA into cells, then what possible
reason could there be for introducing anything more than a good copy of the mutated
gene? Sangamo's persistence with the zinc finger approach suggests a slavish desire use
the technology on which they became a public company 15 years ago in spite of the fact
that more direct approaches exist. When it comes to altering someone's genome, less is
more.


Does this sound familiar?


In 2009, Sangamo tried a similar approach to treat peripheral neuropathy. The company
hypothesized that Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor also known as VEGF was deficient
in patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Rather than injecting the VEGF protein or
a gene therapy cassette that caused cells to express VEGF, Sangamo introduced a
plasmid (SB-509) that would hopefully express a zinc finger protein that they thought
would direct the cell to synthesize VEGF. On October 3, 2011, Sangamo announced that
the phase 2 study of SB-509 failed. The parallels between this failed approach and the
current approach to treating hemoglobinopathies are striking. In both cases, a more direct
approach is available. In both cases, we believe Sangamo uses an indirect route simply to
make use of the zinc finger technology.


What could go wrong?


The gene Sangamo plans to inactivate BCL11a, was initially discovered in aggressive B-
cell leukemias and is commonly overexpressed in Hodgkin's disease. In fact, the name
BCL comes from B-Cell Lymphoma. Perhaps more troubling is the observation from
murine studies that cells lacking BCL11a can induce lymphomas in recipient mice. Will the
same be observed in humans? We won't know until Sangamo exposes enough patients.
You have to ask yourself why on Earth someone would knowingly delete a gene that is
known to have tumor suppressing activity in mice.


Assuming Sangamo can achieve BCL11a deletions in red blood cell precursors and that
these cells when re-introduced into the patient don't cause cancer, they might be able to
increase the levels of fetal hemoglobin and potentially reduce the symptoms of



http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12774073
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


thalassemia. Did we mention that this approach requires that the ZFN modified cells be re-
introduced in the context of bone marrow transplant conditioning? Bone marrow
transplants are potentially curative for thalassemia and sickle cell disease provided one
can find a matched donor so the Sangamo approach, should it meet all of the
aforementioned hurdles, does eliminate the need to find a matched donor.


The real question to ask is why anyone would bother with such an indirect approach that
at best might reduce symptoms when the gene therapy approach offered by Bluebird
promises to effect a cure?


SB-728 in HIV: No evidence of success


We believe Sangamo is making the same mistakes with HIV. Like with B-thalassemia,
Sangamo is taking an indirect and circuitous route in its HIV treatment, one that we don't
believe makes scientific sense. Instead of going after the HIV virus directly, Sangamo's
SB-728 works by manipulating the T-cells of HIV patients. The HIV virus works by
attaching to receptors on healthy T-cells (a type of white blood cell), entering the cell, and
eventually killing the T-cell and impacting the patient's ability to fight infections. There are
several co-receptors on the T-cell; CD4, CCR5, and CXCR4 are three well-known and
established ones. Sangamo's SB-728 supposedly works by causing a mutation in the
CCR5 receptor, thus making the cell immune to HIV. It does not target the HIV virus
directly. It simply tries to boost a patient's immunity to HIV.


So far, the results from several phase 1/2 trials for SB-728 have been disappointing, but
one wouldn't be able to tell from Sangamo's enthusiasm. We believe that Sangamo has
cherry-picked and highlighted a handful of patients in every press release and has not
mentioned the many patients who have failed therapy. A closer examination shows there
is nothing to be excited about. Sangamo likes to point out that 6 patients across their
phase 1 and 2 trials have been on extended Treatment Interruption (TI) and remain off
highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). However, that's 6 patients across a total of 40
patients treated, which is only 15%. Why should anyone be excited about a 15% response



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/959452_14257655998950_rId7.png
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


rate in a treatment? If Sangamo bothered to include a control arm, one might be able to
objectively assess if SB-728 is doing anything but the last time Sangamo included a
control arm was in the phase 2 trial of SB-509 and we know how that worked out
(Sangamo BioSciences Announces Phase 2b Trial of SB-509 in Diabetic Neuropathy Did
Not Meet Key Study Endpoints). The only thing Sangamo appears more adamant about
than using their zinc finger technology is omitting a control arm.


Furthermore, no single patient has been "functionally cured," a phrase that Sangamo uses
liberally in every press release in describing SB-728. The patients that are on extended TI
do not have "undetectable viral loads." Instead, they have demonstrated "continuing
control of circulating viral load at low levels." In fact, each of the 3 subjects that Sangamo
has touted as having reached "undetectable viral loads" only reached undetectable viral
loads for a transitory period of time. All 3 later saw an increase in HIV viral load to
detectable levels. SB-728 did not provide a "cure," as Sangamo likes to say. We'll highlight
one of the subjects from the SB-728-209 Cohort 5 phase 2 trial to make Sangamo's
sleight of hand clearer.



http://investor.sangamo.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=610157
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


It's clear that this patient regressed and viral loads (VL) began to rise significantly before
31 weeks. No updates on the patient have been provided since May of 2014.


The goal of HIV therapy is not to be off drugs and have low levels of disease. The goal of
HIV therapy is to have an undetectable HIV viral load and remain so. This has not
happened in any of Sangamo's 40 SB-728 patients. That is a 0% success rate. The
patients that remain on treatment interruption have detectable HIV viral loads and are at
significant risk of an increase in viral loads. This shows that Sangamo's SB-728 is quite far
from becoming a "functional cure" and may never be one.


Sangamo is now downplaying SB-728 efficacy


As we have seen SB-728's trial results deteriorate, Sangamo has changed its language
around SB-728, downplaying its potential. In earlier press releases, Sangamo described
SB-728 as a potential "functional cure."


In later press releases, Sangamo started describing SB-728 more as a treatment that
allows "functional control" of HIV and not a "functional cure."


Finally, at the Sixth International Workshop on HIV Persistence during Therapy in 2013,
Sangamo stated that SB-728 is no longer being developed as a "functional cure" for HIV,
which is what the market is so enthusiastic about.
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Existing HAART therapy provides undetectable viral loads


It is clear from Sangamo's own words that Sangamo realizes SB-728 is not a potential
"cure" for HIV and now must be positioned as a potential treatment for functional control of
HIV. However, there already exists a treatment today that allows for incredible control
rates for HIV. In order for SB-728 to achieve any sort of success for the treatment of HIV, it
must perform better than today's standard of care (SOC), which is HAART. Studies of
patients on HAART have shown significantly higher rates of response and undetectable
viral loads. Well-established drugs like Stribild have shown 94% and 93% of patients
reached undetectable rates of viral load . These types of response and success rates are
common with HAART.


In fact, HAART works so well that in SGMO's phase 1 study, Sangamo had to abandon
the portion of the study that targeted HIV patients who had failed HAART because they
couldn't find enough patients. That's how successful HAART is!


It's also important to note that the patients who reached undetectable viral loads after
receiving SB-728 were all CCR5-Δ32 heterozygous patients, which means they were
naturally more resistant to HIV therapy. About 10% of the population is heterozygous,
though closer to 20% in people of European ancestry. In Sangamo's phase 2 portion of
the SB-728-902 trial (Cohort 5), Sangamo purposefully chose only CCR5-Δ32


2



http://www.gilead.com/~/media/Files/pdfs/medicines/hiv/stribild/stribild_pi.pdf

http://www.cell.com/cell/abstract/S0092-8674%2800%2980110-5?_returnURL=http%3A%2F%2Flinkinghub.elsevier.com%2Fretrieve%2Fpii%2FS0092867400801105%3Fshowall%3Dtrue
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


heterozygous patients. Of the 10 patients treated, only 2 ever reached undetectable viral
load levels at any point in time, and only 1 remained on TI longer than protocol. Given this
population was hand-picked to show the most success, we're surprised no one achieved
successful long-term undetectable viral loads. This is further indication that SB-728 does
not work.


Sangamo has been unable to find a partner for SB-728


Lastly, Sangamo has been actively searching for a partner for its HIV program. They have
been looking for years, and despite consistent press releases touting the success of its
early HIV programs, no partnership has been signed. On the 3Q 2014 earnings call, CEO
Ed Lanphier said that they have been in "active discussions" with partners. Yet, on the 4Q
2014 earnings call, in response to a question whether a partnership would happen soon
after data from yet another phase 2 study for SB-728 would be announced in late 2015,
CEO Ed Lanphier admitted in the Q&A session that no partner was close.


We think this shows that experts have seen the HIV data, have come to the same
conclusions we have, and do not want to partner with Sangamo.


In summary:


1. Sangamo has a 20-year track record of drug development failure. Management has
enriched itself at the expense of shareholders. If you bought SGMO stock at $15 per
share on its IPO in April, 2000, you would have made 1.3% per year. Unfortunately, the
share count increased 5-fold in that same period of time.


2. Sangamo's approach is indirect and at best can ameliorate symptoms as opposed to
gene therapy approaches which simply replace the defective gene and offer the hope of a
cure.
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Comments (31)


3. Sangamo's purportedly ground-breaking results in HIV with SB-728 do not stand up
under close examination. SB-728 has not shown any indication that it can provide a
"functional cure" for HIV, does not compare well to today's standard of care, and cannot
find a partner.


4. Sangamo refuses to conduct studies that rigorously assess whether their drugs work.
This includes the inclusion of a control arm so assiduously avoided by Sangamo's
management. Rest assured we believe that if Sangamo could demonstrate efficacy in a
properly controlled study, they would.


5. The same line of reasoning can be applied to the rest of Sangamo's pipeline. Stated
simply, if one can re-introduce a normal copy of a defective gene, thereby effecting a cure,
why would anyone bother with the Sangamo approach? We wonder whether sell-side
analysts who cover SGMO would ask this question if they were putting the interests of
shareholders above the next secondary offering. Absent this, shareholders need to ask
themselves why this time it's different.


6. We believe Sangamo's market capitalization of $1.2 billion grossly overestimates the
likelihood of success of the HIV program and thalassemia pre-clinical program.


7. We are short Sangamo with a price target of $3.26, which is the value of the cash on
the balance sheet. Given Sangamo's 20-year history of failure to move any asset past
phase 2 trials and lack of development with SB-728, we assign no value to its zinc finger
platform and merely value Sangamo for the cash on its balance sheet.


Disclosure: The author is short SGMO.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


MineMan
Everything you call a failure,, I count as success. 
I'll not try to sell you any SGMMO stock, not my loss. 
We shall see. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Article published by DR KOHN, UCLA in BLOOD seems to differ with your 
thoughts on SGMO bets Tal approach.


09 Mar 2015, 05:23 PM


ronrohkal
Your article is clearly driven by an attempt to manipulate the SP. What's the matter did you get a margin call on your
short position? Your arguments are easily refutable. Why target HgbF production? Simple answer, it works! See this: 
http://bit.ly/1Bq9h6R


Suppressing BCL 11a will cause cancer? Whoa there, over expression of this gene actually is a risk factor for cancer!
See here: 
http://bit.ly/1Bq8tyL 
You completely ignore all the other diseases Sangamo is targeting such as hemophilia, Alzheimer's, Lysosomal
Storage Disease.


Finally if I were HIV positive I would be more than happy to have a persistent low viral load that did not cause disease
and allowed me not to have to take medication on a daily basis that by the way costs $20,000 a year! What's wrong
with functional control?


09 Mar 2015, 05:25 PM


OverSouled
My question is, are you actually short the stock, as you say, or are you being directly compensated for this and the
endless series of hit pieces you do? Maybe these are stocks you are looking to load up on at a better price point?
Senvest Capital, a pink sheet stock, is the only one you wrote an article recommending out of about 40 pieces I
looked at - could they have an interest in all this? If not them, then maybe the competitors of the companies you
target? Or do you just have deep pockets and want to diversify? Lots of possibilities here.


Most of your articles come with radically low PT's even among detractors, suggesting a very strong motivation to
knock down the current share price. The only thing I will grant is that your approach takes guts, since some of your
PT's are so low they look ridiculous and you have to pretend to have a huge amount of expertise in a variety of
different fields, with absolutely no information that would lead any reader to believe that you do. Indeed, nothing is
clear from the extremely attenuated SA profile you offer, but it provides no reason whatsoever to think that you are
medical experts.


Moreover, this particular rant provides lots of reasons to think that you have a vested interest in assisting Bluebird Bio.
Anyone who takes this piece as a reason to dump SGMO shares should think twice. It could have been written by a
ghostwriter from BLUE or by a medical expert from a company that has a relationship with them. There are always
differences over the value of various research programs in the medical field, so if someone wants to question a
company's medical technology there are usually opportunities to find someone who claims to know better. But to take
an anonymous, unknown author of hit pieces as having the expertise to predict the outcome of Sangamo's research
programs would be very risky if not outright foolish.


Investors in biotech should be extremely suspicious of any author who takes as an important datum a "20 year track
record of drug development failure". Bringing drugs to market based on new technologies is a a very long, costly and



https://seekingalpha.com/user/163725

http://bit.ly/1Bq9h6R

http://bit.ly/1Bq8tyL

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9813151
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


tedious enterprise, and failure is always a possibility until (and sometimes after) a candidate receives FDA approval.
Twenty years is a long time but by no means unprecedented. This phony argument has been used against many
biotech stocks and identifies the entire piece as having ulterior motives, even without examining the specific
biomedical claims made therein.


Alpha Exposure's recommendation of SENVEST included a call for "100% upside" from the share price of 11/26/13.
Since then the stock had a slightly wild rise and equally wild fall and now hovers somewhere below their price the day
the article was published. So when you see a PT of $3.00 for SGMO here take that with a grain, no a bag, of salt.


I have no current position in SGMO. It ran up a bit too high for my taste after the Biogen agreement; for a short time
the increase in share price looked like it factored in every penny of the potential income from that agreement, much of
which was years away. That might be a reason to expect a price decline, but the price is already down a bit since
then. If this dubious rant succeeds in knocking it down significantly further (it lost about 2.8% today, but this piece
came out just before the closing bell) I might finally pick some up. I'll be checking in at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow to see if
this illustrious purveyor of investment advice has unwittingly provided me with a good entry point. I could still lose
money, but I am fairly certain it will not be because of the biomedical arguments in this article.


09 Mar 2015, 05:55 PM


WhitneyB
AlphaExposure, I note you are short SGMO; is there a reason you are not long BLUE? I'm not intending sarcasm, just
sincerely curious. Thank you.


09 Mar 2015, 06:07 PM


allen_jones
SGMO's HIV program is just a bunch of fluff. That point I agree.


However, your attack of SGMO approach to hemoglobinopolies is baseless.


Here is what BLUE lentiglobin is:


LentiGlobin incorporates an anti sickling amino acid that is found in fetal hemoglobin (glutamine at position 87)


This is taken from BLUE on presentations slides of there lentiglobin product.


Lentiglobin in simple terms is just a mimic of fetal hemoglobin. I do not see what your point is????


09 Mar 2015, 08:19 PM


MineMan
One of these days you will be able to ask if previous particiapnts in SB-728-T trials are better now than
before. 
We will see results from 1401 trial, earlier than anyone expects. 
edward loves to surprise folks.


Concensus is that SGMO HIV treatment works. 
These early trials show that it does. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/6416701

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6838461

https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


The variables built into early trials are done so for a reason. 
Does it work in all HIV positive subjects, and if not how can we improve it so that it does? 
REPEAT as needed to achieve "curative effect".


When was the last person in the 1401 trial infused with each cohort , 2 infusions and 3 infusions. if all were
enrolled, can't get an answer from Liz as to what that means. a big difference between enrolled and infused.


We will know what we know when we know it.


"B"


a reminder these methodologies can be used to treat virtuallly any virus that has a genetic pathology. At least
that is what the patent claims say.


MAKE THE DEAL Edward.


10 Mar 2015, 11:28 AM


tsudaes
The basic problem with SGMO is that its zinc finger technique can not change all of the cells already in existence in
the body. Its only bet is in blood cells manipulation, with bone marrow implantation. Even with that, SGMO can not
formulate a cure for hemophilia! I would agree that it's time to pass over this quixotic endeavor.


09 Mar 2015, 08:41 PM


andybaron
Sangamo doesn't need to change every cell. Their In Vivo Protein Replacement Platform (IVPRP) changes
less than one percent of the albumin producing cells in the liver to produce any desired protein, including
factors VIII and IX to treat hemophilia A and B.


The hemophilia program is partnered with Shire and an IND is expected later this year. Sangamo's proprietary
program for lysosomal storage diseases uses the same platform to produce the missing enzymes needed to
cure those monogenic diseases. The albumin gene was chosen as the target because it is so expressive --
the liver produces pounds of albumin every year and can easily spare a portion of that productivity to produce
any other needed protein.


09 Mar 2015, 11:56 PM


MineMan
Also, 
As has been proven by the current form of treatment for Hemo, Enzyme (protein) Replacement Therapy
(ERT), only a small amount of protein (FXIX, etc is needed to provide "curative" clotting. 
IVPRP can be adaptied to treat ANY where the lack of or an incorrectly expressed enzyme is the "root cause"
of the disease. MOST Lysosomal Diseases fall into this category. 
SGMO is not a one trick pony.


11 Mar 2015, 08:13 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1009528

https://seekingalpha.com/user/428802

https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


allen_jones
Your trashing SGMO for knocking out the gene responsible for the switch from fetal hemoglobin to adult hemoglobin.
Your argument is puzzling in that SGMO is actual using the more direct and elegant approach than BLUE.


BLUE essentially mimics fetal hemoglobin by inserting a gene. Why not just use fetal hemoglobin?


09 Mar 2015, 08:48 PM


skimzzz
This article is ridiculously one-sided and misleading.


Heterozygous CD4 mutations have been shown to impart resistance/immunity to HIV (ex. Berlin patient). Sangamo's
SB-728 has been shown to effect such changes in T cells, and delivery of this permanent change has been improving
with each trail No other HIV therapy addresses reduction if viral reservoir which is a necessary condition for a
functional cure.


Clueless statements on B-thal. Partnership with Biogen and grants from CIRM (http://bit.ly/1GzK9Ps) show the
experts view this strategy as sound).


All you need to know that this is an ignorant hack article: Article is flat out wrong when it states Sangamo admitted
there were no prospective HIV partners. Listen to the actual call where Lanphier responds (laughingly) to Buchanan's
question, and you'll see what a joke this article is. SGMO's stance has always been to partner the HIV program at
maximum value inflection points.


09 Mar 2015, 10:17 PM


MineMan
My tyake on thee partnering thing for HIV. 
Those seeking to partner the HIV platform, want a broder inclusion of the "platform". That is to say, since the
mthods used to "functionally cure" HIV, can also be applied to other viruses that have a genetic pathology,
like, Ebola, HEP, and many others listed in the patents of SGMO. 
Which can be found on the investorvillage website, posted by JBWIN.


11 Mar 2015, 08:18 AM


Amerlafrance
shame on the SA editor for allowing an anonymous hatchett job by a claimed short. Alpha, if you have the guts and
aren't just looking to cover cheaper, put up your name so the SEC can can confirm you aren't covering on whatever
selling your article creates.


09 Mar 2015, 11:13 PM


MineMan
Cannot prevent others from utilizing thier 1st Amendemnt rights. 
The benificial results from the negative article....... 
It got a lot of supportive comments, something that positve articles in the past did not do.:)



https://seekingalpha.com/user/6838461

https://seekingalpha.com/user/794574

http://bit.ly/1GzK9Ps

https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710

https://seekingalpha.com/user/191135

https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


12 Mar 2015, 08:19 AM


DWD Investing, Contributor
SA authors allow "arguments." It's your duty to decide if they are valid or not. That way we get both sides of a
coin, even the dirty sides.


12 Mar 2015, 10:25 AM


mschilli
While the HIV results have been mixed and there's still work to be done, there's at least two substantively misleading
arguments made in the above article. First, it criticizes Sangamo for going after the CCR5 mutation instead of HIV
directly: there is no known way to go after HIV directly via gene editing. By contrast, we DO know that people with the
CCR5 mutation can achieve a very high level of resistance (or immunity) to HIV. It would be a huge loss to not pursue
this approach. Second, the author writes of HAART's effectiveness as if it's a reason to not pursue a cure for HIV. The
author clearly doesn't know anyone living on HAART. It has been a miracle drug in that it has rendered HIV a chronic,
rather than fatal illness, but spend 15 minutes talking to someone on HAART and you will go back to rooting for
Sangamo. HAART is hard on the liver, has frequent gastrointestinal and neurological symptoms with severe sleep
disruption, and it's expensive. Furthermore, the chronic HIV sufferer lives with MUCH higher rates of skin problems,
cancer risk, sinus/respiratory infections, and higher risk of heart trouble. We may not have a functional cure with
CCR5 yet, but it's something to hope for.


10 Mar 2015, 10:05 AM


MineMan
ASK any person that is on ART, they will be very happy to be set free of the retrovirals they are currently
taking, IF THEY STILL WORK FOR THEM. They do not work for everyone. 
CDC reports that there are 17.500 HIV/AIDs related deaths a year. Does this sound like retrovirals are the
solution to HIV? 50,000 new HIv diagnosis each (CDC reports). If these 50,000 new HIV folks were infused
with SB-728-T, the latest mR version, could they be cured of HIV?


11 Mar 2015, 08:25 AM


MineMan
I will let the scientists speak my piece. 
Pubmed Abstract, published in journal BLOOD March 2 2015. 
"Correction of sickle cell disease mutation in human hematpoietic stem/progenitor cells"


Pubmed abstract published Journal Stem cells, Sept 2014. Uni Cal San Francisco Author Felfly H 
"Hematopoietc stem cells: potential new application for tranhslational medicine"


Articles can be found by searching pubmed.gov for zinc finger, or authors.


10 Mar 2015, 12:07 PM


ronrohkal



https://seekingalpha.com/author/dwd-investing

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12159461

https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710

https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710

https://seekingalpha.com/user/163725
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Ouch with your short position! Must sting! I'm feeling your pain!


10 Mar 2015, 12:48 PM


DWD Investing, Contributor
"A closer examination shows there is nothing to be excited about. Sangamo likes to point out that 6 patients across
their phase 1 and 2 trials have been on extended Treatment Interruption (TI) and remain off highly active antiretroviral
therapy (HAART). However, that's 6 patients across a total of 40 patients treated, which is only 15%. Why should
anyone be excited about a 15% response rate in a treatment?"


The way I understood it, those patients didn't get both genes changed, only one. The 15% had both genes changed,
and it worked, but the cells eventually die off, which means HIV comes back over time, like any dormant virus (e.g.,
herpes). Therefore, SANGAMO is trying to find a way to make the body produce those genes on its own.


When I read their reports of the trials, I didn't think they were trying to hide anything, explicitly stating why some
responded and some did not, why,a nd how they were addressing those issues.


"A population of these individuals that is immune to HIV infection, despite multiple exposures to the virus, has been
identified and studied extensively. The majority of these individuals have a natural mutation, CCR5delta32, resulting in
the expression of a shortened, or truncated, and non-functional CCR5 protein. This mutation appears to have no
observable deleterious effect.


--->In addition, a study published in Blood in December 2010 reported an effective cure when an AIDS patient with
leukemia received a bone marrow transplant from a “matched” donor with this delta-32 CCR5 mutation. This
approach transferred the hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) residing in the bone marrow from the delta-32 donor, and
provided a self-renewable and potentially lifelong source of HIV-resistant immune cells. After transplantation, the
patient was able to discontinue all anti-HIV drug treatments (ART), CD4 counts increased, and viral load dropped to
an undetectable level, demonstrating effective transplantation of protection from HIV infection. The subject remains off
ART and is widely sonsidered to be cured of his HIV infection.<---


We are using our ZFN-mediated gene disruption technology to disrupt the CCR5 gene in cells of a patient’s immune
system to make these cells permanently resistant to HIV infection. The aim is to provide a population of HIV-resistant
cells that can fight HIV and opportunistic infections thereby mimicking the characteristics of individuals that carry the
natural mutation. 
Clinical Status


We have an ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate safety and tolerability of our ZFN-CCR5-gene modification
approach in CD4+ T-cells in subjects that are HIV-infected. Several trials have been completed, including a Phase 1
trial single-dose, investigator-sponsored trial at the University of Pennsylvania. Data from this trial were published in a
report in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2014 (N.Eng. J. Med. 2014: 370:897-906 “Gene Editing of CCR5 in
Autologous CD4 T-cells of Persons Infected with HIV.”) "


Link with more information: http://bit.ly/17ndW7o


Also, please note that the information from Sangamo's trtial on HIV has been published: Several trials have been
completed, including a Phase 1 trial single-dose, investigator-sponsored trial at the University of Pennsylvania. Data



https://seekingalpha.com/author/dwd-investing

http://bit.ly/17ndW7o
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


from this trial were published in a report in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2014 (N.Eng. J. Med. 2014:
370:897-906 “Gene Editing of CCR5 in Autologous CD4 T-cells of Persons Infected with HIV.”)


10 Mar 2015, 03:12 PM


MineMan
One of my wishes would be answered if more of the presentations made by


SGMO scientists could be found or at least links provided on the SGMO website. 
One Day


11 Mar 2015, 08:30 AM


StockTalk_09
Holy hell this is the most scientifically illiterate article I've ever seen posted on Seeking Alpha.


How is making a single mutation in the genome MORE invasive than inserting an ENTIRE LENTIVIRAL CASSETTE
instead?


Probably my favorite: "BCL11A is overexpressed in B-cell lymphomas so deleting it would be oncogenic!"
Overexpressed and deleting it are biological OPPOSITES, if they were overexpressing BCL11A patients would be at
risk for lymphoma you idiot.


11 Mar 2015, 12:36 PM


DWD Investing, Contributor
LOL,


Yeah, definitely a questionable article. I just refer him to the NEJM and Sangamo's publication therein.


11 Mar 2015, 12:37 PM


ATrautmann
HIV will no doubt be cured . Biogen obviously sees value in its relationship with SGMO. Nevermind Toxcity with
HAART over decades of treatment leaves much to be desired. Natural mutations exists in humans which prove them
to be immune from HIV infection. SGMO has identified that curative mutation. They are headed down the right path
...I have been in the stock from $4 to $24 and back to $17. I have always added more on significant pullbacks and
have done very well . My investment is a "call on science beating disease" . I have done it with Gilead and ISIS and
hope my small contribution at Sagamo will prove beneficial to easing human suffering yet again . Biotech is advancing
by leaps and bounds and Alpha Exposure will be on the wrong side of this trade . Get shorty !


12 Mar 2015, 12:37 AM


DWD Investing, Contributor
The HIV Sangamo treats is I think around 30% of the infected population, since HIV isn't one disease, but
many iterations of the same type of disease. The gene therapy won't help those infected with mutations of the
most common form of HIV. Virus' are just nasty.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32751025

https://seekingalpha.com/author/dwd-investing

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1102358

https://seekingalpha.com/author/dwd-investing
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


12 Mar 2015, 10:27 AM


ATrautmann
Sangamo approved by FDA to go ahead with PH 1 : 
http://bit.ly/18DQY3D


12 Mar 2015, 12:23 PM


BionHoward
I lol'd


15 Mar 2015, 07:12 PM


BionHoward
My concern with sangamo is that they will be beaten to market on curing diseases by newer techniques like cas9, or
small molecules, or antibodies. I'm so totally down to bet a lot on biotech but we must realize that medicine is a
competitive industry. If Editas makes an IPO, I'm in. Definitely keeping a close eye on gene therapy companies...


15 Mar 2015, 07:16 PM


vkf02
Alpha Exposure: 
- Much like your Snowscape pic of yourself. 
- Why are you not commenting, responding to others, in the Comments section immediately above? You are not a hit
and run artist.


20 May 2015, 06:35 AM


MineMan
Half baked article skews HIV results.  
anyone reading this should listen to the most recent presentation by Edward Lanphier at UBS this week. 
sounds like there is no way that the HIV trials are a failure, but an unmitigated success. With improved methods
incorporating mRna should imprve engraftemnt of Stem like T-Cells significantly. Results due second half of 2015
should lead to a partnership in HIV platform. 
How much is a "functional cure" for HIV worth? Estimates go from $3 Billion per year to as high as $12.5 Billion per
year peak sales. 
AND,,,,,,,,,IT WORKS. 
Not only Licensed Hemophillia one time treatment for a one time treatment, estimated peak sales of $5 Billion. 
Now add the revenues that will be generated by two new announced INDs this year for Hunter's and Hurler's diseases
THIS YEAR FDA filing. 
Estimated annual combined sales of $2.5 BILLION.  
AGAIN one time treatments with "curative effects". 
Combining the Beta Thal and Sickle Cell treatment into one method for both. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1102358

http://bit.ly/18DQY3D

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37292896

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37292896

https://seekingalpha.com/user/67216

https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Not only assures long term persistance of the treatment, using the Gamma Globin 
Over the less persistant Beta Globin used by others. 
Estimated annual revenues peak sales, $5 Billion. 
At least 2 additional in house IVPRP targets next year. But more possible.


Institutional Investors have increased their ownership by 2.5 million shares in the 1st quarter, with more accumulation
taking place in the early part of second quarter. Makes me believe I am not the only investor that believes SGMO will
be much higher this time next year.  
See Wedbush estimate,,,,,$30. 
Who do you believe?


20 May 2015, 09:12 AM


MineMan
I will wait for the newer trial results. Including BT/SC, next year.


Results from the latest T-Cell trial in HIV may surprise everyone. 
"dose to cure"


"B"


Going to be a long hot summer:)


18 Jun 2015, 08:54 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/633710
