“You can fool all of the people some of the time, and some of the people all of the time, but you 


              cannot fool all of the people all of the time.” - Abraham Lincoln 






















































































THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. THIS REPORT RELATES SOLELY TO THE VALUATION OF PUBLICLY TRADED BONDS ISSUED BY FOREIGN 


COMPANIES NOT INCORPORATED IN INDIA (ROLTA’S DELAWARE, USA, SUBSIDIARY) AND TRADED OVER THE COUNTER OUTSIDE OF INDIA, AND DOES NOT EXPRESS 


ANY OPINION AS TO THE VALUE OF ANY SECURITIES TRADED ON PUBLIC EXCHANGES IN INDIA OR ANY INSTRUMENT OR SECURITY ISSUED BY ANY ENTITY 


INCORPORATED IN INDIA. We have no investment interest in any security traded on any exchange in India or issued by an entity incorporated or located in India.  We have a short 


interest in Rolta’s Delaware issued bonds and therefore stand to realize gains in the event that the price of such credit instruments declines. This report relates solely to our good-faith 


opinion of the valuation of such bonds and we express no opinion whatsoever as to the value of Rolta’s equity.  Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at your 


own risk.  This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such.  You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to 


the securities covered herein.  Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


COMPANY:  Rolta India Limited 


INVESTMENT IDEA:  Short Delaware Issued 2018 and 2019 Corporate Bonds 


On April 16, 2015, we published a detailed investment opinion (the “Report”) on the 2018 and 2019 US$ bonds (the “Junk Bonds”) issued by the Delaware subsidiary 


of Rolta India Limited (“Rolta” or the “Company”).  In our Report, we presented extensive analysis and evidence, which in our opinion, indicate that Rolta has 


fabricated its reported capital expenditures in order to mask that it has materially overstated its EBITDA.  On April 20, 2015, Rolta issued a response (the “First 


Response”) which not only materially contradicted previous statements by the Company (including statements in its 2013 and 2014 bond prospectuses), but was also 


muddled, riddled with factual errors and deliberately evasive.   


Following our Rebuttal on April 23, 2015, Rolta hastily issued a second response (the “Second Response”) on April 27, 2015 which attempted to create a he-said-


she-said sideshow.  Do not be fooled.  Rolta is not addressing the major issues raised in our Report.  Instead, Rolta has recycled answers, offered false equivalences, 


and deliberately conflated parts of our analysis, all in a vain attempt to distract from the underlying pattern of capital spending so dubious it appears simply fabricated.  


In this rebuttal, we focus on the key tenets of our investment thesis, which Rolta has still never addressed in any meaningful way.   


 Rolta’s Returns on Capital Investment are Abysmal.  On both an absolute and relative basis, Rolta does not report meaningful returns from its 


abnormally high levels of capital spending.  Its fixed asset turnover ratio from FYs 2012-2014 was an abysmal 0.7x.  Rolta’s returns are so poor that it 


creates a reasonable suspicion that its capital expenditures are not authentic. 





o Myth of Rolta’s Long Gestation Period.  In its Second Response, Rolta tries to excuse its poor returns by arguing that in industries with “heavy 


capex such as defense [and] homeland security, the gestation period for return on capital investments is long.”  This excuse does not apply to Rolta, 


because it has already fully depreciated and disposed 63% of the computer systems which would theoretically produce such long-term returns.  No 


returns will be forthcoming if Rolta does not own the assets.   





o Defense Firms Do Not Have Similarly Terrible Returns.  Rolta claims that its involvement in the defense industry explains its terrible returns on 


capital expenditures.  It doesn’t.  Rolta’s fixed asset coverage ratio is 92% lower than an average of leading defense firms.  Just like comparing Rolta 


to other IT solutions businesses, measured against other firms in the defense and homeland security space, Rolta’s returns are still so terrible that its 


spending appears fabricated.  





o IT Solutions Peers.  Rolta continues to complain that our group of leading IT solutions companies are not a fair comparison for returns on capital 


spending.  We took this group almost exclusively from Rolta’s 2013 and 2014 bond prospectuses, in which the Company states unequivocally that 


such leading IT solutions firms are its main competitors.  The comparison is as fair as it is damming.   





o Where are the Heavy Assets? Rolta wants to be compared to heavy asset companies like Tata Power (which builds power stations) and L&T 


Defense, which builds submarines and warships.  If so, where are Rolta’s heavy assets? Where are its submarines? Its power stations?  Its large 


infrastructure projects? To call itself a heavy asset company, doesn’t Rolta need heavy assets, or meaningful tangible fixed assets other than 


mysterious computer systems which it purchases, depreciates and disposes?  





 Computer Systems.  Rolta wants to have its cake and eat it too.  It tells investors it spends money on cutting edge computer systems, only to write 
down the value of such ‘cutting-edge’ technology faster than a retail laptop.  In our Report, we noted that from FYs 2011-2014, Rolta spent INR 31 


billion (US$ 594 mm) on computer systems, representing 64% of the Company’s total capital expenditures during this period.  Suspiciously, Rolta fell 


into a predictable pattern of acquiring computer systems, quickly depreciating them (in some cases faster than its depreciation assumptions should allow), 


and then disposing of such systems at a massive loss shortly after purchase. 





o The Black Hole.  In two Responses, over 61 cumulative pages, Rolta has failed to provide even a modicum of detail on such purchases despite 
intense scrutiny from the market.  From whom did Rolta purchase INR 31 billion (US$ 594 mm) of computer systems?  What exactly did Rolta 


buy? Why were such systems disposed of so quickly?  To whom were they disposed?  If such purchases were authentic, then why has Rolta (again) 


failed to provide any additional detail?  


 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/04/GlaucusResearch-Delaware_Issued_2018_2019_Rolta_India_Ltd-Strong_Sell_April_16_2015.pdf

http://www.rolta.com/wp-content/uploads/pdfs/investor-relations/Rolta_Announcement_April2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/04/GlaucusResearch-Rebuttal_to_Rolta_Response_Apr_23_2015.pdf
2 
 


Rolta                                                             www.glaucusresearch.com 





o Age of Depreciated Systems.  Rolta claims that its 2-6 year depreciation schedule is reasonable, but fails to address evidence that Rolta appears 
to have fully depreciated and then disposed systems on an even quicker timeline (1 year in some cases).  In FY 2013, Rolta appears to have 


fully depreciated computer systems that it purchased new in FY 2012 for INR 5.9bn (US$ 108.1 mm) and disposed of them for INR 12.2 


million (US$ 222,000).  Retail personal computers from Apple and Lenovo hold their value better than Rolta’s supposedly cutting edge 


technology. How does US$ 108 million of computer systems become almost worthless by the next year?  If Rolta’s capital expenditures went 


to cutting edge computer equipment, why does such equipment lose its value so quickly?  





o Defense Firms Do Not Support Rolta’s Claims.  Rolta’s capital expenditures on computer equipment also appear fabricated because it 
supposedly spends vastly more than other firms.  Rolta spent 45 times more than other leading IT solutions companies on computer systems.  


In its Second Response, Rolta claims computer systems for military use are more expensive, and that its spending is in line with defense firms.  


It’s not.  Measured per employee, Rolta supposedly spent 2.4x more on computer systems than the average of the world’s leading defense firms 


spent on computer systems, capitalized software, machinery and equipment!  Rolta supposedly even spent more than Northrup Grumman, an 


industry giant that makes drones, military aircraft, missile defense systems, radars etc… If Rolta spends more than Northrup Grumman, what 


does it produce?  





 Phantom Prototypes.  In our Report, we questioned the legitimacy of Rolta’s claimed US$ 139.4 million in expenditures on prototypes in FY 2014, 
when it appears that prototypes for Rolta’s two most salient prospective contracts would cost (at a maximum) only US$ 23.4 million.  On this topic.  


Rolta’s Second Response was as vague and contradictory as its first. 





o The Black Hole (Part II).  If Rolta disputes our number for its total spending on prototypes, why not provide the ‘real’ figure? Rolta has again 
failed to provide any meaningful detail on prototype expenditures.  For which projects was such money spent? How much? If such costs are 


capitalized (as they appear to be), from whom did Rolta purchase such prototypes (or components thereof)?  





 Authentic Capital Expenditures Should be Reasonably Foreseeable.  Every year (FYs 2011-2014), Rolta’s annual capital expenditures exceeded 
the Company’s guidance for spending in Q1 or Q2 by an annual average of 208%, even after we remove the effect of M&A activity (which was 


minimal).   In its Second Response, Rolta claimed that its capital expenditures routinely and significantly exceeded early guidance every year because 


of “unexpected” increases in spending on cutting edge technology prototypes for government procurement contracts.  If it happens every year, is it 


still unexpected? 





o Government Procurement Contracts Are Reasonable Foreseeable – Rolta’s Capex is Not.  Defense contracts are awarded in India after a 
long and protracted bidding process.  Firms have months after the announcement of a new project to prepare expressions of interest (EOIs).  


The Indian government takes months (if not years) to then pick a winner (or narrow the field to two).  The Indian government announced the 


BMS project in August 2013. It did not pick the final two bids until February 2015.  Does Rolta expect bondholders to believe that each year 


(FY 2009-2014), unexpected capital expenditures to compete for surprise EOIs from the Indian government can explain why it’s spending 


exceeded intra-year guidance, when such processes are announced far in advance, take years to progress, and are so slow moving that they are 


by definition reasonably foreseeable?    





o Duplicitous Guidance.  Rolta claims that its capital expenditures guidance did not include the purchase of certain fixed assets which it 
categorizes as “acquisitions” under Indian GAAP.  Do not be fooled.  Rolta is not referring to business combinations or M&A activity, which 


perhaps a reasonable analyst would exclude from guidance.  Instead Rolta is claiming disingenuously that its guidance did not include the 


purchase of certain assets – which under IFRS would be considered run-of-the-mill capital expenditures and which any analyst, ratings agency 


or bondholder would consider to be included in guidance.  What is the purpose of capital expenditure guidance if such guidance did not include 


many capital expenditures?  If such capital investments are legitimate, they should be reasonably foreseeable.  If they are fabricated, 


guidance would be useless because such reported expenditures are simply concocted at year end to offset dubious EBITDA reported by the 


business.  Rolta’s guidance is useless.  





 Building Expenditures (Still) Do Not Add Up.  We questioned the authenticity of Rolta’s reported capital expenditures on buildings.  We pointed 
out that Rolta’s figures did not add up, because according to Rolta’s First Response, the only active project in FYs 2012 and 2013 (when it spent INR 


6.6 billion) was Rolta Tower 1, and its CFO said this redevelopment would only cost INR 1 billion.  In its Second Response, Rolta backtracked, 


claiming that although it spent INR 6.6 billion on the redevelopment of Rolta Tower 1, the project went from FY 2010-2013, even though in the First 


Response, the Company unambiguously claimed that the project took place from FY 2012-2013.  Rolta is directly contradicting itself (again) when 


faced with evidence that its numbers do not add up.        





 Unfathomable EBITDA Margins.  In our Report, we noted that the standalone EBITDA margins for Rolta’s Indian subsidiary (71% in FYs 2013 
and 2014) were simply not credible.  Rolta responded that only the consolidated EBITDA margins (35%) could be relied upon.  We disagree, but the 


point may be moot, because even such consolidated margins are not credible.  In its Second Response, Rolta compared itself to Oracle to justify the 


reasonableness of its returns.  This comparison is laughable.  Many of Rolta’s IT solutions are based on Oracle IP, so we highly doubt it could match 


Oracle’s profitability.   





We continue to firmly believe that the preponderance of the evidence suggests Rolta has fabricated its reported capital expenditures and that both 


bondholders and ratings agencies have failed to price this evidence into Rolta’s Delaware issued bonds.  We continued to value the Junk Bonds at the 


recovery value of Rolta’s offshore assets, which we estimate to be US$ 0.16 on the dollar.1 


                                                           
1 In this rebuttal, we focus on the core of our investment thesis.  We did not address certain points discussed in our Report (and Rolta’s responses) 


because Rolta’s Second Response contained nothing new with respect to these issues.  Any investor looking to follow our arguments and their 


continuing validity need only refer to our first Rebuttal.
3 
 


Rolta                                                             www.glaucusresearch.com 


I. Rolta’s Return on Capital Expenditures is Abysmal 


In our Report, we highlighted that from FYs 2008-2014, Rolta spent INR 70 billion (US$ 1.4 bln) on 


capital expenditures and acquisitions, an amount far in excess of the INR 43 billion (US$ 858 mm) in 


EBITDA that the Company supposedly earned over this period.  Yet the return on such spending has been 


unquestionably abysmal.  Rolta’s fixed asset turnover ratio (a measure of the return on capital investment) 


is 0.7x (FYs 2012-2014), which is 92% lower than leading defense firms and 93% lower than an 


average of leading IT solutions firms.2   


1) The Myth of Rolta’s Long Gestation Period 
 


In its Second Response, Rolta attempts to excuse its terrible returns on the grounds that “in industries with 


heavy capex such as defense, homeland security, the gestation period for return on capital investments is 


long.  The period for realization of returns is typically not less than 5-7 years for a company investing in 


R&D, prototypes and other defense solutions.”3 


Such an excuse might hold water, were it not for the fact that Rolta has already fully depreciated and 


disposed 63% of the computer systems which would theoretically produce such long-awaited returns.   


From FYs 2011-2014, Rolta spent INR 31 billion (US$ 594 mm) on computer systems, representing 64% 


of the Company’s total capital expenditures during this period.  Such systems will for the most part not be 


producing long term returns because Rolta has already disposed of INR 21.1 billion (US$396 mm) of 


such assets. 





 
Source: Company Annual Reports and Bond Prospectuses 





                                                           
2 Glaucus Rebuttal, p. 5. 
3 Rolta Second Response, p. 9.
4 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


Rolta’s claim that returns will surely manifest in the future is blatantly misleading because, according to 


Rolta’s own financial statements, it has already disposed of 63% of the fixed assets from which any such 


returns could be derived.   


2) Defense Firms Do Not Have Similarly Terrible Returns 
 


Rolta’s excuse that its terrible return on capital expenditures is explained by its participation in the defense 


and homeland security industries is similarly bunk.  Below, we highlight the fixed asset turnover ratios of 


some of the world’s leading defense firms.  The numbers could not be clearer.  





Rolta fixed asset turnover ratio is 92% less than the average of leading defense firms.  Its attempt to 


distract investors by claiming that returns on capital expenditures in the defense and homeland security 


space require long gestation periods is simply not true.  Nor does a comparison with defense firms in any 


way justify Rolta’s abysmal return on capital spending.  Even by this peer group, Rolta’s returns on capital 


expenditures are so terrible they appear fabricated.   


3) Measuring Rolta’s Returns Relative to Putative IT Peers 
 


Any analyst or bondholder evaluating Rolta’s responses must think critically about why Rolta has fought 


so hard against our fairly non-controversial comparison of Rolta’s returns to other leading IT solutions 


companies.   


In our Report, we calculated that Rolta’s fixed asset turnover ratio was 93% less than a basket of putative 


IT solutions peers.  In each response, Rolta has cried that such comparisons are misleading, as if we 


conjured this list of supposed competitors out of thin air in order to make Rolta look bad.  In fact, the source 


for our list of competitors was Rolta’s bond prospectuses, in which Rolta lists such firms as “main 


competitors.”   





Accenture Accenture Accenture


Bharat Electronics BEL BEL


Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini


Cognizant Cognizant Cognizant


HCL Technologies HCL Info Systems HCL


Honeywell Honeywell


IBM IBM IBM


Infosys Infosys Infosys


NIIT NIIT


Punj Loyd Punj Loyd


Siemens Siemens Siemens


Tata Consulting TCS TCS


Tech Mahindra Tech Mahindra Mahindra Tech 


Wipro Wipro Wipro


Competitors


2014 Bond Prospectus - 


List of Main Competitors


2013 Bond Prospectus - 


List of Main Competitors


Glaucus Report - Fixed 


Asset Turnover List
5 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


Rolta continues to dismiss any comparison of its business with leading IT solutions firms, even though 


Rolta stated unequivocally in its bond prospectuses that its “main competitors include” many of the leading 


IT solutions that we included in our comp set (and which Rolta now denies are comps): 





Rolta’s fixed asset turnover ratio of 0.7x (FYs 2012-2014) was 93% less than an average of leading IT 


solutions firms.  For Rolta to deny that such firms are reasonable comps when the Company so plainly said 


the opposite in its recent public filings is emblematic of Rolta’s misleading and duplicitous responses.  


4) Where are the Heavy Assets? 
  


In its Second Response, Rolta also doubles down on its misleading comparisons of its business with a 


“peer” group of three totally different business (Tata Power, a power utility, L&T, a defense manufacturer 


of ships and submarines and ITI a telecom equipment manufacturer) and one IT solutions firm (Hexagon), 


whose fixed asset turnover ratio Rolta manipulated to make it appear as if Hexagon was as poor at capital 


spending as Rolta.   


Source: 2014 Bond Prospectus, p. 56


Source: 2013 Bond Prospectus, p. 54
6 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


Backed into a corner because of its undeniably terrible returns from capital spending, now Rolta wants to 


compare itself to an asset heavy power utility or builder of ships and telecoms equipment.  


Obviously, such comparisons are nonsense.   


But any rating agency or bondholder taking Rolta’s plea at face value should ask itself: what assets does 


Rolta produce? It may be stating the obvious, but asset heavy companies produce fixed assets or invest 


in large infrastructure projects.  Where are Rolta’s? 


Tata Power (among other things) builds thermal power stations, receiving stations, and distribution 


infrastructure.  L&T builds warships and submarines.  ITI makes telecommunications equipment.  If Rolta 


is truly an asset heavy company in the vein of Tata Power, L&T or ITI (as Rolta claims), where are its 


power stations? Its telecommunications infrastructure? Its warships? Its submarines? What assets does 


Rolta produce? What heavy assets does it own?  


The key difference is that Tata Power, L&T and ITI’s returns on capital expenditures are lower because 


power stations and submarines last for 20-40 years, and thus returns are accumulated over time.  Where 


are Rolta’s projects that will last for 20-40 years and produce a consistent stream of returns? Rolta, as we 


know from its financial statements, has already depreciated and disposed 63% of its newly acquired 


technology – meaning that no such returns will be forthcoming.  


As for Hexagon, Rolta sheepishly admits that it manipulated Hexagon’s fixed asset turnover ratio by 


including Hexagon’s intangible assets, which was self-serving and misleading.  Yet Rolta claims in its 


Second Response that because Hexagon’s intangible assets exceed the value of its fixed assets, such 


doctoring was reasonable.  


We are unsure if such dishonesty merits a response, but here we go.  The point of comparing fixed asset 


turnover ratios across companies is that it provides investors with a measure of judging the returns on capital 


expenditures on fixed assets.  Not intangible assets.  By including both fixed and intangible assets in 


Hexagon’s ratio (and hiding this fact), Rolta mislead investors into believing that Hexagon’s fixed asset 


returns were terrible, when in reality, its ratio was a respectable 9.8x (FYs 2012-2014), compared to 10.1x 


average for 18 other leading IT solutions firms (FYs 2012-2014).   


Rather than doctoring Hexagon’s calculation, Rolta could have addressed the point of discussing such 


ratios: it shows that Rolta’s returns on capital expenditures are so poor (on an absolute and relative basis) 


that it begs the reasonable question of whether such spending was authentic.  We think the answer is 


obvious. 


 



http://www.tatapower.com/businesses/transmission.aspx

http://forbesindia.com/column/column/lts-defence-dilemma/38655/1

http://www.itiltd-india.com/upload/products.html
7 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


II. Computer Systems 


 
Rolta wants to have its cake and eat it too.  It tells investors it spends money on cutting edge computer 


systems, only to write down the value of such ‘cutting-edge’ technology faster than a retail laptop.  In 


our Report, we noted that from FYs 2011-2014, Rolta spent INR 31 billion (US$ 594 mm) on computer 


systems, representing 64% of the Company’s total capital expenditures during this period.  During this 


period, Rolta disposed of INR 21.1 billion (US$396 mm) of computer systems and in exchange received 


only INR 77.2 million (US$ 1.3 mm).  Because Rolta quickly depreciated many newly purchased computer 


systems to zero before disposal, Rolta did not record a loss upon sale on the income statement and instead 


was able to take a non-recurring depreciation charge.  





Suspiciously, Rolta fell into a predictable pattern of acquiring computer systems, quickly depreciating them 


(in some cases faster than its depreciation assumptions should allow), and then disposing of such systems 


at a massive loss shortly after purchase.  If Rolta is truly spending on cutting-edge technology, why does it 


lose its value so quickly?  





1) The Black Hole 
 


If such purchases were authentic, why, in two responses, over 61 cumulative pages, has Rolta failed to 


provide even a modicum of detail on its purchase of computer systems?  From whom did Rolta purchase 


INR 31 billion (US$ 594 mm) on computer systems from FYs 2011-2014? What exactly did Rolta buy? 


Why were such systems disposed of so quickly?  To whom were they disposed?  


Rolta’s responses are a thinly-veiled attempt to distract investors.  Rather than explaining what it purchased, 


from whom it made such purchases and why such purchases were so quickly depreciated then disposed, 


Rolta squabbles with our calculations.  We believe that Rolta has not provided any details because such 


capital expenditures were simply fabricated.   


2) Age of Depreciated Systems 
 


One of the reasons that we think such purchases were not authentic is because they were sold or scrapped 


so soon after Rolta purchased the equipment.  By our calculation (assuming a conservative FIFO system), 


Rolta has fully depreciated and disposed of computer equipment which it had purchased the previous 


year, seemingly sooner than its depreciation schedule should allow.   





 
Source:  2014 Bond Prospectus, Rolta Annual Reports, Glaucus calculation
8 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 





In FY 2014, Rolta fully depreciated then disposed of INR 643 million of computer equipment purchased 


brand new in just FY 2012.   





The most egregious example occurred in FY 2013, when Rolta purportedly disposed of INR 16 billion (US$ 


294.6 mm) of computer systems including INR 4.3 billion (US$ 77.9 mm) of equipment purchased in FY 


2011 and INR 5.9 billion (US$ 108.1 mm) of equipment that was purchased in FY 2012, the previous 


year.   








Because Rolta took an extra depreciation charge, most of the disposed systems in the charts above were 


99% depreciated at the time of their disposal.  Rolta would like investors to believe its capital expenditures 


go to sophisticated computer systems.  But an off-the-shelf desktop from Lenovo or Apple holds its value 


longer than Rolta’s purported cutting-edge computer systems.    Moreover, Rolta does not just depreciate 


such systems, it disposes them for next to nothing.  What could Rolta possibly be purchasing which loses 


99% of its value by the next year? 





In Rolta’s Second Response, the Company lamely claims that “an asset purchased at the beginning of one 


year and sold at the end of the subsequent financial year will have been used for almost two years.”4  First 


of all, this fails to address the pressing question of how US$ 108 million in supposedly cutting edge 


computer systems lost all value so quickly.  Second, Rolta’s capital spending mostly comes in the second 


half of fiscal years.  In FY 2013 for example, over half of Rolta’s capital expenditures came in the last three 


months (March to June).  So it is reasonable to assume that the computer equipment depreciated, scrapped 


or sold in one fiscal year was purchased in the second half (or near the end) of the previous fiscal year.   





Next, Rolta says that the weighted average age of disposed computer systems was 3.4 years (not 2 years), 


suggesting such assets were not depreciated too quickly. This is irrelevant and misleading. The point, which 


Rolta time and again fails to address, is for bondholders and ratings agencies to ask themselves what 


authentic computer systems or equipment could lose value so quickly.  How does US$ 108 million worth 


of computer equipment go from new to worthless from FY 2012 to FY 2013?  





Rolta goes on to say that it does not agree “with any of these assumptions.”5  If so, why does Rolta not 


present a detailed ledger of the systems it purchased, the depreciation taken on such systems, and the value 


                                                           
4 Rolta Second Response, p. 15. 
5 Rolta Second Response, p. 15. 


Age of Computer System Disposed in FY13 - Fiscal Year Purchased


Source:  Rolta's 2014 Bond Prospectus and Annual Reports


3,611 


2,350 


4,277 


5,932 


 -


 1,000


 2,000


 3,000


 4,000


 5,000


 6,000


 7,000


FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12


INR mm


Fiscal Year Purchased


Computer System Disposed in FY13


Age of Computer System Disposed in FY14 - Fiscal Year Purchased


Source:  Rolta's 2014 Bond Prospectus and Annual Reports


0 0 0 


643 


 -


 100


 200


 300


 400


 500


 600


 700


FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12


INR mm


Fiscal Year Purchased


Computer System Disposed in FY14
9 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


of such systems upon sale?  Strange to disagree with our assumptions (which by the way were conservative), 


and yet not provide any information to suggest that such assumptions are mistaken.  Shouldn’t Rolta already 


know the exact age of its systems at time of disposal? Not if they are fabricated.   





Whether such losses are recognized on the income statement or balance sheet, it does not change the fact 


that Rolta has recognized cumulative cash losses of INR 25,548.7 million by engaging in a pattern of 


purchasing, depreciating, then quickly disposing of computer equipment.  





 
Source:  2014 Bond Prospectus, Rolta Annual Reports, Glaucus calculation 





Such losses are so staggering that we question the authenticity of the capital expenditures and suspect that 


the function of such dispositions is simply to provide a black hole on paper to mask the overstatement of 


the Company’s EBITDA.  





Here we again find it instructive to raise the question, unanswered throughout all of the back and forth.  


Why does Rolta continue to spend money on such computer equipment, if the value of such 


equipment erodes so quickly and the returns on such equipment are so poor?  If Rolta is to be believed, 


bondholders must believe that Rolta’s management continues to make the same mistake, quarter over 


quarter, year over year.  


Is it more likely that management is so incompetent that it cannot free itself from a cycle of wasting all of 


its profits, time and again, on computer systems that generate almost no returns?  Or is it more likely that 


such expenditures are fabricated, simply invented by management as a bottomless balance sheet pit to 


provide a convenient explanation for why profits supposedly generated by an opaque business model never 


seem to find their way to investors and for why a Company that is so consistently and fabulously profitable 


is a serial capital raiser? We believe the latter.   


3) Defense Firms Do Not Support Rolta’s Claims 
 


Another reason that we believe such purchases were not authentic is because on a gross basis, as of FYE 


2014, Rolta’s balance sheet shows US$ 99,873 (INR 6 million) worth of computer systems per employee, 


which is as least 45 times more than leading IT solutions firms, its putative peers (also measured on a 


gross basis).  Our list of putative competitors was compiled from Rolta’s list of its purported competitors 


in its bond prospectuses, so such comparisons are eminently reasonable.
10 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


In its Second Response, Rolta changed tactics.  Now, it claims that its suspicious capital expenditures on 


computer systems is because it is spending on “military systems,” and the “capex required for purchasing 


these military computer systems vis-à-vis civilian computer systems is exponentially higher.”6   


But the numbers disagree.  Rolta claims that its spending is in line with defense firms.  It’s not.  At last 


FYE, Rolta’s reported spending on computer equipment and systems per employee is 2.4 times greater the 


average spending of leading defense firms on computer equipment and systems, capitalized software and 


all other types of instruments, machinery and equipment! 





Measured per employee, Rolta supposedly spent 2.4x more on computer systems than the average of the 


world’s leading defense firms spent on computer systems, capitalized software, machinery and equipment!   


Such leading firms employ technology exponentially more sophisticated than Rolta’s.  Indeed, one of the 


only firm with even close to Rolta’s reported spending on computer systems per employee is Northrop 


Grumman, a defense industry giant and unquestionably the global leader in unmanned systems (such as 


drones).  


Any bondholder who seriously believes that Northrup Grumman is a legitimate comparable to Rolta should 


browse Northrup Grumman’s website: it produces hundreds of high technology military systems for 


deployment over land, air, sea and space.  These include drones, radars, anti-submarine warfare systems, 


missile defense (in outer space), satellites, military aircraft etc…  


If Rolta points to defense firms such as Northrup Grumman as a serious explanation for its reported 


spending on computer systems, what does it produce?  


It is simply laughable to compare Rolta to such leading firms of the defense industry.  But such a comparison 


does undermine Rolta’s latest poor excuse: that defense firms building military systems report similarly 


large investments in computer equipment.  They don’t.  Rolta is running out of answers.   





                                                           
6 Rolta Second Response, p. 15-17. 


Figures are in US Dallor Industry Contry Sampled Defense Product FY14


Rockwell Collins Defense U.S. Flight Controls, Communication Radios 75,200 


ELBIT Defense Israel F-16 Avionics Systems 59,877 


Thales Defense France Air Forces Communications, Tactical Radios 1,373   


Ultra Electronics Defense U.K.
Land Battlespace System, Maritime 


Battlespace System, Radio Systems
32,519 


BAE Defense U.K.
Tactical Communications Systems, Combat 


Aircraft, Geospatial Databases 
51,270 


Northrop Grumman Defense U.S. Unmanned Systems, Battlespace Command 75,101 


Bharat Electronics Defense India
Army Communication Systems, Electronic 


Warfare Systems
15,007 


ITI Limited Defense India Voice Calls Encryptor , Data Encryptor 18,780 


Average of Comps Defense 41,141 


Rolta ? India ? 99,873 


Difference 2.4 x


Source: Companies' FY14 Annual Reports and official websites


Note: Included all the line items that could possibly have computer system


Rolta's spending on Computer Systems per Employee vs. Defense Industry spending per employee on 


computer equipment and systems, capitlized software, and instruments, machinery and equipment at FYE 


- Gross



http://www.northropgrumman.com/Capabilities/Unmannedsystems/Pages/default.aspx
11 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


III. Phantom Prototypes 
 


In our Report, we noted that in FY 2014, Rolta reported INR 8.4 billion (US$ 139.4 mm) of capital 


expenditures on the development of prototypes for defense and homeland security.   Given that Rolta’s 


maximum future expenditure for the prototypes for its two largest prospective contracts is a combined US$ 


23.4 million, we are highly suspicious that Rolta spent US$ 139.4 million on prototypes in FY 2014.  





1) The Black Hole (Part II) 
 


Oddly, Rolta disputes whether our figure is correct, yet fails to correct it.  Doesn’t it know?  In two 


responses, over 61 cumulative pages, Rolta has failed to provide even a modicum of detail on its phantom 


prototypes.   


If Rolta truly spent so much on prototypes, why has Rolta (again) failed to provide any additional 


information on these expenditures?  For which projects was such money spent? If Rolta disputes our 


figure for its spending on prototypes, why does it not provide a figure?  If such costs are capitalized (which 


they appear to be), then Rolta must be acquiring the prototypes (or at least the components thereof) from 


third parties.  From whom did Rolta make such purchases?  Why does it fail to provide details that other 


bondholders or ratings agencies could verify?  We think the answer is obvious.   


Rolta also complains that we ignore the difference between “marketing and R&D prototypes (before bid) 


and project prototypes (after procuring bid).  If so, what marketing and R&D prototypes did Rolta build or 


buy?  When? For which projects?  How much did each cost? 


We know that no prototypes have been built for Rolta’s two most salient contracts: the TCS and BMS 


projects.  On the Q1 2015 conference call, Rolta even admitted that it would not need significant capital 


expenditures on prototypes for the BMS, its largest and most salient prospective contract, because 


the government pays the vast majority of such costs:  





Source: Q1 2015 Conference Call 


So if Rolta is not spending money to construct prototypes for its two most salient (and largest) prospective 


contracts, which prototypes did it construct?  


There is also a deeper problem.  Rolta’s argument is that the Indian government reimburses companies for 


the cost of prototypes developed in the final stage, but requires massive outlays of capital expenditures 


early in the bidding process to develop ‘marketing’ prototypes, the expenses for which are not reimbursed.  


Wouldn’t this arrangement condemn Rolta to a cycle of negative cash flows and unprofitability? For 


successful bids, costs are covered.  For unsuccessful bids, it requires massive outlays of capital.
12 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


Considering most firms presumably lose more contracts than they win, wouldn’t this spending arrangement 


result in a cycle of perpetual loses?  


If it truly costs Rolta substantially more in capital expenditures simply to enter the bidding process for 


procurement contracts than it does to build a functioning prototype once a bid is selected or short listed, 


Rolta’s business model is doomed.   


2) Rolta Materially Contradicts Pervious Statements 
  


Rolta also argues that the figure we quoted above (US$ 139.4 million) represents Rolta’s total capital 


expenditure for the FY 2014 and not just its expenditures on prototypes alone.7  Rolta reiterated this excuse 


in its Second Response, stating that we took its statements on total prototype spending out of context.   


It is worth repeating, because bondholders and ratings agencies are free to decide for themselves whether 


the following statements are taken out of context.   





Source: 2014 Bond Prospectus, p. 70. 


This statement is repeated almost verbatim in Rolta’s 2014 annual report:  








Source: FY14 Annual Report p.160-161 


Both the 2014 bond prospectus and the 2014 annual report are unambiguous.  Both documents clearly state 


that Rolta supposedly spent INR 8.4 billion (US$ 139.4 mm) on “the development of prototypes for 


defense, homeland security and other sectors…” in FY 2014.8   


Yet Rolta rejects this plain reading of its previous statements.  But we are not fooled, and bondholders 


should not be fooled either. 





                                                           
7 Rolta Response, p. 13. 
8 Rolta 2014 Bond Prospectus, p. 70.
13 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 





IV. Capital Expenditures Significantly Exceeds Guidance 


Authentic capital expenditures are reasonably foreseeable, especially in the near term.  If capital 


expenditures are fabricated, guidance would be useless because such reported expenditures are simply 


concocted at year end to offset dubious EBITDA reported by the business.  Since 2009, Rolta has spent an 


average of 167% more on capital expenditures each year than it guided to analysts in Q1 or Q2, even after 


we remove the effect of M&A activity (which was minimal), suggesting that Rolta is simply making up 


capital expenditures at year end.   





1) Government Procurement Contracts Do Not Work Like That 
 


The only meek explanation offered by Rolta’s Second Response to this highly suspicious and unusual 


spending pattern is that it has to “unexpectedly” increase its capital expenditures during the year for 


“investments in cutting edge technology prototypes to compete for EOIs (Expressions of Interest) issued 


by the [Indian] government.”9  If such increases in spending were truly unexpected, why wouldn’t Rolta 


get smarter the next year and guide higher? It is baffling that for Rolta to claim that such expenses were 


unexpected if they truly occur each year.  








Furthermore, which prototypes required such unexpected expenditures? If Rolta is telling the truth, then 


it should have no problem disclosing the details.  
 


 On which prototypes did Rolta spend an additional US$ 207 million between March and June 
2013, which was not reasonably foreseeable in March 2013?  





 On which prototypes did Rolta spend an additional INR 10.9 billion in the second half of FY 2012, 
causing Rolta’s capital spending to exceed guidance by 364%?  





 On which prototypes did Rolta spend an additional INR 13 billion in the second half of FY 2013, 
causing the Company’s capital expenditures to exceed guidance by 434%? 





                                                           
9 Rolta Second Response, p. 8. 


Rolta Capital Expenditures Ex Acquisitions: Spending Exceeds Q1/Q2 Guidance


Figures are in INRmm


Year


Earliest Q 


guided Guidance


CapEx per 


AR Difference


%  Increase in 


Spending vs. 


Guidance Acquisition


2009 Q2 4,800  8,128 3,328 69.3% 909                     


2010 Q1 3,000  6,629 3,629 121.0% 24                       


2011 Q2 3,000  8,393 5,393 179.8% -                      


2012 Q2 3,000  13,932 10,932 364.4%                          -   


2013 Q1 3,000  16,013 13,013 433.8% 1,470                  


2014 (9m) Q1 6,199* 8,462 2,263 36.5% -                      


Total 22,999 61,558 38,559 167.7% 2,403                 


Source: Company Conference Calls and public filings


* During Q1 2014 conference call, Rolta disclosed target CapEx was US$ 100 mm so we used the 


average exchange rate on FY14 AR p. 107 to convert it to INR million.
14 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


Furthermore, Rolta’s highly dubious explanation seems to directly contradict what we know about defense 


procurement.  Defense contracts are awarded after a long and arduous bidding process.  First, new projects 


are announced months in advance of soliciting EOIs.  In India, potential bidders have months to form a 


consortium and submit detailed proposals.  Then, the Indian government spends months (if not years) 


considering the proposals and narrowing down the EOIs to two finalists.  Only then, each finalist is asked 


to develop prototypes for prospective contracts (most of the cost of which is born by the Indian 


government), and even this step is protracted.     





Take Rolta’s most prominent prospective contract: the battlefield management system (“BMS”) for the 


Indian army.  In August 2013, the Indian government announced that it was planning to solicit expressions 


of interest (EOIs) for the development of a BMS.  The Indian government did not narrow down the bidding 


to two consortiums until February 2015, at which time the two finalists were asked to develop prototypes.  


It has yet to award the contract.   





Rolta’s other prominent prospective contract, for the Indian Army’s tactical communication systems 


(“TCS”), has taken even longer.  First announced in 2000, in 2012 the ministry of defense reportedly 


solicited expressions of interest.  In 2014, it shortlisted two rival development consortiums, but as of April 


2015, no headway has been made in the development of a TCS prototype.10   





The process for awarding defense procurement contracts is so protracted that progress is measured in years, 


not months.  Does Rolta expect bondholders to believe that each year (FY 2009-2014), unexpected capital 


expenditures to compete for surprise EOIs from the Indian government can explain why it’s spending 


exceeded intra-year guidance, when such processes are announced far in advance, take years to progress, 


and are so slow moving that they are by definition reasonably foreseeable?    





2) Duplicitous Guidance 
  


Rolta’s only other answer is to nitpick the degree to which its spending has exceeded guidance.  In the First 


Response, Rolta claimed that our analysis was incorrect, because acquisition costs and foreign currency 


variance were not included by management in capital expenditure guidance.  We pointed out that this is 


irrelevant.  In our Rebuttal we showed that without M&A activity, Rolta’s capital expenditures exceeded 


early quarter guidance by an average of 168% per year from FY 2009 – 2014.  Measured from FY 2011 – 


2014, spending exceeded guidance by 208%!  Thus even if we remove the effect of acquisitions (as 


defined under the IFRS), the same damning pattern is clear.11     


In Rolta’s Second Response, it claims that its capital expenditures guidance did not include the purchase of 


certain fixed assets, which Rolta categorizes as “acquisitions” under Indian GAAP.12  Do not be fooled.  


Rolta is not referring to business acquisitions or M&A activity, which perhaps a reasonable analyst 


would exclude from guidance.  





Instead, Rolta is claiming that its capital expenditures guidance did not include the purchase of a number 


of assets – which are vanilla capital expenditures under IFRS or any plain understanding of the term.  


                                                           
10 http://www.defensenews.com/story/defense/land/army/2015/04/25/india-communication-tcs-prototype-private-sector-make-


india/26125087/  
11 In Rolta’s Second Response, Rolta accused us of “changing our stance” on our calculation of capital spending exceeding guidance 


and that we “implicitly accepted” Rolta’s position that acquisitions should be included.  We didn’t and we don’t.  There was 


absolutely no change of stance – we included updated calculations in our first rebuttal, just like we include updated calculations in 


this rebuttal, to show that even if bondholders accept Rolta’s excuse that M*A activity should not be included in guidance, the 


same pattern is clear. Our calculation was correct the first time.  We included updated figures simply to show that regardless of 


whose numbers you choose, the suspicious pattern is the same.   
12 Rolta Second Response, p. 7-8. 



http://defencesecurityindia.com/battlefield-management-system-heart-net-centricity/

http://defencesecurityindia.com/battlefield-management-system-heart-net-centricity/

http://www.army-technology.com/news/newsindia-domestic-battlefield-management-system

http://www.business-standard.com/article/economy-policy/tata-bel-consortia-get-rs-40k-crore-battlefield-management-system-115022601469_1.html

http://www.defensenews.com/story/defense/land/army/2015/04/25/india-communication-tcs-prototype-private-sector-make-india/26125087/

http://thediplomat.com/2015/04/india-still-lacks-modern-battlefield-communication/

http://www.defensenews.com/story/defense/land/army/2015/04/25/india-communication-tcs-prototype-private-sector-make-india/26125087/

http://www.defensenews.com/story/defense/land/army/2015/04/25/india-communication-tcs-prototype-private-sector-make-india/26125087/
15 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


Rolta’s argument here is disingenuous and misleading.  After all, what is the purpose of capital expenditures 


guidance if such guidance does not include many capital expenditures?    





In two responses totaling 61 pages, Rolta has nitpicked the degree of the problem rather than address the 


glaring, fundamental issue.  Why did expenditures exceed Q2 guidance by 364% in FY 2012?  Why did 


capital spending exceed early guidance by a staggering 434% in FY 2013? 





Rolta has also failed to address perhaps the most prominent example.  In Rolta’s 2013 bond prospectus, 


the Company stated that its budgeted capital expenditures for FY 2013 (ending June) were US$ 200 


million, of which Rolta had already spent US$ 143 million as of March 2013.13  However, in Rolta’s 


subsequent filings, the Company reported that capital expenditures for FY 2013 were US$ 350 million.14  


In just three months, the Company supposedly spent an additional US$ 207 million, more than doubling its 


capital investment for the year and bringing its total expenditures for FY 2013 to 75% over budget.   





How could management, in March 2013, not have foreseen such large capital expenditures over the next 


three months?  If Rolta’s guidance is truly made in good faith, then the Company should explain which 


projects arose between March 2013 and June 2013 that required an extra US$ 207 million in capital 


expenditures and were not reasonably foreseeable in March.   





Capital expenditures should be reasonably foreseeable.  Rolta’s are not.  In our opinion, this indicates that 


management is either incompetent and does not remotely understand its business or it is simply fabricating 


capital expenditures in Q3 and Q4 in order to mask overstated EBITDA by inappropriately capitalizing 


costs.  We believe the latter. 





                                                           
13 Rolta 2013 Bond Prospectus, p. 65. 
14 Rolta 2014 Bond Prospectus, p. F-137.
16 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


VI. Building Expenditures (Still) Do Not Add Up 


In our Report, we noted that Rolta’s reported capital expenditure on buildings is highly suspicious because 


between FYs 2006 and 2014, Rolta claims to have spent INR 12 billion (US$ 241 mm) on buildings, yet 


Rolta did not appear to add any owned real property during that period except for office suites acquired in 


2009.  This begs the question of whether such capital expenditures were authentic.   


In’s Rolta’s First Response, it listed a number of projects that supposedly accounted for its capital 


expenditures in buildings:15 


- Rolta Tower 1 which was demolished and rebuilt in FY 2012 and FY 2013 


- Rolta Tower “C” which was demolished and rebuilt in FY 2008 


- SEEPZ SEZ Unit nos. 201-204 completed in FY09; and 


- SEEPZ SEZ Unit nos. 501-504 completed in FY10 


In our Rebuttal, we pointed out that such figures do not even come close to adding up.  In FYs 2012 and 


FY 2013, Rolta reportedly spent a total of INR 6.6 billion on buildings (not fixtures or fittings).  According 


to Rolta’s First Response, the only building redevelopment project which took place during those two fiscal 


years was the demolition and reconstruction of Rolta Tower 1.  But on Rolta’s FY 2011 conference call, 


Rolta CFO Hiranya Ashar told analysts that the redevelopment of Rolta Tower 1 would only cost a total of 


INR 1 billion.  If only INR 1 billion of building capital expenditures went towards the redevelopment of 


Rolta Tower 1, where did the other INR 5.6 billion go that Rolta supposedly spent on buildings in FYs 


2012 and 2013? INR 5.6 billion is missing. 


In its Second Response, Rolta claims that the amount INR 6.6 billion was actually spent on Rolta Tower 1 


between FY 2010 through FY 2013 (over 4 years).16 If that was the case, then why did Rolta’s First 


Response state unambiguously that Rolta Tower 1 was “constructed after complete demolition of old 


building in FY 2012 and 2013.”   





Source: Rolta First Response, p. 12. 


Rolta is simply changing its story after we pointed out that its numbers did not add up.   


Furthermore, INR 6.6 billion seems a suspiciously large amount to spend on just one building, considering 


it represents 50% of the Company’s total gross buildings assets.  Rolta fails to disclose the overall square 


footage of the newly constructed building, but based on plot size of 32,764 square feet, and the disclosed 


stories (8), we can estimate the implied construction cost per square foot of Rolta Tower 1. 


                                                           
15 Rolta Response p. 12-13. 
16 Rolta Second Response, p. 13.
17 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


For an ultra-conservative case, assuming that Rolta constructed an eight story building on the entire plot of 


land (that is, the building occupied 100% of the plot), Rolta’s implied construction cost is a staggering INR 


25,180 per square foot. 








But the ultra-conservative case is probably too generous, because it is highly unlikely that Rolta’s new 


building occupies 100% of the plot.  If we assume that Rolta Tower 1 occupies 66% of the land space, 


Rolta’s implied construction cost per square foot was INR 38,152 per square foot.  


Anyway we slice it, Rolta’s supposed cost of redeveloping Rolta Tower 1 looks incredibly high.  Assuming 


the ultra-conservative case, Rolta’s implied construction cost per square foot is double the average 


construction cost for commercial buildings in New York and San Francisco, cities which have some 


of the world’s most expensive commercial real estate.  Rolta’s implied construction cost of INR 25,180 per 


square foot is even higher than an architectural firm’s estimate for the cost to build a corporate headquarters 


in Central London.  It is also higher (per square foot) than the construction cost of the World Financial 


Center in Shanghai!   





Note:  


1. The rates are based on average costs anticipated during 2011.     


2. Shanghai World Financial Center was selected 25 great skyscrapers by CNN in 2013.   


3. USD : INR = 1 : 60     


Source:  


1. Headquarters in Central London (Estamate): Arcadis NV Publication (a global design, engineering and 


management consulting company based in the Zuidas, Amsterdam, Netherlands.) 


2. Shanghai World Financial Center: CNN News; Wikipedia 


3. Office Building 5-10 story in New York City and San Francisco: Price Per Square Foot Construction Cost for 


Multi Story Office Buildings by Evstudio 





Rolta Tower 1 Cost per Square Footage Calculation


Scenario


Plot SQ 


Footage


Building 


Stories


Estimated Building Size 


as a % of Land Plot


Estimated Building 


Square Footage


 Reported Building 


Cost (INR) 


Implied Cost 


per SQ feet


Ultra Conservative 32,764      8 100% 262,112              6,600,000,000      25,180            


Base 32,764      8 66% 172,994              6,600,000,000      38,152            


Source: Rolta 2006 Bond Prospectus, p. 57, Rolta' s 1st Response, Rolta FY 2011 Conference Call.


Building Cost per Square Footage


USD INR


Headquarters in Central London 


(Estamate) 
1


London Commercial 353         21,204    


Shanghai World Financial Center
2


Shanghai Commercial 292         17,529    


Office Building 5-10 story New York City Commercial 222         13,328    


Office Building 5-10 story San Francisco Commercial 205         12,304    


Average 268         16,091    


Rolta Tower 1 (Ultra Conservative) India Commercial 420         25,180    


Difference 1.6 x


Rolta Tower 1 (Base) India Commercial 636         38,152    


Difference 2.4 x


Cost per SQ Footage


LocationItem Type



http://www.arcadis-uk.com/Content/ArcadisUK/docs/Buildings_cost_guide_A4_vfinalFeb2011.pdf

http://www.cnn.com/2013/08/06/travel/25-great-skyscrapers/

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shanghai_World_Financial_Center

http://evstudio.com/price-per-square-foot-construction-cost-for-multi-story-office-buildings/

http://evstudio.com/price-per-square-foot-construction-cost-for-multi-story-office-buildings/
18 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


Using the base case estimates, Rolta’s implied construction cost per square foot appears three times as 


expensive as the construction cost of commercial real estate in New York and San Francisco, nearly 


double the cost of a corporate headquarters in Central London, and more than double the construction 


cost of Shanghai’s World Financial Center.   Rolta’s reported spending on Rolta Tower 1 appears ludicrous 


by any commercial real estate benchmark.   


Rolta’s Second Response accuses us of a “shift in stance.”  In our Report, we noted that Rolta’s capital 


expenditures on buildings were highly suspicious because the Company claimed US$ 241 million in 


spending on buildings but its list of owned real properties did not materially change (with the exception of 


office suites added in 2009).  In our Rebuttal, we zeroed in on Rolta’s explanation, because it was such a 


clear gotcha: the Company’s answer directly contradicted the figures and statements previously issued to 


the market.  Our stance did not change.  We did not abandon our skepticism.  In fact, Rolta’s answers only 


compound our suspicions because each answer seems to contradict the Company’s previous statements.  


The Second Response only offered more of the same.
19 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 





VII. Reported EBITDA Margins Not Credible 
 


In our Report, we noted that the standalone EBITDA margins for Rolta’s Indian subsidiary (71% in FYs 


2013 and 2014) were simply not credible.  Rolta responded that only the consolidated EBITDA margins 


(35%) could be relied upon.   





We disagree, because standalone financials for Rolta International Inc., the primary U.S. subsidiary, and its 


direct American, Canadian and Australian show only minimal related-party transactions (services and sales) 


between such offshore entities and the Indian parent company.  If cross-border transactions are minimal, 


we are safer in assuming that the standalone’s Indian entity’s profitability is due to its domestic performance 


and not the interplay of profitability and costs over borders.   





But the point may be moot, because in our Rebuttal we pointed out that even such consolidated margins are 


not credible.   After all, a group of leading IT solutions companies (many of whom were mentioned as direct 


competitors to Rolta in its bond prospectus), show an average EBITDA margin of just 19.1%, and no other 


leading IT solutions firm in this group reported a 35% EBITDA margin in any of the last five years.   





In its Second Response, Rolta claimed that it “is not uncommon for companies which have an extensive IP 


and product portfolio (such as Oracle)… to have high EBITDA margins.”  





Does any bondholder, rating agency or market participant think that Oracle is a credible basis of comparison 


for Rolta?  We think this comparison is laughable, especially considering that many of Rolta’s IT solutions 


are based on Oracle IP.  Does anyone really believe that a Company that licenses Oracle software as the 


basis for many customized IT solutions can match Oracle’s profitability?  





Is it just a coincidence that such staggering profits are “spent” on capital expenditures of dubious 


authenticity, ensuring that despite supposedly world-class EBITDA margins, Rolta is a serial capital raiser?   


Ultimately, we believe that the simplest explanation is usually the truth.  In this case, we continue to firmly 


believe that the preponderance of the evidence suggests Rolta has fabricated its reported capital 


expenditures to mask overstated EBITDA margins, and that both bondholders and ratings agencies have 


failed to price this into Rolta’s Delaware issued bonds.17 





                                                           
17 In this rebuttal, we focused on the core of our investment thesis.  We did not address certain points discussed in our Report (and 


Rolta’s responses) because Rolta’s Second Response contained nothing new with respect to these issues. Any investor looking to 


follow our arguments and their continuing validity need only refer to our first Rebuttal.
20 
 


Rolta                                                         www.glaucusresearch.com 


DISCLAIMER 





We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is Rolta. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If you are 


invested (either long or short) in Rolta, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like everyone else, 


are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the publication of our opinions 


about the public companies we research is in the public interest. 





THIS REPORT RELATES SOLELY TO THE VALUATION OF PUBLICLY TRADED BONDS ISSUED BY FOREIGN COMPANIES NOT 


INCORPORATED IN INDIA (ROLTA’S DELAWARE, USA, SUBSIDIARY) AND TRADED OVER THE COUNTER OUTSIDE OF INDIA, 


AND DOES NOT EXPRESS ANY OPINION AS TO THE VALUE OF ANY SECURITIES TRADED ON PUBLIC EXCHANGES IN INDIA 


OR ANY INSTRUMENT OR SECURITY ISSUED BY ANY ENTITY INCORPORATED IN INDIA.  We have no investment interest in any 


security traded on any exchange in India or issued by an entity incorporated or located in India.  We have a short interest in Rolta’s 


Delaware issued bonds, and this report relates solely to our good-faith opinion of the valuation of such bonds.   





You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Rolta’s Delaware-issued corporate bonds 


declines. This report and all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements 


of fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available facts and evidence collected and analyzed, 


which we set out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a 


manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited in 


this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making any 


investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law. 





As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) (possibly along 


with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or 


indirect short position in the Delaware-issued corporate bonds of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant 


gains in the event that the price of such bonds declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research at your own risk. You 


should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to the debt instruments covered herein. 


The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be construed as investment advice or any recommendation 


of any kind. 





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the debt instruments covered therein, and we may be long, short, 


or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, 


nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws 


of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained 


from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or 


who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and 


analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and 


accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, 


however, all such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.    





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, LLC research 


and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value trust) falling 


within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an investment 


professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.   





Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 


any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without 


notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this report or any of the information 


contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and independently agree: (i) to abide by the terms of service 


posted on our website (www.glaucusresearch.com), which are hereby fully incorporated herein, (ii) that any dispute arising from your use 


of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law 


provisions; (iii) to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive 


your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability 


company that operates in California; and (iv) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out 


of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be 


forever barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer shall 


not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be 


invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision 


and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction 


provision. 


 



http://www.glaucusresearch.com/
