5/23/2018 China Finance Online Response To GeoInvesting Report Falls Flat - China Finance Online Co. Limited (NASDAQ:JRJC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3238856-china-finance-online-response-to-geoinvesting-report-falls-flat 1/4


China Finance Online Response To GeoInvesting Report Falls Flat
Jun. 5, 2015 10:15 AM ET5 comments
by: The GeoTeam


Summary


On Thursday, China Finance Online (JRJC) responded to our critical report by
claiming that it contained numerous errors of facts.


The response fails to prove we made any factual errors, and actually affirms our
findings that Chairman Zhao resigned from his positions at three key JRJC VIE
subsidiaries.


A Chinese media article out by Tencent the day after our report supports the
conclusions we’ve drawn.


This idea was discussed in more depth with members of my private investing
community, GeoInvesting Micro Insights.


On Wednesday, we released an article titled "China Finance Online: CEO Resigns from
Key Posts in China Amid Anti-Corruption Probe," which pointed out:


The most current SAIC records show China Finance Online (NASDAQ:JRJC)
Chairman and CEO Zhiwei Zhao suddenly resigned from his positions at three key
Chinese VIE subsidiaries of JRJC over the past few months.
This development had not been disclosed by management. Additionally, Zhao was
also mysteriously absent from JRJC's March 23, 2015 fourth quarter earnings
conference call.
Chinese media reports exposing the detention of JRJC independent director
Rongquan Leng prompted JRJC to announce his resignation, without addressing his
alleged detention.
Chinese media reports also indicate serious legal troubles for associates of Zhao, who
himself is reportedly not allowed to leave China.
Ling Wang, a former long-time JRJC director and associate of Zhao, fled China in
2014, leaving his company indebted to JRJC for $25 million.


That article is available here and we encourage reading it in its entirety.



https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=the-geoteam&source=mp_marketing_text_top

http://geoinvesting.com/china-finance-online-jrjc-ceo-resigns-from-key-posts-in-china-amid-anti-corruption-probe/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JRJC

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3232916-china-finance-online-ceo-resigns-from-key-posts-in-china-amid-anti-corruption-probe
5/23/2018 China Finance Online Response To GeoInvesting Report Falls Flat - China Finance Online Co. Limited (NASDAQ:JRJC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3238856-china-finance-online-response-to-geoinvesting-report-falls-flat 2/4


On Thursday, China Finance Online issued a "Rebuttal to Short Seller Article" in which it
claimed that the "Geoinvesting report contains numerous errors of facts," without actually
proving that any of the facts presented in our report were untrue.


JRJC's "rebuttal" actually affirms many of the key facts supporting our findings, as follows:


1. JRJC did not deny that Chairman and CEO Zhiwei Zhao resigned from management
positions at 3 key VIE subsidiaries. Zhao's resignations, in our opinion, are extremely
negative events that investors would not consider to be a "normal course of action."
Unless, such action was, in fact, a response to serious legal problems faced by Zhao.


2. JRJC did not deny the media reports that Zhao is in legal trouble.
3. JRJC confirmed that Zhao was not on the last conference call, citing health reasons.
4. JRJC provided no evidence (photos, interviews, public appearances) that could easily


confirm that Zhao is free to run the company since the December 2014 conference
call.


5. JRJC claims Zhao has never been subject to travel restrictions. However, a new report
by Tencent Prism dated June 4, 2015 claims that Zhao has not traveled since a
December 6, 2014 flight from Shanghai to Beijing. The article also claims that Zhao
requested an extended vacation from working at JRJC. Chinese media reports thus
continue to contradict claims made by JRJC.


6. JRJC did not deny that Rongquan Leng found himself in serious legal trouble and was
detained.


7. JRJC did not deny that Ling Wang got into serious legal trouble and fled China.
8. JRJC disputed the related party issue regarding the Langfang project, but without


providing any evidence.
9. JRJC pointed out Zhao's purported $7 purchase of JRJC shares from IDG when the


stock was below $3 (actually at $1.93 on November 2, 2011, the day Zhao entered into
the purchase agreement). Investors can judge for themselves the likelihood that such
a fantastical purchase premium had any real economic substance, or was possibly
contingent upon other undisclosed factors.


JRJC's rebuttal hardly deserves any further analysis, but we did take a closer look at one
key point that states:


… Mr. Zhiwei Zhao remains the CEO and Chairman of the Company. The changes of legal
representatives and management positions in affiliate companies are a normal course of
action. This happens in many companies. Geoinvesting's reading and analysis aimed to
feed into their speculation that Mr. Zhao is in legal trouble.



http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/china-finance-online-issues-rebuttal-to-short-seller-article-300094217.html

http://xw.qq.com/finance/20150604046669

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1297830/000095012311098530/c24710exv99w2.htm
5/23/2018 China Finance Online Response To GeoInvesting Report Falls Flat - China Finance Online Co. Limited (NASDAQ:JRJC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3238856-china-finance-online-response-to-geoinvesting-report-falls-flat 3/4


Comments (5)


Since Zhao remains the Chairman and CEO of JRJC as the company claims, why would
Zhao resign from important positions in JRJC's key VIE subsidiaries in the past few
months? We are puzzled that JRJC considers that "The changes of legal representatives
and management positions in affiliate companies are a normal course of action." How can
Zhao's resignation from key entities that operate JRJC's core business (i.e. Beijing Fuhua
Innovation Technology Development Co. Ltd., which is the VIE that owns JRJC's flagship
web portal, jrj.com, and Shanghai Meining Computer Software Co., Ltd., which owns other
JRJC's flagship web portal stockstar.com) be considered part of the "normal course of
action?" Did it not occur to the company that it should disclose these pieces of material
information to its shareholders?


Further, we've found it rare that the Chinese media is quick to respond to these kinds of
allegations against Chinese companies - and we find it even rarer that they ask the same
critical questions that we have. In this case, Tencent's conclusions seem to back ours.
Since the company is now not just under scrutiny from U.S. investors, but also from media
in its own country, this would seem like a good time to stand up and clearly explain what,
exactly, is going on at China Finance Online.


VIE structures present enough risk in and of themselves to U.S. investors, that when the
person who is at least partially, if not fully, controlling these VIEs resigns from them as
legal representative, director, and/or manager, we believe it is the company's obligation to
disclose these changes to investors.


Based upon all available information, we remain convinced that Zhao is in some type of
legal trouble. JRJC did not deny this possibility in its rebuttal, nor did JRJC offer any first-
hand evidence that Zhao is still running the company. The Chinese media have not been
able to interview Zhao since December 2014, a point that Zhao could instantly resolve if
he simply spoke to the media. Based on these facts, we conclude that JRJC's response
has fallen flat in its entirety.


Disclosure: The author is short JRJC.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1099554
5/23/2018 China Finance Online Response To GeoInvesting Report Falls Flat - China Finance Online Co. Limited (NASDAQ:JRJC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3238856-china-finance-online-response-to-geoinvesting-report-falls-flat 4/4


PICOLOMINI
This story verifies your credentials, glad that I´m following you.


05 Jun 2015, 10:53 AM


Jtechkid
the problem too many retail shorts in the group and your getting money flow from Asia playing the "arb" spread on
value from Chinese market and USA market. Very dangerous both ways so best to avoid it-ie WBAI


05 Jun 2015, 12:09 PM


china guru
if you think that Mr.zhao has trouble, he can sell his holding to other china listed corporation for 10-20 per shares.
JRJC's cap is only 1% of their competitors in China , it is too cheap and its business is so hot in China now. There are
lot of China listed corporation and rich man is eagerly going to buy JRJC if Mr. Zhao want to transfer..... Maybe partial
transfer is still good. 10-20 us dollars per shares is still too cheap for JRJC compared with their competitors


07 Jun 2015, 02:43 PM


china guru
JRJC market cap is 1% of their competitors eastmoney in China. Mr. Zhao can easily transfer his holding for 10-20
usd per share in China. there are lot of china listed corporation and richman eagerly want to buy it and relist in China
stock market or put their business in china listed corporation. shorters got wrong target to short jrjc due that it is too
cheap, and its business is too hot in China now


07 Jun 2015, 02:44 PM


Jtechkid
shorts getting destroyed again like wbai-too many perma bears in China


12 Jun 2015, 10:37 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1099554

https://seekingalpha.com/user/153514

https://seekingalpha.com/user/25784833

https://seekingalpha.com/user/25784833

https://seekingalpha.com/user/153514
