5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 1/12


SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status
Jun. 17, 2015 10:00 AM ET19 comments
by: Richard Pearson


Summary


Yesterday SunCoke assured investors that the company is confident that it qualifies
as an MLP.


Yet on the very same day, SunCoke wrote a letter to the IRS stating clearly “we don’t
qualify”.


In fact, there are three specific criteria which exclude SunCoke from qualifying, and
SunCoke will not be grandfathered.


SunCoke’s letter to the IRS is included herein.


Because it does not qualify as an MLP, SunCoke should still be expected to trade
down by 30-40%.


Yesterday I wrote an article highlighting the risk that GP SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC)
and its LP SunCoke Energy Partners LP (NYSE:SXCP) would lose their MLP qualification
due to new proposed regulations from the IRS which explicitly excluded the coking of coal
from being treated as qualified income.


Investors were rightly concerned and the stock quickly hit a new 52-week low of $12.82.
However, without the benefits of the MLP structure, SunCoke should clearly head much
lower than that.


SunCoke responded with a press release which stated that the company had, on the
same day, submitted a joint comment letter to the IRS seeking clarification. The stock
jumped sharply, for a time, but then gave up its gains to close flat on the day.


SunCoke stated categorically that:


Although we are seeking clarification of the proposed regulations, we believe that
the proposed regulations as currently drafted support the position that the coking of
coal is a qualifying activity.


There are two not-so-funny things to note here.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SXC

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SXCP

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/suncoke-energy-inc-suncoke-energy-180100619.html
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 2/12


The first is that the new proposed regulations have been public for almost 6 weeks now
and SunCoke only felt the need to correspond with the IRS following an article from a
random blogger (me) who highlighted these problems to the public. Despite its assurances
to the contrary, it seems that SunCoke itself was unaware of these implications until just
the time I pointed them out.


The second (and much more serious) thing to note is that SunCoke has now explicitly told
investors the exact opposite of what it has stated to the IRS in writing. (pdf download
available here)


Again, SunCoke told investors that "we believe that the proposed regulations as currently
drafted support the position that the coking of coal is a qualifying activity".


This is very important because it had a material impact on the stock. SunCoke traded as
high as $14.78 - more than 15% above the day's low of $12.82.


But in their letter to the IRS, SunCoke explicitly stated (on page two, paragraph three)
that:


As a result, under the Proposed Regulations as currently drafted, the listed "mining
processes" generate qualifying income and the "refining" of ores generates
qualifying income but the processes that in fact occur between "mining" and
"refining" do not. Thus, the Proposed Regulations would exclude from qualifying
activities numerous mineral processing activities, including the coking of coal


SunCoke Letter to IRS



http://www.sxcpartners.com/External.File?t=2&item=g7rqBLVLuv81UAmrh20Mp53V7rywAt1FgPsAmxuOOjbgEMuwtkQjpElDQTNaFRwKIY8HQOwZiOZwhmiAd6nCIg==

http://www.sxcpartners.com/External.File?t=2&item=g7rqBLVLuv81UAmrh20Mp53V7rywAt1FgPsAmxuOOjbgEMuwtkQjpElDQTNaFRwKIY8HQOwZiOZwhmiAd6nCIg==

https://www.scribd.com/doc/268924878/SunCoke-Letter-to-IRS
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 3/12


Note: the above document is 9 pages long. I have highlighted the relevant sections in
green on pages 2, 7 and 8.


The entire tone of the letter to the IRS is far different than the confidant tone that was
shown to investors in the press release. Not only does SunCoke admit that under the
proposed regulations it doesn't qualify as an MLP, but throughout the letter, SunCoke is
visibly pleading with the IRS to not take the course that it has, stating in different
instances:


"This result could not have been intended…."


"Fortunately, it is an error…."


"One can only conclude that Congress intended…."


"It is difficult to understand why…"
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 4/12


Problem #2: A "substantial" problem


My original understanding of the argument being raised by SunCoke was that they
believed they still qualified to be treated as an MLP because the chemical changes
involved in coking were not "substantial". In other words, SunCoke acknowledges that
there are chemical changes, but supposedly not to such an extent that it would disqualify
SunCoke's MLP structure.


Yet for some reason SunCoke is now fighting to get the IRS to include activities which DO
CAUSE substantial chemical change.


From page seven, we can see that SunCoke states:


There is simply no basis in section 7704 or in the legislative history for imposing a
blanket exclusion of any activity that results in a "substantial" physical or chemical
change from the definition of processing or refining.


So why is SunCoke fighting this particular fight ?


I think I made a clear case in my last article that coking involves a "substantial" chemical
change. The fact that SunCoke is now fighting to have such "substantial" activities
included in the new regs seems to bolster the argument even more.


Problem #3: MACRS (I missed this one myself….)


In addition to the requirement of engaging in a qualified activity, the new Proposed
Regulations have an accounting requirement which SunCoke does not appear to meet. It
is regarding the Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS) for depreciation.


Once again, SunCoke has explicitly told the IRS that "we don't qualify".


SunCoke states (page eight):


For example, SunCoke classifies its coke production assets under class 33.4,
which includes "assets used in coke production." That category, however, also
encompasses assets used in a broad array of processes generally relating to the
steel industry…some of those activities, such as the refining of iron ore, clearly are
qualifying activities…but other activities, equally clearly, would not be qualifying
activities. Accordingly, the MACRS limitation should be deleted from the final
regulations.
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 5/12


Problem #4: There will be no grandfathering


In the press release, SunCoke says that:


In order to be grandfathered, a partnership either must have received a private letter
ruling or be engaged in the activity based on a reasonable interpretation of the
statute and its legislative history. We believe that the receipt of the opinion of our
counsel, Vinson & Elkins LLP, that our coking operations generate qualifying income
provides that reasonable interpretation.


We believe that section 7704(d)(1)(E) and its legislative history fully support the
position that coking of coal generates qualifying income and that any final
regulations will clarify the coking of coal is a qualifying activity.


So SunCoke's only basis for stating this opinion is that their law firm had told them so.
This is the same law firm that apparently missed the impact of these changes for the past
6 weeks.


And with respect to that same section 7704(d)(1) referenced above, on page two (as we
saw before) of the letter to the IRS SunCoke states that:


Inexplicably, the Proposed Regulations define the independent section 7704(d)(1)
activity of "processing" to include on the "mining processes" described in Treas Reg.
§1.613-4(f)(1)(ii)...By doing this, the Proposed Regulations ignore the well-
established and long-standing definition of "mining"…and effectively eliminate the
word "processing" of ores and mineral from the statute…. Thus, the Proposed
Regulations would exclude from qualifying activities numerous mineral
processing activities, including coking of coal"


Thus, SunCoke has no real basis for saying that they "believe" that they will be
grandfathered.


Conclusion


As evidenced by the concerns raised in SunCoke's letter to the IRS, SunCoke has a real
problem. SunCoke does not qualify as an MLP.


Yet these problems have been in existence for 6 weeks. And only after my article did
SunCoke address them with the IRS. One can now better understand the frustrations
expressed by Jet Capital in its 13Ds. Management clearly comes across as a group of
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 6/12


uninformed bumblers.


More importantly, I think I have never seen a situation where a company has filed an
explicit press release to assure investors while, on the same exact day, directly
contradicting those exact assurances in a letter signed by the CFO. This appears to be
even worse than just bumbling.


The IRS letter from SunCoke spells out with crystal clarity why SunCoke does not qualify
as an MLP and why it will not be grandfathered. As a result, there is still a very clear 30-
40% near term downside in the stock.


Now that SunCoke is actually aware of the problem, we can expect the company to
strenuously object to the Proposed Regulations in letters to the IRS, citing errors and
conflicts with the intentions of Congress, and etc. This is exactly what Westlake Chemical
and several other affected paper companies will be doing with their own (different)
problems until the comment period ends in August. But as it stands, SunCoke simply does
not qualify as an MLP. So the best they can do is hope that the IRS will change its
regulations in these specific areas to benefit a single corporate interest, namely SunCoke.


As is generally the case, the smart money has already started to figure this out while the
laggards are still scratching their heads. Following the assuring press release from
SunCoke, the stock rose as high as $14.72 - up by 5% on the day. But it quickly gave up
all of those gains to close flat on the day. I therefore believe that I am not the only one to
have read this letter to the IRS. As the letter gets more broadly read, SunCoke should see
immediate downside.


Disclosure: The author is short SXC.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: The author was previously an investment banker for a major
global investment bank and was engaged in investment banking transactions with a wide
range of industrial companies. The author has not been engaged in any investment
banking transactions with US listed companies during the past 5 years. The author is not a
registered financial advisor and does not purport to provide investment advice regarding
decisions to buy, sell or hold any security. The author currently holds a short interest in
SXC and during the past 12 months has provided fundamental and/or technical research
to investors who hold a short position in the stock. The author may choose to transact in
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 7/12


Comments (19)


securities of one or more companies mentioned within this article within the next 72 hours.
Before making any decision to buy, sell or hold any security mentioned in this article,
investors should consult with their financial adviser. The author has relied upon publicly
available information gathered from sources, which are believed to be reliable and has
included links to various sources of information within this article. However, while the
author believes these sources to be reliable, the author provides no guarantee either
expressly or implied.


 Like this article


Rhianni32
The second issue you bring up, that management told investors everything is fine then told the IRS that its not. That
would be an automatic deal breaker for me if I was long. There is no real way to justify that action.


17 Jun 2015, 10:19 AM


Micro_Cap_Value
Richard, I am following this subject with interest. The one comment I would make is that I don't think SXC whipped up
that fairly detailed letter to the IRS in an hour or two yesterday. Your report may have triggered them putting
something on paper for release into the public domain, but I suspect they have been having various formal or informal
discussions for some time. I'm interested to hear their comments at today's 11am EST conf. call. Nonetheless, kudos
to you on your research, it's a welcome SA piece in the midst of so many 'opinion-based' editorials.


17 Jun 2015, 10:29 AM


Alpha Apache, Contributor
It is not entirely clear why you continue to grasp at these points, or why you don’t seem to understand how the
process of a proposed rulemaking, and corresponding lobbying and commenting, works. I suspect a closer look into
your trading activities and/or those of your affiliates who may have known about your intent to post these Seeking
Alpha articles would shed more light on your motives. In any event, I believe you are missing the point on
grandfathering. In the PROPOSED rule, which obviously can still be amended subject to comments, the IRS states:


“The proposed regulations provide that a partnership may treat income from an activity as qualifying income during
the Transition Period if the partnership received a private letter ruling from the IRS holding that income from the
activity is qualifying income. In addition, a partnership may treat income from an activity as qualifying income during
the Transition Period if, prior to May 6, 2015, the partnership was publicly traded, engaged in the activity, and treated
the activity as giving rise to qualifying income under section 7704(d)(1)(E), and that income was qualifying income
under the statute as reasonably interpreted prior to the issuance of these proposed regulations.”


You make the following two arguments:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/515594

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4847851

https://seekingalpha.com/author/alpha-apache
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 8/12


First, that somehow SXCP’s lawyers are just dumb. So you, the former investment banker who needs to do little more
than post a Seeking Alpha article after your read of the document is apparently smarter than the legal opinion given to
SXCP at the time of their legal opinion. I think it is a stretch to simply conclude that the legal opinion is wrong because
they have “missed” something from the past six weeks. In fact, as far as we know, they don’t believe this is an issue at
all, so there was actually nothing to “miss.”


Secondly, and more importantly, you cite that in SXCP’s own letter, they call out how the proposed legislation might
exclude numerous mineral processing activities, including the coking of coal. But, as described above, I don’t believe
this is relevant. This is the PROPOSED legislation. Per the text above, in order to qualify for the transition period, one
would only need to have reasonably interpreted the activities to qualify PRIOR to the issuance of these proposed
regulations. The current legislation, prior to these changes, reads as follows 7704(d)(1)(E):


(E) income and gains derived from the exploration, development, mining or production, processing, refining,
transportation (including pipelines transporting gas, oil, or products thereof), or the marketing of any mineral or natural
resource (including fertilizer, geothermal energy, and timber), industrial source carbon dioxide, or the transportation or
storage of any fuel described in subsection (b), (c), (d), or (e) of section 6426, or any alcohol fuel defined in section
6426 (b)(4)(A) or any biodiesel fuel as defined in section 40A (d)(1),


It isn’t clear why you believe that would not be reasonably interpreted to include the coking of coal. Arguing that the
Company was somehow hiding this from investors holds no merit. They specifically called out their comment letter in
their press release, the press release stated that they were “seeking clarification” from the IRS, and they made no
attempt to hide any of this. Additionally, they explained that even if it were not a qualifying activity, they believe they
would be grandfathered. Submitting a comment letter to correct certain inconsistencies in the legislation, as is the
norm in processes like this, and understanding the INTENT of the legislation are two different things.


Finally, the general premise of all of this is that losing MLP status will somehow send shares of SXC and/or SXCP
down 30-40%. Do you really believe, that at a 13% current yield, SXCP trades with any kind of MLP premium? While
it may be true there could be temporary dislocation in the shareholder base, valuation does matter, and in this case
the underlying cash flows, even without MLP status, are strong enough to support the current valuation. Perversely,
losing MLP status might actually be just what the Company needs to accelerate what really must happen here, which
is the sale to another entity that wants to utilize the valuable GP/MLP structure with qualifying assets that even you
would not dispute.


17 Jun 2015, 10:54 AM


djmand1
Apache, 
From a CPA standpoint, your understanding of the IRS rulemaking process is much better than the author's.


17 Jun 2015, 12:19 PM


platonicbomb
His understanding of SA commenting guidelines is not so good however


18 Jun 2015, 01:14 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/491065

https://seekingalpha.com/user/16501762
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 9/12


mbnadoc
I totally agree with you about Richard's article. I also wonder what his motives are. Your comments are right
on the money. I am delighted to get this kind of yield with SXCP, a most viable company.


18 Jun 2015, 11:43 AM


598
If you look at WLKP a 30% hit would be expected for SXCP. At that point, could be a good investment...probably
when the shorts will cover as well.


Viable long term company, but being on the wrong side of the IRS (and maybe SEC or shareholder lawsuit) is not the
place to be near term.


17 Jun 2015, 11:28 AM


Micro_Cap_Value
Richard, just as a further comment, having just heard Fritz Henderson reiterate two or three times his confidence in
both the treatment of coking and the grandfather issue, I would conclude that he would not make these comments
unless his general counsel et al. had given him the green light to make them. Usually that confidence comes through
the status and nature of communications the company has had in the lobbying/discussion process. In other words the
company may have already gotten a sense of the direction the IRS intends to proceed, despite the fact that formal
rulings have yet to be published.


17 Jun 2015, 11:34 AM


jdm12313
Yes great piece! I will be shocked if something does not come up to address the issue though that allows them to
keep the MLP status. G/L to those who are in this.


17 Jun 2015, 11:36 AM


YellowRabbit
I think its time for the author to cover, the conference call made it very clear, they believe they qualify for MLP status,
and they believe that in case they are wrong about that, that they will be grandfathered. At this point he is playing with
fire there is no certainty this will not be and MLP or grandfathered. For long term investors, specially SXCP ones, its a
good entry point, and in the worst scenario you end up with a still decent dividend and if it drops a little more an
opportunity to buy more of a good company during an over-reaction at bargain prices.I am just kicking myself i did not
pick a few shares at 18 this morning it was a good buying op.


17 Jun 2015, 11:40 AM


13495082
Agree with YellowRabbit.


Believe its extremely unlikely coke making would be excluded from the scope of activities that constitute
qualifying income. Company letter to IRS aims to clarify conflicting definitions between the proposed rules



https://seekingalpha.com/user/756975

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5982091

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4847851

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4327041

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6234941

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13495082
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 10/12


and the prior definition of refining. Do not see it as the sort of admission of guilt as asserted by the author.
The IRS isn't full of engineers and this is what the comment period is for.


Would SXCP be grandfathered if it should be excluded from qualifying activities? I think its pretty clear that, in
the eyes of the IRS, obtaining a legal opinion constitutes a reasonable interpretation of the rules. And so, yes,
it would invariably qualify under the grandfathering provision. If you have doubt here, I suggest you take
fifteen minutes and speak to your tax counsel.


17 Jun 2015, 02:05 PM


Independent Analyst, Contributor
Dont believe everything you read. Per Buzzfeed News, Richard Pearson one of "5 worst shortselling activists"...


http://bzfd.it/1G45DzJ


17 Jun 2015, 01:27 PM


platonicbomb
According to the article he is better than Einhorn. As you say, don't believe everything you read.


I imagine some of these people have stops in place. Anyway...


18 Jun 2015, 01:18 AM


Waldo Mushman
Richard -


Another excellent article. Applause for the research and the exposure of a management team that apparently is a big
fan of fudge. Sad to watch the ongoing parade of less than forthright officers.


Don't agree with your trade though. The Canadian experience is informative and instructs that many of the trust
babies go on to lead very successful lives as tax liable C corps. I also support the proposed MLP tax changes since
the abuse is becoming rampant. Creative accounting threatens to kill a very sheltered harbor in these turbulent seas.
Having said that, I also believe that we are looking at the ghosts of tax laws to come. The scalded promoters haven't
leveraged whatever influence they have to dilute the current proposals.


The current market for coke is not robust but the likely revenue path is north. They seem to be shooting straight about
revenue and operating expense. The potential of double taxation and the loss of the depreciation pass through will be
a negative but not a death blow.


Be Well


John


18 Jun 2015, 10:18 AM


Independent Analyst, Contributor
I suspect hes already made his money! The internet has changed the way the stock game works. I fully expect in not
too distant future SEC will put some rules around publishing content and requirements of trading when you are a



https://seekingalpha.com/author/independent-analyst

http://bzfd.it/1G45DzJ

https://seekingalpha.com/user/16501762

https://seekingalpha.com/user/74349

https://seekingalpha.com/author/independent-analyst
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 11/12


publishing author. There is clearly a problem right now with how system works (loophole that supports abuse) which
the short term, pump and dump and bash and sell traders are taking advantage of at expense of investors. One
doesnt need a stock to dip for more than a day or two to clean up and its not that hard for good writers / marketers to
create this situation by massaging information in a way that look accurate, even if its not.


18 Jun 2015, 12:08 PM


xmetman
I find this article very troubling. Not for what is said, but rather for Seeking Alpha allowing it to be published. At a
minimum its title is very misleading. I also find the fact that the very first comment is so condemning of Sun Coke and
was published 19 minutes after the article. I do not think it would have been possible to actually read the article and
post that fast. Food for thought.


For the record I agree that a legal opinion by an outside firm is a standard long recognized by the IRS as providing
"reasonable belief" and as an engineer I agree that the letter to the IRS is attempting to clarify language that was
probably accidentally made too narrow by the rule maker.


For the record I do not own either Sun Coke LP or the parent.


18 Jun 2015, 01:24 PM


ValGal
One point and one question . . .


- I think you are incorrectly conflating the criteria for the new regulation versus the grandfathering requirement. Alpha
Apache makes the same point.


- What is your valuation here in case they do lose the MLP status immediately? At current prices (SXC = $14.5; SXCP
= $18.5), I have all-in TEV of about $1.85bn.


And I have run-rate EBITDA of about $225mm (8.2x). Based on maintenance capex, this does not seem like a crazy
valuation without MLP status.


If they do lose MLP status, I would expect a leverage recap and 8x seems about correct here. So how are you
thinking about valuation if they lose MLP status immediately?


18 Jun 2015, 02:07 PM


aaamswissusa
Today, July 17,2015 I had the opportunity to contact and discuss the proposed change in IRS rules as they might
affect the met coking process and how a proposed IRS rule change would affect Suncoke (SXCP) as an MLP.


This IRS representative stated that this proposal was just that, a proposal, and that there was considerable time to
comment and that a decision would possibly be many months to a year(s) away.


If the proposed rules were implemented, there was a process of implementation which would take some time to
implement and the probability of a ten year implementation period which would not immediately affect the MLP status
of SXCP and similar operations.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/15492932

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6981261

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1009755
5/22/2018 SunCoke Confides To IRS: We Don't Qualify For MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3264185-suncoke-confides-to-irs-we-dont-qualify-for-mlp-status 12/12


I specifically stated the allegation posted by a Seeking Alpha contributor that SXCP had submitted a letter that stated
that the MLP did not think it would qualify as an MLP under the proposed rules. This IRS representative said that she
had also had questions about this article and could find no evidence of correspondence from SXCP to that effect.


I have no read the letters from SXCP and their law firm as well as the proposed IRS changes. From my interpretation
it appears that SXCP was mealy asking for clarification as to how the proposed change in interpretation in met coking
activities might affect its MLP status. 
I suggest that the author do more “homework” before posting his articles.


I have no financial interest in SXCP nor do I intend to make an investment in the near future. The reason for this
comment is to help provide factual information to a client.


Robere’ Lukovsky


17 Jul 2015, 02:02 PM


GmanIV
well obviously Suncoke got their answer from the IRS that all is good as their CEO Fred Henderson bought $75,000
worth of the company's stock in late July. He wouldn't buy if he knew the co. would lose their MLP status and cause
their stock to plunge. Great time to buy Suncoke!!!!!


12 Oct 2015, 11:01 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/929333
