5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 1/13


New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status
Jun. 16, 2015 9:30 AM ET20 comments
by: Richard Pearson


Summary


A new proposed ruling by the IRS looks set to disqualify SunCoke’s income for MLP
purposes.


This very subtle change is just now being spotted by more savvy investors who are
already dumping the stock while they can.


Without the MLP benefits, SunCoke could fall by 30-40% more.


A similar change caused a rapid 30% drop in Westlake Chemical Partners in May.


Summary


A proposed ruling from the IRS disqualifies for MLP purposes income which is
derived from activities which cause "substantial chemical change" in processing or
refining. The IRS specifically noted that the new rules are consistent with
definitions found within the existing Code.


What the market has missed is that "chemical change" is a defined term with the
IRS. Within the existing Code (§1.613-4), the IRS specifically DEFINES "chemical
change" by giving the example of "the coking of coal." As a result, it looks as if
SunCoke is set to lose its MLP status based on the proposed regulations. SunCoke
has already begun a noticeable selloff. But without MLP status it could easily fall by
an additional 30-40%.


Author's Note: Prior to publication, the author did speak with management at SunCoke.
Management felt that because chemicals were not being added in the production of coke
that the "chemical change" involved in production was not "substantial." Management is
taking the stance that coking is simply refining and the removal of impurities. Management
confirmed that they did not receive a Private Letter Ruling from the IRS for coking, but
instead had received only an opinion from their law firm. But even this opinion was only
received prior to the new IRS changes. As with Westlake Chemical (NYSE:WLK),
SunCoke management is in the process of submitting comments to the IRS.


Section I: Background



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WLK
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 2/13


On May 6th, 2015, the IRS released new proposed regulations which substantially change
the rules relating to qualifying income for MLPs from the processing, refining and
transportation of minerals or natural resources which allows a business to be treated as a
partnership for U.S. federal tax purposes.


The full text of the proposed changes was later posted as a bulletin to the IRS website on
May 26th and can be found here.


The proposed changes had an immediate impact on Westlake Chemical Partners LP
(NYSE:WLKP). Within 3 days, the shares had fallen by as much as 30%. This was the
case even though West Lake had previously obtained a Private Letter Ruling ("PLR") to
the effect that the production, transportation, storage and marketing of ethylene and its co-
products constitutes "qualifying income" within the meaning of the Code.


According to the new proposed regulations, because Westlake had previously obtained
the PLR, its existing activities would continue to be treated as qualifying income for 10
years. And yet the shares fell by as much as 30% before stabilizing. The shares did
subsequently bounce slightly once investors grasped the 10-year grandfather period.



http://www.irs.gov/irb/2015-21_IRB/ar14.html#d0e3197

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WLKP

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/westlake-chemical-partners-lp-statement-011800945.html

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/6/15/4238561-1434401948131599-Richard-Pearson_origin.png
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 3/13


Section II: Changes affecting SunCoke Energy


The situation is much worse for SunCoke Energy Inc. (NYSE:SXC) and its LP
SunCoke Energy Partners LP (NYSE:SXCP). A few of the more savvy investors must
have already spotted this, explaining the recent selloff in SunCoke.


Shares could easily fall by 30-40% once the implications of the new regulations are fully
grasped by investors as a whole.


SunCoke is engaged in the processing of coal into coke for steel making. What the larger
market has entirely missed is that the new regulations look to outright prohibit coking
activities from being treated as qualifying income.


In addition, because SunCoke had not received a PLR from the IRS for coke production, it
would not get the 10-year extension for existing activities, as did Westlake. I did confirm
with management that they did not receive a PLR from the IRS.


A good overview of the general rule changes is summarized by Chadbourne and Park:


The proposed regulations treat income as qualifying income only if it is from
engaging directly in "exploration, development, mining or production,
processing or refining, transportation or marketing" of minerals or natural
resources or from providing a limited class of services to companies that are directly
engaged in such activities.


A more detailed read of the proposed rule-making reveals the problem which is
unique to SunCoke.


We can see clearly from item 1.D of the new proposed rule-making that the IRS states
specifically that:


processing or refining does not include activities that cause a substantial
physical or chemical change in a mineral or natural resource, or that transform the
extracted mineral or natural resource into new or different mineral products,
including manufactured products. The Treasury Department and the IRS believe
that this rule is consistent with definitions found elsewhere in the Code and
regulations. See, for example, § 1.613-4(G)(5).


(See appendix I for full text of Item D)



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SXC

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SXCP

http://www.chadbourne.com/IRS_CLARIFIES_MLP_Section_7704_5-1-2015_projectfinance/

http://www.irs.gov/irb/2015-21_IRB/ar14.html#d0e3197
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 4/13


Although it is more difficult to find, we can also see from the US Federal Tax Code (§
1.613-4) that the term "chemical change" is well defined. In fact, the tax code actually
uses coking as a specific example to outright DEFINE an activity that constitutes
"effecting a chemical change."


This is what the overall market has missed. IRS Code § 1.613-4 states very clearly
and specifically that:


The term treatment effecting a chemical change refers to processes which
transform or modify the chemical composition of a crude mineral, as, for example,
the coking of coal.


(See Appendix II for full text of this definition section)


KEY POINT: The recent proposed rule change made it clear that "this rule is
consistent with definitions found elsewhere in the Code." And we can see from the
definitions provided by the IRS that there is just a single example to define
"chemical change." That single example is "the coking of coal."


Section III: The chemical change in coking


Any variety of sources can be used to see the exact chemical change involved in coking.
For example, Britannica.com includes the following diagram.


Additional sources can clarify the above reaction diagram as:


When heated to high temperatures, in the absence of air, the complex organic
molecules break down to yield gases, together with liquid and solid organic
compounds of lower molecular weight and a relatively non-volatile carbonaceous
residue ( coke ). Coke, then, is the residue from the destructive distillation of coal.


Some of this should be viewed as common sense. The diagram above shows the before
and after of coke vs. coal. Some of the byproducts such as the gases and the ammonia
(released during the chemical change) can even be sold off separately. Coke is a different



https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/26/1.613-4

https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/26/1.613-4

http://www.britannica.com/topic/utilization-122944/Density#ref623891
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 5/13


compound than the original coal. Due to the chemical changes, coke is also much lighter
than coal, which is a physical change.


Section IV: Impact on SunCoke


With SunCoke, the most compelling short opportunity is with the GP, although the LP
should be expected to fall substantially as well.


At current prices, the driving value proposition in SunCoke Energy (the GP) is the
prospect for increased dropdowns going forward. This has been clearly stated in a series
of 13Ds by Jet Capital and was amplified recently in an article on Seeking Alpha, "Jet
Capital on Coking Coal."


Without the benefit of the MLP structure, the business is simply a money losing coke
producer which is trading at a highly inflated EBITDA multiple.


SunCoke currently trades with an enterprise value of around $1.7 billion vs. adjusted
EBITDA of $218 million (consensus for 2015). This is an EBITDA multiple of around 8x.
But without the benefit of the MLP structure this should drop to around 6x or below. This
could see at least $400 million shaved off of the market cap in short order.


More importantly, the current base of holders is heavily skewed towards hedge funds who
are holding in anticipation of the future dropdown benefits. They certainly aren't looking to
be long-term holders of a money losing coke producer.


It seems clear from the continued weakness in the share price that some of the
savvier holders of SunCoke have already started to figure this out.


But there is likely to be around 30-40% more downside once the laggards figure out
the implications of the upcoming changes. 


Appendix I - text from IRS bulletin 2015-21 Section 1D


The full text of this bulletin can be found here. The relevant section is Section D.


D. Processing or Refining.


Because processing and refining activities vary with respect to different minerals or natural
resources, these proposed regulations provide industry specific rules (described herein)
for when an activity qualifies as processing or refining. In general, however, these
proposed regulations provide that an activity is processing or refining if it is done
to purify, separate, or eliminate impurities. These proposed regulations further require



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3257135-jet-capital-on-coking-coal

http://www.irs.gov/irb/2015-21_IRB/ar14.html#d0e3197
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 6/13


that, for an activity to be treated as processing or refining, the partnership's position that
an activity is processing or refining for purposes of section 7704 must be consistent with
the partnership's designation of an appropriate Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery
System (MACRS) class life for assets used in the activity in accordance with Rev. Rul. 87-
56 (1987-2 CB 27) (for example, MACRS asset class 13.3 for petroleum refining facilities).
In addition, except as specifically provided otherwise, processing or refining does
not include activities that cause a substantial physical or chemical change in a
mineral or natural resource, or that transform the extracted mineral or natural
resource into new or different mineral products, including manufactured products.
The Treasury Department and the IRS believe that this rule is consistent with definitions
found elsewhere in the Code and regulations. See, for example, § 1.613-4(5). 


Appendix II - text from US Tax Code §1.613-4 section (6)


The full text of the definitions section can be found here.


See item (vii) for the definition of "chemical change"


(6) Definitions. As used in section 613(c)(5) and this section:


(i) The term calcining refers to processes used to expel the volatile portions of a mineral
by the application of heat, as, for example, the burning of carbonate rock to produce lime,
the heating of gypsum to produce calcined gypsum or plaster of Paris, or the heating of
clays to reduce water of crystallization.


(ii) The term thermal smelting refers to processes which reduce, separate, or remove
impurities from ores or minerals by the application of heat, as, for example, the furnacing
of copper concentrates, the heating of iron ores, concentrates, or pellets in a blast furnace
to produce pig iron, or the heating of iron ores or concentrates in a direct reduction kiln to
produce a feed for direct conversion into steel.


(iii) The term refining refers to processes (other than mining processes designated in
section 613(c)(4) or this section) used to eliminate impurities or foreign matter from
smelted or partially processed metallic and nonmetallic ores and minerals, as, for
example, the refining of blister copper. In general, a refining process is designed to
achieve a high degree of purity by removing relatively small amounts of impurities or
foreign matter from smelted or partially processed ores or minerals.


(iv) The term polishing refers to processes used to smooth the surface of minerals, as, for
example, sawing applied to finish rough cut blocks of stone, sand finishing, buffing, or
otherwise smoothing blocks of stone.



https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/26/1.613-4
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 7/13


(v) The term fine pulverization refers to any grinding or other size reduction process
applied to reduce the normal topsize of a mineral product to less than .0331 inches, which
is the size opening in a No. 20 Screen (U.S. Standard Sieve Series). A mineral product
will be considered to have a normal topsize of .0331 inches if at least 98 percent of the
product will pass through a No. 20 Screen (U.S. Standard Sieve Series), provided that at
least 5 percent of the product is retained on a No. 45 Screen (U.S. Standard Sieve
Series). Compliance with the normal topsize test may also be demonstrated by other tests
which are shown to be reasonable in the circumstances. The normal topsize test shall be
applied to the product of the operation of each separate and distinct piece of size
reduction equipment utilized (such as a roller mill), rather than to the final products for
sale. Fine pulverization includes the repeated recirculation of material through crushing or
grinding equipment to accomplish fine pulverization. Separating or screening the product
of a fine pulverization process (including separation by air or water flotation) shall be
treated as a nonmining process.


(vi) The term blending with other materials refers to processes used to blend different
kinds of minerals with one another, as, for example, blending iodine with common salt for
the purpose of producing iodized table salt.


(vii) The term treatment effecting a chemical change refers to processes which
transform or modify the chemical composition of a crude mineral, as, for example,
the coking of coal.


The term does not include the use of chemicals to clean the surface of mineral
particles provided that such cleaning does not make any change in the physical or
chemical structure of the mineral particles.


(viii) The term thermal action refers to processes which involve the application of artificial
heat to ores or minerals, such as, for example, the burning of bricks, the coking of coal,
the expansion or popping of perlite, the exfoliation of vermiculite, the heat treatment of
garnet, and the heating of shale, clay, or slate to produce lightweight aggregates. The
term does not include drying to remove free water.


Disclosure: The author is short SXC.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 8/13


Comments (20)


Additional disclosure: The author was previously an investment banker for a major
global investment bank and was engaged in investment banking transactions with a wide
range of industrial companies. The author has not been engaged in any investment
banking transactions with US listed companies during the past 5 years. The author is not a
registered financial advisor and does not purport to provide investment advice regarding
decisions to buy, sell or hold any security. The author currently holds a short interest in
SXC and during the past 12 months has provided fundamental and/or technical research
to investors who hold a short position in the stock. The author may choose to transact in
securities of one or more companies mentioned within this article within the next 72 hours.
Before making any decision to buy, sell or hold any security mentioned in this article,
investors should consult with their financial adviser. The author has relied upon publicly
available information gathered from sources, which are believed to be reliable and has
included links to various sources of information within this article. However, while the
author believes these sources to be reliable, the author provides no guarantee either
expressly or implied.


 Like this article


Volte-Face Investments, Contributor
you always find such interesting things to write about. Great catch.


16 Jun 2015, 09:38 AM


The Pump Stopper, Contributor
agreed. Pearson always one of the best and great research.


16 Jun 2015, 02:09 PM


Marty941
It seems that the real motivation of the author is revealed in the Disclosure: "The author currently holds a
short interest in SXC and during the past 12 months has provided fundamental and/or technical research to
investors who hold a short position in the stock. The author may choose to transact in securities of one or
more companies mentioned within this article within the next 72 hours." Volte-Face apparently thought it was
such a great money-making idea, he copied it and published an article claiming that Suburban Propane
(SPH) will be losing its MLP status. We'll probably see a whole string of articles by these guys and others
claiming that many MLPs will lose their status, despite objective evaluations by others.


20 Jun 2015, 12:46 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/volte-face-investments

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-pump-stopper

https://seekingalpha.com/user/10032941
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 9/13


Abobwa
Interesting. I think what you are missing is that with respect to qualifying income, the IRS will exclude activities that
cause a "SUBSTANTIAL" physical or chemical change. While the coking of coal is a chemical change, it is not a
SUBSTANTIAL change. The refining of crude oil into gasoline is much more of a chemical change than turning coking
coal into coke.


16 Jun 2015, 10:00 AM


abdullah999
This is alot of fear mongering.


16 Jun 2015, 10:07 AM


jdm12313
Totally agree - I love these pieces but this one is a little much.


16 Jun 2015, 10:47 AM


deepsea21
This is more than a little much... He's misquoted the IRS bulletin and confused two types of coke. This article
is absolutely worthless.


Cut and pasted from the IRS bulletin... "Any product that results from further chemical change of the product
produced from the separation of the crude oil if it is not combined with other products separated from the
crude oil (for example, production of petroleum coke from heavy (refinery) residuum qualifies, but any
upgrading of petroleum coke (such as to anode-grade coke) does not qualify because it is further chemically
changed)."


16 Jun 2015, 11:39 AM


isadoes
i think you are looking at the wrong thing deepsea21. the definition of chemical change comes from section of
the US Tax code which the new IRS bulletin said is to be consistent with. the part you mentioned is another
reason why production of met coke may not be a qualifying activity. crude refinery produced petcoke can
sometimes also be used in substitute of met coal to produce met coke, which is essentially the same process
as regular met coke production. And the IRS specifically stated that any further upgrading of petcoke does not
qualify.


16 Jun 2015, 12:03 PM


Long-Short Value, Contributor
"processing or refining does not include activities that cause a substantial physical or chemical change in a mineral or
natural resource, or that transform the extracted mineral or natural resource into new or different mineral products,
including manufactured products."



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4253581

https://seekingalpha.com/user/666619

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4327041

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9502881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40534555

https://seekingalpha.com/author/long-short-value
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 10/13


I have over 10 years experience in the Refining Industry. Coking is essentially just heating up the thickest portion of
crude oil in a furnace (Very think liquid called Resid). It is exactly the same from a chemical standpoint as Distilling
(which is the first step in Refining) just using higher temperatures and different shaped furnace/tower. The main
difference is that Coking is a Batch Process, where as Distilling is an In-Situ process because when you Coke
something you heat off all of the liquids and are left with a solid called Coke. Distilling is liquid in and Liquid out, where
as Coking is Liquid in and liquid and solid out.


If you define Coking as a chemical change you should also define all Refining as a chemical change, as even a
Distillation unit causes both chemical and physical changes as do all types of processing unit in Refining. The
distinction between Refining and Coking seems to me to be hard to make, but I doubt the IRS knows anything about
Refining.


Good Article, just wondering how much validity your argument holds.


16 Jun 2015, 10:24 AM


isadoes
I think you are confusing between the production of petcoke and metallurgical coke. In the new IRS
document, it gave an example of production of petcoke, which is essentially breaking carbonhydron bond as a
qualifying activity but it also states any further upgrade of petcoke does not qualify because it involves further
chemical change. petcoke can also sometimes be used as a substitute to metallurgical coal to produce met
coke, which is essentially the same process. If the IRS bans any further upgrading of petcoke as qualifying
activity then upgrading petcoke to metcoke would be banned..you may be able to derive the logic of
producing metallurgical coke from coal is also not a qualifying activity because it's further chemically changed.


16 Jun 2015, 11:03 AM


isadoes
I think you are looking at the wrong kind of coking. You are referring to the process that produces petcoke,
which is a qualifying activity, given as an example in the new IRS rules. production of petcoke is essentially a
cracking process which breaks carbonhydron bonds. However, the IRS also specified that any upgrade of
petcoke does not qualify. Petcoke is also sometimes used as a substitute to metallurgical coal to produce
metallurgical coke, which is what suncoke does. And the IRS specified any upgrading of petcoke does not
qualify, i.e. upgrading petcoke to metallurgical coke does not qualify. By the same notion, it's not a stretch to
derive upgrading metallurgical coal to met coke does not qualify.. Obviously a lot of uncertainty in the rule
making process but you should understand which type of coking activities suncoke engages in. It's not coking
in a refinery setting.


16 Jun 2015, 11:04 AM


Hardog
All I know is the Guv hates coal, and will do what it can to depress the use and markets for it.


18 Jun 2015, 10:57 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/40534555

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40534555

https://seekingalpha.com/user/785235

https://seekingalpha.com/author/daan-everts
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 11/13


Daan Everts, Contributor
Hi Richard, nice work. Any sense on timing?


16 Jun 2015, 10:51 AM


deepsea21
You have confused the Petcoke with metallurgical coke and you have misquoted the IRS Bulletin when you stated,
"And we can see from the definitions provided by the IRS that there is just a single example to define "chemical
change." That single example is "the coking of coal."


The IRS DID NOT STATE "The coking of coal" Below is the actual paragraph cut and pasted from the IRS bulletin.
Nowhere does it mention coal.


"Any product that results from further chemical change of the product produced from the separation of the crude oil if
it is not combined with other products separated from the crude oil (for example, production of petroleum coke from
heavy (refinery) residuum qualifies, but any upgrading of petroleum coke (such as to anode-grade coke) does not
qualify because it is further chemically changed)."


You've spent a great deal of time on a worthless analysis.


16 Jun 2015, 11:32 AM


598
When it comes to expertise on chemistry...nothing like 'asking your lawyers'.


Shareholder lawsuit starting in 3..2..1


16 Jun 2015, 11:35 AM


Philip Trinder, Contributor
Richard,


You make this statement:


"In addition, because SunCoke had not received a PLR from the IRS for coke production, it WOULD NOT get the 10-
year extension for existing activities, as did Westlake."


I disagree with your statement, even IF SXCP's coke production is ruled as non-qualifying it WOULD still be
grandfathered in for the 10-year extension ("Transition Period") based on the following:


"(ii) A partnership may treat income from an activity as qualifying income during the Transition Period if:


(A) The partnership received a private letter ruling from the IRS holding that the income from that activity is qualifying
income;


(B) Prior to May 6, 2015, the partnership was publicly traded, engaged in the activity, and treated the activity as giving
rise to qualifying income under section 7704(d)(1)(E), and that income was qualifying income under the statute as
reasonably interpreted prior to the issuance of these proposed regulations;"



https://seekingalpha.com/author/daan-everts

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9502881

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5982091

https://seekingalpha.com/author/philip-trinder
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 12/13


SXCP's IPO priced on January 17, 2013 and it has treated its activity as qualifying income under section 7704(d)(1)
(E) and the income was reasonably interpreted prior to the issuance of the new proposed regulations (as evidenced
by the legal opinion provided for the IPO even though it was not a Private Letter Ruling form the IRS), so it meets all


the requirements shown above in proposed Section 7704-4(f)(ii)(B) and actually WOULD get the 10-year Transition
Period.


After seeing the proposed Section 7704-4(f)(ii)(B) language do you agree with my interpretation?


Best Regards, 
Phil


16 Jun 2015, 12:28 PM


Philip Trinder, Contributor
All,


Suncoke Energy just released a statement on Proposed New IRS Regulations and Submit Comment Letter:
http://bit.ly/1ekWxYH


Best Regards, 
Phil


16 Jun 2015, 02:05 PM


deepsea21
I think you are going to have a problem with Suncoke and the SEC over this article. You maintain a short interest and
appear to have misrepresented, misquoted and embelished an official IRS Bulletin in a public forum for personal
financial gain.


16 Jun 2015, 12:36 PM


Independent Analyst, Contributor
even if this is found to be interpreted as non-qualifying, which sounds fuzzy when you start pulling chemical engineers
and experts into the debate, the 10 year extension would likely apply...


In the event that a publicly traded partnership is impacted by the final regulations, the proposed regulations provide
for a 10-year grandfathering period. In order to be grandfathered, a partnership either must have received a private
letter ruling or be engaged in the activity based on a reasonable interpretation of the statute and its legislative history.
We believe that the receipt of the opinion of our counsel, Vinson & Elkins LLP, that our coking operations generate
qualifying income provides that reasonable interpretation.


The fact that it sounds quite debatable and could be interpreted either way suggests "reasonable" interpretation is
likely met for 10 year extension.


16 Jun 2015, 03:20 PM


GmanIV



https://seekingalpha.com/author/philip-trinder

http://bit.ly/1ekWxYH

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9502881

https://seekingalpha.com/author/independent-analyst

https://seekingalpha.com/user/929333
5/22/2018 New IRS Rules Could Eliminate SunCoke's MLP Status - SunCoke Energy (NYSE:SXC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3261225-new-irs-rules-could-eliminate-suncokes-mlp-status 13/13


would UAN lose MLP status?? They make fertilizer


12 Oct 2015, 10:42 PM
