5/23/2018 Yum! Brands: With China At An Inflection Point, Financial Engineering Cannot Combat Economic Force - Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE:YUM)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3333455-yum-brands-with-china-at-an-inflection-point-financial-engineering-cannot-combat-economic-force 1/7


Yum! Brands: With China At An Inflection Point, Financial Engineering
Cannot Combat Economic Force
Jul. 17, 2015 10:00 AM ET2 comments
by: Xuhua Zhou


Summary


CEO’s guidance for strong second half recovery is less than forthcoming.


Aggressive store expansion increases operating leverage and contrasts sharply with
rival’s franchising strategy.


Price discounts rolling out in 49 cities across China beginning July.


Sluggish same store sales number has more to do with the economic reality in China
today than the widely-believed food scandal.


Stock has material downside as activists’ financial engineering cannot combat
economic reality in a deflationary pricing environment.


Introduction


Make no mistake; it is a bold move to take bets against hedge fund titans of the world like
Keith Meister and Dan Loeb, both of whom I have enormous respect for. It is not a bet I
take lightly. But as with all investment theses, if the underlying premise of the thesis is
flawed, the outcome will deviate significantly from expectation. When Corvex announced
the stake in Yum Brands (NYSE: YUM) and pushed for a spin-off of a China Co., its
implicit belief is Yum's China business will make a full recovery from the food scandal and
fetch a premium valuation making the sum-of-parts investment return look compelling.
However, it's my strongest belief that Corvex's analysis may have lacked the fundamental
underpinning of the economic reality in China today and the upcoming deflationary
environment the country may enter. To make matters worse, Greg Creed's less-than-
prudent capital allocation strategy in store expansion likely makes matters worse and will
only cause more pain should my view of the Chinese economy materialize.


It Wasn't a Good Quarter But a Strong Outlook?


The YUM story today is pretty much entirely a China story. Activists need the China
operation to improve, so it could be spun off and get the upside from their sum-of-parts
analysis. The second quarter SSS decline in KFC China was -10%, quite a bit worse than
expected. The only reason stock held up from further collapse was likely because the rosy



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/YUM
5/23/2018 Yum! Brands: With China At An Inflection Point, Financial Engineering Cannot Combat Economic Force - Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE:YUM)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3333455-yum-brands-with-china-at-an-inflection-point-financial-engineering-cannot-combat-economic-force 2/7


guidance CEO Greg Creed gave in both press release and the subsequent conference
call, but there are plenty of reasons to doubt his rosy outlook and I am of the firm belief
that when the next quarter number comes in, KFC China will not be making a strong
recovery as predicted by Greg and guidance will have to be cut. In fact, with management
under the gun of big activists, they seem to be pressing a losing bet instead of taking a
more prudent approach in evaluating their capital allocation strategy similar to what rival
McDonald's (NYSE:MCD) is doing.


I listened to Yum's conference call carefully and all analysts were overwhelmingly
interested in Chinese macro. Yum's quarter ended on June 13th, right around the time
when the Chinese stock market with 90 million individual accounts peaked and its SSS
missed expectation. Analysts on the conference call repeatedly questioned management
whether the stock market crash would have an impact on Yum's performance in China,
and management repeatedly stated there's no impact.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MCD
5/23/2018 Yum! Brands: With China At An Inflection Point, Financial Engineering Cannot Combat Economic Force - Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE:YUM)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3333455-yum-brands-with-china-at-an-inflection-point-financial-engineering-cannot-combat-economic-force 3/7


"John Glass - Morgan Stanley


Thanks. Good morning. First on China comps, yes so the recent decline in the
Chinese stock market had any impact on sales. Do you notice a correlation there at
all?


Pat Grismer - Chief Financial Officer


We don't. John, this is Pat. John we don't see a correlation. We think actually a very
small percentage of customers have been impacted by that as to whether or not it is
impacted broader consumer confidence, we have no reason to believe it at this
stage if that is the case."


CFO dismissed any impact right away in that exchange. Then investors should look
towards the end of the conference call.


"Paul Westra - Stifel


Great. And then when you mentioned your transaction trends on a DC line basis
continue to sequentially improve, you are seeing sequential, again month-to-month
traffic recovery versus…


Pat Grismer - Chief Financial Officer


Paul I wouldn't say month-to-month, certainly quarter-to-quarter. We never said
that the recovery was going to be linier and so there is natural choppiness from
month-to-month, but as we step back and look at how traffic has rebuilt since the
incident last summer, we are seeing a nice steady improvement in that curve."


It might be a stretched psychological assessment of the CFO, but consider the response
time required and the way information is accessed in all human, the most likely reason for
Pat's response is July's recovery might have been experiencing some natural
choppiness. This is one of the reasons that leads me to question the reliability of Yum's
guidance on a strong second half recovery.


Yum's Upping the Ante While McDonald's is Taking Chips Off the Table


Yum's CEO was repeatedly questioned whether he thinks the restaurant market in China
is slowing. The response was quite bullish.



https://seekingalpha.com/search/transcripts?term=John+Glass&source=participant

https://seekingalpha.com/search/transcripts?term=Pat+Grismer&source=participant

https://seekingalpha.com/search/transcripts?term=Paul+Westra&source=participant
5/23/2018 Yum! Brands: With China At An Inflection Point, Financial Engineering Cannot Combat Economic Force - Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE:YUM)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3333455-yum-brands-with-china-at-an-inflection-point-financial-engineering-cannot-combat-economic-force 4/7


"In conclusion, we are making continued progress in China and remain bullish on our
long term prospects there. With cash paybacks of about 3 years, we are confidently
investing in new unit expansion. We have leading brands and an enviable
competitive position in the world's fastest growing economy. We expect to open 700
new units in China this year, and believe we can substantially expand our footprint
over time."


Meanwhile, investors should take a closer look at how rival McDonald's is behaving in the
Chinese market. In sharp contrast to Yum, McDonald's has been adopting a quite different
strategy in China. According to local press reports, McDonald's is closing down 80 stores
in China this year citing reasons such as wage and rent inflation. In addition, it is adopting
a franchising strategy in China in order to reduce its operating leverage. When two
identical companies behave in virtually opposite manner, investors should be extra
cautious in assessing the merit of the riskier strategy. There is little doubt Yum's
management is pressing its bets in China while McDonald's is taking chips off the table.
Who is right?


Price Discount Makes Rosy Outlook Questionable


A little-noticed article in an obscure Chinese website stated KFC is discounting 30%,
residents of Kunming can download discount coupons from JD.com. The article went
further stating that beginning 4th of July, KFC is dropping prices in Shanghai, Guangzhou
and 49 other cities and many of those discounts are offered through e-commerce websites
in China. It strikes me as highly inconsistent with Yum's management's strong second half
recovery outlook and really makes me wonder just how exactly is second half SSS (same
store sales) in China could possibly make a strong recovery.


A Bigger Economic Conversation


The question on Yum comes back to whether the economic outlook in China warrants
greater consideration in its decision to allocate capital. Without a strong view on the
Chinese economy, I would not have believed Yum's bet pressing strategy sets up the
stock for a perfect shorting opportunity. The Chinese economy is going through an
incredibly difficult phase and further slowdown appears not only likely but also inevitable.
Government's attempt to boost the stock market simply is not a proper way to reform the
economy. As a matter of fact, it will be making matters worse. Here's why:


Capital Allocation in Chinese Stock Market



http://sd.dzwww.com/sdnews/201506/t20150610_12526716.htm

http://www.xyk175m.com/youhui/1959.html
5/23/2018 Yum! Brands: With China At An Inflection Point, Financial Engineering Cannot Combat Economic Force - Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE:YUM)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3333455-yum-brands-with-china-at-an-inflection-point-financial-engineering-cannot-combat-economic-force 5/7


Wall Street continues to miss a big problem in understanding the Chinese stock market
issue. It's not as simple as wealth effect translating to consumer confidence. The bigger
game at play here is a flawed capital allocation process in the China's nascent stock
market.


For proper capital markets to function, you need at least two elements on two nodes. 1.
Institutional investors/long-term investors who do not invest for the stock price movement,
rather the underlying business performances. 2. Listed companies take good care of
investors' capital as fiduciary and allocate capital optimally to grow the business. The two
elements are complementary and neither one can be amiss. Issue with Chinese stock
market, unfortunately, is neither one of these element presents. Market is dominated by
retail investors who only care about stock price performances without understanding the
underlying business performances. Companies, on the other hand, do not have an
ingrained philosophy that shareholders' capital is sacrosanct.


This point can be demonstrated in two examples. 1. Consider the wave of reverse merger
frauds happened in 2010-2011 where many raised capital from US investors. It's
staggering that every single one of them turned out to be a scam. Why? How could there
be so many scam artists in China? I think it's simply wrong to dismiss the issue as all
Chinese people are scam artists. In fact, most of them do transact with you honestly in
most business situations. It is a philosophical view that shareholders' capital once raised
becomes my money. Few actually deploy the capital. 2. Consider the Shanghai Composite
Index. Despite record economic growth over the past 10 years, the index level has
remained largely the same. How could it be possible if any shareholders' capital is put to
proper use? Those are the issues at play that causes Chinese stock market to lack basic
accountability for the capital that flows into it. On the other hand, the Chinese stock market
is no longer a nonfactor given the size it has grown into. Daily turnover at height was 2.5
trillion RMB on June 25th, given the T+1 system; the total amount of actual capital poured
into the Chinese stock market is likely a substantial percentage of Chinese M1 which
stands at 34 trillion RMB. If it is indeed a poor mechanism for capital transmission, you
end up having a massive clogging effect which will impact spending/non stock market
investing and lending. That's the bigger issue I see and it could acutely affect the Chinese
economy should the government continue to encourage stock market speculation.


During the stock market boom, while the vast majority of capital flew into the market likely
did not get put to good use; it did provide the benefit of confidence and altered behaviors
of many small business entrepreneurs and VCs. It encouraged investments in small
business, ideas and startups, which is really what the government had hoped for to serve
5/23/2018 Yum! Brands: With China At An Inflection Point, Financial Engineering Cannot Combat Economic Force - Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE:YUM)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3333455-yum-brands-with-china-at-an-inflection-point-financial-engineering-cannot-combat-economic-force 6/7


a new engine of growth. Unfortunately, recent stabilizing policies such as the ban on
selling for large shareholders and IPOs will most likely cause the trickle of capital flowing
into the real productive side of the economy to slow, as VCs respond to the likely difficulty
in their ability to exit investments through secondary sell-down and IPOs. Chinese people
respond to incentives too.


Why is the stock market speculation causing a more acute problem for the economy than
property bubble and credit expansion the government had encouraged for decades? The
answer lies in accountability. In a property speculation, a developer cannot take the
money and not build a home. He would have a problem. Therefore, in the property
speculation, while excessive, many jobs were created, cities were built and real economic
growth was happening. Credit lending operates much the same way because there is a
time limit on the return of that credit, you have to pay it back. You can't just keep on telling
a story or you default and the bank takes your assets away from you. Stock market
speculation is different, however, without long-term investors investing for real business
performances as a binding mechanism, companies are raising capital telling stories and
not doing real businesses. To change the infrastructure will take decades of efforts and a
true capitalist mentality to be ingrained in the society. It won't happen simply by
encouraging people to pump massive amount of money into the stock market or running
slogan such as "revive A shares, benefit the people." It only worsens the problem.


Data Point and Deflationary Environment


It is no secret to many that Chinese government data are not reliable. The GDP print and
retail sales print should both be viewed with caution. The data become increasingly
meaningless when its economy is truly slumping. Confidence is everything.


Meanwhile, Chinese economy may very well be on the cusp of deflation.


1. 1st quarter GDP deflator was -1.1%, suggesting China is in deflation; economists
largely questioned the reliability of the GDP data without thinking the possibility that China
may actually be in deflation.


2. Chinese CPI has been persistently low around a bit over 1%.


3. Google "price decline" or "price war" in Chinese and you will find a shocking number of
results. Of 12 page of search results I read, prices of items such as glasses, milk,
watermelon, wheat, edible oil, iron ore, steel, construction materials, liquefied petro gas,
corn, shrimp, cosmetics, household appliances, bananas and baby formula are all
dropping. Services such as education classes from New Oriental, durables like cars and
5/23/2018 Yum! Brands: With China At An Inflection Point, Financial Engineering Cannot Combat Economic Force - Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE:YUM)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3333455-yum-brands-with-china-at-an-inflection-point-financial-engineering-cannot-combat-economic-force 7/7


Comments (2)


consumer goods like smartphones are all dropping. Against an economic backdrop like
this, KFC faces an uphill battle competing against local fast food restaurants selling meals
for half or 1/3 the price.


Conclusion


I believe in search for returns in an increasingly lofty valuation environment, activists may
have moved into areas where margin of safety has declined. With Chinese economy in an
incredibly difficult transition phase and likely significant price competition from local
competitors in all products and services (see Mead Johnson's PR), Yum's outlook was
simply too rosy and is unlikely to be met.


Disclosure: I am/we are short YUM.


I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is
mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


lotus position
Good write up. There was a report of a foreign luxury car brand whose dealers are offering 30% discount to the
dismay of the manufacturer. Also heard on the radio dim sum in Guangzhou is getting ever more popular. You can get
an economical meal in a dim sum restaurant by ordering rice and a dish of dim sum.


17 Jul 2015, 10:39 AM


Funspeculating
Very insightful article! You were able to link up the dots and analyze the stock. The way how you picked up the
management "over" rosy guidance and back it up with what the rival is currently doing the opposite gives us the easy
to digest information about how Yum! will likely suffer from the deflationary environment that China's economy will go
through.


In your opinion, if China slash its rates will that be able to stop the deflationary spiral? I understand the country's
leverage is significantly high and a lot of chinese are currently speculating in the stock market rather than investing in
a real business that is truly moving the economy. It's more of mindset change really to be honest and I dont think it
can be done over night.


17 Jul 2015, 11:28 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/news/2628875-mead-johnson-minus-5-percent-after-cutting-2015-earnings-guidance

https://seekingalpha.com/user/903021

https://seekingalpha.com/user/14704092
