5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 1/53


Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis
Top Idea | Aug. 18, 2015 5:00 AM ET
by: Suhail Capital


Summary


Mobileye is positioned and perceived as an automotive forward-facing camera
technology monopoly, when in fact it is not.


Tier 1 competition is already here. Bosch, Denso, and Continental are all set to
experience a significant ramp in forward camera business over the next 12 months.


The key bull thesis arguments of 5+ years needed to get technology qualified with
OEM and an unwillingness of OEMs to split/switch camera platforms don’t hold
water.


Chip industry competition only just starting to heat up as market starts to scale.


All of the above supports an asymmetrical return opportunity for a short at current
levels.


Ticker: MBLY US Equity


Contents


Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis
So How Crazy is Mobileye's Surface Valuation?
Partners Turned Competitors: Autoliv and Gentex
Industry Terminology & Functionality
Automotive Chip Suppliers
Google vs. Mobileye
Deep Learning: Computer Vision's Great Leap?
Mobileye Valuation Scenario Analysis
What Are the Upside Risks from here?
Conclusion
Disclaimer


Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MBLY
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 2/53


"This is the auto industry's 'iPhone' Moment"- Itay Michaeli, Citigroup


"Wait a minute Doc- are you telling me you built a time machine out of a DeLorean" -
Marty McFly


When you see a nice upward sloping chart like this for a Tier 2 automotive component
supplier presently trading at approximately 70x estimated 2015 revenue, you have to
wonder whether the analyst was listening to R Kelly's "I Believe I Can Fly" when he
penned his report. Any self-respecting investment analyst that believes a Tier 2 chip
supplier will be trading at 30x revenues 5 years after going public must also believe he
can fly.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 3/53


We are short Mobileye and see 35%-50% downside in the shares as the gap between the
hype bestowed upon it by the investment analyst community and what is actually going on
in the ADAS (Advanced Driver Assistance Systems) space rapidly closes.


Summary Bullets


Mobileye is positioned and perceived as an automotive forward facing camera
technology monopoly, when in fact it is not.
Tier 1 competition is already here. Bosch, Denso (OTCPK:DNZOY), and Continental
(OTCPK:CTTAY) are all set to experience a significant ramp in forward camera
business over the next 12 months.
Toyota's (NYSE:TM) decision to go with monocular camera options from both
Continental and Denso reflects OEM multi-source preference, and immediate mono
alternatives capable of supporting the world's largest OEM.
The key bull thesis arguments of 5+ years needed to get technology qualified with
OEM and an unwillingness of OEMs to split/switch camera platforms don't hold water.
Mobileye OEM customers Jaguar Land Rover (NYSE:TTM) and BMW (BAMXY) are
rolling out ADAS features relying on competitor stereo cameras on multiple 2015 and
2016 flagship models. The same vehicle's most recent ADAS launches (2013) were
based on Mobileye monocular technology.
Autoliv (NYSE:ALV), a major Tier 1 ADAS supplier and Mobileye partner at IPO, is now
going to production on their own forward-facing cameras. So now, four of top five Tier
1 ADAS suppliers (45% of 2014 ADAS market share) are competitors.
Mobileye is positioned as a potential autonomous driving total solution when in fact all
OEMs and Tier 1s are prioritizing a multi-sensor fusion approach for their autonomous



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DNZOY

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CTTAY

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TM

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TTM

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ALV
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 4/53


roadmap as well as for high level ADAS.
Chip industry competition only just starting to heat up as market starts to scale.
Threats here range from standard low-cost auto supplier ADAS chips like Texas
Instruments (NYSE:TXN), Freescale (NYSE:FSL) and Toshiba (OTCPK:TOSYY) to
GPUs related to ADAS platform tech like Drive PX. Also with the likes of Intel/Altera
FPGA ADAS development sitting in between as options for Tier 1s to utilize.
All of the above supports an asymmetrical return opportunity for a short at current
levels. Basically, even if monopolistic market control and rapid ADAS mass-market
adoption were to be the story for the coming 5 years, you should still be able to make
money shorting at current levels.


Now, watch this Video!


Some of our favorite quotes from this interview:


"I visited Mobileye, and that's autonomous driving."


"This guy has a monopoly, this is like Microsoft and Intel, you used to see 'intel
inside' that's what this is."


"They got 90% share when they went public now they have 100% share. These guys
have essentially a monopoly"


Watching interviews like this one leave us scratching our heads because the reality is that
this unbelievably accomplished 'value' investor is not sitting on TV and lying about
Mobileye, but instead actually believes what he is saying. He is so unbelievably confident
as to quickly shoot down the rarefied decent questions from CNBC anchors.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TXN

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FSL

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TOSYY
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 5/53


Autonomous driving is legal in Israel?"


Actually, "no it's not" would have been the appropriate response, and Mobileye's CEO
cruising the highway reading his newspaper with his hands off is ACC (Adaptive Cruise
Control) with steering assist. Might be impressive if you're being shown it live, but as far as
semi-autonomous driving technology goes, this is nothing to write home about. Also, the
way the question on competing technology is brushed off for a company like this is just
mind boggling. To actually say they have 100% market share and are a monopoly is
something that we are going to show is simply preposterous.


Before we get into the meat of this lengthy journey into ADAS, we figured a little
background on how we got here would be helpful. On the surface, Mobileye comes off as
maybe one of the most ridiculously valued IPOs you are ever going to come across. You
don't need to be Aswath Damodaran to figure that out. It's a fabless chip company
designing an image processing ASIC for the automotive industry. If you have a history of
investing in chip stocks, this thing is somewhere in Deep Space as far as the level of
disconnect it has managed to achieve relative to the industry it is in. This is because the
chip industry graveyard is covered with the tombstones of fabless semi plays whose
purported multi-year competitive lead and insurmountable position with large OEMs was
eradicated in the blink of an eye.


So how crazy is Mobileye's Surface Valuation?


To offer some quick perspective on this, Mobileye trades at roughly double the Enterprise
Value of Nvidia (NASDAQ:NVDA) despite generating 3% of their TTM revenue. This is not
some BlackBerry (BBRY) to Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) comparison; Nvidia's revenue to
automotive customers was up 121% in Q1 to $77 million, which is a faster growth rate
than Mobileye (28%) showed from a similarly low base last quarter. This is something that
we will later show is absolutely ridiculous, even if NVIDIA doesn't end up doing a single
dollar in ADAS related revenue (Drive PX already has shipped to Bentley, Rolls Royce,
Tesla, and Aston Martin to name a few).


So, again on the surface this sticks out, and as one of our team members has significant
expertise in SOIC land; the IPO literally jumped off the page as a short idea from the day it
was listed. However, despite the surface short appeal, we chose to do nothing with it. That
was because Mobileye came out of the gate positioned as a 'story stock' that captivated
your imagination. We have learned that you simply don't short such stocks on valuation no
matter how seemingly obvious such a thesis appears to be on the surface. Throw in a
huge lock-up, Goldman Sachs with a large stake, the desire to wait and see just what Wall



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NVDA

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 6/53


Street had to say about the name; coupled with the seemingly daunting task of
understanding the entire automotive safety supply chain as well as futuristic debates
around autonomous driving, limited resources versus much larger and arguably much
more motivated hedge funds to plow into the name, and you have everything you need to
take a 'wait and see' approach to the stock. Which is what we have done for the better
part of the last year. In that time, the shares essentially doubled from their IPO opening,
fell by 50%, and have now recovered right back to where they were at their post-IPO
peak.


While we were happy to see the stock move higher, one could debate Mobileye's valuation
and future prospects at a 70% discount from current prices so that hasn't exactly driven
our desire to get short the stock. What really got us excited over the last six months is that
the Street's IQ on the name has barely budged, and the financial media's infatuation with it
as a story stock has grown significantly. All the while we have had nearly a year to
become experts on the space, and to witness actual industry developments that paint the
type of picture you would expect to find in a compelling short opportunity.


So, where to begin………


Considering investor ADD when it comes to names like this, we will start out with the
assumption tear down, before getting into more background/detail on this market and our
short rationale.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 7/53


Mobileye is the only game in town……


The investment literature around the name is pretty clear; Mobileye's forward-camera
approach is superior to everything else in the space, they are leagues ahead of any other
potential monocular competitor because of their validation data; Stereo is inferior to
Monocular, Continental and Bosch have some competing aspirations but nothing of note
yet; all other Tier 1 suppliers are on board with them, the OEMs love them and they win
every RFQ they get, and that all their success so far is attributable to just ADAS and now
they are moving into semi-autonomous and autonomous. We've read every sell-side
report on the name, and with the exception of one analyst, we came away thinking this is
pretty much it. Mobileye invented the market, they own it, nobody else is winning
business, the Tier 1s are pretty much all on board, and none of this is going to change
anytime soon.


Ok, now onto reality.…..


Subaru EyeSight


When an automotive camera vision historian reads through all the Mobileye sell-side work
of the past year; he will have to go to great lengths to find any mention of a ground-
breaking player in forward camera based Active Driving Assist, because Japan based
Subaru has simply been left out of the story. Their Eyesight system development dates
back to 1989, and their stand-alone camera only Autonomous Emergency Braking
(NYSE:AEB) has been shipping since 2008.


Here is a slide of their ADAS Development History:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AEB
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 8/53


They are now on their third generation of Eyesight, and regularly trounce all the
competition in AEB collision avoidance safety tests.


Here is a slide highlighting their safety achievements:
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 9/53


Subaru has sold over 300,000 Eyesight equipped models in Japan since 2008, and have
been offering the option in the USA since 2012. They also have made Eyesight standard
on all models in the UK as of 2015. They own nearly 400 patents on Stereo camera based
ADAS, and have pretty much proven how a stereo camera detection focused ADAS
approach can flourish in the affordable car segment. They are, for all intents and
purposes, a complete success story and they show no signs of slowing the development
of their ADAS technology. However, in the minds of the investment brokers pushing
Mobileye stock, they essentially don't exist. Maybe this is because their software has been
developed in-house, and they are using a Hitachi 3D image processor for their stereo-
based detection. Or maybe it's because the investor view here might be that if relatively
tiny Subaru can develop super sophisticated ADAS systems in-house, then just about
anyone in the space can do it. Whatever may be behind this, there is no denying that
Subaru's technology prowess and success in forward stereo camera based ADAS is
conveniently left out when discussing the Mobileye story.


Daimler 6-D Vision


Daimler has been working on Stereo-based Vision detection since the mid-1990s, and
their in-house developed technology goes by the name 6D-Vision. Since 2013, 6D-Vision
'Intelligent Drive' technology has been used in Mercedes-Benz S, E and C class



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/8/20/saupload_saupload_MBLY5.jpg
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 10/53


automobiles. In October 2014, the Daimler stereo camera team (U. Franke, S. Gehrig, M.
Enzweiler, D. Gavrila, T. Schwarz, F. Stein) was awarded the IEEE ITS Outstanding
Application Award. Their stereo camera based advanced driver assistance technology
which is paired with radar has been rapidly advancing. For an idea of just what they are
capable of we point you to this July 2015 auto blog review of the new E-class' ADAS
capabilities.



http://www.autonews.com/article/20150707/OEM04/150709906/mercedes-readies-advanced-safety-tech-for-next-e-class
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 11/53


Highlights of the Driver Assistance Package for the next-generation E-class:


• An upgraded Intelligent Drive package of technologies: Using the Distance Pilot
Distronic system and at speeds up to 124 mph (200 km/h), the car can automatically
maintain a safe distance from the car in front, provide steering assistance around
bends and even brake. The previous generation tracked only the car in front, the
new system can see "where the swarm goes," Hafner said.


It uses a new generation of stereo cameras behind the windshield and new radar
sensors to read road markings.


At speeds up to 81 mph (130 km/h), Steering Pilot can work even if lane or road
markings aren't clear. Previously, the system worked at speeds below 50 mph (80
km/h) Hafner said.


• Speed Limit Pilot: It works with the car's communications and entertainment system
and can "autonomously adjust the vehicle's speed in response to camera-detected
speed limits or speed limits logged in the navigation system," Mercedes said.


• Active Brake Assist: The system has been updated and can warn the driver of an
imminent crash, give braking assistance if suddenly needed and also automatically
apply the brakes in an emergency. The system also detects vehicles that are
stopping or stationary, crossing traffic at intersections, pedestrians and the tail end of
a traffic jam.


• Evasive Steering Assist: The new systems adds "precisely calculated steering
torque," when it senses a driver making an evasive maneuver. Mercedes says the
feature helps movement of the steering wheel so the driver can avoid hitting a
pedestrian and straighten the vehicle so it can safely pass.


• Remote Parking Pilot: Using a smartphone app, the vehicle can be moved in and
out of tight parking spaces and garages. The driver's smartphone must be within 10
feet of the vehicle and the driver must have the car key or the remote system won't
work. The app will ask the driver for approval to move the vehicle. The driver can
park the car in parallel or perpendicular parking spaces and in and out of a garage.


• Car-to-X Communication: Mercedes-Benz says it was the first car company to
launch car-to-car networking in 2013. The system has now been fully integrated and
information can be transmitted via a module with a SIM card in the vehicle that
transmits road conditions ahead to Daimler's backend service, said Hafner. The
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 12/53


information can then be relayed to a radio station or traffic alert system, Hafner said.
Mercedes boasts it "can effectively allow the driver to see around corners or through
obstacles."


• Digital Car Key: The driver's smartphone can be used as a vehicle key. A driver
holds the phone near the door handle. Personal options such as seat and mirror
settings can also be made via smartphone. The system uses near-field
communication technology that can exchange data via radio signals over a short
distance. It has been used to exchange data between smartphones and tablets.


• Pre-Safe Impulse Side: If an unavoidable side collision is detected, the air
chambers in the backrest side bolsters inflate rapidly, moving front-seat occupants
sideways and away the door.


• Pre-Safe Sound: The system protects occupants' ears from the noise of a collision.
The stapedius muscle in ears contracts when there is a loud noise, giving "greater
protection against high sound pressures," said Mercedes.


Here is a photo breakdown of what the sensor tech in the new E-Class encompasses.


And here is a slide of the stereo-camera based road surface scan technology Daimler has
developed which actually continually adjusts the suspension based on what the stereo
camera sees.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 13/53


Pretty impressive to say the least, and for those that haven't seen the parking pilot or
steering assist in action we suggest watching this video and this video. Which brings us to
our next little tidbit regarding Daimler's 6-D Vision technology; it is now being licensed to
LG to develop next generation camera systems in partnership with Mercedes.


Toyota Safety Sense


With a 12% global automotive market share, Toyota is obviously a behemoth whose
ADAS plans are closely watched. Their forward camera ADAS exposure has generally
been limited to a stereo system w/ radar in some Lexus models, and they have not been
using Mobileye technology. There was a good deal of speculation around whether this
would change for most of the first six months Mobileye has been public, but that
speculation was always been capped by the fact that Denso (their primary Tier 1 supplier
in which they own a 22% stake as well) is not partnered with Mobileye. For those looking
for a little Tier 1 history Denso and Mobileye used to work together before becoming
competitors. Anyway, in December 2014, Toyota put an end to speculation around their
immediate plans, when they shared the sensors they will be using for Autonomous
Emergency Breaking in their Safety Sense Program at the Nagoya Auto Engineering
Exposition.


Their Safety Sense C configuration for compact cars will use a monocular camera and
infrared laser from Continental.


It looks like this:



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDwMhSobaOg

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MC4orDejOR8

http://techcrunch.com/2014/12/26/lg-mercedes-benz-autonomous-cars/

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/denso-and-mobileye-to-start-joint-development-for-image-sensing-and-processing-technology-73950327.html

http://techon.nikkeibp.co.jp/english/NEWS_EN/20141215/394482/
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 14/53


Their Safety Sense P configuration for medium sized and larger cars will use a monocular
camera from Denso paired with millimeter radar.


The monocular camera looks like this:
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 15/53


The key takeaway here is that Toyota clearly has chosen to take a measured approach to
ADAS in its mass market vehicles, but this is also in line with what we have heard as far
as the take rate for certain ADAS features remaining limited to high-end infotainment
bundled vehicles. Toyota has clearly chosen to keep it simple with lane departure warning,
automatic high beam and AEB. What's more interesting here is both mass-market
configurations are going to be using mono cameras not made by Mobileye. The
decision to support/incubate Denso's Tier 1 ADAS ambitions especially as they seek to do
more business outside of Toyota is understandable, but the fact they did also choose a
fused monocular based system from Continental is at this point in time impossible to
ignore.


Jaguar Land Rover


Jaguar Land Rover is a Mobileye OEM customer and has used their technology in
conjunction with Tier 1 Gentex on past models including the Range Rover Evoque and the
Jaguar XJ. They are also, according to Mobileye's website, an OEM slated for future
launches. This makes them interesting in the respect that they are not a pure play in-
house developed ADAS technology competitor and also not one that has yet to use
Mobileye technology. Instead, they are an existing customer that has now chosen to use
competing vision based technology on new model launches.



http://www.mobileye.com/markets/oem/oem-launches/jaguar-range-rover/jaguar-land-rover-launch-2013/
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 16/53


Like this 2015 XE:


And this 2015 Discovery Sport:


And the upcoming 2016 Jaguar XF:
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 17/53


These models (and the upcoming new Evoque) are all using stereo camera based ADAS
for their AEB and other camera related safety functions. The Discovery Sport stereo
camera (visible in its picture above) is made by Bosch and does provide camera only
based AEB much like Subaru's Eyesight. We can also probably assume the Jaguar XE
and XF stereo cameras are also Bosch provided as the spec descriptions all match, but
just to be clear, this is not as clearly disclosed as it was on the Discovery Sport. What is
clear is that this is a very feature-rich ADAS stereo camera being rolled out in several
models by an existing Mobileye customer.


For those of you who want to go through the impressive list of ADAS features, here they
are:
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 18/53


Forward-facing stereo camera


Located in front of the rear-view mirror, the available forward-facing stereo camera
generates a 3D view of the road ahead. The information is interpreted by image
processing software and the output used by a wide range of advanced driver
assistance systems.


One of the most important is the Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB) system 2. If
the module determines that a collision with a vehicle ahead is likely, the brake
system is pre-charged and the driver given audible and visual warnings. If no
avoiding action is taken and the collision deemed to be imminent, the system is
designed to initiate full braking to avoid it or mitigate the effects.


The stereo camera also supports the Lane Departure Warning (LDW) and Lane-
Keeping Assist (LKA) systems2 available on the Jaguar XF. By monitoring the
vehicle's position relative to lane markings, LDW is designed to notify the driver if
they begin to drift out of lane by providing visual warning in the instrument panel and
a haptic warning through the steering wheel rim. If the driver drifts too close to the
edge of the lane, the LKA system can guide the driver towards the center of the lane
by applying a small amount of counter-steering. The amount of torque applied to the
steering wheel is slight and can be easily over-ridden by the driver at any time.


Available on the all-new XF, the Driver Drowsing Monitoring (DDM) system2 is
designed evaluate patterns of driver inactivity, such as little or no steering, pedal or
instrument panel activity followed by sudden or excessive inputs, and provide
multistage visual and audible warnings when driver drowsiness is noticed.


The Traffic Sign Recognition (TSR) system2 relies on the stereo camera to keep the
driver informed of speed limits â€" including temporary limits which apply during road
work and variable limits on highways. Camera data is cross-referenced against GPS
data to ensure accuracy. If the driver selects the over-speed warning function, the
ring around the sign graphic flashes whenever the limit is exceeded.


We should also point out that the Bosch Stereo camera equipped Discovery Sport won the
UK New Safe Car of the Year Award and achieved a five star Euro NCAP rating.


BMW 7 AND 5 SERIES STEREO



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AEB

http://www.thatcham.org/news-and-events/news-and-press-releases-reader/items/land-rover-discovery-sport-wins-new-safe-car-of-the-year-award
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 19/53


BMW has been exclusively using Mobileye monocular technology across all their
automobiles via their Active Driving Assistance package and fused with radar in their
Driver Assistance Plus package. The relationship dates back to 2008 when Continental in
partnership with Mobileye first provided this technology for BMW. This covers features like
lane departure warning, speed detection, pedestrian detection, city collision mitigation,
active cruise control with 'stop & go', and traffic jam assist.


However on this year's BMW 7 Series a Stereo Camera is being employed in the Driver
Assistance Plus package.


From the BMW 2015 7 Series Website


"The Steering and lane control assistant incl. Traffic jam assistant can be activated
to support the driver in monotonous traffic situations. Between 0 and 210 km/h the
system steers the vehicle automatically and always keeps the vehicle in the middle
of the lane.


The cutting-edge steering function uses multiple area surveillance radar systems
and a stereo camera. The system positions itself using the edge-of-lane markers
and the vehicle in front, if applicable. It automatically maintains the desired distance
from the vehicle ahead and regulates the car's speed down to a standstill, as well as
providing active steering support. The Steering and lane control assistant represents
another milestone on the path to achieving highly automated driving.


Although the system is capable of driving the vehicle independently, the driver is still
legally required to continue driving with both hands on the wheel. If the driver does
not comply with this requirement, the system sensors will recognize this fact and
warn the driver acoustically after a certain period of time. Then it will enter stand-by
mode. This is also the case if the indicator is activated for changing lanes or if the
system requirements are no longer met, e.g. the lane is too narrow.


This is to be followed with the new 5 Series shifting to a standard 3D stereo camera based
system when it launches early next year.



http://www.mobileye.com/markets/oem/oem-launches/bmw/bmw-launch-2013/

http://www.bmw.com/com/en/newvehicles/7series/sedan/2015/showroom/driver_assistance.html#drivingassistant

http://coolcarsnews.com/2016-bmw-550i-the-5-series-changes/
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 20/53


For those looking for a run through, this video from BMW highlights all the impressive
high-end features (stereo camera included) in the all-new 7-series.


You don't need to be Sherlock Holmes to ferret this information out, yet you won't find it in
any of the extensive sell-side coverage on the name. We found this surprising considering
BMW's long-standing exclusive use of Mobileye mono technology in their automobiles. If
Mobileye was just a normal pricey growth stock, the news of two new flagship BMW
models rolling out with a competing stereo system replacing their monocular
camera would not be a big deal. But when you are a 70x sales stock expected to
own the entire market, there is zero margin for error. Any OEM's decision to switch
to a competitor's forward facing camera system is HUGE NEWS. In this case, our
research indicates the stereo cameras in both BMW models are being supplied by
Continental. Yet, there is no coverage of this by anyone on the sell-side. To have a better
understanding of why they missed this (or are ignoring it), you just need to listen to the
Q&A on Mobileye's Q1 2015 call. Management took the opportunity to highlight that a



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Viyt2aIOG8
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 21/53


recent win included a trifocal arrangement for the premium segment which came "instead
of a stereo product which would have been offered by a competitor." Then in the Q&A, a
Morgan Stanley analyst asks this question:


Ravi Shanker:


Thank you. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. Amnon, the program that you
said where we displaced the stereo solution, is that a new OEM or is that an OEM
that you already have relationship with?


Management's answer to this question was that they won't publically provide that type of
detail. In reality, the answer is not nearly as interesting as the question. The analyst
characterizes Mobileye's win as a displacement of stereo, which to be clear is not what
management said in their opening remarks. A displacement occurs when a competitor's
technology is already in place. The reality of the situation is that when it comes to stereo
camera, the competition's products just started shipping. So how can you displace them?
The only mature stereo camera based systems out there belong to Subaru and Mercedes
who have their own in-house technology. Bosch and Continental literally just started
shipping their competitive products after several years of development, and they will be
joined by Autoliv at the end of the year. So, the only 'displacing' going on here is of
Mobileye's monocular cameras by stereo cameras just hitting the road, and not the other
way around. Management could have easily cleared that up on the call by stating that they
didn't displace anyone and that this was an existing customer where they managed to
retain the premium segment with their trifocal configuration against an aspiring
competitor's stereo camera alternative, but they chose not to.


Amnon Shashua - Co-founder, Chairman and CTO


I cannot get into that kind of detail.


Why introduce doubt to people who don't want to have any? That's, of course, where the
opportunity exists here. Losing 6 or 7 models to stereo-based competition may not feel
like much, but that's only if you can't see the bigger picture. The competition is no longer
'coming', it is here. Also, one of the usual misinformed monopolistic arguments on
Mobileye is that it takes 5-8 years to get qualified at an OEM, so displacing Mobileye in an
existing customer model will not be happening anytime soon. Well, the BMW and Jaguar
models moving to stereo have happened in less than 2 years, and our industry



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3170026-mobileyes-mbly-management-on-q1-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 22/53


research indicates the development time can now even be shorter than that. On that
note, let's shift gears and look at some recent commentary from two of Mobileye's existing
Tier 1 partners.


Partners Turned Competitors: Autoliv and Gentex


Autoliv and Gentex (NASDAQ:GNTX) are two existing Mobileye Tier 1 partners whose
recent conference calls are worth paying attention to for those attempting to assess the
competitive landscape.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GNTX
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 23/53


Q3 2014 Autoliv CC-


Edoardo Spina - Exane BNP Paribas, Research Division


Sorry, my line dropped before, it's Edoardo Spina from Exane again. Just 2 more
very quickly. On the mono camera, Mono Vision, that you mentioned, I just wanted to
understand where we are in the product cycle, basically. So is this at the order level
already or is it more in design phase, this product of yours?


Jan Carlson - Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President


We have Mono Vision cameras in production today, but we will also launch a Mono
Vision camera with our own algorithm here in the second half of 2015. So it depends
upon on what you're talking about in Mono Vision. We are in production...


Jason West - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division


Your own, I'm sorry.


Jan Carlson - Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President


In corporation with Mobil-i, and we will launch our own technology here in 2015.


Edoardo Spina - Exane BNP Paribas, Research Division


And that will cease the cooperation, I guess?


Jan Carlson - Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President


Say again.


Edoardo Spina - Exane BNP Paribas, Research Division


You will switch to your own camera, so that will end the cooperation with that product
you will launch.


Jan Carlson - Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President


But as I said, we are in production with Mobil-i, and then, we will launch another
camera with our own technology in '15.


Now from the Q1 2015 Call-



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2591945-autolivs-alv-ceo-jan-carlson-on-q3-2014-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3090616-autolivs-alv-ceo-jan-carlson-on-q1-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 24/53


Sheila Weekes - Bank of America Merrill Lynch


Just a quick one on Active Safety, you've made a clear break from Mobileye in terms
of offering your own mono and stereovision systems this year. What has the
customer take-up of these systems been? And I know you won't comment exactly on
the book-to-bill, but how should we think about the progression of that generally with
your active safety business?


Jan Carlson - Chairman, President & CEO


Well, I think, as we said, I think we have a system that is very competent, that is very
state-of-the-art technology that we will launch. And I think technology there is very
competitive in terms of performance and in terms of scalability being able to give a
range of sensors that you can use from a lower end into a higher end by developing
this from the stereovision functions, fusing it with radar, etcetera. So the suite we're
launching here we believe is very competitive from that market standpoint.


And from the Q2 2015 Call


I am pleased that we have reached agreements on two business opportunities. Our
first agreement is to enter into an intellectual property licensed with Volvo Car
Corporation. This intellectual property includes advanced driver assistance
algorithms and certain active safety features, such as ACCPlus and emergency
maneuver and intersection assist, along with sensor fusion algorithms and system
capabilities. The second agreement is to acquire MACOM's Automotive Solutions
business, which is subject to customary regulatory approvals. It includes 25
technical, commercial and manufacturing support employees. Technologies included
in this opportunity are embedded GPS modules, Electronic Horizon software and
hardware, along with other radiofrequency products and intellectual property.


And now from the Gentex Q4 2014 CC:



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3334585-autolivs-alv-ceo-jan-carlson-discusses-q2-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2860656-gentexs-gntx-q4-2014-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 25/53


Richard Michael Kwas - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC


Okay, so faster than 7% to 12% range for the company as a whole, right. And then
just a quick follow up on that point. Can you give us any color around ADAS
functionality? You referenced it in terms of SmartBeam but can you give us any
flavor for what you are selling or what you are shipping right now that has ADAS
functionality within the SmartBeam portfolio? The thing is that that's one of the thing
that people want to have more clarity from you in terms of the growth profile that
business, and I understand that it's a moving target you got right now. But in behalf
of you could provide in any color around that specifically.


Mark Newton - Senior Vice President


It's not really a moving target. The SmartBeam generation IV product has from the
outset, when we first began shipping at the end of the third quarter of last year, and
now with the expansion this year, that product was created with this capability. That's
important to know that for over a decade SmartBeam has been positioned as a mid-
level option package beginning originally to control forward lighting and increasing in
capability through fusion with radar and steering and other electronic systems on the
vehicle and adding capability to detect lanes and roads and objects.


As you might easily imagine, we've been since the offset with the original
SmartBeam. We've been detecting lights as we approach the vehicle. Those lights
turns out [Indiscernible] vehicles and so it's no stretch to [Indiscernible] that we have
been detecting vehicles in all conditions. In almost all of our applications where
SmartBeam is applied we got a line of 17 different automakers worldwide where this
is applied and it has continued to be a growing product as you know. And each of
those application there has been generally a high-end package of multiple feature
drive assist consistent with Bosch or Continental or the Mobileye applications as
well. We have been participating as a mid-level option and but there was a high-end
option.


We publicly pointed out and like almost seven million units on the field, we've
experienced that we had a much higher application take-rate in a more expensive
multiple featured driver assist systems. The good news today with the increasing
market interest in success of applying more driver assist systems on the vehicle
means -- and that the high end systems, multiple feature like the Continental or
Bosch or rather Mobileye application with multiple features, those are increasing in
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 26/53


application but so is ours. We created SmartBeam now for over a decade together
with customers adding feature capability to that customer request, not at our own
free will.


And doing so -- and so with this the generation IV SmartBeam that is shipping now
and includes capability of features that detect objects and report that information to
the car. On high systems we are very sophisticated and near outstanding products
that have applications that detects specifically pedestrians and detect vehicle and
detect collision and detect road conditions, our product has been detecting vehicles
and road conditions and objects in the sense so as the market broadens there are
more applications generally from mid-range as well as the high end, and that's
basically what we've been developing and are experiencing growth.


Richard Michael Kwas - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC


You are seeing growth in ADAS, or ADAS functionality to [Indiscernible] within the
SmartBeam portfolio.


Mark Newton - Senior Vice President


The generation IV SmartBeam was specifically, we created the imager, we created
the applications, then had customer request to add capability and lane and object
detection as well as in lighting. And so, yes, those are driver assist functions and this
were sending information to the vehicles. We have been highly flexible in fusing with
a wide variety of radar and steering and pitch and yaw and other sensors on the
vehicle for some time, many years. So we've have been increasingly seeing more
with our cameras sending more information to the car, integrating with more systems
at customer request and that is ADAS. ADAS doesn't have to specifically be seven
features, specifically defined as an application basis, actually quite broad and it is
actually an application just beginning in the market [Indiscernible] so far good news
is, there is great interest and it's an opportunity for growth.


You don't need to do much reading between the lines to understand what's going on here.
Autoliv, which had been happily working with Mobileye, is now making a clean break and
becoming a direct competitor. They are going to production on both mono and stereo
cameras based on their own algorithms, and have been beefing up their algorithmic
portfolio by licensing related ADAS algorithmic IP from Volvo. The message from Gentex
is also moving along the same lines. Both have quietly launched competing products, but
by the end of the year our research indicates this won't be so quiet anymore.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 27/53


So now you need to ask yourself one simple question….


How Can Anyone Call Mobileye A Monopoly?


There is so much going on here from a competitive standpoint that you almost just have to
scratch your head when it comes to the sell-side research out there. 100% win rates in
forward-facing cameras? A 5-8yr lead over potential competitors because of their
algorithmic validation data-backed edge? These comments now seem ludicrous. If the
world's largest automaker chooses to use monocular cameras from two competitors for
their mass-market model roll out of AEB, shouldn't the people covering the stock raise
some serious questions? What good is citing a 100% "win rate" on RFQs if the world's
largest automaker doesn't even come to you for a monocular based system quote? Isn't
your technology the best and cheapest, and thus a must-have for everyone? And if one of
your existing OEM customers is ramping the models using stereo only based AEB isn't
that something that should be addressed from a competitive dynamic? Then if another
one of your existing OEM customers is replacing your camera with a stereo camera for the
same feature set on some of their flagship models shouldn't we know about it? Did they
also not come to you for a RFQ when they selected these stereo camera based systems?


See, when Wall Street describes your company as the auto industry's 'iPhone Moment' it
becomes very easy to sit back and really start drinking the Kool-Aid.


Anyway, now that the head first dive-in intro is out of the way, we can begin with our
analysis.


Industry Terminology & Functionality


ADAS: What Is It?


We started with nice little snippets of what's currently going on in this space as it pertains
to Mobileye because we felt that would be the best way to get readers engaged, but we
recognize that most investors probably don't really have the background or vocabulary to
make sense of it all. So, let's do a little primer.


This photo from Texas Instruments' TDA3X ADAS chip launch covers everything that falls
under the Advanced Driver Assistance Systems category.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 28/53


This includes cameras (stereo or mono), radar (short and long range), ultrasonic sensors
(short and long), infrared sensors, and LIDAR. You can also lump Vehicle to Vehicle and
Vehicle to Infrastructure technology in this category, but we really aren't going to get too
much into that in this report. As far as Mobileye investors are concerned, the main focus in
ADAS is forward-facing camera technology and radar systems that may or may not be
fused with them. We would also argue that LIDAR as it's currently thought of in the space
more appropriately falls under the category of full autonomous or highly advanced semi-
autonomous driving discussions (more on that later).


A breakdown of which sensors are being typically used for which assistance system is
provided in the table below.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 29/53


As far as Mobileye is concerned, the capabilities they have been known for thus far are
lane departure warning, collision mitigation braking, forward collision warning, lane
keeping support, and traffic sign recognition. This past year, they also launched the first
mono-only enabled full autonomous emergency braking equipped vehicle (Audi Q7).


Now, as you should have been able to discern from our opening, the main area of focus
for anyone investing in this space is going to be both automotive and pedestrian-enabled
AEB adoption. It's not nearly as exciting as autopilot enabled cruise control, lane shifting,
and parking features. However, once you strip away the hype, this is what is going to be
the safety regulation measuring stick in Europe (Euro NCAP) and ultimately North
America (NHTSA), and from a practicality standpoint is what is going to drive forward-
facing ADAS camera sales.


We raise this point because up until now the Mobileye story has largely been about lane
departure warning, pure computer vision based adaptive cruise control, and forward object
detection and warning with partial braking. These are all features where the less
expensive monocular technology they have exclusively focused on can shine based on
their algorithmic development. The need for safety system redundancies is not an issue
here. But when you get into having the car fully emergency brake by itself, that all
changes.


AEB: Mono vs. Stereo vs. Radar


When you start talking AEB, image resolution and field of view are very important. These
are two areas where stereo cameras are superior to mono camera because:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/8/20/saupload_saupload_MBLY16.jpg
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 30/53


1. They achieve higher resolution images because they have two image sensors at work
2. They provide redundancy of optical paths for achieving high spatial resolution


To make this clear, when it comes to automatically engaging your brakes to avoid a
collision stereo cameras will always have a technological advantage over a mono camera.
This is because they have depth perception as they are estimating distance to an object
based on displacement between the two images. No matter what you read from Wall
Street, we have spoken to enough experts in this field to realize there is no getting around
this. Mobileye can develop the best algorithms on the planet for mono, but they just can't
get around physics of two eyes being better than one. This is, of course, something we
have found to be very interesting because the investment community is so focused on the
fact that a stereo camera system is more expensive. That was all fine and dandy when the
technology was making a buzzing sound and gently braking, but not exactly my main
concern when the system is going to slam on my brakes at 30mph. Safety has always
been about redundancies, it's why we have safety belts and air bags. The reality is false
positives and false negatives are always going to be a concern for any camera vision
system on the road, but when it comes to camera only AEB, I am going to feel safer with a
stereo system pulling the trigger.


What about radar-based AEB?


Radar, of the 24 GHz and 77GHz variety, does a good job of recognizing automobiles.
Volvo has made significant use of this technology in their City Safe system for quite some
time with Mobileye cameras added in to power the pedestrian detection element.
Volkswagen (OTCPK:VLKAY) has also been relying on radar-based AEB as well as ACC
in almost all but its cheapest entry model 2015 Golf's in Europe. The system is based on
Bosch radar technology, and is making its way to North American models in 2016. There
is also a stereo fused with radar version on higher-end models for pedestrian detection.
Delphi's (NYSE:DLPH) RaCAM (found on the 2015 Volvo XC90) uses four side radars and
one front radar fused with a mono Mobileye camera to power a multitude of ADAS
features. What is notable though is how much of the feature tech is being driven by the
radar sensors. This article on Mercedes autonomous car highlights just how much of the
'seeing' is being done by radar. The bulk of the investment literature on Mobileye puts their
mono camera technology up against alternatives like radar, lidar, or stereo and finds a
reason to declare victory. To a certain degree, you can have this debate over mono vs.
stereo, but the problem is when you get to radar you discover that the auto industry's
reliance on it for ADAS features is not waning. This is because radars are excellent at
measuring speed and distance. They also have the added advantage of being more



http://www.techhive.com/article/2025386/volvo-v40-watches-the-road-with-camera-radar-laser.html

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VLKAY

http://www.repairerdrivennews.com/2015/05/20/thatcham-we-were-surprised-how-much-vw-golf-auto-braking-cut-u-k-injuries/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DLPH

http://articles.sae.org/13953/

http://spectrum.ieee.org/transportation/self-driving/how-we-gave-sight-to-the-mercedes-robotic-car
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 31/53


reliable in inclement weather conditions in which accidents are more likely. The only
problem is they are not so good when it comes to identifying things like pedestrians and
bicyclists, and that's where the camera fusion comes in. But radar manufacturers are
working hard on this limitation, and there are some technologies that claim to achieve 3D
scanning using two 79 GHz radars to distinguish between cars and people with
established wider field of views (Panasonic (OTCPK:PCRFY) is a name we came across
working on this). There is also a lot of excitement about CMOS-based radar from
Freescale/NXP in the market with multiple OEMs testing their tech, which could have
interesting implications going forward. Again there will always be limitations with radar that
cameras are simply better equipped to overcome. Which is why sensor fusion is going to
continue to play a significant role in ADAS safety systems. When placed in this context,
Toyota's decision to select mono/radar fused sensors for AEB in their mass-market
models is no surprise. It's a safe bet, and when it comes to safety systems making a safe
bet is the only way to go.


Here is how the Mercedes S Class uses extended radar with their stereo camera:


We'd like to point that the industry's prioritization of sensor redundancy is something
seriously overlooked when it comes to the investment narrative around Mobileye's mono
only approach. Just a few weeks ago Continental showed off a retrofitted Chrysler 400
which took a two of everything approach to key sensors (two cameras, two sets of radar,
two ECU's, two brake actuators). Essentially the car is equipped with a backup for
everything to ensure safety first. Now, this may not be cost practical, but it is just a
reminder that the focus in ADAS will continue to be improving the redundancies of the
systems working together. Fusion is not going away. In fact, you should expect the Tier 1s
to continue to work on repurposing complementing sensors to take over as secondary
feature set controllers in the event of a primary sensor's failure. This is expertise that lies
outside of Mobileye's purview which is something often overlooked. The algorithms used



http://techon.nikkeibp.co.jp/english/NEWS_EN/20140424/348582/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PCRFY
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 32/53


for radar are very different from the ones used in mono detection, and more complex. In
fact, speaking to multiple experts in the field, the consensus take is that the mono only
detection algorithms are some of the most basic to engineer. When you consider this and
the level of investments made by Tier 1s in developing fused sensor detection ADAS
system, you have a hard time seeing how ASPs for Mobileye's chips won't seriously
decline as the adoption curve for ADAS steepens.


Make no mistake though, Mobileye recognizes these limitations which is why EyeQ4 will
offer sensor fusion with radar and laser scanners as well as their launch of a trifocal
arrangement to improve field of view and hence simultaneously overcome some of mono's
depth perception limitations. The surprising thing here is that nobody in the investment
community has looked at EyeQ4 and multifocal as a blatant acknowledgment of the mono-
only limitations being exposed more by competitors. Instead, their approach is more akin
to viewing this as Mobileye's 'iWatch moment.' This probably has a lot do with the fact that
there isn't one publically listed pure play on stereo or mono/radar fused alternatives to
Mobileye. All jokes aside though, the appropriate question to ask yourself is how many
stereo-only based AEB cars and mono/radar fused models not based on any Mobileye
tech will be on the road by 2017? Management's highlighting of their first ever mono only
AEB launch on the 2015 Audi Q7, and a recent trifocal design win as being one that would
have gone to a stereo-based system demonstrates that they are aware of the rapidly
increasing competition.


ADAS and the Tier 1s


Investing in an automotive sensor technology requires an understanding of the automotive
supply chain. For all the focus on the automobile manufacturers who may be using
Mobileye technology, Mobileye's end customers are actually the Tier 1 suppliers. The
EyeQ chips they sell into OEM models are purchased directly by Tier 1 suppliers. These
suppliers are the end customer, and play the role of ADAS system integrator for the
OEMs. In 2014, Tier 1 suppliers generated about $6 billion in ADAS revenue. The top 10
accounted for about 75% of the market with the top 5 holding 50% market share.


Tier 1 2014 ADAS MKT


Share


2014 ADAS Rev ADAS Rev as % Total


Rev


Bosch 13% 800 1%


Continental 13% 790 2%


Delphi 10% 610 3%
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 33/53


Denso 10% 610 1%


Autoliv 7% 425 5%


Magna 7% 425 1%


TRW 5% 300 2%


Valeo 4% 240 1%


Takata 4% 240 4%


Gentex 3% 180 13%


Hella 3% 180 3%


Source: Exane BNP Paribas


And this is what a portfolio breakdown of the top Tier 1s ADAS offerings looks like:


Mobileye's Structural Tier 1 Problem


It is important to realize that three of the top four global ADAS Tier 1 suppliers don't work
with Mobileye, and that now four of the top five are shipping competing forward-facing
cameras. The trend here is also not your friend as both Denso and Continental were
former Mobileye partners before they decided to go it alone. This is a structural issue that
is only going to prove more challenging going forward as the top suppliers have prioritized
ADAS as a main growth engine. They don't want to just play the role of integrator.
Consequently, you have seen them make technology-related acquisitions and seriously
beef up in-house engineering capabilities to position themselves as complete platform
providers in this space.


Some recent examples:
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 34/53


Continental Acquires ASL Vision- Surround View computer vision based technology


Continental Acquires Elektrobit- Automotive software tech, ADAS system integrator
expertise


Delphi Acquires Ottomatika- Automated driving software technology


Delphi Invests in Quanergy- low cost solid state LIDAR technology


Autoliv Acquires Macom's Automotive Tech- Roadscape GPS ADAS Module


The big boys have also all opened Palo Alto research facilities, and spent the past five
years hiring armies of engineers to develop their own algorithms and test their systems.
Yet, this is not the picture that is painted on Wall Street or by management.


Don't believe us, just read this exchange from the Mobileye Q1 conference call.


Jason Ader - William Blair


And then on the competitive front, are there any new entrants that you become
aware of given how hot the space has become I would there will be some ventures,
fund at some point thrown at this space given how hot it is, is there anybody that you
are aware of or are you guys have any intelligence there?


Amnon Shashua - Co-founder, Chairman and CTO


Nothing that is viewed, only significant news is that one of our competitors, major
competitor Valeo has now become one of our Tier 1 partners. So competition if at all
has been reducing rather than increasing.


So, think about this for a second, Bosch, Continental, and Denso are all now starting to
see a significant ramp in their forward camera ADAS business. Autoliv, a former exclusive
Mobileye partner, is now going into production on their own cameras. And you can discern
what you will from Gentex management's recent comments about their future direction.
Yet, Mobileye management claims that competition is decreasing? And they explain this
by referencing their recent announced partnership with Valeo? And if they describe Valeo,
which is weak in forward-facing camera ADAS, as a major competitor, then what are the
rest of the bunch? See, the interesting thing here is that Valeo's move makes sense as
they are seeking a vision partner to complement their future LIDAR based ambitions, and
this is one of the advantages of being a Tier 2 like Mobileye. A Tier 1 with a vision based
ADAS portfolio hole is going to turn to you fill their gap. If the stock was $20 and all the



http://www.continental-corporation.com/www/pressportal_com_en/themes/press_releases/3_automotive_group/chassis_safety/press_releases/pr_2013_01_11_360grad_umfelderfassung_en.html

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-05-19/continental-ag-agrees-to-buy-elektrobit-unit-for-680-million

http://www.greencarcongress.com/2015/07/20150730-delphi.html

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/quanergy-delphi-collaborate-adas-autonomous-vehicles-louay-eldada

http://www.macom.com/about/news-and-events/press-release-archive/row-col1/news--event-archive/macom-announces-definitive-agr-2

https://seekingalpha.com/search/transcripts?term=Jason+Ader&source=participant

https://seekingalpha.com/search/transcripts?term=Amnon+Shashua&source=participant
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 35/53


street was talking about was the competition, this would be a nice point to emphasize in
building a long thesis for the name. Of course, that is not the case here. Instead, we see
every data point that lends itself to the structural advantage of Mobileye's Tier 2 position
highlighted while any data points regarding the inherent structural limitations of that
position being completely ignored.


Automotive Chip Suppliers


Any notable 'news driven' single day downside moves in Mobileye shares over the past
year have been related to semiconductor related announcements. The notable two being
press releases out of Toshiba and Freescale regarding new ADAS chip launches. We find
this interesting because frankly speaking at this stage nobody in chip land is taking a full
ASIC-based approach like Mobileye. The big automotive chip suppliers are improving their
chips, but their approach continues to be based on leaving the higher end algorithmic
development work to the OEMs and Tier 1s who want to own/control that IP; which is
nothing new. That is not to say the new announcements are not material as these chips
are getting much better, and will start shipping in much larger volumes. This will in turn
exert significant pressure on Mobileye's low-end ADAS forward camera feature focused
chip ASPs. Think about unit chip prices closer to $10-15 versus $45 for probably 70% of
the market by the time adoption curve has hit full penetration. But this doesn't make for a
pure play mono camera ADAS chip competitor, and to be frank we may not ever see one.
The suitability of FPGAs for a lot of ADAS development especially along the lines of data
fusion (Altera's Cyclone is doing the radar/video fusion on the Audi zFAS controller for
autonomous driving), and the in-house IP developed by OEMs and Tier 1s may render
such a competitor obsolete for the forward camera ADAS market. This is an often
completely missed fact by the people who describe Mobileye as a software play in
an attempt to thwart any potential chip commoditization narrative. You'd honestly
think this was the first fabless specialty chip company to sell an ASIC, well, it is not. But an



http://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Toshiba-to-supply-chips-for-driver-assist-systems

http://cache.freescale.com/files/automotive/doc/white_paper/S32V230WP.pdf
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 36/53


ASIC approach is not the only way to skin a cat here, and you are seeing that in terms of
the alternatives available from the chip suppliers. At 'standard fit' automobile volume $50 a
chip for a Tier 1 is actually viewed as egregious today, and this is precisely because they
know what it takes to put the software on a standard chip themselves. As far as full
autonomous driving goes, the shift on the higher end will probably be more about GPU-
trained CNN translation for ADAS chips. And here you are seeing what seems to be a
more alliance-based approach emerging with the likes of embedded vision developer
Cognivue licensing their APEX ICP technology to SOC companies along with software
platform partners like Green Hill Software and Neusoft providing the ADAS software tools
to compete against Mobileye. Along these lines, Cognivue recently announced their new
Opus Apex Core which they have demonstrated (via benchmark testing at leading Tier 1s)
can support Convolutional Neural Networks (more on this jargon later) in a power efficient
manner on mass market ADAS chips. This open alliance approach highlighted by the likes
of Cognivue and Freescale working together is likely to be the path pursued by the
automotive pure chip competition targeting Mobileye's business. That is not to say we
wouldn't rule out a fully integrated approach with proprietary algorithms from the likes of
Ambarella (NASDAQ:AMBA) or another chip company, but based on our research, we just
don't see things evolving in that direction.


On the Road to Autonomous Driving


There is no doubt that Mobileye shares have gotten caught up in a lot of excitement
around a future with driverless cars. But we still can't help but cringe when we see the sell-
side modeling future autonomous revenue for them. You can put a car on the road where
all the driving decisions it's making are being based on what a monocular camera is
seeing, but that is not autonomous driving. The limitations of computer vision let alone a
monocular camera guarantee that a future self-driving car will rely on a suite of sensors
working together. This will include all the current ADAS sensors as well as future
commercial production LIDAR, V2V/V2I technology, and who knows what else. However,
the value creation in a future dominated by self-driving cars is not about the sensors,
those will actually be commoditized, but rather about replacing the human with the
equivalent of an artificial brain sitting on top of all this sensory information that can safely
drive the car.


ADAS Feature Evolution Will Not Bring Us Autonomous Driving


AEB, ACC, LDW and other ADAS features activate in emergency scenarios or are
designed to operate in controlled environments. You can collect all the data you want on
this, but once you remove the human it's not worth much. All it tells you is that a sensor or



http://techfocusmedia.net/blog/cognivue-drives-at-mobileye/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMBA
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 37/53


combination of sensors worked under these well-defined parameters. You can't
incrementally expand these parameters until you reach autonomy. An autonomous car
has to work perfectly from the minute it starts driving. It has to be able to handle every
scenario, for potentially hours on end, and without any human supervision. This is not
something that is five or even ten years away. In fact, a near future with skies filled with
pilot-less passenger planes is infinitely more likely than one with roads filled with self-
driving cars. This is because that environment is simply more controlled, but even then
human supervision on the ground would be needed. A true self-driving car will require a
leap on par with AI robots you see in Hollywood movies like "I, Robot."


Without 'VIKI' the closest thing to autonomous driving you can expect to come across any
time soon will be relegated to highly-controlled environments like mining trucks for
example or convoy modes for truckers on highways. Now this doesn't mean we won't see
more autopilot features capable of allowing the average driver to disengage and watch
some YouTube videos and send out emails in certain areas, but he or she will still need to
be in the driver's seat and ready to take control upon alert. The reality of the autopilot tech
is that most of the OEMs are capable of providing that today, what's missing are the laws
needed to define where it can be used and the level of driver disengagement that will be
legal. So, instead of focusing on laws being passed which allow 'autonomous' cars to be
tested on public roads, more time should be spent pondering what the regulations will look
like for semi-autonomous/autopilot features. Will there be laws for highway autopilot
requiring sensory redundancy for passenger vehicles? Who bears the liability if the driver
chooses to completely disengage on the highway and take a nap? These type of
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 38/53


questions will need to be answered before you can get too excited about higher end
ADAS feature adoption, because really what good is a highway autopilot if you are going
to need to keep your hands on the wheel for liabilities' sake.


Google vs. Mobileye


Nobody has done a better job of getting people excited about self-driving cars than
Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) (NASDAQ:GOOGL). Since the project started in 2009 it has
generated all kinds of press as well as unbelievable progress on the road to autonomy,
which is why you can't really have a discussion about autonomous driving without
understanding what Google is up to. Because once you get that, you'll realize how
ridiculous buying Mobileye shares as a pure play on autonomous driving might be.
Google's approach is essentially autonomy from day one, and how they go about it is very
different than most investors realize. Going back to our earlier criticism regarding
autonomy requiring a leap, Google's self-driving project is all about a very well defined
environment for the driverless car to operate in. Their approach relies on super detailed
maps of the route the car is about to embark on, and then comparing a real-time
assessment of the environment to what has been mapped out to give the car the best
possible understanding of its position. This means that GPS and LIDAR tech are the
primary drivers of the cars self-driving brain. Radar may be measuring speed of objects as
well as being used to control brakes and accelerator and cameras might be checking
signs, but the environment assessment driving the car's brain comes from LIDAR and
GPS. To a certain degree you could call this cheating as the car never drives anywhere
where it hasn't been yet. But maybe that's the future of true autonomous driving? Highly



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOG

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOGL
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 39/53


publicized autonomous drives over unmapped areas using multiple sensors make for
good reading, but the human oversight element there is high and the lack of urban
environment complexities a major distinguishing factor. Basically, they are automating
elements of the driving, but the car is never being trusted to drive itself. It can apply the
brakes and follow the car in front of it, but its awareness of the environment it's in is
limited. Thus, awareness for the car really hinges on already having a detailed model of all
its driving environments to work from. This makes an interesting case for Vehicle to
Infrastructure technology in future autonomous driving cities as road infrastructure data is
updated, and construction work pre-loaded into the GPS maps before the car even
embarks on its route. This is essentially all about reducing complexity of the environment
so the car can focus on its probabilistic computations. With that being said, you should
understand that comparing Mobileye's mono camera based ADAS feature miles driven
validation data to Google's autonomous miles driven data is an apples-to-oranges
comparison.


We think any investor looking at Mobileye and seeking broader autonomous driving
exposure should come away with one pretty clear takeaway from what we have discussed
here. As far as self-driving tech goes, you should clearly expect sophisticated GPS and
LIDAR to be the primary sensors behind true autonomous vehicles licensed in major
urban cities. It will be difficult to get around this, as this approach is simply better equipped
for addressing the vast environmental complexity issues of urban driving. After that you
really need to ask yourself what Google's true ambitions are here. Will it be the OS and
the highly specific map data married into one that works with these sensors, which they
will be providing to OEMs seeking to manufacture autonomous vehicles capable of hitting
the road in major cities? Or will they put the cars on the road themselves? And how will
the European OEMs utilize the Nokia HERE data now that they own it? And then there is
also the question of Baidu's (NASDAQ:BIDU) recent car project announcement with BMW,
is it taking the same approach in China? All these questions will eventually be answered,
but as is often the case with all things technology, there is always something new coming
along to that could throw a wrench in things.


Deep Learning: Computer Vision's Great Leap?


So, we just spent the whole previous section discussing why inherent limitations in
traditional computer vision are an insurmountable obstacle for full autonomous driving,
and why Google's mapping focused approach is likely to be behind the first true driverless
cars. This is because you simply can't manually develop the algorithms needed to allow a
camera to truly 'see' its environment in the way that the human brain does. Deep learning



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BIDU
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 40/53


hopes to solve this problem by essentially allowing the car to learn what it is seeing. Think
of it in the same way a human learns to drive. Every scenario is not covered in advance,
that is simply impossible. Instead, basics are taught and training hours logged with
supervised drivers, and only after this 'training' is the driver left to adapt and learn on their
own. Deep learning in computer vision takes a similar approach. A Convolutional Neural
Network (CNN) is constructed, and then it is 'trained' with image building blocks. After
some training, the CNN can be fed images and expected to classify them. The more
training the network has, the better it gets and the lower the error rate. Hence, the ability
to put cars on the road that are learning as they go versus having to manually be taught
what they are seeing. In a nutshell, Deep Learning allows the computer to tackle
unstructured data in a way similar to how the human brain approaches such data. This is
why you are seeing it in image classification competitions like Imagenet as well as in fields
like speech recognition, text translation, automotive vision, facial recognition, and even
cancer cell mitosis.


Let's be clear, Deep Learning is not a new concept. It has been around for some time; but
for it to work you need vast libraries of unstructured data as well as tremendous
computational power. Both of which didn't really exist until recently. For example, it should
be no surprise to see the search giants like Google and Baidu battling out with their CNN's
in image classification as they have access to huge libraries of images. The modern
excitement or Deep Learning breakthrough moment if you will, can be attributed to an
academic paper published by Alex Krizhevsky in 2012. Alex, who is now working on
Google's Deep Learning team, published a paper that essentially showed how he used
GPUs to train a CNN to perform computational analysis that used to take years to
complete in a matter of weeks instead.


Here is the diagram that is most often tossed around when discussing the Alexnet CNN:


As you can see, a CNN is essentially a stack of layers that is learning a hierarchy of
features as you pass through each layer until an output is achieved.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 41/53


Anyway, enough of the science, you probably are wondering what does this mean for
Mobileye and other potential investments in the space?


Deep Learning: Nvidia vs. Mobileye


Ever since Nvidia introduced their DRIVE PX platform at CES there has been a lot of
speculation about what this means for the automotive computer vision field. It's also
interesting as far as Mobileye goes because it has multiple implications. On one end, you
can argue that Deep Learning will eventually allow for potentially true computer vision
based autonomous driving, which would be great for Mobileye's computer vision only
autonomous driving ambitions down the road. While on the other extreme you could argue
Deep Learning is an existential threat to Mobileye's model because it will turn the reins of
computer vision over to the GPU big boys like Nvidia and data/search tech titans like
Google.


Where do we come out on this?


The short answer is that it's way too early to say, but Nvidia has clearly stirred things up a
bit for Mobileye management to feel that they need to go on the offensive. A perfect
example would be a recent talk given by Professor Amnon Shashua on the future of
computer vision and automated driving. During the speech, Mobileye's co-founder took a
shot at Nvidia's Drive PX presentation by showing a slide of the Audi Delphi designed
zFAS controller which utilizes both a Tegra X1 and a Mobileye EyeQ3 on the board. He
then engaged in a technical comparison of the EyeQ3 versus the TX1 for deep learning,
which essentially concluded with him determining EyeQ3 was the better chip for
automotive mono computer vision deep learning. Nvidia was quick to respond, publishing
this official comment on the link to the video upload.


Now, if you have done your homework on the space, this whole thing is very interesting.
Mobileye as we pointed out early on is selling an ASIC. Their model has been about
baking the vision algorithm software onto their EyeQ chips. Their competition is essentially



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kp3ik5f3-2c&spfreload=10

http://www.computerworld.com/article/2906474/heres-what-the-brain-in-audis-self-driving-vehicle-will-look-like.html
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 42/53


Tier 1s (and in some cases the OEMs) who have bought automotive ADAS chips from the
big suppliers, but are doing the high-level algorithmic vision baking on their own. They are
in no way competing against the Tegra X1, and Nvidia has in no way positioned the TX1
powered Drive PX as a Mobileye ASIC alternative for the OEMs. At approximately $10k
for Drive PX platform versus $45 for an EyeQ chip this is common sense stuff. Thus, you
have to wonder what the heck the brilliant professor thinks he's accomplishing by
highlighting the power consumption differential between an ASIC like the EyeQ3 and the
Tegra X1.


So why go on the defensive when you don't need to?


Well, the answer to that probably lies in the fact that Drive PX is a platform tool for OEMs
on the road to autonomous driving, and in the fact that GPUs are the semi engine behind
Deep Learning networks. There is simply no argument around the fact that GPUs are
superior in design for that type of intensive computational analysis.


Mobileye's business model and core value proposition is that they have done the hard
monocular vision based custom algorithmic work. Now, based on what's going on
competitively with the Tier 1s, you can debate how big that first move advantage edge still
is today. The Deep Learning debate around Drive PX has absolutely nothing to do with
that. Here what you are dealing with is the potential that every OEM and Tier 1 now has a
tool to streamline computer vision based algorithmic development, and thus erode the
differentiation value of a custom algorithm focused player like Mobileye. Thus, it's no
surprise that several experts we have talked to have taken a skeptical approach to
Mobileye's recent highlighted deep methods integration really moving the technological
needle on their existing ASICs, and view it more as an attempt to stay relevant in a shifting
landscape. That's how you end up taking a shot at Drive PX by saying your chip is doing
the 'deep learning' on a board in which the Tegra X1 is powering the infotainment. Drive
PX is about software as much as it is about hardware, which is why it is a platform for
autonomous driving development and not a mono ADAS ASIC. We have a hard time
believing that Mobileye's co-founder doesn't get this, but yet in this speech and the few
times on social media he has taken shots at Nvidia probably just the fact that core forward
vision processing on the Audi Q7 and Tesla Model S are being done by Mobileye's EyeQ3.
The only explanation for this is that it's a way to shift the focus from what Drive PX
actually does, and from the 50+ automotive players who are now using it for their
autonomous driving vision based research and development.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 43/53


From a stock perspective we don't expect this debate to settle down anytime soon, in fact
it is probably only going to intensify as we start hearing more and more about what
everyone in automotive land is accomplishing with the Drive PX platform. Let's be clear,
Mobileye's head on collision with the GPU giants role in automotive computer vision is
something that has been speculated about for quite some time (we even came across a
thread on Quora in which an ex-Mobileye algorithmic developer hints at the existential
threat posed to Mobileye's current business model by GPUs). Make no mistake Nvidia is
not going to be putting Mobileye out of business by displacing EyeQ chips with Tegra X1s
anytime soon. That's just not what this is about. Mobileye's ADAS competition will
continue to come from the Tier 1s and the automotive chip suppliers they work with. That
being said, existential threats in technology should never be taken lightly, even if the
actual revenue impact appears several years out. Nvidia's automotive aspirations and the
role of the GPU in automotive computer vision are no longer a conceptual threat. Drive
PX is in the hands of engineers at automotive OEMs and suppliers today. When you
own a 70x revenue SOIC, this is something that you simply can't afford to ignore.


Now back to the boring old finance world……


Mobileye Valuation Scenario Analysis


The Baird report's $40 billion market cap by 2020 target is an interesting place to start this
analysis because it's a fun exercise in assumption deconstruction. His price target is
based on 45x 2020 earnings of $3.70 / share and 30x revenue of $1.5 billion. Yes, he's
assuming 60% net income margins in 2020! Now for a second let's assume his
assumptions on revenue and margins are right, and step in and apply reality for how
people who actually make a living investing would value that type of stock going forward at
that point in time. It would be a cash cow with something akin to a 15x multiple attracting
the buyback/dividend value guys. So, in reality to get to $40 billion Mobileye would need to
be doing about $4.5 billion in revenue and $2.6 billion in net income at that point in time.
Taking into consideration the monopolistic margin assumption we will suspend the laws of
technology and assume zero price pressure for their chips as the adoption curve starts to
rapidly climb. This leads to global units sold in 2020 of 100 million. Not bad considering
that number is larger than all current global automotive production, and about 100% of
current global auto unit demand forecasts for 2020. To put that in perspective, that's what
you need to justify about 15% fair value upside in the shares today if you're looking for a
15% annual compounder for the next 5 years. This analysis has zero basis in reality, and
deserves the financial analyst equivalent of a razzie.


Now let's try the 'from this planet' equivalent of an uber bullish thesis



http://www.quora.com/Who-is-competing-directly-against-Mobileye-in-the-market-for-Advanced-Driver-Assistance-Systems-ADAS
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 44/53


Global Auto Demand of 100 million units 2020
Developed Market Share 40% of that w/ 65% forward camera based penetration
Rest of World 60% at 25% forward camera based penetration


Add these very rosy assumptions up and you get 41 million units


Let's also assume stereo camera adoption is limited to high-end cars and the in-house
tech OEMs committed to it, and thus only takes 25% of the forward camera market. This
gets us to 31 million potential monocular based system sales.


Now as we are assuming rapid adoption and economies of scale average unit price
should come down fast. More than half would be plausible here, but let's just say ASP
drops only 10% because Mobileye holds onto a roughly 70% market share in mono
despite multiple competing suppliers, and trifocal boosts the higher end ASP mix. Also,
aftermarket sales contribute 10%.


Add this all up and you have $950 million in revenue which if we just stay with the uber
bull case of 60% net margins works out to $2.40 in EPS in 2020. At 25x multiple that's $60
per share or basically the current share price.


What's $60 five years from now worth today? At a 15% discount rate its $29.


50% downside from here with rapid forward camera ADAS adoption and monopolistic
market share assumptions is what we consider an amazing short.


Now the 'Cool Your Jets just a tad' scenario


Global forward camera demand in 2020 of 25-30 million units
Stereo Camera share of 35%
60% mono camera share for Mobileye
$35 blended OEM ASP from $45 for Mobileye today
50% net margins


Add this all up and you get 94c/share in EPS for 2020. At a 25x multiple discounted back
15%, your fair value is $11 or 80% below current levels. Shocking to some, but if you've
ever been on the wrong side of an ASP adoption curve for a specialty chip leader, you
know how this works.


And for good measure the 'Turbo charged' ASP scenario


11 million units 2020
50% increase in ASP
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 45/53


70% net margins


That gets you to $2.11 in 2020 EPS, and with a more generous 30x multiple you end up
with a $63.50 share price in 2020. Discounted back that's a $31.50 present fair value.


We are not even going to bother showing the very competitive market/Mobileye doesn't
continue to dominate scenarios because at these levels they are meaningless. The
difference between a $15 and $5 stock is still another 65%, but when you've been riding it
down from $60 it doesn't really matter much to you what competitive dynamic shift caused
that. We'd also add that almost every 10-year Mobileye DCF uses a 10% cash tax rate. If
the company turns out to be anything close to the cash cow monster these models predict
by 2025, you can be certain they will be paying a much higher tax rate by then.


Whether Mobileye is a $10 or $35 stock is something that only time will tell, but being
short from current levels, that question doesn't really concern us much.


Nvidia vs. Mobileye


We've mentioned Nvidia a few times in this report because of their Drive Px platform has
brought them into the competitive mix. At 2x sales and 17x earnings and trading at half the
EV of Mobileye, Nvidia can't help but grab your eye despite the immaterial nature of their
current automotive revenue relative to their PC/Gaming business. We say this not
because of their prospects as automotive vision based chip supplier, but rather because of
the potential revenue opportunity facing them in automotive infotainment. If cars will one
day be autonomous, then riding in them will be all about the infotainment systems inside.
Nvidia is well positioned to dominate as a chip supplier in that market. But before true
autonomy arrives, the demand for Nvidia processors to power display tech in automobiles
tied into ADAS feature development should soar. Nvidia's processors will be bringing
superior display tech for auto instruments, driver monitoring, maps, and car entertainment.
The market doesn't seem to be too interested in this right now, but it is getting hard to
ignore. At which point, the Drive PX platform, as a future vision learning engine for the
industry, becomes a free call option on the stock. To be perfectly clear, this is probably the
most appealing market neutral pair trade we have come across from a passive investing
standpoint in quite a while.


Ambarella vs. Mobileye


Ambarella (AMBA) is a great comparable for Mobileye. They are both in the image
processor space supplying companies at the center of several hot investing themes, and
because they are also starting to look like a potential competitor down the road (action



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMBA
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 46/53


cameras and drones). Interestingly enough the name has been in the investing headlines
a lot lately as noted short seller Citron Research has recently published bearish reports on
the stock.


We have never shorted Ambarella. In fact, one of our bigger regrets over the past 12
months was not going long the stock around $35 last fall. The name always struck us as
very cheap when compared to past hot consumer electronics related SOICs, and this was
before you factored in a major upwards re-rating in semiconductor stock valuations on the
back of a wave of consolidation. Not surprisingly this material discount disappeared
awfully quick. That being said we can see how at current levels one could argue that
Ambarella is 'overvalued', and how an accomplished short-seller like Citron may think it's a
good short. While we wouldn't compare it to Mellanox (NASDAQ:MLNX) (which we were
short and published on at its peak), a short that was all about an unbelievably ridiculous
market reaction to a Romley upgrade cycle two quarter spike in revenue; we can see the
usual risks in Ambarella's model. If GoPro (NASDAQ:GPRO) begins using a second
source, ASP erosion, and action market camera saturation all come to mind as risk
factors. If you are going to call Ambarella "ridiculous" as it dominates the action camera,
security camera, and drone camera space; what's Mobileye at 7x their 10x revenue
multiple? Furthermore, Ambarella just acquired Vislab, an Italian company that has spent
the last 20 years developing computer vision technology for autonomous driving (Vislab
grabbed headlines in 2010 when they completed an autonomous journey from Parma,
Italy to Shanghai, China).


The quick read through on this deal is that Ambarella has automotive vision ambitions, but
that realistically these are at least 18-24 months out. Thus, viewing them a Mobileye
competitor anytime soon would be a bit presumptuous. That being said, Ambarella will be
immediately applying their acquired vision expertise to the surveillance markets (drones



http://www.citronresearch.com/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MLNX

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GPRO

http://vislab.it/automotive/
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 47/53


and security cams), and thus should become a much more formidable force in the
computer vision pure play space. The stock is still expensive and exposed to more volatile
consumer markets, but on a like-for-like basis tough to ignore vs. a Mobileye at 70x sales.
Is it as compelling as Nvidia? In our mind, nowhere close, but the difference here is that
it's a hot stock that seemingly has more upside and diversified exposure in the vision-
related application space. So, maybe it's a better fit from a trade perspective.


Mobileye: The Next Intel Inside?


We opened with a video in which an investor described Mobileye as the next Intel inside
or even a Microsoft-esque monopoly. We figure after reading this report you should have a
good idea about why we believe that is a ridiculous take on the company. Mobileye is
focused on a very specific niche, automotive forward facing mono computer vision. It's a
background safety feature enhancer in a very large ticket item. No consumer walks into a
car dealer and asks who makes the brake actuators, the airbag, or the rear parking
ultrasonic sensors. Even more so nobody is ever going to ask whose algorithms are
powering the forward camera based detection. Intel's brand identity and marketing
campaign worked because the PC was being driven by utility/entertainment decisions, and
the genuine fact that more power would allow you to do more cool stuff and get stuff done
faster. If you'd like to draw a PC analogy you could argue "Intel Inside" is similar to Dodge
branding high-end engine models as "Hemi" or BMW and their "M" series of high
performance cars. No PC retailer markets the type of heatsink sitting on top of an Intel
processor, or the company that makes the cables connecting the motherboard to the
powersupply, or any other part in a PC whose reliable operation is a foregone conclusion.
Marketing directly to a consumer for their type of product and market simply doesn't make
sense!


Intel also spends billions of dollars a year on R&D to maintain a manufacturing edge over
everyone else in the space, regularly spending billions of dollars to shrink transistors so
they can continue to improve performance in huge leaps. That model simply doesn't apply
here. Mobileye is fabless, and if anything, all you need to know is that their software
customization is limited to one small element of everything in auto sensor tech. Now if
Mobileye starts producing a super-processor with super-code that can generate 500hp
and replace combustion engines, we might change our mind. What they do now does not
require billions in R&D to develop, which has led to fat margins for them; but the bad news
is that 4/5 top Tier 1s are now capably doing this in-house. Yes, there is a downside to not
having multi-billion dollar factories that require years to build as a competitive advantage,
especially when the engineering talent to custom program vision algorithms is readily
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 48/53


abundant. Also remember that in Tier 2 land you are always going to be a small piece of
the puzzle. So, unlike Intel/Microsoft, you are not the heart and brain. The lack of
appreciation for this point is mind-boggling. Mobileye's 'software' is not an OS for
autonomous driving. It is hardware enabling code which is generating relevant data for the
car's theoretical brain to work with. Just like radar and other sensors it's feeding the brain,
and above that there is software designed to make driving decisions based on these
sensory inputs. Do I shift lanes? Well, what's the ultrasonic sensor telling me, what's radar
telling me, and what's the camera telling me? Put this all together and that's when
'software' makes a decision based on probabilistic calculations on what to do and what to
trigger in the car to get it done. At the highest level you have OEM's working on this in-
house, and this is also behind the likes of Delphi's Ottomatika acquisition, and what the
Tier 1's bring to the table as integrators. It is also essentially what differentiates Google
from everyone else in the autonomous space today.


Mobileye's Business Model Conundrum


There is an under appreciation for the fact that Mobileye's core business model has been
about enabling a monocular camera to overcome its inherent limitations versus other
sensors. They chose to start with something seemingly inferior, and say 'hey we can make
this work and for a lot less.' To their credit this decision has worked out quite well for them
because the strengths of mono, basic object detection and classification, were more
suitable for pure warning based early ADAS systems and adoption. Experimenting with a
much more affordable solution when the consequences of a false positive or negative are
limited to a failed warning is not the hardest sell. However as we pointed out earlier, that
all changes once emergency control of your cars braking system will be based exclusively
on what the sensor is detecting. Here the upfront cost savings of a mono only approach
versus stereo only or mono/stereo+ radar fusion systems is not the only consideration.
The Mobileye option here will always boil down to getting a mono camera to reliably
accomplish what radar and a stereo camera together will always be the safer bet for. This
is why comparing pricing on Mobileye's existing production systems versus more costly
alternatives has never made much sense. The cost-benefit analysis versus stereo once
you start dealing with their higher end offerings is a whole different ball game. The
alternative tech is only going to get cheaper as more and more models hit the road, which
raises the question of how anyone can model ASPs (acknowledging a initial temporary
uplift) to not decline modestly over the next 5 years.


What a Boilerplate Mobileye Short Thesis Would Look Like
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 49/53


Before closing out, we figured we'd engage in a basic short-selling exercise. If you knew
very little about the dynamics of the ADAS space and just did some cursory research, you
could still lay out a standard short thesis based on what would typically happen in the
future for this type of company. It would look something like this:


1. OEMs will multi-source and or seek to in-house develop differentiating safety/future
autonomous driving IP- This is something you come across regularly with Apple
suppliers. They multi-source components to keep price pressure on, and develop core
processor architecture in-house to thwart the competitive supplier ecosystem when
possible. Toyota, Subaru, and Mercedes are all examples of this dynamic already at
play in the ADAS space.


2. Tier 1 auto suppliers will at worst seek to become complete ADAS system developers
and at best play the OEM multi-source game with Tier 2 components suppliers by
leveraging their large incumbent footprint with OEMs. The fact that Denso and
Continental used to be Mobileye partners is an example of this issue. So, are the
moves being made by existing partners Autoliv and Gentex. The reality is that the top
market shareholders in the ADAS space have invested heavily over the last five years
with the intention of being system solution providers. They have the engineers and
testers in place to develop their own algorithms, and some cases even robust in-house
chip technology. Otherwise, they can turn to the automotive chip suppliers like Texas
Instruments, Rensas, Freescale, or Toshiba and Hitachi for semi solutions they can
build on.


3. The combination of 1+2 above leads to increased revenue opportunities in the space
which in turn stimulates rapid R&D investment cycles in the large Tier 2 automotive
focused chip suppliers and attracts other large technology driven companies. A $100
million annual revenue opportunity does not move the needle for Texas Instruments or
Nvidia, but now that the pie is starting to grow these guys are shifting into gear. We
estimate that forward facing automotive camera based R&D related spend in the last
year dwarfs everything spent by Mobileye since inception.


4. The combination of 1+2+3 above will lead to ASP pressure and market share losses
as well thriving ecosystems for competing technologies backed by the large footprint
incumbent Tier 1 suppliers. At the same time, a company like Mobileye, which has
generally enjoyed superior net margins, will be forced to massively ramp R&D
spending to try offsetting these pressures. This is how 60% net income margins and
70% market share turn into 25% margins and 30% market share.
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 50/53


That's your boilerplate short thesis for a stock like Mobileye. All you need to know is that in
chip stock land by the time #4 is obvious you will be sitting on a low single digit TTM P/E
stock that looks like a value play. The trick is to short when there is compelling evidence of
concerns 1 and 2, and not just the usual speculation that the competitive dynamics of the
market guarantee it will eventually happen. More importantly to get this exposure when
the shares are priced as if 1 and 2 are no concern at all, which if you go back to the
underlying assumptions to justify a $45 share price is precisely what is going on here.


What Are The Upside Risks From Here?


The structure of the automotive supply chain makes it very difficult to envision some
drastic upside scenarios or downside scenarios for their operating business in the near
term. The lead times are long and the visibility is high. The Tier 1 competitive landscape is
now also a lot clearer. Mobileye has extensive OEM relationships in place that ensure at a
certain price level any uber bearish views hinge on what happens in 2018 and beyond. On
the flip side at the current market capitalization, when a 12% global market share OEM
like Toyota chooses competing mono suppliers or a Jaguar Land Rover/BMW starts
replacing Mobileye in new models with competing stereo based camera systems, focusing
on figuring out the 2018 and beyond landscape seems irrelevant. Mobileye's stock
anywhere over $45 is priced to essentially never lose over the next decade. As we have
shown that's just not the case, and the current trend supports rapidly increasing
competition versus eroding competition. This issue is largely what we think is behind
recent sell-side tunnel vision on the name, as well as the continual reaching for upside
catalysts for the stock. A perfect example of this would be all the recent notes on
Volkswagen potentially selecting Mobileye as a blanket supplier.


VW Excitement for the Bulls


Just last week Mobileye was added to VW's FAST supplier list along with 44 other auto
suppliers. One analyst went to great lengths to read into the fact that only Mobileye and
Delphi were listed under the ADAS technical domain expertise, and that Kostal not Delphi
was the Mobileye Tier 1 partner on the recent Audi Q7 launch. The conclusion being that
Mobileye clearly didn't make this list just because of the Q7 or Kostal would have made
the list as well. This is pretty amusing stuff because all you need to know is that Delphi is
making the ZFAS controller expected to be the component brain for future autonomous
tech for Audi, and that Mobileye is the vision processor on that board. However, at the
same time the FAST list was put out, VW also announced that it will be making their
European ADAS tech available on US models in 2016. This is the radar only based AEB
tech as well as radar fused with camera that is currently supplied by Bosch. Now, Bosch
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 51/53


wasn't on the list, but our understanding is there will be FAST supplier announcements
from now until the nomination phase is over in the Spring of 2016. As Bosch was an
award winning VW supplier last year and does an immense amount of business with the
company, reading too much into this list is a bad idea. Furthermore, it's not as if VW hasn't
been having success with Bosch as their Golf AEB equipped models have showed a
drastic reduction in forward collision related accident claims. So, what's more relevant to
an investor, that Mobileye made VW's FAST list? Or that their competitor's ADAS
technology is making its way to VW's entire North American portfolio in 2016?


These are the type of 'upside risks' you are dealing with here. They are a lot more about
sell-side optimistically framing something than genuine risks. VW has been doing fine with
Bosch in Europe and is now rolling out the same technology in its North American models.
We think that potentially millions of 2016 models rolling around with competitor ADAS
technology is more relevant than the door to future business being open. Because all this
does is support the argument of a much more mature competitive landscape in the ADAS
space which flies in the face of the mono only Mobileye monopoly narrative needed to
support the current share price.


Conclusion


Mobileye is an incredibly innovative company with impressive technology whose shares
simply have gotten caught up in the hype around autonomous driving versus reflecting
their position in the automotive market for driver assistance safety systems. A close
examination of the automotive supply chain reveals structural limitations which are already
firmly in place which will limit market share, exert pressure on ASPs, support competing
technologies, and generally provide for an extremely competitive marketplace. The



http://www.thatcham.org/news-and-events/news-and-press-releases-reader/items/golf-drives-down-personal-injury
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 52/53


substantial ADAS investments already made by certain Tier 1s as well as some OEMs
ensure that anything close to the monopolistic position they would need to maintain to
justify the current share price is simply impossible. Furthermore, current developments in
the marketplace provide ample evidence of potential customer, partner or competitor
moves that are being made with at least partial consideration towards a near-term priority
of ensuring a robust competitive ecosystem. As the investing community's IQ on the name
improves the shares will rerate to reflect these industry dynamics. We also expect the
news flow investment narrative around the stock to drastically shift from Mobileye
pipeline/design wins chatter to what everyone else is doing in the space. This will
accelerate as more and more AEB enabled models hit the road that are not using
Mobileye technology, and as competitors start to regularly highlight their increasing ADAS
achievements. We also think the highly stretched sell-side support poses a near to
intermediate term problem at these levels as they have all seriously pushed the envelope
to simply justify the current share price. Unchanging rock bottom tax rates, 5% terminal
FCF growth, 65% market share, super fast forward camera adoption by the auto industry,
and rising ASPs leave little downside protection. All you need is a tiny bullishly fully loaded
model tweak for a 30-40% overnight price target cut. That's an environment very friendly
to building a short position. We don't expect the pressure associated with this shifting
dynamic to subside until the shares have fallen by at least 35%. As mentioned before, we
are short shares of Mobileye and as discussed earlier we would also view long positions in
Nvidia (which we also like outright) and to a lesser degree Ambarella as optimal longer-
term hedges.


Disclaimer


Suhail Capital is an exempted company registered in the Cayman Islands ("Suhail
Capital") is an investment advisor to funds that actively participate in the buying and
selling securities and other financial instruments.


You should assume that as of the publication date of this report, Suhail Capital (possibly
along with or through our partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with
our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors has a short position in
Mobileye N.V. "Mobileye" or "MBLY" (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related
to the stock), and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the stock
price of MBLY should fall. You should also assume that as of the publication date of this
report, Suhail Capital (possibly along with or through our partners, affiliates, employees,
and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or
investors has a long or short position in any other publicly listed company mentioned in
5/23/2018 Mobileye: A Very Compelling Short Thesis - Mobileye (NYSE:MBLY) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3445726-mobileye-compelling-short-thesis 53/53


Comments (0)


this report (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to these stocks) , and
therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of any other
company listed should increase or decrease.


Suhail Capital strongly recommends that you do your own due diligence before buying or
selling any of the securities mentioned in this report.


We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered in this report for an
indefinite period after its publication, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time
hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.


This report expresses our opinion, which we have based upon generally available
information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due diligence and
analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered
herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer.
However, such information is presented "as-is," without warranty of any kind, whether
express or implied. Suhail Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the
accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results
to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without
notice, and Suhail Capital does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any
of the information, analysis and opinion contained in it.


The contents of this report are subject to the terms of use noted on our website:


Disclosure: I am/we are short MBLY.


I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have no business relationship with
any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: I am/we are long NVDA.


 Like this article



http://www.suhailcapital.com/terms
