5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 1/27


MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash
Jan. 19, 2012 9:48 AM ET87 comments
by: Martin Shkreli


I have been short MannKind shares regularly for many years. This has generally resulted
in fantastic profits for my partners and me. It is with some sadness, then, that I write that I
believe that MannKind’s existence is nearing an end. With a financial position only
Lehman Brothers and MF Global could envy, MannKind is in dire financial and practical
straits that I will walk through. I’m short MannKind stock, and believe you should be too.
Similarly, I feel there is no reasonable framework whatsoever for being long MannKind
stock.


MannKind has one product, Afrezza, a branded inhaled insulin. I think inhaled insulin
(including Afrezza) is a bad idea conceptually, with marginal theoretical benefits compared
to regular insulin and no actual benefits. The world does not need Afrezza. In a series of
letters to the FDA in 2010, I attempted to convince the agency that Afrezza’s clinical trial
package was lacking—in fact, I feel every single Phase III trial of Afrezza technically failed
to succeed.


Defining success can be a surprisingly difficult thing to do in clinical science. While I won’t
bore you with the trial-by-trial analysis I did (my papers to FDA were over 30 pages long!),
I will reiterate my main complaint that Afrezza has not performed well enough in its pivotal
clinical trials to merit approval – it is a very weakly efficacious antihyperglycemic. There
are other issues, such as market size (surprisingly small and shrinking), safety (mostly
theoretical concerns that have been addressed) and regulatory (detailed questions on
inhaler switches and bridging studies) but I think those are secondary when the main
issue is the inferior efficacy of Afrezza.


Thankfully, there is a new and simpler thesis for shorting MannKind: It is out of cash. With
$23 million in cash and $45 million remaining in a credit facility with their “principal
shareholder,” the company has $68 million in cash available to it as of Q3 2011. Q4 2011
is over, and my guess is the company burned something like $26 million, so it now has
$42 million available to it. Well, the next year of operations should cost at least $90 million
(I believe the number will be bigger), which means MannKind needs to raise at least $48
million. Let’s see how I arrive at this critical assumption in detail.
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 2/27


Clinical trials are very expensive. There are some general rules of thumb: $50,000 per
patient enrolled is a good estimate. Trials where many drugs are given to the patient (the
company running the trial pays for these!), or trials where many blood tests and readings
must be done, or if there are hospital visits/stays, are more expensive.


My guess is the two Phase III trials MannKind is embarking on, which are enrolling 800
total patients will cost $50,000 per patient or $40 million. My checks with industry experts
suggest that would be a bargain price (as many of you have noticed, all of my analytical
work builds in a margin of error). Unfortunately there are more costs to clinical trials – you
need a regulatory and clinical staff to run a trial and that will usually run you $10 million a
year. Call it $2 million for consultants and $8 million for the roughly 60-80 people
MannKind has in its clinical and regulatory departments. So we’re talking $50 million now
for all research costs (R&D) line. For a reality check, MannKind has never recently spent
less than $23 million in a quarter for R&D, so assuming they will get down to a $13 million
run-rate is rather conservative!


G&A costs for MannKind have always been around $10 million per quarter. With multiple
offices and quite a large finance and legal department, I assume MannKind continues to
lower its infrastructure costs and only spends $5 million per quarter, for a $20 million 2012
budget. MannKind has roughly 90 employees in administration, finance, executive, etc.
functions, this should cost about $10 million annually. Incredibly, MannKind only leases
one of their three sites, the New Jersey office, and this will only cost approximately $1
million. Add in the 90 employees at Danbury (100,000 all-in cost each) and $20 million is
about right for infrastructure/non-clinical employee G&A (some will move into R&D).
Another $10 million in professional services (legal and consulting) and miscellaneous
expenses (perks, T&E, etc.) and we’re at $30 million for non-clinical (adjusted G&A).


The $50 million in R&D and the $30 million in G&A add to our running total of $80 million
total burn. Another $10 million in interest expense (it would be $24 million but their
“principal” shareholder takes interest payments in the form of stock), and we are at $90
million for 2012. I think the final figure will be larger, and the delta will come from more
than expected clinical trial expenses. The CEO insisted that the trials could result in data
by year-end 2012, which would imply one of the fastest enrollments in diabetes history.


Remember, the Afrezza studies are 6 month studies, so enrollment would need to be
completed by June or July for this to be true. This would cost MannKind at least a little
more in fees (enrollment speed is often a function of expense), especially if they plan on
doing more customary extensions to the trials (follow-up). I don’t think enrollment is on
pace and it would be almost impossible to see clinical data by year-end 2012.
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 3/27


Let’s now turn to the practical part of MannKind’s financial situation. MannKind has been
trying to sell senior secured debt (backed by the Danbury and Los Angeles sites and their
insulin supply) and ostensibly has failed to do so. While a debt deal may still be reached, it
is evident that this senior secured paper needs to be modified into at least a convertible
senior secured paper. This means that, similar to one of their other financings, MannKind
will have to set up a borrow facility which will allow convertible arbitrage buyers to buy this
debt while shorting the stock, locking in no potential loss and receiving a healthy coupon
while being backed by MannKind’s assets.


This sort of deal would likely crush MannKind stock, because I don’t think that MannKind’s
assets would be worth much more than $40 million in a fire sale. This means that
convertible debt investors will likely ask for a conversion feature at a deep discount to
MannKind’s current stock price, to ensure that they can execute their hedging short and
ultimately collapse/convert their note against the short to remove the need of seizing
MannKind’s assets. This might sound like a reasonable way to get out of a liquidity
crunch, but recall that the CEO of MannKind has a large equity position in the company.


It remains to be seen if after a dilutive series of financings that this executive will remain
interested in this company which addresses a limited market (remember Afrezza is just a
mealtime insulin, a smaller market than the basal insulins) which is shrinking due to new
(DPPIV inhibitors, GLP-1 agonists) and coming SGLT2 and other drugs. It is hard to
personally commit to a company without much upside potential, especially after what may
become serial dilution. Meanwhile, I don’t even think the new Phase III trials of Afrezza will
work.


In any event, MannKind has been trying to price debt for a long time (based on a
September 23, 2011, press release, which has had no follow-up), so I suspect there is a
good chance it never happens. If MannKind does a secondary equity offering, the short
idea should work due to the dilution and discount secondary price. It appears the principal
shareholder is not financing the company further (definition being new money in a new
financing), or at least those are the rumors I have heard from people who have met with
him. The dilution that a series of financings would come with would remove or lessen the
interest, focus and reason for continuing this ill-conceived project of the principal
shareholder.


Is bankruptcy the best option for MannKind’s principal shareholder? With the capital
structure dynamics at play, MannKind’s largest shareholder (who is a large debtholder as
well) may benefit from a bankruptcy, while of course, equity holders would be wiped out.
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 4/27


Comments (87)


With a staggeringly “upside down” balance sheet of $23 million in cash and $488 million in
debt (unheard of from a non-revenue company), eventual bankruptcy is definitely in the
cards for MannKind.


Accelerating this process may allow for a re-casting of the Afrezza story and emergence
from bankruptcy is likely the healthiest approach, if and only if there is no irreparable harm
to the company’s ability to continue its clinical trials. CROs, employees and other vendors
don’t look kindly on voluntary bankruptcy filings.


It will be interesting to see how MannKind attempts to dig itself out of its current hole, but
no matter what it tries, I am certain there will be substantial dilution, which will cause the
share price to plummet, or there will be a bankruptcy filing. Even with very high borrow
rate, shorting MannKind in anticipation of their imminent collapse is a wise trade.


Disclosure: I am short MNKD. My hedge fund is short MNKD, and we may change our
position without notification at any time.


 Like this article


pallee1
You probably won't get many comments here, as your act is stale. It worked a couple of times, and I commend you on
your high BS quotient - it takes a truly talented sociopath to be so very creative with no sense of decency or
honesty....you've nailed that over and over again. But I think your run of being believed or even paid attention to - is
over.


19 Jan 2012, 10:21 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Thanks! My stock picks have worked out very well.


19 Jan 2012, 10:23 AM


dr.Smiley
I think your analysis is well done and accurate. Where I disagree with you as a physician is the need for a
short acting insulin and your comment on the lack of efficacy of Affreza. In full disclosure I was long Mannkind
last year and have no current position currently because I too am concerned about the cost of these
additional phase III trials. They made a tactical mistake in changing inhalers. If they would not have changed
devices I believe Affreza would be on the market today! 
Now back to your first paragraphs that are complete and utter BS. Affreza has the closest physiologic



https://seekingalpha.com/user/399302

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/731905
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 5/27


response to pancrease made insulin, better than any injectables on the market by a long shot. This decreases
the risks of lows. Have you ever treated a pt in a coma due to low blood sugar?? I can't count the number of
times I have, so yes there is a need for this. Low blood sugars kill people. Endocrinologist are pushing for
more physiologic treatment of type II diabetics which includes basal and short acting insulin. Many I have
spoken to support starting with insulin in type II diabetics rather than the oral medications as they almost all
cause weight gain (the main cause of type II diabetes if you are unaware). Now have you ever told a type II
diabetic that they need to start injecting themselves with insulin?? I didn't think so, it has a huge stigma
especially in the Latino community. An inhaled insulin would greatly break down this barrier, and would be
widely adopted. I can promise you that. 
A hedgefund manager with a short position writing 30 page letters to the FDA talk about conflict of interest!!


19 Jan 2012, 12:08 PM


finding omega
pallee1, 
You nailed it! I would add more but it is detail that is understood by most who have had experience with
parasites like him. 
I hope your thinking is understood by others. 
findingomega


08 Feb 2012, 10:42 AM


Pavlof
Well how much did you lose shorting MNKD this time Marty boy? I am sure you won't tell us that. Yeah, sure, I
know. You covered at just the right time. Those 70 million shares shorted out there all belong to someone
else.


Worse of luck to Marty.


06 Jul 2014, 03:42 PM


Amaknak
Really? Is that why the FBI arrested you today?


18 Dec 2015, 12:18 AM


Pompano Frog, Contributor
As a retired analyst I can say that this is one of the best pieces I have seen on SA. Your accounting estimates are
extremely well done. It is important to do a good back of the envelope analysis.


I would have liked a simplification of your fundamental objections to the product. I did not understand what the
following mean:


"is a bad idea conceptually"


"marginal theoretical benefits"



https://seekingalpha.com/user/639208

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18210832

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34685555

https://seekingalpha.com/author/pompano-frog
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 6/27


I only write this because your analysis is so well done.


19 Jan 2012, 10:24 AM


capgain
This might be the most blatant, self-serving load of cr*p I've ever read! A serially shorter of MNKD sends the FDA a
30 page scree based on his own impressive scientific (?) background! This guy is a hedge fund trader and uses the
FDA to back his bet? Where is Eliot Ness when you need him?


The potential market for Afrezza is "surprising small and shrinking'? What planet does this guy come from?


19 Jan 2012, 10:41 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  How big is the biggest insulin product?


19 Jan 2012, 04:51 PM


Gaucho
Hey are you the one that just went on the SHO list for MNKD. 
This is at a time where the price is rising and the volume is increasing. I think that you have made a bad bet
and you should admit defeat and get out ASAP


26 Jan 2012, 10:02 AM


Amaknak
"Where is Eliot Ness when you need him?"


Ness got him today!


18 Dec 2015, 12:45 AM


elmaestro11
Martin Shkreli You need to Cover asap The BS is Not Working anymore. 
It would be a real joy watching you scramble to cover at $20+


19 Jan 2012, 10:43 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  They need to get over their solvency problem first.


19 Jan 2012, 04:51 PM


dealwatcher
This is where you lost all credibility "Meanwhile, I don’t even think the new Phase III trials of Afrezza will work." While
the problems the company faces are real, this article is nothing but a hatchet job.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/174894

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/99920

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34685555

https://seekingalpha.com/user/808683

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/212061
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 7/27


19 Jan 2012, 10:50 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Why? The first Phase IIIs didn't work.


19 Jan 2012, 04:51 PM


richd8980
Great article. Looks like you put a lot of research into this piece.


Thanks


21 Jan 2012, 11:30 PM


richd8980
The pumpers are angry, they should be angry at MNKD not you.


Good article you nailed it again. I am amazed at the abuse, insults and  
threats people make to anyone who doesn't write a positive article.


They should all be thanking you and buying you a beer for all your hard work.


Long live Martin Shkreli.


05 Feb 2012, 08:52 PM


elmaestro11
Gee I wonder why this Moron would write this Trash?


Sounds like Uncletitz from the yahoo board.


Last year, hedge fund manager Martin Shkreli and Mannkind CEO Al Mann got into a shouting match during the
company's breakout session. I'm not sure any investor cares enough about Mannkind this year for there to be the
same level of drama, but you never know. Regardless, Mann is always entertaining.Mannkind:... "


19 Jan 2012, 10:58 AM


Ian Bezek, Marketplace Contributor
Do any of the bulls have a valid criticism of the article, or is their best defense simply that Mr. Shkreli is a mean man
for exposing that their company has no clothes?


This looks like a great short opportunity, and the laughable comments from Mannkind's bulls only further my
conviction.


19 Jan 2012, 11:03 AM


sscutchen



https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/205550

https://seekingalpha.com/user/205550

https://seekingalpha.com/user/808683

https://seekingalpha.com/author/ian-bezek

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=ian-bezek&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/user/410071
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 8/27


What makes this article so insidious is that Mannkind is indeed in financial straits. But the medical analysis
presented here is the smoking gun.  
It is ridiculous to ascribe any validity to the idea that a *massive* 30 page! paper written to the FDA by a stock
analyst somehow contains the magic information that Affressa is a sham product. He presents his basis for
the financial analysis, but there is nothing to support his scientific claims. It seems the reader is meant to
simply associate the needed scientific credibility.


So what you've got is a shorter of the stock telling you that the company needs to find financing, and then
making up medical detritus to BS the non-scientific reader.


For those that do follow Affressa scientifically, there is little doubt that the product is a step-change in diabetic
treatment. The difficulty with neither FDA response letter as been with efficacy.


20 Jan 2012, 12:24 PM


kruk
Martin,


I agree with Pompano, your piece is far above the typical on this site, however, I question the timing. The fact that Al
Mann continues to get up on stage and say the things he has is curious and not consistent with someone who is
giving up. Did you attend the latest and can you provide insight on the break out session? Also, given the arbitrage
you discuss and the fact that Merrill/BAC is killing the stock, Mr. Mann is clearly not going to engage another convert.
In fact, you should discuss Mr. Mann's junior position to the Merrill/BAC debt and how this would effect him in a
bankruptcy. The fact that they announced the senior debt offering in Sep. with two third tier underwriters was telling. I
believe Mr. Mann is buying time. You should also discuss Mr. Mann's ability to finance. $48 million does not sound like
an out of the question figure for Mr. Mann although he clearly wants secondary offerings to be at the $6.50 range and
up. My personal opinion is that he should act now given macro uncertainty. Never the less, time value and opportunity
costs dictate that he will wait as long as possible and this is the flaw in your argument. You have indicated yourself
that they can go to May or June so he does not have to act right away, especially if there is a real possibility of a deal
being struck. They could take financing issues off the table for 15 months by issuing 25 million shares at $5 which
would be a 25% premium to the Sep. high and this would indicate a 20% dilution. Such a dilution would indicate a
price back toward the low range of 2.20-2.25 per share given today's price. You and I both know, however, that such a
deal would send the stock to the $5 plus range immediately. This is the risk you run as a short and why your articles
timing is curious. 
Mr. Mann simply is not going to add more cash until he must and he certainly is not going to let potential partners, or
anyone else, know what he is thinking. If a purchaser or JV partner thinks he is going to fully fund the trials they may
sit back and play a waiting game. In any case, I would like to read your paper to the FDA. Given that Exubera was
approved I don't believe they will be able to push aside Afrezza unless the numbers come in severly negative; which
is unlikely. Do you have Diabetes? The convenience of the Mannkind offering seems evident as compliance with
needles is such an issue and the side effects with diabetes drugs are a continuing issue. Again, we are back to the
science. Why does Afezza have to be superior if convenience creates compliance? And if diabetics want the product.
See blog: http://bit.ly/zPmQOB 
Also, I am curious on your take of the insider trading scandal at the FDA. Why do you believe someone working within
the primary wiregulatory contact for Mannkind would purchase the stock so close to the initial Dec. 2010 expected



https://seekingalpha.com/user/855499

http://bit.ly/zPmQOB
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 9/27


approval. This person clearly did not buy stocks on a whim. Also, he was being monitored at the time Mannkind was
purchased. You could clearly ask the question, did the investigation effect the delay and subsequent CRL. I don't see
how the FDA does not approve this product unless there is a clear safety concern. Our research says safety does not
look to be an issue.


19 Jan 2012, 11:43 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I don't think Al will put another penny into MannKind from here on out. Just my guess :)


27 Jan 2012, 08:39 PM


MNKDLong
You better cover Martin. You are betting on the tenuous fiscal position of a company that is backed by a billionaire.
Don't you think Al has 1 or 2 billionaire friends? Al has been in diabetes for over 30 years including the development
of the leading diabetes pump in the world. I think he has access to resources and know how. It's going to be fun
watching you and other shorties cover within the next 6 weeks.


19 Jan 2012, 01:50 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I don't think Al has any money or credibility.


19 Jan 2012, 04:52 PM


sscutchen
Well, there you have it. 
You have certainly illuminated your credibility.


20 Jan 2012, 12:27 PM


pacard
Looks like our resident Shill now has some credibility problems of his own. Can you say SEC? Do a google
search. I want to thank the Shill for his "fine article" and the resulting RISE IN MNKD's STOCK! Ouch, looks
like that short position isnt working out to good, huh Shrill? And the rest of you sheep who follow this
scumbag deserve the losses just as much for taking this shill at his word without doing your own due
diligence.


26 Jan 2012, 02:16 PM


elmaestro11
Please put out another Stupid article.....


Mannkind is now up 4% lmfao.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1123038

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/410071

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021

https://seekingalpha.com/user/808683
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 10/27


Your article title should have read ( please I want to cover my short so give away your shares cheap, I am desperate
for shares as they are now in Super tight hands. ) and I am going to soon take itup the tailpipe with my short position.


19 Jan 2012, 01:52 PM


Lorax666
Well, rubbish. The ongoing trials are *not* about Afrezza, just DreamBoat. There is no question of the drug's efficacy,
and as others have stated, it works better than any extant insulin or any non-insulin drug.


19 Jan 2012, 01:58 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I think there is a major question about the drug's efficacy.


19 Jan 2012, 04:53 PM


JPG101
You are right that where Afrezza fits into the armamentarium of diabetic therapy is far from settled. Could
Afrezza be used with metformin earlier and replace the other pills which are of dubious benefit? Now that is a
market!


Being long Mannkind might not work out but being short is just foolish.


JPG 
long Mannkind


19 Jan 2012, 05:09 PM


sscutchen
See, that's the thing about science. It really doesn't matter what you think. Even of you were Richard
Feynman, it wouldn't matter. In fact that is one of his basic tenets of discovery.


Maybe you should post that 30 page! report for scientific review...


20 Jan 2012, 12:30 PM


drewbastard
Up 4 percent, thanks.


19 Jan 2012, 04:22 PM


pacard
I've seen a number of scumbags like this post their drivel regarding this stock and every once in a while I feel
compelled to call it as it is. In full disclosure I am long this stock. Very long. I have no issue w/ someone making
money on the downside. I happen to recently load up.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/342302

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/517989

https://seekingalpha.com/user/410071

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1123247

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 11/27


Before I get going, I want to thank Mr. Shill aka Shkreli. His timing is fantastic. One day before options expiration and
ironically about 20% off it's low, this hit piece comes out. Nervous sir? Sure looks like it. How many legitimate
hedgefund "managers" publish these types of slanted hit pieces?? Mr. Shill, it can't be such a good start for your fund
this year. Oops. And, it looks like your attempt miserably failed. Tell you what, post another article tomorrow. Please!
In fact, post your letter to the FDA. You are on the record as stating you would be happy to share it. No? Well, for
anyone that wants it, you can file a Freedom of Information Act request w/ the FDA.


Now, apparently Mr. Shill has a track record. Wonderful. And this means what exactly? The stock has gone up and
made a lot of money for people. The stock has gone down and made a lot of money for people, but the desperation of
this latest move is quite funny.


You wrote a letter! Congrats. Did the FDA act on it? Nope. Did the FDA decide to bring it before their advisory
committee prior to the first CRL? Nope. Prior to the second CRL? Nope.


Has the FDA raised a single issue about Afrezza's safety? Nope.


Have any of the clinical trials identified ANY factors, conditions or issues that would make this drug unapprovable?
Nope.


Have any of the peer reviews, published studies, diabetes medical community's opinion pieces or RESPECTED
DOCTORS in the diabetes industry identified any unapprovable issues? Nope.


How about those claims by the former MNKD employee who launched a lawsuit and questioned the credibility of trial
data? His claims were made after the second submission, giving FDA months to research. How did it turn out? The
fda didn't raise any issues about the data's credibility. And the employee, Arditi? He recanted all accusations. Google
it. Whoops. Apparently any shill can write a letter to the FDA or question the data!


So why was it not approved? You have to go back to the first rejection. It primarily had to do w/ the old inhaler.
Anyone half educated on this stock knows the full (REAL) story. MNKD met w/ the FDA for the post-rejection meeting,
laid out their plans, believed there was acceptance by the FDA, did the appropriate studies and resubmitted. The
problem was that the studies didn't include human testing, but this shouldn't have been a problem. FDA didn't reject
MNKD's plans at the post-rejection meeting nor did they reject the second NDA submission. They could have EASILY
seen there was no human testing of the inhaler and rejected it. They didn't.


How much creedence did the FDA give your "concerns?" Apparently NONE. How can I know, you ask? If you've
followed the story, an FDA employee was caught in an insider trading scandal. It has been uncovered that he was
LONG the stock and was just as shocked as the rest of us when the FDA changed course at the last minute.


These latest clinical trials have everything to do w/ three very important factors:


1) bioavailability of the insulin. Ie, does the new inhaler deliver as much insulin as the old inhaler. The in-vitro testing
not only showed it did, but it also delivered an equal amount while using a third less insulin! Margins!


2) the studies should satisfy the last of the EU's criteria sufficient for EU submission. Bigger market!


3) the FDA recommended they expand the scope of their label based on data from earlier studies. (Mr. Shill, so much
for all your blatant lies regarding trial results). The FDA would like to see how pre-diabetics who have been
unsuccessful w/ other early treatments respond. An even BIGGER market.
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 12/27


At this point there's no issues w/ lung function. No issues w/ bioavailability. No issues w/ the inhaler. There's no signs
of ANY cancer issues despite the detractors who would love to draw, as of yet, STILL UNPROVEN correlations to
Exubera. Afrezza results in less weight gain, Less hypoglycemia and addresses needle phobias which is highly
underestimated. While there are those who have true phobias, I'm speaking on a much larger scale. Who likes
needles (other than the Shill who wrote this hit piece and should put down the crack pipe, too)? Who wants to live
their life injecting themselves numerous times when a simple breadth can achieve a better treatment standard? Put
an inhaler and a needle on the table and see which one your kid chooses. One of the biggest problems w/ diabetes is
people not taking their meds as prescribed (due to needles) which leads to a number of serious issues.


Further, Afrezza doesn't require complex titration. In fact, studies have been run where patients had zero carb meals,
took full doses AND STILL DIDN'T EXPERIENCE HYPOGLYCEMIA. You don't need to worry about storing the drug
in a refrigerator (within reason, but far better than existing insulins) and it will be priced very close to existing
therapies. Yes, the conversations have already been held w/ large insurers.


...and if that's not enough, the FDA has already requested a phase 4 (post approval) study in which they'd like to see
the age of trial participants lowered down to 4 years old!


Was the first crl a setback? Absolutely. Was the second crl surprising? Absolutely. Apparently it was a surprise to FDA
employees as well. Will this make it to market? Well let me answer that another way.


Do you think a man in his golden years, who has a PROVEN TRACK RECORD of improving the lives of diabetics (Al
Mann's previous company created the insulin pump), who has pumped close to $700 million OF HIS OWN MONEY
into a company that bears his own name....is going to walk away from this company for another 40, 50 or 100 million
dollars? If so, go ahead and short more! I'M BEGGING YOU! PLEASE, SHORT MORE!


If you listened to MNKD's presentation at the JPM Conference last week you heard two critical pieces of information:
1) they expect to partner by mid year. What's so important about this other than the obvious is that Al stated this
previously and prematurely and wound up taking a lot of flack for it. You think a genius (literally) is going to make that
mistake twice? 2) He stated if there was another round of financing, he would expect to participate in it as he has
done many times in the past.


Mnkd already has sufficient manufacturing infrastructure to support $4 billion dollars in sales and they've already
secured $10 billion dollars worth of sales in raw insulin. Yeah, this drug/company have no chance. Riiiiiiiiiiight!


For those that blindly follow this guy, you've made my day and with each rise in the stock I will think of you fondly. I
suggest you do some google searches. EVERYTHING i've posted here and alluded to is easily verifiable. TALK TO
YOUR DOCTOR ABOUT IT. PULL UP A BIO ON AL MANN. See what he's done for humanity. See what else he's
working on. See how highly he's regarded by the community that matters: the medical community. See how much of
his personal wealth has been set aside to further medical research at Institutes and Universities AROUND THE
WORLD . Show me how many 80+ year olds still maintain the pace and work ethic of this Mann.


Still think it's a short after that? Money will likely be the least of your problems.


....So Mr. Shill (and your blind mice), stick that in your curry and stir it!


Have a wonderful night!


ps- I really look forward to tomorrow's article.
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 13/27


ps2 - why have i referred to the "esteemed" blogger as a shill? Because he's likely playing you blind mice like you've
never been played before. He's likely covering his shorts while you buy into the idea of going short! mice? sheep? you
be the judge, but one thing is certain, at this point, you're being led to the slaughter. Happy trails.


19 Jan 2012, 08:31 PM


sscutchen
Ditto.


Seriously, that was very well put. Thanks for taking the time.


20 Jan 2012, 12:36 PM


M Allen
Ail Mann developed seneral revolutionary medical devices. Included among them are the pace maker the insulin
pump. His personal investment in Afrezza is in excess of one billion dollars.


Afrezzas medical benefits are many including reduced glycemic events and reduced weight gain due to no "tail". Not
to mention you do not have to titrate and inject yourself with a one inch hypo every time you eat a meal.


I have got to side with Mr Mann here since he has been in this field for years and has so far placed half his personal
fortune on the line with Afrezza.


You may have made some money on the short side here but your vague arguments regarding the benefits of Afrezza
do not add up and neither will your profits if you do not cover soon.


20 Jan 2012, 03:50 AM


kiar97
Martin, Ur educational background (I think, u dont have any education above high school) is putting some serious
credibility on ur bragging that u sent FDA documents wich are 30 pages long (did u fill up the entire documents with
a,b,c,d,....).


Fellas, I doubt if Martin understands the term Diabetes (may be he is thinking it is a sugar candy.....LOL)


20 Jan 2012, 08:51 AM


pacard
Hey Shill,


Busy covering this morning? LOL


Again, my deepest thanks for the hit piece!


20 Jan 2012, 09:50 AM


gbstern13



https://seekingalpha.com/user/410071

https://seekingalpha.com/user/305654

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1011361

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021

https://seekingalpha.com/user/680445
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 14/27


While I don't think the article is junk, and the writer is certainly entitled to his opinion, there are a number of assertions
by Mr. Shkreil that are without any substantiation whatsoever, and some are completely in accurate.


- To say the previous Phase III trials "did not work" is not a fully accurate statement. The drug did not get
approved....but only because of management's admittedly stupid decision to run that trial with an inhaler device that
differed from what was used in the first trials. The drug itself met all efficacy and safety endpoints of the trial, and
would have been approved otherwise. What exactly are your questions about the efficacy?


- The claim that the debt underwriting isn't selling on the street is irrelevent to MNKD. The underwriter announced the
deal, and therefore is guaranteeing the execution. It is their job to sell it, not MNKDs. Whatever they can't sell they will
own as the underwriter of the deal. MNKD has it's funding anyway you shake it.


- If MNKD is short on cash this year- with the trials set to end within the year, I find it hard to stomach that the CEO
will consider BK with the end so close in sight, given his amount of investment thus far. What information do you have
that one of the richest people on the planet suddenly has no money?


Facts aside....the timing of the article and disclosure of your previous activities speak loudly. Why a hedge fund
manager would write a dissertation to the FDA about a drug approval is extremely telling. We all can tell that you are
clearly SHORT MannKind. But the real question is....what current insulin producers are you LONG?


20 Jan 2012, 10:52 AM


nbarboutis
"I am short MNKD. My hedge fund is short MNKD, and we may change our position without notification at any time."


Judging by the increase in price, this guy has probably already changed his short position by all the convincing
comments. Shkreli can you say Short Squeeze.


20 Jan 2012, 03:10 PM


User 796072
Regarding your rambling 15 paragraph hit piece, there is nothing true or accurate in the entire posting. Where shall
we begin?:


1. AFREZZA is a brilliantly conceived and executed concept. Who would prefer to take an injection with a needle and
syringe over a simple puff from a mini-inhaler? Who wouldn't want a more physiologic human insulin? AFREZZA is
the single greatest tool for managing diabetes that has ever been developed. This coming from genius Al Mann whom
invented and commercialized the diabetes insulin pump and the continuous glucose monitor. For those who don't
know such as yourself, Al has been one of the foremost diabetes experts in the world for decades. Skeptics doubt Al,
yet he takes it across the goal line time and time again. That's because his detractors are at a far lower IQ level.


2. MNKD has never, and will never have any concern what so ever about raising operating capital--PERIOD. It's nice
to have an all-in billionaire genius running the show. Anyone who thinks Al won't throw a few more million in the
hopper (if necessary which it will likely not be) to see his billion dollar investment and pet project to fruition is really
dumb.


3. The market size for rapid acting (and with AFREZZA now an ULTRA RAPID ACTING) insulin is huge and growing
fast. Diabetes is the biggest segment of the pharma industry. To suggest otherwise is to display a level of



https://seekingalpha.com/user/37863

https://seekingalpha.com/user/796072
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 15/27


incompetancy that is rarely seen. Ever heard of Humalog or Novolog? Now think of something FAR bigger.


4. AFREZZA has demonstrated it's strong efficacy and safety over tens of thousands of patient years in trials. Nobody
has ever raised a legitimate concern regarding either safety or efficacy, nor will they ever.


5. AFREZZA brings significant new benefits to the table due it it's extremely fast acting kinetics such as: weight
neutral rather than weight gain with normal insulin because you won't need to snack between meals to assist in
managing blood sugar levels, no need for complex meal time titration and far fewer painful finger pricks for glucose
strip testing, major cost savings for having less blood sugar strip testing, dramatically reduced severe hypoglycemic
events, the convenience and comfort of inhalation rather than hauling around needles and syringes and injecting
insulin, freedom from the social stigma of "shooting up," future studies will show that AFREZZA actually slows the
progress of the disease. I don't expect you to be smart enough to comprehend everything I just said, and I can see it
flying right over your head right now!


6. Current phase III testing, at the suggestion of the FDA, will demonstrate AFREZZA's clinical utility as a front line
therapy after metformin failure or for use in conjunction with metformin, placing AFREZZA clearly in Mega Blockbuster
territory. No other insulin will have been utilized so early-stage in the treatment of the disease.


7. There is no clinical risk of failure for the the final Phase III AFREZZA trials, one for Type I diabetics, and another for
Type II.


8. Bankruptcy has not, is not, and will never be an option on the table. Minimal dilution is possible but unlikely.
Regardless, minimal dilution is acceptable as a component of raising the required funds.


9. I could keep reaming you but my fingers have grown tired of typing...


Shkreli, I hope you go on margin and short MNKD until you are blue in the face, and then double down your short yet
again. The world could use one less marginal hedge fund run by a whack job. And it would be sweet poetic justice for
MNKD to be the stock that takes you out of the game!


Final point, the market views you as a foolish jackass. The stock has gone up for two straight days since you posted
this pathetic hit piece. MNKD investors are far too educated regarding AFREZZA and Al Mann's track record of
greatness to buy what your attempting, but epically failing, to sell. How does it feel to be publicly exposed?


20 Jan 2012, 10:27 PM


Smartgel
A short seller actively trying to convince the FDA that it failed...I don't see any conflict of interest there.


I see MNKD in as very similar position to KOSP a decade ago. Self financing by the founder pulled them out of their
hole...maybe MNKD will do the same..


Did the world really need control release Niacin? Who knows, but it ended up worth $6BB


24 Jan 2012, 11:35 AM


contrarian1981
With all due respect, I think you don't know what you're talking about. Your financing options do not include striking a
partnership deal. It is quite valuable for MannKind to still own all the commercial rights to Afrezza - typically biotechs



https://seekingalpha.com/user/223935

https://seekingalpha.com/user/248472
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 16/27


in phase III have long sold ~80% or so to their development partners. A similar deal easily funds MNKD through
approval. They may be only trying to win some breathing space by issuing debt or equity to improve bargaining
conditions. 
Sometimes shares also rise on financing news, by the way. This may be one.


25 Jan 2012, 04:08 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  No one is partnering Afrezza, I'm sorry. Thanks for your due respect.


26 Jan 2012, 02:26 PM


pacard
No one is partnering with Afrezza? Today, you state Glaxo would be a good partner fit. What little credibility
you had continues to dwindle with each lie, misrepresentation and contradiction.


27 Jan 2012, 05:37 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  would be a great fit but not going to happen in a value-creative way for Mannkind. you
should calm down!


27 Jan 2012, 08:37 PM


rockeye118
Mr. Shkreli,


Congratulations on your trades with Mannkind! I'm glad you made money.


However, I would like to know what made you write your letter to the FDA four days prior to PDUFA, on
Christmas Day no less, and on a Sunday? Why not a month prior? Why not show up to the FDA hearings as
you had done on previous endeavors?


I see you recognize the FDA has created a bureaucracy that is easily exploited. It takes hard work to find
advisors who have worked for the FDA for decades, and then have them point out FDA policies that prohibit
drugs from being approved due to the lack of "testing in humans". With all the red tape and hundreds of
thousands of pages of regulations, I'm sure it was hard to find "little things" that small companies just cannot
keep up with.


While I agree at face value it would seem rather incredulous for the FDA to approve a DEVICE that had not
been tested in humans directly, the mere fact that state-of-the-art technology was used to PROVE
bioequivalence, (sorry, I meant SUPERIORITY), on such a simple piece of engineering, could have been
made the exception. Especially since the FDA was made aware of the bioequivalence trials well in advance.


Could Al Mann be a liar? Could Mannkind have lied to us investors the whole time? Yes, he/they could be. I
don't think so though.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2609831
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 17/27


I believe you got inside information from someone you know. Possibly one of your "FDA advisors", and you
panicked. In your panic (only four days prior to PDUFA) you made a mad dash to compile your research, and
present it to the FDA (12 entities total I believe). When they saw your letter, they figured they would do a little
research (hence the four week delay in approval, giving the FDA insider enough time to sell). Lo and behold,
you were correct! They didn't test the device in humans. How could the FDA miss this little detail? (oh yes,
they were impressed with the data and liked it so much, they didn't check all their internal regulations);
regulations your FDA crony buddies knew inside and out.


That is how you make your money. Find little tucked away policies that small companies cannot thoroughly
rummage through, and then cry to the FDA hoping they don't approve your shorted stock pick...


Bravo to you for finding a niche market in getting small drug companies rejected. I wish I could have thought
of that.


Two scenarios could be going on (and I am sure there are other possibilities):


1. You are correct/legitimate and your research has saved multitudes from getting hurt. In this case, I am a
fool for investing in MNKD and you should be honored.


2. You are a depraved being who gets inside FDA information on approvals/rejections, and who profits on the
losses of others (keep in mind I'm all for short selling and free markets), regardless of what is truth or correct.
In this case, I would be unprofessional for stating what I wish for you...


Were you scared out of your mind as you were typing that letter and compiling your cherry-picked research
that Christmas Day? Ever hear of Reardon Metal?


Sincerely,


Nate


30 Apr 2012, 04:58 AM


Jammysax
Got this one wrong as well. Which law firm is handling your defense?


18 Aug 2015, 11:22 AM


MNKDLong
Martin - It's Jan 25th and we closed at $3.09. Did you short another million? Please tell us you did. Would you mind
tellings us how short you are on Mannkind at this time?


It's going to be fun reading your next article on MNKD. Remember, ego is everything. Never admit that you are wrong.


25 Jan 2012, 05:42 PM


silence_twain
From Today:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/31521555

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1123038

https://seekingalpha.com/user/954931
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 18/27


Today, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) asked Robert Khuzami, Director of the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Division of Enforcement, to investigate certain hedge fund managers whose
actions suggest they may be trying to manipulate stock prices in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries.
This is the latest step in an ongoing investigation by CREW into the efforts of Wall Street investors to insert
themselves into the regulatory process. The newest incident uncovered centers on investor Martin Shkreli and his
questionable interactions with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).


“Mounting evidence suggests Wall Street investors are intruding into the regulatory processes in order to manipulate
the markets to move stock prices,” said CREW Chief Counsel Anne Weismann. “While it is perfectly legitimate to
thoroughly research companies before investing, it is reprehensible to inveigle federal agencies into action just to
make a profit.”


Documents CREW obtained through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to the FDA show numerous
attempts by Martin Shkreli, Chief Investment Officer for MSMB Capital Management, to persuade the agency to reject
certain pending drug applications. At the same time, Mr. Shkreli was shorting stocks in the companies that developed
the new drugs. In one instance, Mr. Shkreli submitted a citizen petition asking the FDA not to approve a lymph node
mapping drug, acknowledging he is not a medical expert and his hedge fund stood to gain if the FDA rejected the
drug application.


Mr. Shkreli also wrote a blog post on a popular investing website predicting the drug would not win FDA approval,
which sparked sharp backlash from other investors who characterized his claims as biased and possibly fraudulent.
Immediately following these actions, shares of the drug company fell significantly, earning Mr. Shkreli significant sums
of money.


“Mr. Shkreli is not a medical expert, yet tried to foist his medical views on the FDA and the investor community to
depress drug company stock prices and line his own pockets,” said Ms. Weismann. “Agencies like the FDA are
supposed to protect the American people, not Wall Street investors. The SEC must investigate and take quick action
to make clear that manipulating agencies for private financial gain will not be tolerated.”


26 Jan 2012, 11:07 AM


MNKDLong
Here a link to the PDF. Thanks Silence_Twain.


http://bit.ly/whnePi


26 Jan 2012, 12:42 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Awesome - what does this have to do with MNKD? I like CREW and the SEC. Great peeps.


26 Jan 2012, 02:25 PM


Amaknak
They finally got him!! Hurray!


18 Dec 2015, 10:04 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1123038

http://bit.ly/whnePi

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34685555
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 19/27


pacard
Since i can't seem to find my original response to the article (via my cell phone, i figured I'd repost it in case it was
removed.....


I've seen a number of scumbags like this post their drivel regarding this stock and every once in a while I feel
compelled to call it as it is. In full disclosure I am long this stock. Very long. I have no issue w/ someone making
money on the downside. I happen to recently load up.


Before I get going, I want to thank Mr. Shill aka Shkreli. His timing is fantastic. One day before options expiration and
ironically about 20% off it's low, this hit piece comes out. Nervous sir? Sure looks like it. How many legitimate
hedgefund "managers" publish these types of slanted hit pieces?? Mr. Shill, it can't be such a good start for your fund
this year. Oops. And, it looks like your attempt miserably failed. Tell you what, post another article tomorrow. Please!
In fact, post your letter to the FDA. You are on the record as stating you would be happy to share it. No? Well, for
anyone that wants it, you can file a Freedom of Information Act request w/ the FDA.


Now, apparently Mr. Shill has a track record. Wonderful. And this means what exactly? The stock has gone up and
made a lot of money for people. The stock has gone down and made a lot of money for people, but the desperation of
this latest move is quite funny.


You wrote a letter! Congrats. Did the FDA act on it? Nope. Did the FDA decide to bring it before their advisory
committee prior to the first CRL? Nope. Prior to the second CRL? Nope.


Has the FDA raised a single issue about Afrezza's safety? Nope.


Have any of the clinical trials identified ANY factors, conditions or issues that would make this drug unapprovable?
Nope.


Have any of the peer reviews, published studies, diabetes medical community's opinion pieces or RESPECTED
DOCTORS in the diabetes industry identified any unapprovable issues? Nope.


How about those claims by the former MNKD employee who launched a lawsuit and questioned the credibility of trial
data? His claims were made after the second submission, giving FDA months to research. How did it turn out? The
fda didn't raise any issues about the data's credibility. And the employee, Arditi? He recanted all accusations. Google
it. Whoops. Apparently any shill can write a letter to the FDA or question the data!


So why was it not approved? You have to go back to the first rejection. It primarily had to do w/ the old inhaler.
Anyone half educated on this stock knows the full (REAL) story. MNKD met w/ the FDA for the post-rejection meeting,
laid out their plans, believed there was acceptance by the FDA, did the appropriate studies and resubmitted. The
problem was that the studies didn't include human testing, but this shouldn't have been a problem. FDA didn't reject
MNKD's plans at the post-rejection meeting nor did they reject the second NDA submission. They could have EASILY
seen there was no human testing of the inhaler and rejected it. They didn't.


How much creedence did the FDA give your "concerns?" Apparently NONE. How can I know, you ask? If you've
followed the story, an FDA employee was caught in an insider trading scandal. It has been uncovered that he was
LONG the stock and was just as shocked as the rest of us when the FDA changed course at the last minute.


These latest clinical trials have everything to do w/ three very important factors:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 20/27


1) bioavailability of the insulin. Ie, does the new inhaler deliver as much insulin as the old inhaler. The in-vitro testing
not only showed it did, but it also delivered an equal amount while using a third less insulin! Margins!


2) the studies should satisfy the last of the EU's criteria sufficient for EU submission. Bigger market!


3) the FDA recommended they expand the scope of their label based on data from earlier studies. (Mr. Shill, so much
for all your blatant lies regarding trial results). The FDA would like to see how pre-diabetics who have been
unsuccessful w/ other early treatments respond. An even BIGGER market.


At this point there's no issues w/ lung function. No issues w/ bioavailability. No issues w/ the inhaler. There's no signs
of ANY cancer issues despite the detractors who would love to draw, as of yet, STILL UNPROVEN correlations to
Exubera. Afrezza results in less weight gain, Less hypoglycemia and addresses needle phobias which is highly
underestimated. While there are those who have true phobias, I'm speaking on a much larger scale. Who likes
needles (other than the Shill who wrote this hit piece and should put down the crack pipe, too)? Who wants to live
their life injecting themselves numerous times when a simple breadth can achieve a better treatment standard? Put
an inhaler and a needle on the table and see which one your kid chooses. One of the biggest problems w/ diabetes is
people not taking their meds as prescribed (due to needles) which leads to a number of serious issues.


Further, Afrezza doesn't require complex titration. In fact, studies have been run where patients had zero carb meals,
took full doses AND STILL DIDN'T EXPERIENCE HYPOGLYCEMIA. You don't need to worry about storing the drug
in a refrigerator (within reason, but far better than existing insulins) and it will be priced very close to existing
therapies. Yes, the conversations have already been held w/ large insurers.


...and if that's not enough, the FDA has already requested a phase 4 (post approval) study in which they'd like to see
the age of trial participants lowered down to 4 years old!


Was the first crl a setback? Absolutely. Was the second crl surprising? Absolutely. Apparently it was a surprise to FDA
employees as well. Will this make it to market? Well let me answer that another way.


Do you think a man in his golden years, who has a PROVEN TRACK RECORD of improving the lives of diabetics (Al
Mann's previous company created the insulin pump), who has pumped close to $700 million OF HIS OWN MONEY
into a company that bears his own name....is going to walk away from this company for another 40, 50 or 100 million
dollars? If so, go ahead and short more! I'M BEGGING YOU! PLEASE, SHORT MORE!


If you listened to MNKD's presentation at the JPM Conference last week you heard two critical pieces of information:
1) they expect to partner by mid year. What's so important about this other than the obvious is that Al stated this
previously and prematurely and wound up taking a lot of flack for it. You think a genius (literally) is going to make that
mistake twice? 2) He stated if there was another round of financing, he would expect to participate in it as he has
done many times in the past.


Mnkd already has sufficient manufacturing infrastructure to support $4 billion dollars in sales and they've already
secured $10 billion dollars worth of sales in raw insulin. Yeah, this drug/company have no chance. Riiiiiiiiiiight!


For those that blindly follow this guy, you've made my day and with each rise in the stock I will think of you fondly. I
suggest you do some google searches. EVERYTHING i've posted here and alluded to is easily verifiable. TALK TO
YOUR DOCTOR ABOUT IT. PULL UP A BIO ON AL MANN. See what he's done for humanity. See what else he's
working on. See how highly he's regarded by the community that matters: the medical community. See how much of
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 21/27


his personal wealth has been set aside to further medical research at Institutes and Universities AROUND THE
WORLD . Show me how many 80+ year olds still maintain the pace and work ethic of this Mann.


Still think it's a short after that? Money will likely be the least of your problems.


....So Mr. Shill (and your blind mice), stick that in your curry and stir it!


Have a wonderful night!


ps- I really look forward to tomorrow's article.


ps2 - why have i referred to the "esteemed" blogger as a shill? Because he's likely playing you blind mice like you've
never been played before. He's likely covering his shorts while you buy into the idea of going short! mice? sheep? you
be the judge, but one thing is certain, at this point, you're being led to the slaughter. Happy trails.


26 Jan 2012, 02:31 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Thanks for your comments. I have enjoyed making money trading MNKD.


27 Jan 2012, 12:13 PM


Amaknak
"Thanks for your comments. I have enjoyed making money trading MNKD."


Really? According to Bloomberg you lost money big time. Either they are lying or you are. Let's see, who had
been arrested and is facing 20 years behind bars? Well that's you!


20 Dec 2015, 12:30 AM


pacard
Here's a 60 page letter from CREW to the SEC dated 1/26/12 requesting action be taken against this shill. I believe it
includes the letter he wrote to the FDA regarding mnkd but i haven't read all 60 pages yet. http://bit.ly/whnePi


Pay particular attention to the part about uncovering all the trades relevant to his advice. You've been warned.


26 Jan 2012, 02:50 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Yep, I wrote all of that. Darn proud of it!


27 Jan 2012, 12:11 PM


gbstern13
Today's rally is probably Mr. Shkreli covering all of his short positions to pay for his forthcoming legal expenses.


Goodbye, Martin. Been nice knowing ya.


26 Jan 2012, 04:16 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34685555

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021

http://bit.ly/whnePi

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/680445
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 22/27


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I do have a lot of legal expenses and I have talked to the SEC twice in my career. I am not
afraid of having a discussion with a regulator - the average hedge fund has a conversation with the SEC
every few years. Thanks for your well wishes.


27 Jan 2012, 12:10 PM


Amaknak
How are your legal expenses now Marty?


20 Dec 2015, 12:03 AM


pacard
Hey Shill, awfully SHORT on responses to your critics. Lol. Can't wait to come back here after partnership is
announced.


26 Jan 2012, 11:27 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I always thought Glaxo could partner with MNKD because they are huge in inhaled dugs
(Advair). We'll see!


27 Jan 2012, 12:09 PM


Gaucho
Hey Shkreli looks like the cat is out of the bag and your attempts to manipulate the FDA. The FBI will soon be
investigating you manipulations. Once they start squeezing then all the rats will fink on you and let hang. You know
how much other hedge funds look out for each other like sharks.


Ever cut a shark open and hang it upside down in the water. It starts to eat its own guts and the other sharks join in.
Soon the other sharks are going to join in on you. MNKD is on the SHO list and that is starting to smell like blood in
the water. You are now sounding desperate. I think the other sharks smell the panic and will start feeding on your
guts. Soon the share price keep rising starting a feeding frenzy. Then you are squeezed out of business.


I hope you sleep well cause if you have mafia money you are loosing then you will sleep with the fishes after they get
a little medieval on you.


27 Jan 2012, 08:39 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Cool shark story. I am an open book - everything CREW has they have because I gave it to
them. Ask me anything.


27 Jan 2012, 12:09 PM


ckealey



https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34685555

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/99920

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/468434
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 23/27


In Martin's defense, I read through some of his letter and he does make some interesting points regarding the efficacy
of Affreza. The pivotal trial that was published in Lancet used a design where the efficacy of an Affreza/Lantus
combination was compared to the efficacy of a twice daily Novolog combination. The results did show that the
Affreza/Lantus combination was non-inferior in terms of the studies primary end-point and slightly superior on some of
the secondary endpoints. Unfortunately, a previous study compared this same twice daily Novolog regimen to Lantus
alone and found that the Lantus alone regimen was inferior to the Novolog regimen, but it was by a very small
amount.


I would tend to agree with Martin that this makes MNKDs choice of trial design somewhat poor. Why didn't they just
put everyone on Lantus and have a control group using mealtime insulin and the experimental group using Affrezza?


In the interest of disclosure I am long MNKD. I also have an MD, but am not an expert on this subject, nor have I
devoted sufficient time to this to understand all the data.


I would also say that I have met Martin, and he is an extremely intelligent individual. His arguments deserve to be
addressed solely on their merit. Character assassination is a poor response to views that you disagree with.


27 Jan 2012, 11:33 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Thanks. I wonder who you are!!!


31 Jan 2012, 06:11 PM


pacard
"....interesting points regarding the efficacy of Afrezza?"


You really have an MD? If so, then you should know that trial designs are targeted to accomplish non-inferiority. That's
one of the thresholds for the FDA and I would assume based on the requested label. Mnkd management has openly
stated this while also stating that superiority trials will be run in the future. Non-inferiority was the goal. They met it.


My understanding is most studies designed for approval are created to meet the non-inferiority threshold. Corrections
welcomed.


So exactly what was Shkreli's point? The obvious? Or the not so obvious for the unaware or ignorant?


And to Shill, calm down? You're a scumbag. Not because you're short, not because you contacted the FDA. You're a
scumbag because you ONLY contacted the FDA for reasons of personal gain. You did it out of a self-motivated
agenda which you obviously place ahead of the interest of diabetes patients around the world. You put you're profits
ahead of those patients. Now you publish a bunch of negative SPECULATION and only because you're short the
stock. I should calm down?


I hope you stay short. I hope you get crushed by Al and MNKD. I hope the company releases a letter to shareholders
blasting your lies. I hope they sue you and I hope your Wall Street career ends in a lot of debt and failure. I hope
there's a full inquiry at the FDA to determine what you knew and when you knew it as to the suspicious timing of your
FDA letter just days prior to MNKD's PDUFA date. Yes, that's right people. An employee at the FDA was long MNKD
stock because internally, the FDA intended to approve it. Next thing you know, the employee exits the position
following the FDA's receipt of Mr. Shill's letter just DAYS PRIOR TO IT'S SCHEDULED PDUFA DATE.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 24/27


So did someone inside the FDA tip this shill to the intended approval? It sure looks that way to me. I SMELL A RAT.


On behalf of diabetes patients around the world, let it be known the scum that survives and thrives from denying
patients a life changing medical breakthrough from a man who has served humanity for a huge portion of his life.


28 Jan 2012, 06:17 PM


pacard
A detailed research report from Griffin Securities is posted here along w/ a bevy of additional information. I would
strongly encourage others to do additional research.


http://bit.ly/yVQ39C


29 Jan 2012, 08:13 PM


ckealey
pacard:


You aren't understanding the main point. A previous trial where Lantus went head-to-head with Novolog BID showed
that they are basically equivalent (Lantus was inferior by a very slight margin). Therefore a clinical trial where the
efficacy of Affrezza + Lantus is compared to the efficacy of Novolog BID is meaningless if the result shows non-
inferiority between the two treatments


Think about it for a second before you respond.


30 Jan 2012, 06:07 PM


MNKDLong
For Martin. It's funny how at first you curiously asked what CREW's letter to the SEC had to do with Mannkind. It's so
obvious that I started to wonder why you would ask such a question. And then it struck me, you are not only really,
really leveraged against MNKD which your investors aren't going to appreciate in less than 6 weeks but you also
might be trying to hide something. So, of course, your first response is to try to completely deny the importance of the
CREW letter.


In today's news I read a headliner of another person who tried to influence a regulator and I immediately thought of
you. Please let us know what you think of this story in between trying to "clean up" the office files.


http://yhoo.it/z6OyuV


30 Jan 2012, 08:52 PM


JPG101
What a beautiful day!  
Over 20 million shares sold today with over 90 minutes left of trading...


Mann buying the shares was supposed to be a vote of confidence in the shares (turning a bad situation into a less
bad one I guess) but the bots didn't see it that way?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/499021

http://bit.ly/yVQ39C

https://seekingalpha.com/user/468434

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1123038

http://yhoo.it/z6OyuV

https://seekingalpha.com/user/517989
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 25/27


Curious about the “threshold securities” warning. 
http://bloom.bg/zo7IM2


Do you think any naked shorts are going to jail for this? Obviously, as usual: no. Enough to start wondering if the SEC
want the destruction of our capital markets pure and simple.


Bought a few more shares today. Strange how they come in 50-100 shares packets! What a computer driven financial
market we have. Basically a few bots sold me shares. Are any humans trading any shares of Mannkind?


What will happen now that the stock is naked shorted to lower stock price ( a criminal offense) into “threshold
securities” with a huge amount of non naked shorts? 13 days to deliver if I recall correctly?


Imagine if Mannkind announced a partnership in the next week or so! Now that would be a well timed event.


03 Feb 2012, 02:35 PM


richd8980
Good article you nailed it again. I am amazed at the abuse, insults and  
threats people make to anyone who doesn't write a positive article.


They should all be thanking you and buying you a beer for all your hard work.


Long live Martin Shkreli.


05 Feb 2012, 08:45 PM


Baneslayer Angel
These ain't naked shorts. Just people who bought some Units (newest public offering) and did the obvious
arbitrage.


Finally the company got additional 70m$ in Cash and will therefore have enough money to finish their trials
and hopefully get the approval. Having said that Martin's main concern of running out of cash has been
resolved.


08 Feb 2012, 06:15 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  You are right, they have the money now.


18 Mar 2012, 06:57 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Thanks!


18 Mar 2012, 06:57 PM


richd8980



http://bloom.bg/zo7IM2

https://seekingalpha.com/user/205550

https://seekingalpha.com/user/904383

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/205550
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 26/27


The pumpers are super angry. I have never read as many hate  
replies. All they do is insult and call names.


If they had followed your advice they would be happy and profitable.


I sold call after reading your article and want to thank you. If I ever meet you I will buy you a beer.


05 Feb 2012, 08:59 PM


Baneslayer Angel
All they do is insult and call names?


Really? I've seen very smart replies ripping his analysis sent to the FDA appart. But i guess those replies
were to complicated for you to read.


08 Feb 2012, 06:21 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  thanks!


09 Feb 2012, 08:32 PM


Amaknak
Well it's like this richd8980, people do not like crooks and criminals. It's that simple.


18 Dec 2015, 10:05 PM


finding omega
Marty, are you naked short? Where did you borrow your stock if you're legit? What are you paying stock loan? I'd love
to know if you're in compliance.


08 Feb 2012, 04:45 PM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  what the heck? GS JPM etc. yes i pay interest.


09 Feb 2012, 08:33 PM


finding omega
I didn't visit the site recently. Again, did you borrow the stock?


02 Mar 2012, 10:04 AM


Martin Shkreli, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Yes. I always borrow before I short.


18 Mar 2012, 06:56 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/904383

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34685555

https://seekingalpha.com/user/639208

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/639208

https://seekingalpha.com/author/martin-shkreli
5/21/2018 MannKind Is Simply Running Out Of Cash - MannKind Corporation (NASDAQ:MNKD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/320572-mannkind-is-simply-running-out-of-cash 27/27


foodforthought
Martin, 
At what level would you consider covering your short on MNKD?


13 Apr 2012, 10:22 PM


SarahKnows
Dear Mr. Shkreli- Can you please comment on why anyone should take any of your comments seriously in view of the
call for a DOJ investigation into your activities? I refer, of course, to the watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility
and Ethics in Washington. For those not familiar with this public call for action, the press release can be found here:


http://bit.ly/LRkhhz


30 Aug 2013, 10:17 AM


Amaknak
MNKD is still around and Martin Shkreli is going to prison!


17 Dec 2015, 10:03 PM


David Cormier
What about now??


30 Sep 2016, 06:09 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/897125

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2855161

http://bit.ly/LRkhhz

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34685555

https://seekingalpha.com/user/47801644
