Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 1 of 25 
 


 
October 12, 2015 





It's Not SaaS:  


It's "For-Profit Education" in a Silly Disguise  
Citron Research Reports on 2U INC  (NASDAQ:TWOU) 


Short Term Price Target- $14 


 2U (NASDAQ:TWOU) is not a SaaS company.  In reality, it is a for-profit 
outsourced online degree provider that was founded almost eight years 
ago, yet still generates ~85% of revenues from only 4 clients. 


 Stock irrationally doubled due to economically inconsequential and highly 
controversial Yale deal that was denied accreditation on first try 


 2U’s addressable market is tiny, there are dozens of competitors, and its 
contract economics are unattractive 


 Insider selling and recent capital raise suggest that management thinks 
stock is overvalued and likely to keep burning cash for next several years 


 Current valuation insane even when benched against actual SaaS 
companies ... ~67%+ downside from current levels.   


Citron believes that 2U (NASDAQ:TWOU) is a fundamentally misunderstood business that is 
erroneously being viewed as a “Software as a Service” / “Cloud” company.  In reality, it is just 
an outsourced provider of online graduate degrees.  
 


What makes SaaS companies desirable is the scalability of the business model. In stark contrast, 
2U’s business model requires it to invest substantial up-front capital for each client, employ a 
full time staff to support each of the online degree programs that it hosts, and then take all the 
risk associated with enrollments.  The disproportionate revenue concentration in the business 
alone (~85% revenue concentration in its top 4 clients as of 1H2015) is a definitive business 
indicator unheard of in any actual “Saas” or “Cloud” company.   
 


To make the business model even more expense-burdened, 2U is also responsible for finding 
students to enroll in the online programs it hosts, and therefore has very low visibility into its 
future revenues on any newly signed contract.  Students churn in and out of programs (either 
by graduating or dropping out), obligating 2U to constantly find new students to enroll in its 
programs – a model no different than any of the for-profit education companies.  The only 
unique premise is that 2U gives up ~35% of tuition revenues in exchange for leveraging 
university brand names).
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 2 of 25 
 


Can you imagine if Workday not only supplied software services but actually recruited, 
interviewed, and staffed an HR department?  It would be running a joke of a business model in 
the SaaS space. 
 


Company Background 
 


2U (TWOU) is an online education company that creates, administers, and operates online 
degree programs (largely graduate programs) on behalf of not-for-profit universities.  The 
company was founded in 2008 by John Katzman (founder of Princeton Review) and Chip Paucek 
(current CEO of 2U).  Katzman left the company in 2013 to work on a competitive product that 
is billed as a “disrupter” to online degree enablers such as 2U.  Katzman’s departure ahead of 
2U’s 2014 IPO speaks to how much confidence Katzman had in the company that he himself 
created. 
 


2U’s programs are largely focused around 3 main verticals – social work, nursing/mid-wifery, 
and teaching.  We estimate that these programs alone generate at least ~85%+ of the 
company’s revenues.  The company’s three largest contracts as of 2014 were the USC Masters 
in Social Work, the USC Master of Arts in Teaching, and the Georgetown Nursing program.  As 
of FY2014, those three contracts represented 69% of revenue. 
 


The company’s business model is contract-based, with 2U going out on an individual school-by-
school / program-by-program basis to sign up long-dated contracts with universities (~10+ year 
contracts). 
 


These contracts generally stipulate that 2U is entitled to a percentage of all tuition revenues 
generated by an online degree program that it administers (i.e. 60-70% of revenues), while 
being responsible for all of the startup costs associated with the program, as well as almost all 
of the ongoing costs of finding students to take the program, providing guidance and counseling 
to those students, and essentially any other expenses associated with the “back office 
functions” of a university that are necessary to graduate students out of a program.   
 


This is a labor intensive business model.  According to the company’s 10K, 2U had 15 programs 
with students enrolled as of the end of 2014 and employed 708 full-time and 76 part-time 
employees.  The staff to program ratio of ~50 is indicative of the labor intensity in this 
business model. 
 


2U takes all of the “risk/liability” associated with administering online degree 
programs.  If a program ends up being a disappointment, 2U is at risk of being 
unable to recoup its costs.   
 


So despite liberal use of jargon such as “Software as a Service” and “Cloud”, in 
reality this is just a for-profit online education company that leverages other 
school’s brands. 
  
  



https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2015/04/09/serial-entrepreneur-aims-reboot-online-learning-enabler-market
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 3 of 25 
 


The table below summarizes the reasons why we think the Street is absolutely wrong about 2U: 
2U Short Case: The “Cliff” Notes 





Flawed Business Logic Massively Overstates Total Addressable Market  


A key part of the excitement around 2U’s stock is that their addressable market is enormous.  
Bulls believe that 2U could expand to dozens if not hundreds of online programs.  We think this 
optimistic view is fundamentally flawed.  
 


There are two severe structural limitations on 2U’s addressable market: 
 


The first is that 2U goes after only “tier 1” institutions.  Current clients of 2U’s include highly 
regarded institutions such as USC, Yale, and NYU.  Unsurprisingly, these schools are highly 
protective of their brands.  While they may be willing to dabble in certain masters degrees that 
make sense for an online program, , it is highly unlikely they would ever open their brands up to 
online degrees for their “bread and butter” academic programs. 
 


For example, what are the odds that Yale is going to offer an online version of its coveted JD 
degree?  We reckon near zero. 
 


2U’s clients openly acknowledge the “stigma” associated with online degrees. Stigmas such as 
these are hard to shake.  The reality is, highly regarded institutions such as Yale are protectively
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 4 of 25 
 


paranoid to defend the perceived value of their institution's degree, and not have it degraded 
by association with commodity mills such as University of Phoenix.  
 


The inherent flaw of the 2U business model. 
 


2U is responsible for all of the financial risk associated with launching programs.  It fronts the 
capital costs, pays almost all of the ongoing infrastructure expenses, and is only paid on a 
success basis (65% of revenues).  If a program does not scale, 2U ends up in the hole.   
So the company is stuck in a precarious position.  If it signs up too many clients, it runs the risk 
of signing bad contracts and losing money because 2U is ultimately taking all the risk of 
enrolling students into its programs (the universities bear zero risk).  We think 2U has already 
started to fall into this trap as it goes after “brand name” institutions such as Yale, but as a 
result is entering into programs that are unlikely to ever scale to the levels of enrollment that 
would be required to actually generate healthy returns on a contract. 
 


Second of all, 2U faces a severe admissions selectivity problem when it goes out to find 
students to enroll into its programs.  In order to maintain brand perceptions associated with 
their programs, universities that partner with 2U claim that they will use the same admissions 
criteria for online degrees as they do for on-campus degrees.   
 


For example, according to Yale’s website, its on-campus PA program has an acceptance rate of 
around 3%.  The selections process for the program is highly rigorous, as evidenced by the 
academic statistics presented below: 


 
Source: Google 





It is crucial to remember that 2U itself is responsible for marketing and signing up students to 
enroll in its programs.  It foots the up-front capital costs of $5-10M (per management’s claims), 
and then is on the hook for actually enrolling students in its programs.  It is challenging enough 
to find students qualified enough to get into a program with a 3% acceptance rate.  We think it 
is even more challenging to go out and find students who are simultaneously QUALIFIED for 
acceptance but also PREFERENTIAL to an online degree.  The difficulty in the business model 
is described in this one chart
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 5 of 25 
 


The 2U Lead Gen Flaw in Chart Form 





The company's disclosures strengthen the case that 2U finds it is very costly to acquire students 
to take its programs.  We ran an analysis to arrive at 2U’s effective “student acquisition cost” 
based on numbers the company provides.  On its most recent earnings call, 2U indicated that it 
is hovering around a “Lifetime Value Relative to Acquisition Cost Number” of something in the 
3.2x range.  Based on our analysis, this implies the company is spending around $16,000 per 
student that signs up for a 2U program.  
 





Source: Our analysis / data from most recent earnings conference call (Aug 2015) 


Given the narrow funnel in hyper-selective programs, student acquisition costs could be 
significantly higher than the company’s current average for programs such as Yale and NYU.  
This obviously calls into question how 2U could ever make money on highly selective programs. 
  


Student Acquisition Cost Estimate


[A] Student Lifetime Value Divided by Acquisition Cost 3.2x


[B] Total Tuition Cost of an Average 2U Degree 80,000


[C] 2U's Revenue On An Average Degree (65% * [A]) 52,000


[C] / [A] = Implied Student Acquisition Cost 16,250
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 6 of 25 
 


The Yale Deal Is Economically Irrelevant and Resulted in an Irrational 
stock movement. 
 


 
Source: Bloomberg, Sportslogos.net 


The reason 2U peaked at over $1.5B valuation (currently ~$1.25B) is fairly simple.  It’s also 
completely irrational.   
 


The stock was relatively range bound following its IPO, with the stock trading up from $13/sh to 
$18/sh which is not out of the ordinary for a hot IPO that “beats” expectations. 
 


Then things got crazy.  2U came out in March 2015 and said that it had signed a deal with Yale 
to offer an online Physician’s Assistant program.  Investors went absolutely nuts over this deal.  
The stock was sitting at around $18/sh at the time, and promptly traded up on massive volume 
following the announcement of the Yale deal.  
 


Citron suggests that 2U investors did not follow the "saga" that followed announcement of the 
Yale deal.  If they had, we are pretty sure the stock would have retraced right back to $18/sh. 
 


First, following the announcement of an online program at Yale, students affiliated with the on-
campus PA program went ballistic – with the local school newspaper running opinion pieces 
slamming the decision to start an online program: 
 








"According to incoming PA student Lauren Prince MED ’17, had she known that 
her degree would likely be made available online, she would have chosen to 
matriculate at a different university. Like many other incoming students, she said 
she had no knowledge that plans were underway to make her degree available 
online. But Van Rhee said the University had to be discreet about the potential 
launch partly to guard against illegal financial behavior..” 


-- Source  Yale Daily News April 2, 2015 



http://content.sportslogos.net/logos/35/920/full/diwhagy63ahp2bnd5fti.png

http://yaledailynews.com/blog/2015/04/02/web-yheadline-here-191/
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 7 of 25 
 


Summary of Student Concerns from Bloggers 


 
Source: Doseofpa Blogspot 





YALE GETS A REJECTION LETTER 
 
Even more shocking is that in April 2015, the Yale PA program did not even get accreditation 
approval.  The school went to the accreditation committee and requested accreditation on the 
basis that the online program was a mere “class expansion” of the existing on-campus program.  
The Accreditation Review Commission on Education for the Physician Assistant denied Yale’s 
request for online accreditation: 
 



http://doseofpa.blogspot.com/2015/06/online-physician-assistant-programs.html
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 8 of 25 
 





Source: Yale Daily News 


The accreditation saga dragged out in the student paper and ended up being a 
public nuisance for Yale. 
 


Yale’s experience is likely to make other elite universities more “gun shy” about going out and 
signing up online degree programs.  Elite institutions such as Yale do NOT want to face the 
public embarrassment of accreditation denial. 
 


As of September 2015, the program had not yet received accreditation.  Yale had to re-jigger 
the application and re-apply for the program under a separate entity name that specifically 
spells out that it is an online program separate from the on-campus program.  Arguably, this is 
an implicit admission that the online degree is perceived “differently” than the on-campus 
degree.   
 


Assuming Yale is able to recover from this embarrassment, we run analysis below based on 
public information available from Yale’s website: 


Online PA program proposal rejected 
EMMA PLATOFF & AMAKA UCHEGBU APR 09, 2015 


STAFF REPORTERS 


The Yale School of Medicine’s recently announced online Physician 
Associate program was not approved as a mere “class expansion” to the 
existing program by the Accreditation Review Commission on Education 
for the Physician Assistant, which published its decision online last 
Thursday. 
 



http://yaledailynews.com/blog/2015/04/09/online-pa-program-proposal-rejected/

http://yaledailynews.com/blog/author/emmaplatoff/

http://yaledailynews.com/blog/author/amakauchegbu/
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 9 of 25 
 


 
Source: Yale PA Program 


It appears that investors missed that the Yale program is unlikely to scale to 
more than 50 students per year with only one cohort per year in the medium-
term.  This essentially renders the program almost irrelevant (perhaps 
generating $1-3M of annual EBITDA at maturity – and this is only IF you believe 
management’s margin targets – which we don’t).  Here is the simple math: 



http://www.paprogram.yale.edu/update.aspx
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 10 of 25 
 


 
Source: Our analysis 


2U’s valuation increased by over 800M since the announcement of Yale.  So any investor who 
bought this stock up following the Yale announcement has basically put a ~150x revenue 
multiple on Yale’s peak potential annual revenue and an ~420x multiple of peak potential 
annual EBITDA. 
 


The Business Model Simply Does Not Scale -- and it can be 
proved.   
 


Management has given fairly concrete guidance about its long-term objective for 2U’s business.  
Management has said that upfront it spends anywhere from $5-10M on a program for content 
creation, initial hiring needs, and initial lead gen needs.  We assume the low end of this figure in 
our analysis ($5M). 
 


Management also says that over time, 2U will ramp its EBITDA margins to the 35% range (see 
the 3Q 2015 Investor Relations presentation as well as commentary from earnings calls).  It also 
indicated that it’s most mature programs today are in the mid to high-20s EBITDA margin range 
(this is based on color provided on the May 2015 earnings call).   
 


For simplicity, in this analysis we assume that the corporate EBITDA margins are equivalent to 
the program EBITDA contribution margins (i.e. our analysis assumes central overhead is 
allocated to programs on a pro rata basis, and then to be fair does not burden the company 
with central overhead when arriving at our target price). 
 


Management has also been talking about the average program going forward of having around 
enrollment of ~650 on average.  We deduce the 650 figure based on a statistic quoted in a Wall 
Street initiating coverage report that states that 2U management expects annual revenue per 
average program to be in the $16.7M range (source: Robert W. Baird report).  Management has 
claimed that the reason for massive losses in the business today is that the ramp periods on 
program are greater than 5 years.  Management’s claim is that programs do not reach peak 
enrollment until several years out (we disagree with this assertion as we show below, but for 
the purposes of our DCF, we take management’s claim at face value). 
 


Scenario


Base High


Yale PA Program Cost (Total Tuition) 84 84


Average Duration 2.5 2.5


Annual Tuition 34 34


Students Accepted Per Year 50 150


Peak Enrollment 125 375


Implied Annual Tuition ($MM) 4 13


2U Take Rate 65% 65%


Implied 2U Annual Revenue from Yale Program at Maturity ($MM) 3 8


Contribution Margin (assuming Mgmt Guidance of 35% Margin) 1 3
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 11 of 25 
 


Management has said it earns 60-70% take rates (we’ll assume 65% at the midpoint) on tuition 
collected, and that an average program costs $80k over its average lifetime duration of 2.5 
years (implying annual tuition of 32k/yr).  We also acknowledge that education inflation has run 
well ahead of annual inflation, so assume tuition hikes of 4% in our DCF model. 
 


In the spirit of being “academic”, we decided to take a trip back to school and run a DCF model 
to calculate the present value of a 2U contract.  We also run a waterfall to make sure we are 
properly modeling cohorts – i.e. we assume a ramp period for enrollments in which growth is 
robust in the early years then eventually settles out.  
 


We are also using only a 10% discount rate – a rate that we view as being far too low given the 
inherent risks of these contracts.  As readers will see, the choice of discount rate is not 
particularly relevant given the anemic cash flows that are generated from the contract.  
 


Finally, given that average contract lengths are in the ~10 year range, we assume the last cohort 
worth of revenue generating students graduate in the 12th year.  In years 11/12 we ratchet 
expenses down (to express the program being in wind down mode). 
 


We do not assume any taxes in this model given that 2U’s NOL is likely to be in-place for the 
entirety of its history (a silver lining for a company with such huge operating losses).  
 


Based on those assumptions, this is the NPV of an average program: 


 
Source: Our analysis 


In other words, a contract with a 650 enrollment count (which mind you, would be a fairly 
large program) is worth around $8M in enterprise value.  Or, around 17 cents per share.  
Even if 2U were to be able get to 72 of these 650-enrollee contracts, the stock looks massively 
overvalued.  2U has 24 contracts today – many of which are not yet even active – and expects 
to add six contracts per year, meaning it would take around 8 years for it to have reached a goal 
of 72 total contracts.  So a tripling of contracts over the next 8 years would result in a DCF 
valuation for this business of only ~$576M (around $14 at best)
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 12 of 25 
 


We doubt the company ever executes 72 separate program contracts, but we develop this 
statistic to demonstrate how egregiously inflated the company’s current valuation is. 
 


Assuming an average enrollment figure of 650, you would need almost 200 contracts to justify 
the current valuation.  It would take almost three decades for the company to get the contracts 
required to justify the current valuation assuming 2U continues on its current pacing of six 
contracts per year. 
 





Let’s think about what a 650 peak enrollment figure means in terms of actual 2U contracts.  At 
peak, the Yale contract is currently capped at only ~125 peak enrollees (50 students per year 
with average duration of 2.5 years) and even  if Yale decides to blow the program size out, the 
Yale administration has promised to cap enrollment at ~375 total enrollees (150 admitted 
students per year).  So hitting a 650 average enrollment figures is not an easy task by any 
means. 
 


Even the USC contracts – the Masters in Social Work and Masters in Teaching – which currently 
represent ~45% of 2U revenues ($65M or so) are only worth ~$50-60M using the DCF analysis 
above.  There was clearly something special (and likely non-replicable) about those contracts 
given that the company has been around for almost 8 years now and still generates almost half 
of its revenues from them. 
 


While the next few pages might be ponderous in its detail, it is necessary to 
understand that Citron has combed through the economics of their 2U's 
contracts in detail to analyze if this business model has any viability. 
 


Bad Contracts – Not Ramp Periods –Causing Massive Losses 
 


In order to justify its losses, management spins the “SaaS” story using this claim:   
 


“We invest in the future so therefore have losses today.  Over time, our losses will abate because 
it takes a long time to ramp programs.  When programs are fully ramped, we’ll be making a lot 
more money.  So ignore our losses today”. 





Needless to say, we consider this version of the company's operations to be a fiction.  Our 
analysis suggests that the company’s current losses are primarily driven by a number of 
subscale / poorly performing new contracts.  In other words, new deals outside of 
USC/Georgetown appear to us to be losing a lot of money.
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 13 of 25 
 


We do not believe these losses are due to the programs being immature / ramping.  We found 
evidence that certain 2U programs reached a healthy level of enrollment in a very short time 
span which refutes the idea that new programs have long ramp periods.  Instead, we think the 
losses are due to many of the newer programs being fundamentally uneconomical, due to 2U 
having already penetrated the most lucrative portions of its addressable market. 
 


Here is a chart to wrap your head around the losses on new programs.  In 2014, USC and 
Georgetown (representing 3 of the company’s 15 programs at YE14 – see p20 of FY14 10K) 
were the company’s oldest and therefore most mature clients.  Combined, the two generated 
around 69% of 2014 revenue.   
 


On the May 2015 earnings call, the CFO of 2U indicated that the “most mature programs” were 
operating in the mid to high 20s EBITDA margin range.  Using those two data points, we can 
estimate what the EBITDA losses look like on the “immature” programs (the 12 other 
programs). 
 





Our analysis suggests that the 12 programs outside of USC/Georgetown were generating 
revenue of $34M in 2014, and EBITDA losses of the same magnitude.  To us, this suggests that 
either USC/Georgetown margins are not actually in the mid-20s, or that new programs are 
simply losing money ... a lot of money. 
 


The enrollment data refutes the theory that time/contract ramp vectors will cure these 
operating losses.  Testing the veracity of management’s claims around long ramp periods 
requires looking at how programs have done over time.  Management does not disclose 
enrollment on a per program basis, but the data is out there.  So we've pieced together data on 
this to answer a fundamental question – how long does it really take for a program to ramp?   
And are long ramp periods truly the cause of depressed earnings?  Or, are newer contracts 
simply subscale and uneconomic?
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 14 of 25 
 


Based on financial disclosures, the USC programs today represent ~45% of revenue (down from 
55% of revenues in 2014 based on our estimates) or ~$67M of revenues.  Those programs have 
been around since 2009-2010 and are therefore undeniably “ramped” in nature.  
 


Management is essentially pointing to these programs as being examples of “more mature” 
programs.  In numerous instances, management has alluded to the USC Social Work program as 
being the largest of all of its programs so using tuition data points that are publicly available 
(i.e. the Education and Social Work program websites) as well as some of our own assumptions, 
we arrive at the following enrollment sizing analysis of the USC program: 
 


 
Source: Our  analysis, Robert Baird initiating coverage report on 2U, and USC’s website 


Management says that it takes ~5-6 years to ramp to “USC” levels of enrollment (1k+ students), 
and that all of its programs will eventually get to these levels over a long period of time. 
 


But does it really take that long to know what programs “worked” 
versus “did not work”?   
 


Based on straightforward analysis of underlying programs, it appears that good programs ramp 
very quickly, and other programs end up just stuck in the mud in a subscale level of enrollment 
that is likely to prevent 2U from ever earning a healthy return on capital.  
  


$000s $MM $MM Actual #


Program Name Progarm Cost Duration Annual Tuition Total Revenues 2U Revs (65%) Implied Enrollment


USC Education 51,264 2.5 44 45 29 1,035


USC Social Work 98,000 2.3 28 58 38 2,071


103 67 3,106



https://rossieronline.usc.edu/admissions/tuition/

https://msw.usc.edu/admissions/tuition/
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 15 of 25 
 


Simmons University launched a nursing program in 2013 – just 2 years ago. We found an article 
online that suggests Simmons’ nursing program is already scaled to 1,000 students: 
 





 
Source: Boston Globe 


Pretty impressive ramp time right? Two years to get to 1,000 students – identical in size to what 
we estimate the USC Masters in Education to be. 
 


To continue testing our thesis, we found the enrollment data for UNC’s MPA program – a 
program also launched in 2013.  That program currently has 191 students enrolled – which, 
based on our DCF, would suggest the program is essentially generating little to no economic 
value: 


Simmons College’s painful choice to move MBA online 


By The Editorial Board   AUGUST 27, 2015 


In a decision that shocked many of its alumnae, Simmons College has decided to shutter its 
brick-and-mortar, women-only MBA program and offer the degree online only. At a time when 
there’s an urgent need for more women in business and tech, one could easily imagine a growing 
role for Simmons. Instead, dwindling enrollment and a less-than-lustrous financial picture 
weighed down the 40-year-old program, despite a distinctive niche and an impressive roster of 
alumnae. 
 


It’s a painful development straight out of a business school case study on disruptive technology 
and changing market conditions. Simmons officials hold that the transition to an online 
program, which takes effect next March, is essential in light of the challenging and highly 
competitive market for MBA students nationally. That’s attributable, in part, to the fact that 
many business schools are attempting to boost their own gender diversity and aggressively 
recruiting women. Simmons president Helen Drinan characterized the move as being part of a 
larger, longer-term strategy to strengthen the online offerings of the school’s graduate 
programs. This follows a successful launch of an online-only nursing master’s degree program 
two years ago — there are about 1,000 students enrolled in it now, Drinan says. But full-time 
enrollment in the MBA program has declined. According to data provided by the school, the 
number has decreased 38 percent since 2008. Currently, there are 105 students in the MBA 
program, both full-time and part-time. “From our point of view, the strength of the program 
can’t be sustained only on the part-time side,” says Drinan. “It’s not a good financial model.” 
 
Still, the decision caught alumnae by surprise, leaving many to wonder why the administration had 
not harnessed the power of the school’s far-flung network. Drinan has a ready response: “You can’t 
have your alumnae solving your enrollment problems.” 
 



https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/editorials/2015/08/26/simmons-college-painful-choice-move-mba-online/Ny1b7iSuaOkVw0WBW2OpNP/story.html
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 16 of 25 
 


 
Source: UNC 





Yet another program launched in 2013 was a Masters of Law at WashU.  While we couldn’t 
gather the current enrollment, we did find an article in which a representative of the program 
indicated the goal was to get to 100 students per year in the online program (assuming a ~2 
year duration that would imply around 200 total enrollees in the program at any given time).  
Based on our DCF analysis, this type of contract just does not make much economic sense given 
the $5-10M of upfront spend: 


 
Source: NY Times 


And what about more recent programs?  2U signed up a Masters in Data Science program with 
UC Berkeley.  It was launched in 2014 – so obviously it is earlier in its ramp period.  But 



https://onlinempa.unc.edu/admissions/mpaunc-class-profile/

http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/09/education/law-school-plans-to-offer-web-courses-for-masters.html?_r=4
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 17 of 25 
 


Simmons was already at 1,000 students two years into its launch according to press reports, 
and UNC’s MPA was already at 191 students two years into its launch.  So Berkeley should be at 
least half way to where UNC is today, right? 
 


 
Source: UC Berkeley 


Nope – wrong.  Total enrollment in the Berkeley program currently sits at merely 29 students.  
Even if enrollment picked up to 100 students over time, we find it hard to believe that 2U will 
ever make any amount of money in the Berkeley contract. 
 


Let’s do the quick math on this Berkeley program to get a sense for unit economics. 
 


This math is very rough but is generous from the perspective of 2U. 
 


The program tuition costs about $60k in total (about 2,200 per unit for 27 units).  We think the 
average duration is around 1.5 years.  So over a 10 year life cycle, roughly 6.7 cohorts will 
graduate through this program (10 years divided by 1.5 year average duration – rough, but 
approximately accurate). 
 


Those 6.7 cohorts will have 29 students graduate per cohort on average (in reality the number 
of students per cohort is likely smaller than 29, given that there were 2 cohorts captured in the 
29 figure in the article above, but we are being generous in our analysis) and each student will 
spend $60,000 per degree conferred.  TWOU will take 65% of the revenue generated. 
 



https://datascience.berkeley.edu/datascience-inaugural-immersion/

https://datascience.berkeley.edu/admissions/tuition-and-financial-aid/
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 18 of 25 
 


6.7 cohorts x 29 students/cohort x 60,000 revenue/student x 65% take rate = 7.6M of lifetime 
contract revenue. 
 


At a 35% contribution margin, that means that over the entire course of the contract, the 
program is worth about $2.6M in terms of contribution dollars to 2U (before upfront program 
spend). 
 


Assuming 2U spent the low end of its upfront investment guidance – only $5M – to launch 
this program, here's a program with an ROI of 0.52x (spending $5M to generate 2.6M of cash 
flow over a contract lifetime).  Said another way, 2U is losing money on this contract. 
 


In summary:  USC has one program with ~2,000 students, and one with ~1,000 students.  
Simmons has two-year old nursing program with ~1,000 students already.  But the UNC MPA, 
the WashU Masters in Law, and the Berkeley Data Science degrees all appear to be 80-90% 
smaller than the USC and Simmons programs despite being at least reasonably well ramped. 
 


So why is this happening?  Why is 2U getting stuck with very small programs?  The quote below 
from a Higher Ed journal article summarizes the problem: 
 





Simply put, 2U is subject to adverse selection bias in its contracts.  Universities are most likely 
to offload the programs that are most risky. 
 


If a university has a contract that is a home run, it is most likely to keep it in-house rather than 
pay out 60-70% of revenues to 2U.  At the end of the day, there is nothing particularly 
technologically advanced about bringing programs in-house.  As mentioned earlier in this 
article, one of the founders of 2U (John Katzman) left the company and is now coming up with 
ways to replicate 2U’s model in a more low-cost and capital efficient way that produces 
revenue shares that are half of 2U’s current take rates. 
 


If universities are sitting on a higher risk contracts (i.e. high risk that they can’t fill seats), they 
would much rather offload the risk to an outsourced provider than keep it in-house. 
 


Bulls will then ask the obvious question - why would Simmons College be willing to give up a 
lucrative nursing program to 2U (1,000 students is a good sized program)? 
 


Simple – because Simmons likely negotiated the nursing contract as part of a broader deal in 
which 2U agreed to take on 5 other online degrees that 2U would have never wanted to 
execute on an individual basis due to light enrollment expectations.  This program is referred to 
as "Simmons Enterprise". 
  


Kenneth Hartman, who analyzes online learning for Eduventures, had a more 
anecdotal example. He described a recent discussion with a college administrator 
contemplating going online for the first time and having no infrastructure in place 
to do so. “Someone has to take on the risk of starting a new program, and I can 
guarantee you, this institution, like a lot of them, is not going to want to take on 
that risk. He doesn’t have that money lying around.” 
  


-- Source: Inside Higher Ed    April 9, 2015 



https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2015/04/09/serial-entrepreneur-aims-reboot-online-learning-enabler-market
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 19 of 25 
 


For example, 2U also signed up the Simmons online MBA around the same time as the nursing 
program.  According to the Boston Globe article cited above, Simmons had only 105 students in 
its bricks & mortar MBA program prior to converting it to a purely digital program and 
outsourcing it to 2U.  Therefore, the Simmons MBA program appears to be a rather small, high 
risk program.  So even in instances in which 2U appears to be “getting a good deal” – i.e. getting 
the lucrative Simmons nursing program – it is also getting saddled with a hidden “risky deal” 
payload (e.g. the Simmons MBA). 
 


Addressable Market Is Limited by Contractual 
Exclusivity Arrangements 
 


It is Citron's opinion that the addressable market 2U can go after is far smaller than the market 
currently credits them for.  We furthermore believe that 2U is severely constrained by 
contractual exclusivity arrangements that limit the company’s ability to freely add programs 
that may encroach on the competitive turf of existing programs. 
 


The exclusivity arrangements make plenty of sense.  If you are the Admissions Dean at USC, you 
would be perturbed if 2U started offering a competing program for UCLA.  UCLA is down the 
street from USC, is probably seen as directly competitive with USC, and goes after a similar 
candidate pool to USC.   
 


Our research also suggests that there is a strong regional bias in the student university selection 
process even for online programs (i.e. students in California are more likely to want to take an 
online degree in California rather than in New York City).  The CEO of 2U even said that there is 
a “distinct regional effect to all of Higher Ed” on his August 2014 earnings call in regards to this 
phenomenon.   
 


Therefore, universities are unlikely to freely allow 2U to sign up a regional competitor, creating 
some degree of “regional exclusivity” in the model.  This regional exclusivity, combined with 
2U’s focus on top-tier institutions, constrains its ability to expand beyond 2-3 programs per 
vertical – a metric it is already bumping up against in some of its most lucrative verticals – 
nursing, MBAs, and social work. 
  


Rather than speculate on the issues these potential exclusivity arrangements could cause for 
2U’s growth, we will let the company’s 10-K disclosures speak for themselves:
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 20 of 25 
 


  10-K Exclusivity Disclosures Straight From 2 U's 10-K's  





So 2U’s TAM (total addressable market) is likely to be limited and governed by its existing 
clients.   
 


As 2U notes in its 10K risk factors section, it historically entered exclusivity arrangements with 
its early university clients that limited its ability to partner with other schools on the same 
program.  The logic of these agreements from the perspective of universities is sound.  There is 
an inherent conflict of interest whenever you have multiple programs offered under the same 
vertical, particularly from a student acquisition perspective.   However, 2U has renegotiated 
some of its contracts to get out of exclusivity arrangements in order to bring on partners under 
the same vertical.   
 


The market has applauded the expansion into secondary and tertiary programs because the 
Street views this “horizontal expansion” as a sign that 2U’s TAM has grown.  The Street also 
views this expansion as being potentially accretive to margins.  From the Street’s perspective, 


We have agreed to incur, and we may incur in the future, costs to terminate the exclusivity obligations in some 


of our client contracts. 


        Some of our client contracts, particularly our earliest contracts, limit our ability to enable competitive 


programs with other schools. We have determined that enabling one or more of these contractually prohibited 


competitive programs is desirable within our business strategy. As a result, we have agreed with certain clients to 


incur costs to eliminate some or all of the exclusivity obligations in their contracts with us. We have also agreed 


with one client to invest up to agreed upon levels in marketing to achieve specified program performance. 


        We may determine in the future that enabling additional contractually prohibited competitive programs is 


desirable, and we may therefore agree with additional clients to incur costs to reduce or eliminate the exclusivity 


obligations contained in their contracts with us. 


        If the competitive programs we ultimately enable fail to reach scale or cannot be scaled at a reasonable cost, 


or if we need to incur costs to prevent the original client programs from suffering as a result of our offering 


competitive programs, our ability to grow our business and achieve profitability would be impaired. 


Our clients may disagree with our decision to offer competitive programs pursuant to the contracts we have 


with them. 


        Our contracts with our clients include terms addressing the parties' respective rights to offer competitive 


programs. For example, some of our contracts permit us to offer competitive programs with other schools whose 


potential students are not academically qualified or otherwise interested in the program we offer with that client. 


Some of our other contracts prohibit us from offering competitive programs with specific schools. In addition, any 


contract limitations on our ability to offer competitive programs are inapplicable if our client either refuses to 
scale the program to accommodate all students qualifying for admission into the program, or raises the program 


admissions standards above those described in the contract at the time it was executed. If we elect to offer 


competitive programs in reliance on these contractual provisions, our clients may disagree with our interpretation 


of those provisions or with our interpretation of the facts surrounding our decision to offer a competitive program. 


Any disagreement with our clients over our decision to offer competitive programs could result in claims for 


breach of contract and equitable relief, and could cause damage to our reputation and impair our ability to grow 


our business and achieve profitability. 


-- P 23of 2 U, 10-K filed Feb 26, 2015
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 21 of 25 
 


margins should be better on secondary/tertiary contracts because 2U should theoretically get 
leverage on its lead generation spend (2U should be able to use leads from School A in order to 
funnel students to School B).   
 


In our view, this line of reasoning is flawed.  First, 2U has already pulled the secondary/tertiary 
lever within its largest (and most lucrative) verticals.  The verticals that have had the most 
historical enrollment potential are:  1) Nursing 2) Social Work 3) MBA and 4) Education.  2U has 
already pulled the “horizontal expansion” lever on every one of those verticals except 
Education (the company indicates on p13 of its FY2014 10K that it is under some exclusivity 
clauses on its USC programs that may prevent it from launching programs for competing 
schools).  
   





Second, university partners likely understand that these secondary and tertiary contracts come 
with better economics and lower upfront costs to 2U.  Therefore, one could reasonably expect 
that 2U should see pricing pressure or contract modifications as part of negotiations over 
secondary/tertiary contracts, and also potentially in the renewal process for primary contracts.  
There is precedent for renegotiations surrounding exclusivity.  According to the company’s 10-
K, UNC was able to extract monetary consideration from 2U in exchange for releasing 2U from 
an exclusivity arrangement on its MBA program.   
 





Generally, 2U is likely to always find itself in a precarious negotiating position with its university 
partners.  A university can certainly force action on a contract, but it is hard to imagine any 
online education enabler being willing to sue a university over breach of contract given the 
reputational risks associated with such a move. 
 


Competition is Intense 
 


Given 2U’s niche focus, it goes without saying that the company is far from being a “category 
killer” that should demand a premium valuation.  In fact, there are literally dozens of 
competitors in the online tech enabler space.  The competitive grid is laid out below: 


In addition, in February 2015, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill's Kenan-Flagler Business School, 


which is our third client, elected as part of a broader amendment to their existing contract, to extend the initial 


term of that agreement for an additional 10 years. As part of this amendment, Kenan-Flagler also agreed to 


eliminate the majority of the exclusivity obligations contained in the original agreement with regard to our 


offering of competitive programs with other schools. We provided economic consideration to Kenan-Flagler as a 
part of this amendment, including agreeing to invest up to agreed upon levels in marketing the program, though 


the contractually specified revenue share percentage in the original agreement remained the same. With this 


amendment, Kenan-Flagler's contract with us now extends to 2030. 


-- P 4 - 5 of 2 U, 10-K filed Feb 26, 2015
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 22 of 25 
 


 
Source: Inside Higher Ed 


The most telling sign that this is a low barrier to entry industry is that 2U doesn’t even appear 
to have exclusivity with its largest partner USC.  We found an article claiming that Embanet 
powers USC’s Master of Public Administration program. 
 


 
Source: Businesswire 





Our research turned up a USC online Masters in Engineering program. We called the school to 
ask who powers the program and were stunned to find it is executed in-house.   
  


Therefore, not only is 2U competing against the Embanet’s of the world, but it is also 
competing against its very own clients.  



https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2015/04/09/serial-entrepreneur-aims-reboot-online-learning-enabler-market

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20101006006797/en/USC-Partners-Embanet-Launch-Online-Master-Public#.VgsaAvlVhBc

https://gapp.usc.edu/den/programs
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 23 of 25 
 


  Summarizing Valuation 


Citron hopes readers making it this far will not have their heads in the “Cloud” and still be foggy 
about 2U's dismal financial prospects. 
 


Assuming the company scales to 48 contracts from 24 today (i.e. doubling its contract count -- 
highly unlikely in our view, given the TAM issues we identified above) with an average of 650 
students per contract, this business would be worth around $384M in 2020 (at that time some 
of these contracts still will not be ramped, but we’ll be generous in our valuation approach).  
Discounting that back by 10% to today gets you to a present value of the 48 contracts of around 
~$230M.  Adding in the cash currently on the balance sheet ($180M pro forma for the capital 
raise) gets you to an equity value for the firm of ~$410M, which implies: 








~67% downside from the stock’s current levels. 
We note that in order to actually get to 48 contracts, the company may actually need to raise 
more capital, but we believe that the $180M of cash on the balance sheet should be sufficient 
to allow the company to get near its goal of 48 contracts assuming $5-10M of spend per new 
partner. 
 


Even upholding the myth that 2U is indeed a SaaS company, the valuation of the company is 
still totally out of whack. 
 


For our Hail Mary, we gave it the old college try, trying identify some thread-thin rationale to 
justify a valuation for 2U.  Here's a simple comparison of price-to-sales ratios for actual SaaS 
companies, and other nosebleed-high software names comparing their LTM revenue growth 
rates to TWOU. 
   


Current Contracts 24


Contracts Per year 6


New Contracts Signed by YE 2020 24


Total Contracts in 2020 48


Average DCF Value Per Contract 8


Value of all Contracts in 2020 384


Discount Rate 10%


Duration to Discount Back 5.3


Value of Contracts in Today's Terms 233


Plus Cash on Hand (adj for 2ndary) 180


Total Enterprise Value Today 413


Implied Value Per Share 8.8


% Downside (75%)
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 24 of 25 
 


 
Source: Our  Analysis.  Bloomberg/Capital iQ.  


Uses NTM price to sales (pulled as of 9/25/15) and  
uses LTM (most recently reported period) revenue growth. 


If you are desperately seeking SaaS exposure, why buy 2U for 10x 2015E sales (growing revenue 
at 34% in the LTM period) when you could buy Workday (WDAY) – a “best in class” SaaS name – 
for the same valuation despite it having LTM revenue growth of 58%! 


-- Source: Bloomberg 


Prior to the secondary, with the company sitting on almost ~$88M of cash and supposedly 
having so many of its programs ramping to profitability in the next few years we ask one simple 
question: 
 


    Why did 2U need to raise $100M of “growth 


capital” in a very recent secondary offering?       
 


The company was supposedly going to be EBITDA positive by 2017 – and $88M of cash on the 
balance sheet should have been enough money to launch anywhere from 8-16 programs…This 
should have been more than enough cash to support the company’s ambitious plans for 6 
program launches per year and should have been more than enough to carry the company 
through 2017 when management has said it will start generating cash flow. 
  


All of this leads us to believe that 2U could miss 2016 EBITDA estimates, and is furthermore 
unlikely to hit its 2017 goals of getting to EBITDA breakeven levels.  If it continues signing up 
sub-scale contracts, we have a hard time seeing how this company will ever attain profitability.   
 


There has been M&A activity in the space, so we think we would be doing a disservice to 
readers by not calling out precedent M&A transactions.  Even on a strategic takeout basis, 2U 
looks highly overvalued.  Pearson paid 14x EBITDA for Embanet Compass ($650M TEV) and 



http://content.rwbaird.com/RWB/Content/PDF/News/Baird-European-Education-Report-21Oc2014.pdf
Citron Reports on TWOU  October 12, 2015 Page 25 of 25 
 


Wiley paid 4x trailing revenues for Deltak.  Both comps point to substantial downside for 2U 
from current levels. 
 


So, if after reading this note you continue to think of 2U as a “Cloud” business, just remember: 


Not every “Cloud” has a silver lining.  Sometimes it's just a storm.   
 
 


   Conclusion 
 


U 2: Give it an "F" in investability.  
 


   Cautious Investing to All 



http://techcrunch.com/2012/10/03/wiley-buys-deltak/
