5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer
Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences
Apr. 10, 2014 9:30 AM ET17 comments
by: Suhail Capital


Summary


A recent multiple territory top 20 Pharma CRM competitive displacement is further
evidence of major cracks in an already well documented overhyped story.


Publicly available feedback indicates customer satisfaction, much like Veeva's TAM,
is also overstated.


All the events around this IPO raise serious questions regarding timing and
adequacy of disclosures, omissions of material risks, and serious Chinese wall
related conflicts on Wall Street.


Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB
Markets Research, and Strange Coincidences


If recent actions are any indicator, it appears everyone involved with the Veeva
(NYSE:VEEV) IPO simply has decided the time has come to drop CRM and move onto
Veeva's other new and exciting product lines. Basically, let's just forget the debate around
the 95% of revenue business and focus on the less than 5% stuff. Granted we don't think
any of the institutions that are long this stock realized they were going to become venture
capitalists overnight, but that appears to be what Veeva's underwriters want them to do.
Anyway, with that in mind, here is some real 'research' for investors in Veeva.


Veeva Top 20 Competitive Displacement 2.0


Our initial Veeva short thesis centered around the finite and shrinking nature of the life
sciences CRM market. We concluded that the stock was a great short even if Veeva could
eventually capture every seat in the top 50. However, as is often the case, we quickly
realized that our LS CRM landslide assumption was a little too presumptuous on our part.
When we discovered the Roche/Genentech SFDC customization move (material news
which Veeva did not feel compelled to share until we broke it here on Seeking Alpha), we
quickly concluded that there would be some top 50 pharma CRM seats that would never
be available to Veeva. This realization led us to map out the entire top 50 by sales rep
count, geography, and CRM vendor. After which we developed a very firm grasp of the
competitive environment in the LS CRM space. We discovered the pharmas who had



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1945341-veevas-1-biopharma-customer-crm-contract-loss-a-red-flag-like-no-other
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


passed on Veeva for the longest time, and also learned more about their IT vendor
relationships. We also came across examples of split geographies (Merck deploying
Oracle in 40 countries despite already being on Veeva is one of those) as well as some
head-to-head losses against Cegedim for business you'd expect Veeva to win. Suffice to
say we quickly discovered this was a much more competitive market than originally
thought. The only thing we did not come across in this process was an example of top 50
pharma deploying Veeva CRM, and then choosing to turn around replace it with a
competitor's solution (non-custom sfdc build). Not exactly surprising as Veeva has been in
a land grab phase, but then again not exactly inconceivable with 1-year contracts and a
very competitive market. Well, that is no longer the case. As you can see from the below
screen shot, Interactive Medica has recently displaced a Veeva system in multiple
territories of a top 20 pharma.


Suffice to say when we discovered this we were pretty shocked. The top 20 displacement
element was more than enough to catch our eye, but the fact that the displacement was to
a smaller competitor was even more surprising. Veeva is clearly a lot more vulnerable
than we initially thought.


This is also interesting because Veeva's CEO has repeatedly said:


"Customer dissatisfaction is my opportunity."-Veeva CEO



http://www.interactivemedica.com/

http://www.forbes.com/sites/tomtaulli/2013/10/16/veeva-ceo-customer-dissatisfaction-is-my-opportunity/

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/19147561_13970601604232_rId8.png
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Well, it would appear that in this case the exact opposite is true. Customer dissatisfaction
is now clearly Veeva's competitors' opportunity.


Customer Dissatisfaction


Veeva is no longer the young upstart in this space, even if they still want to market
themselves in that way from a PR perspective. They are now the big dog/evil empire that
everyone will be coming after, and the IT provider pharma reps seemingly love to hate.


To fully grasp this shift you need to simply spend some time on Cafepharma.com and read
some of the Veeva related threads in the boards of the top 20 pharma companies.


One that jumps out is the rather blunt Bohringer Ingelheim 'Veeva Sucks' thread. This
thread started in July of 2013 and is still going strong with the total posts now up to 70.


07-12-2013, 10:13 PM


Anonymous  Posts:


n/a


Re: Veeva Sucks


I agree!! I never thought I would say this but I miss Vista!


09-10-2013, 09:28 PM


Anonymous  Posts:


n/a



http://www.cafepharma.com/boards/showthread.php?t=535291&highlight=veeva
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Re: Veeva Sucks


Quote:


Originally Posted by Anonymous


I'm not from BI, but have great empathy for these troubles. Guess how many other companies


have Veeva? Plenty. All those comments and complaints have probably already been sent in


many times over. We even did a special fly away launch meeting just for Veeva, where they tried


to make us feel special and that Veeva and salesforce.com was really focused on us. Biggest


bunch of crap ever. I've decided each time these companies "upgrade" and spend huge amounts


of money on new software and ipads, it's just more micromanagement. They'll always say it's


about better customer service and results, but it isn't. They also always say the best reps want the


best equipment --- as if it's for us!


You're right. They claim Veeva makes us more "customer-centric." How? By re-packaging the same


presentations we used to have on paper? By making it harder to find a doc's prescribing patterns?


No, they now can tell, if they want to take the time to find out, how long you spent on each screen,


how long was the time between the presentations and the signature, and probably tons of other stuff


we can't even begin to imagine. Bells and whistles, that's all.


03-27-2014, 11:33 AM


Anonymous  Posts:


n/a


Re: Veeva Sucks


I only use this when my manager is with me. Every time I take it out I cringe. Not only is it


embarrassing but horrible technology and has 0 value.


I would even say that it decreases value since docs hate it and half of them find it ridiculous. The


other half are more interested in asking questions about the technology than listening to our


messages. Either way its a no win situation. Who was responsible for bringing this here? Sales,


Marketing, training?
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences





And then you have comments like these on a recent Bayer thread


03-31-2014, 12:31 PM


Anonymous  Posts:


n/a


Re: Why did JA in PA leave WH division


Quote:


Originally Posted by Anonymous


The BD reps had a lot to be disgruntled about. As you can see, some still post here and what


happened to them happened a year ago with writing on the wall that started one year before that.


We lost excellent people. It was terrible.  


The WH division does not look remotely similar to that anymore. The pay is now higher and the


products are moving in a different direction. The sales model will change. It takes this company a


long time to get anything done. Good luck. I hope they toss Veeva soon. Its non-usable.


They keep saying the sales model has changed, but nothing has really changed. Yes, higher target


bonus, but that means nothing with crazy quotas. It's the same old big pharma crap. All these spread


sheets, BS LIFT program, Veeva, etc., just proves that. They are quickly driving Essure into the


ground. And as soon as Levosert launches, Mirena and Skyla will be old news.


#17


03-31-2014, 08:05 PM


Anonymous  Posts:


n/a



http://www.cafepharma.com/boards/showthread.php?t=554434&highlight=veeva
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Re: Why did JA in PA leave WH division


Quote:


Originally Posted by Anonymous


They keep saying the sales model has changed, but nothing has really changed. Yes, higher


target bonus, but that means nothing with crazy quotas. It's the same old big pharma crap. All


these spread sheets, BS LIFT program, Veeva, etc., just proves that. They are quickly driving


Essure into the ground. And as soon as Levosert launches, Mirena and Skyla will be old news.


If you have not perceived change, my guess is you have a Legacy Bayer manager. I have not once


been asked to fill out a spreadsheet. I no longer have a call R&F goal. I call on accounts and not


individuals. I will continue to pound them with feedback that Veeva is a joke and completely


inaccurate. It will take time but I am confident that is next to change. What is your day like? Sounds


like it sucks. This job depends entirely on your manager.


For those looking for more of this rep sounding off, there is the Eli Lilly thread titled, "New
CRM System- Is this how we feel?". This thread was started in response to an award Eli
Lilly won from Information Week for their move to Veeva CRM. Clearly the field is not
nearly as happy with Veeva or the Ipad as the IT world is. There are plenty more of these
tidbits online, but heaven forbid someone researching this would actually go out and look
for rep feedback to assess customer satisfaction or the 'airtight' nature of Veeva's CRM
story.And then you have comments like these on a recent Bayer thread


Anyway, you get our point. There may be a lot of consultants and CIO's who are happy
with Veeva, but the picture from the sales rep end is not nearly as rosy. Some of this is
probably a blowback as reps resist change, but when you consider how current these
threads are and the fact that these people are actually going online to vent about this,
well, a decision to switch off of Veeva to a smaller competitor no longer seems like such a
shocker.


Deutsche Bank Markets Research on Veeva


It is now pretty clear that Veeva's underwriters are working overtime to shift the
conversation over Veeva to Vault and Networks potential. We admire their efforts, but as
has been the case along their execution leaves much to be desired.


From the first page of DB'S new Veeva note:



http://www.cafepharma.com/boards/showthread.php?t=554728&highlight=veeva

http://www.cafepharma.com/boards/showthread.php?t=554434&highlight=veeva
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Reaffirm BUY Rating and Lowering PT to $34


Veeva shares are now 53% below their $46 peak and are down by ~35% since the high-
valuation software started rolling over in early March. At $280m our conservative FY15
revenue estimate and $63.2m estimated FCF, Veeva shares seem reasonably priced at
8.5x 2015 sales/ 33x FCF, given the growth profile (79% y/y subscription billings growth in
4QF14), although we're lowering our PT to $34 (13x FY15 revenues) given the re-rating of
the broader peer group.


Usually we need to read at least a few pages before some glaring error or faulty analysis
jumps out at us, but DB managed to accomplish this task by page one. The statement
that,


" Veeva shares seem reasonably priced at 8.5x 2015 sales/33x FCF, given the growth
profile (79% y/y subscription billings growth in 4QF14), although we're lowering our PT to
$34 (13x FY15 revenues) given the re-rating of the broader peer group"


was just too much to ignore. Although we will point out, it is just about the first time we
have agreed with any of the Veeva analysts on something. Yes we do concur; Veeva
shares would seem more reasonably priced at 8.5x 2015 sales.


The only problem with that statement is that such a valuation is appx 30% below
where Veeva is currently trading!


Based on DB's $280 million estimate Veeva is actually trading at 12x FY2015 estimated
sales. Of course you can figure this error out by page 2 of their report (as they are clearly
using a 145mln share count), but why bother with proof reading when you are trying to
spin your way out of a mess. At their $34 price target, Veeva would trade at 17.6x FY2015
estimated sales and not 13x.


But for those looking for a more reasonably valued tech stock, we suggest comparing
Veeva to Linkedin (LNKD). With 25% adj EBITDA margins and a forecast consensus top-
line of 38.4% for 2014, Linkedin currently trades at 8.9x forward EV/Sales. This is pretty
shocking considering managment makes Veeva Crm's future sound something more like
the Linkedin of Pharma. What credible investor wouldn't rather own Linkedin's propreitary
global scalable platform over Veeva's value added reseller driven model at this current
disparity. Veeva, with its 26% adj EBITDA margins and forecast 30% top-line growth rate,
should be trading at a meaningful discount to Linkedin instead of its current signficant
premium, no questions asked.


Of course basic math and valuation mistakes are not the only problem here.
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Two other things that caught our eye


1. Vault TAM- They put this at $1.5 billion which we guess is an accomplishment for us
even if it is still way off, but their logic here is quite amusing. They found multiple
sources that put the TAM below a $1 billion, and one source that put it at $1.5 billion.
So what TAM do they use? The $1.5 billion one of course. Forget the fact that we have
spoken to a over a dozen people in this space and still not found a single one that
would say LS ECM is at least $1 billion. We also found DB's comments regarding
Nextdocs being 20% penetrated in the top 200 pharma interesting from a TAM
perspective considering our research indicates their revenues are less than $50
million. Also, as has been the case with everything else, we got no comments
addressing material points we have raised regarding Vault TAM in multiple reports.


2. Oracle could acquire Veeva-


"Likewise, this made us wonder if Oracle will eventually put Veeva on its acquisition target
list, as a means to scale its cloud suite, compete more effectively against SFDC in the
cloud CRM space, and augment its Phase Forward CTMS system (acquired in 2010) that
competes with Medidata." DB on Veev, April 7, 2014(pg 7)


This quote left us wondering whether these analysts understand anything at all about this
space. We'd really like to know what Oracle would be buying here? A company that
derives 95% of its revenue being a value added re-seller on the Force.com platform. If
Larry Ellison has constantly taken shots at SFDC being nothing more than a thin layer on
top of Oracle, what exactly do you think his opinion of a contractually obligated SFDC
Force.com value added re-seller would be? If Oracle wants to make a move here they
won't waste their time with Veeva, they will simply buy SFDC. Because at this point buying
Veeva does nothing as it immediately turns SFDC into a direct competitor. A critical
component of the SFDC relationship with Veeva is about being able to sell their other
services into these platform customers. On the other hand we will give DB credit for
acknowledging that Medidata (NASDAQ:MDSO) might become a Vault competitor soon.
Considering their penetration into clinical cloud and the cash on hand, we don't think it will
be long before they make a push into Veeva's turf to quell what we can imagine will soon
be questions regarding the penetration of their TAM.


Honestly, this report is simply embarrassing. Careless valuation errors (not the first time
from DB as we still firmly believe they are the main culprits behind this TAM debacle with
their Cegedim math mistakes) and faulty analysis are bad enough, but to have this



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MDSO
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


happen when you clearly know your work is going to be put under the microscope is
simply inexcusable. If we were Veeva, we'd kindly ask these analysts to stop
publishing on us as they are doing more bad than good.


Strange IPO Coincidences


1. Veeva's IPO was timed to coincide with significant penetration in the CRM market and
a large decline in their revenue growth rate.


2. The IPO was also timed to directly precede a material and quite unfavorable
modification of the Salesforce.com contract.


3. Throughout the entire offering period and up until we called attention to it, Veeva
happily promoted Genentech as a customer on their website. This was despite the fact
that they had ceased being a customer as of July 31, 2013. Furthermore, their S-1
included ZERO disclosures regarding the risks of losing pharma customers to custom
built solutions on the SFDC force.com platform. A risk that is quite material for a value
added reseller that derives 95% of its revenue from a product built on top of this
platform, and one they clearly were already aware of.


4. Insiders have published multiple articles in the media that compare Veeva's vertically
focused SAAS business to horizontal SAAS models without clarifying that Veeva is not
a pure vertical. To say that verticals are the new horizontals is extremely misleading
when said vertical is entirely dependent on a re-seller agreement with the worlds
leading cloud based horizontal CRM provider. "Hey, our model is far superior to that of
horizontal SAAS players as long as the leading horizontal allows us to use their
infrastructure, IP, and established credibility to build our entire business."


5. The underwriters waived Veeva's lock-up restrictions to allow for a secondary a mere
few weeks before the lock-up was set to expire. Two days after this secondary closed
SFDC announced their new vertical focused strategy (Todd Pierce, the former
Genentech CIO, will be heading up their Life Sciences/Healthcare Vertical). The
underwriters collected $11+ million in fees for this work.


Does this all strike you as a coincidence?


If you answered yes, you have a bright future as a sells-side analyst covering Veeva.
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


DISCLAIMER


Suhail Capital Limited is an exempted company registered in the Cayman Islands
("Suhail Capital") is an investment advisor to funds that actively participate in the
buying and selling securities and other financial instruments.


You should assume that as of the publication date of this report, Suhail Capital
(possibly along with or through our partners, affiliates, employees, and/or
consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or
investors has a short position in Veeva Systems Inc. "Veeva" (and/or options,
swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock), and therefore stands to realize
significant gains in the event that the price of Veeva should decline. You should
also assume that as of the publication date of this report, Suhail Capital (possibly
along with or through our partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along
with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors has a long
position in Salesforce.com, Cegedim and any other publicly listed company in this
report (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to these stocks) , and
therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of
Salesforce.com, Cegedim or any other company listed should increase.


Suhail Capital strongly recommends that you do your own due diligence before
buying or selling any of the securities mentioned in this report.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/19147561_13970601604232_rId24.png
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Comments (17)


We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered in this report
for an indefinite period after its publication, and we may be long, short, or neutral at
any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.


This report expresses our opinion, which we have based upon generally available
information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due diligence
and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information
contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public
sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any
fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is
presented "as-is," without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Suhail
Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness,
or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be
obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without
notice, and Suhail Capital does not undertake to update or supplement this report
or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in it.


Please refer to the below link for our Term of Use applicable to this report and any
other publication issued by Suhail Capital:


http://www.suhailcapital.com/#!terms-of-use/cgpu


Disclosure: I am short VEEV. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: LONG CGMJF, CRM, LNKD


 Like this article


Value Bulldog, Contributor
Far be it from me to defend jackass sell-side analysts who promote crap like VEEV, but I should point out that I think
DB is talking about CALENDAR 2015 (or Fiscal 2016) when they give the 8.5x EV/revenue number. The analyst is
probably doing this so investors can make an easy comp to other SW companies with normal fiscal year ends. I see
this mistake confusing people from time to time on VEEV. At any rate, only by recent bubble logic is even 8.5x next
year's sales a "reasonable" multiple.



http://www.suhailcapital.com/

https://seekingalpha.com/author/value-bulldog
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Other than that great work on VEEV in general and figuring out that Interactive Medica had bagged a top 20
displacement. I had heard from some industry contacts that VEEV was actually weak in multichannel CRM and some
smaller vendors were doing a better job there. I have also heard that VEEV is not as good of a solution in international
(especially emerging) markets because it is really designed for an iPad and in many other countries they would rather
their reps work from Android smartphones. Thus I doubt they will get the same level of success even in the
international divisions of their existing top customers as they have in the U.S.


10 Apr 2014, 10:25 AM


Suhail Capital, Contributor
Author’s reply »  We thought that too. It's very clear that this is not the case. They actually just screwed up all
the math.


10 Apr 2014, 02:56 PM


Value Bulldog, Contributor
I should also disclose that I am short.


10 Apr 2014, 11:00 AM


MarkAlpha33
Todd Whites job now is to grow the life sciences business at Salesforce will be compensated on how he grows that
business, longs on this stock need to think about how he will go about his daily job. Coming from Genentech who left
Veeva this makes things very interesting on the competitive front.


His pitch will be something like this


“Hey Pfizer… I saved Roche $15-20M a year for building on salesforce, plus you get better customized functionality,
we did it with Genetech/Roche its worked out great here is their testimony, integrates better with our other cloud
offerings, specific apps you want to build for employees… we are a much more financially independent company….
We aren’t at risk financially if Veeva and its new ventures fail etc……. the world is getting more customized……do you
want a competitive advantage over your clients with a customized platform on Salesforce or to use the same CRM
software as everyone in Pharma…even the companies with $100MM in revenue…..” 


10 Apr 2014, 05:06 PM


ktrader5
I would love to hear more about this "top 20 displacement". You seem to have the inside info on everything Veeva (I
viewed your quickly splapped-together Wix website, registered shortly before the Veeva IPO, with NO other
information other than about Veeva), so why not be honest and present to us some actual data here.


We all know that "Interactive Medica has recently (2014) displaced a Veeva system in multiple territories of a Top 20
Pharma company." could mean nothing more than replacing a few zip codes with a couple of users.


This is nothing more than a small competitor trying to use a tiny piece of, well, nothing, in their marketing materials.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/suhail-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/author/value-bulldog

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18662352

https://seekingalpha.com/user/76787
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Same with cafe pharma. Every post is anonymous, and therefore could be just someone who consistently focuses a
full 100% percent of their time attempting to reduce the positive view of Veeva has for their own gain.


10 Apr 2014, 05:20 PM


Suhail Capital, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Our research has been as consistent as can be. We'd be content to have simply published
one report, and moved on. However, the problem with that is there is a mountain of misinformation here, and
the other side(namely the sell-side) doesn't believe in ever admitting they are wrong or completely distorting
the truth.


What Veeva accomplished up until now is amazing. That being said, they have seriously diminished that by
playing along with wall street to ridiculously oversell their story. Their TAM is off by a mile, and everyone
knows it. The lack of transparency after six months being public speaks for itself.


You are correct though we are one small little firm, and on the other side of this trade are six investment
banks with ample distribution. They seem quite content to skirt around all the material points we have raised.
And if you don't think a small firm taking some 'zip codes' off veeva is news when managment keeps talking
about getting to 70%, well, you are out of touch with the market. Reality is everything you ever needed to
know of material nature was in our two main reports. And yes, all these posts on cafepharma could be some
elaborate scheme to reduce the positive view of veeva. But if you read these posts you can quickly conclude
that is not the case as the time horizon, and general focus(veeva comes up as a side bar often with other
issues) of most of the threads doesn't support that. To be frank, to be crticzied in this way is probably a good
thing as it shows just how succesfull they have been. But like we said, at the same time it shows there is
vulnerability here and our guess is competitors will continue to focus on it.


10 Apr 2014, 06:35 PM


ktrader5
Suhail,


I am simply wondering why a firm, such as yours, would dedicate 100% of their research efforts on a single
company, Veeva in this case (again, your website was thrown together shortly before VEEV went public, and
there is NOTHING else written about any other firm). One would think that, once you have determined that it
is a poor investment, you would move on looking for other ones that might be worth your while.


Unless you are simply here as someone who dedicates all his time, altruistically, to help others not make a
"bad" investment with a single, in your many reports, terrible overvalued, doomed to fail etc. company, I really
can't understand WHY your company's sole purpose is to grasp at every single tiny bit of vague, even
speculative piece of bad news about this company.


10 Apr 2014, 08:55 PM


magnuswinner
Marketing comments from Veeva competitors and anonymous internet statements should not be a basis for
truth. Look at the Interactive Medica website. Since this article came out, they have amended their statement



https://seekingalpha.com/author/suhail-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/76787

https://seekingalpha.com/user/25861973
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


to: "Interactive Medica has sold into a Veeva Systems customer in multiple territories of a Top 20 Pharma
company."


I think it is interesting that they are no longer stating that this is a "displacement".


I would not trust any statements unless they come from a reliable pharma company source and that source is
named.


22 Apr 2014, 12:32 PM


Norman Hardie
Suhail,


Thank you for an interesting series of articles. Before Monday I had never heard of Veeva or spent any time on this
company. Your thesis appears to be substantially played out at this point and there are clearly some who feel this is a
compelling entry point. For example; today VEEV traded quite well relative to WDAY and CRM.


How are you thinking about the significant short interest in VEEV and the effect of the lock-up on share price near
term?


10 Apr 2014, 05:54 PM


DSymons
Can anyone confirm exactly how many shares come out of lockup on 14 April?


12 Apr 2014, 02:14 AM


18920891
Suhail


You have clearly done a lot of work on Veev, but I have just a few high level questions:


1) Veev doubled their sales headcount over 2013, and continued hiring heavily into the back half of 2013. That does
not seem to match a company that is running out of customers and product to sell.


2) Subscription revenue guidance for FY 2-14 seems extremely conservative in light of the headcount adds, plus that
fact that it implies adding less net new business than they did in FY 2013. They also have lowballed the past couple
quarters so is it fair to say the actual NTM revenue is going to be a bit higher than consensus?


3) Veeva has a few large customers forming the majority of their revenue (top 10 at over 50%). When much of the
sales count is devoted to selling new products and they have literally hired like crazy and started getting reference
customers on Vault and Network is it unreasonable to expect those products to ramp very quickly? How do you think
about the Vault TAM when you include the amount of spend on custom app development over top content
management platforms, plus the nature of subscription recognition versus traditional license / maintenance? do you
have an apples for apples comparison on what a Vault solution might be on ASP uplift vs. Documentum?


25 Apr 2014, 05:19 PM


brando719



https://seekingalpha.com/user/18692611

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1062679

https://seekingalpha.com/user/18920891

https://seekingalpha.com/user/6550361
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: A Top 20 Competitive Displacement, Customer Dissatisfaction, DB Markets Research, And Strange Coincidences - Vee…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2135213-veeva-systems-a-top-20-competitive-displacement-customer-dissatisfaction-db-markets-research-and-strange-coincidences


Thanks for the article Suhail. What do you make of the current earnings? Still targeting $8.00 or have things
changed? Cheers.


30 May 2014, 11:15 AM


PSalerno, Contributor
This is at least the second time that one investment bank try to catalyze a rally and it fails the very same day.
Ominous sign for the stock.


30 May 2014, 01:56 PM


crazytown
Deutsche Bank noted, “Strong quarter and guidance above expectations. Veeva delivered a strong FY1Q15 quarter
that may further undermine the bear case on the stock (down ~40% in last 3 months). Highlights include subscription
billings growth of 68%, total billings growth of 54% and subscription revenue growth of 74%, all while delivering 24%
non-GAAP operating margins. Veeva also raised FY15 guidance by $7m on both top-line and operating income,
indicating solid momentum.


"We like the solid progress in North America (the majority of core CRM business) and momentum with new products,
and view the 2H guidance as likely conservative. Reiterate Buy.”


01 Jun 2014, 11:50 PM


Suhail Capital, Contributor
Author’s reply »  And your point is......


02 Jun 2014, 10:44 AM


grantcvst
Stock is up north of $30 after hours today...just saying!


25 Nov 2014, 08:16 PM


PSalerno, Contributor
The Vault segment performed well. The overall growth is still high YOY with better than expected results. Probably the
$8 target was too low, the market is willing to give a huge premium to this stock and betting that this growth will
continue.


30 Nov 2014, 11:55 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno

https://seekingalpha.com/user/485264

https://seekingalpha.com/author/suhail-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/16883612

https://seekingalpha.com/author/psalerno
