5/23/2018 What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The Entire LS ECM Space - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1891841-what-accelrys-qumas-acquisition-says-about-veeva-vault-and-the-entire-ls-ecm-space 1/5


What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The
Entire LS ECM Space
Dec. 11, 2013 10:54 AM ET10 comments
by: Suhail Capital


"Of all the offspring of Time, Error is the most ancient, and is so old and familiar an
acquaintance, that Truth, when discovered, comes upon most of us like an intruder, and
meets the intruder's welcome."-Charles Mackay


And here we thought we would get some time off on this one.....


Monday after the close, Accelrys (NASDAQ:ACCL), a global leader in scientific innovation
lifecycle management software, announced that it was acquiring Ireland-based Qumas, a
leading compliance and quality management solutions provider for the life sciences
industry. This news caught our attention because Qumas' name came up more than a few
times in our deep dive into life sciences enterprise content management. Behind EMC,
CSC and Opentext it was one of three pure life sciences focused document management
systems providers(the other two being NextDocs and Mastercontrol) that we looked into.
This is about as good of a comp as you could ask for Veeva Systems' (NYSE:VEEV)
Vault, and now that Accelrys has acquired them everyone can freely reach their own
conclusions about valuations in this space.


The deal terms were $50 million in cash or exactly 2.5x Qumas' 2012 revenues. Think
about that for a second. This is a company with over 270 deployments in the life sciences
space, and they just sold to another leading life sciences player for 2.5x sales. Veeva is
involved in about 50 deployments and recognized Vault revenue in 2012 of around
$1.5-$2ml. If over the next few years they get to Qumas' revenue run rate in Vault, what's
the market value of that business? $50 ml, $100mln?


Now consider that based on our analysis the market is valuing Vault at between $2-$3
billion. Basically, you are paying anywhere between 1000x-2000x 2012 revenue for this
business today. Did the Qumas' shareholders just leave a few billion dollars or 98% of the
pie on the table? Is Accelrys now worth quintuple what it was trading at before this
acquisition?


You get our point yet?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ACCL

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/accelrys-acquires-compliance-quality-management-210500600.html

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV
5/23/2018 What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The Entire LS ECM Space - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1891841-what-accelrys-qumas-acquisition-says-about-veeva-vault-and-the-entire-ls-ecm-space 2/5


The consensus view out there is that MDM of customer data in life sciences is a small
addressable market. There is no doubt about that. If Veeva were to completely own this
market (and remember they just entered it), it is probably worth max $400 million in
market cap. That leaves CRM for which we'd say an EV/Sales ratio of 8x is extremely
generous (we'd be at 5x here) considering their penetration. Run that against Q3 revenues
annualized and you get $1.7 billion. That basically leaves $3.7 billion in EV for Vault. For a
tiny fraction of that amount you could buy all the niche focused LS ECM companies that
are highly regarded in the space. In fact, with $1 billion worth of Veeva's Bitcoinesque
currency, you could acquire Cegedim's entire CRM/SD division ($657mil 2012 rev), all of
Accelrys/Qumas ($182ml 2012 rev), Nextdocs (Sharepoint based LS ECM), Reltio (small
LS focused MDM), and still have some spare change. At which point you are a $1 billion+
revenue company with 70%+ share in LS CRM, the top global HCP database provider, a
pure MDM solution provider, a leader in scientific lifecycle management, and a diverse
portfolio LS ECM solution provider. That's just crazy, and goes to show that our research
into this space was spot on.


LS ECM is nothing like LS CRM. It is a much more fragmented and extremely competitive
market. Things move at a snail's pace because you are dealing with very regulated
processes. The sales cycle are long even for small deals which is basically the polar
opposite of what Veeva has dealt with in SFA in displacing Siebel over the last 18 months.
Basically, regardless of what you think of the Vault offering, this is NOT a segment suited
for those selling a high growth/high multiple story. NextDocs has done nothing but
exclusively focus on this niche and it still took them 5 years to get to $15 million in
revenue. Qumas has been around for a while and is very well regarded by everybody in
LS ECM, and yet still did a hair under $20 million in revenue last year. And let's not forget
about Documentum. These guys are a beast in life sciences, and clearly not content to sit
on their hands like a Siebel in CRM. In the last year, EMC IIG (Documentum) purchased
Trinity Technologies and Sitrof Technologies. The former is an energy sector-focused ECM
consulting firm while the latter is a Life Sciences-focused firm. Basically, EMC IIG has
decided they are going to inhouse the expertise in highly technical industries they serve to
improve their service offerings. If the leader in the space found it necessary to acquire 50
highly technical consultants with pure LS ECM expertise, what should that tell you about
their commitment to the sector and the direction they want to take their clients? Not that
EMC IIG needs to be thinking this way as there are plenty of customers who won't even
consider switching because the compliance risk is just too high. Still, no matter what you
think about the space, EMC clearly isn't planning on just sitting back and playing defense.
Then you got to ask yourself about the Accelrys/Qumas merger. You now have a fully
integrated vertically focused play on the process/reg side of things to compete with. What
5/23/2018 What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The Entire LS ECM Space - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1891841-what-accelrys-qumas-acquisition-says-about-veeva-vault-and-the-entire-ls-ecm-space 3/5


Comments (10)


do you think the pitch against them will be? Umm, we have this great SFA iPad app for
pharma reps so just disregard everything they have been leading in on the technical side
of things and go with us. Like we pointed out before, Veeva has milked the 'specialists do
it better' argument for LS SFA. Yet outside of CRM there are nothing but pure specialists
in the LS technology space (clinical, compliance, process etc). Their whole sales pitch
falls apart against this type of competition as they flip the script on them. And more
importantly the specialists who are succeeding are still willing to sell at 2.5x sales.
Basically, this deal just blew everything the Veeva Six have said about Vault's value out of
the water. We can't wait to read the notes on this one. We are sure by the time the they
are done spinning this Qumas will have some Irish bank subsidiary that was on the brink
of collapse because of speculative real estate bets, and thus the Accelrys deal was in fact
nothing more than a bailout.


And the band played on....


Disclosure: I am short VEEV. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional Disclosure: This article was written by a director at Suhail Capital
Management.


 Like this article


PChan444
Think forward not just back. VEEV could be huge. We don't know yet. Chan not saying take big position but good to
buy some so as not to miss out.


11 Dec 2013, 06:14 PM


kpcapitalpartners
This may be the most flawed investment thesis (to put it kindly) that I've ever read. "VEEV could be huge. We
don't know yet." Huh? It could also go to single digits and reflect Suhail's expectations. If I were a betting
man, I'd go all in on Suhail and short the hell out of Chan.


Your comment speaks volumes about the speculation and valuation lunacy in the SAAS space. VEEV is the
posterchild. Mark my words, this insanity will end. I don't know when, but it will without a doubt be very, very
fugly.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV

https://seekingalpha.com/user/17236912

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4793321
5/23/2018 What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The Entire LS ECM Space - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1891841-what-accelrys-qumas-acquisition-says-about-veeva-vault-and-the-entire-ls-ecm-space 4/5


12 Dec 2013, 02:34 PM


Suhail Capital, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Chan advice so wise. Thinking up not just down. Veever the believer. Answers to questions
that have not been asked. A little piece of cake is a good way to start a party.


14 Dec 2013, 03:29 AM


Rootarmo
I agree this stock is going down...what is the best way to short this stock..buy Long Term Puts ?


11 Dec 2013, 08:56 PM


kpcapitalpartners
The "longest-term" puts currently offered are unfortunately the June '14s. Additional/longer-term expirations
will hopefully be offered soon. A


12 Dec 2013, 02:28 PM


DSymons
One question that has been occupying my mind in the last few days is who is buying VEEV in the current market?


Suhail's short thesis is the most compelling short thesis that I have read on any company, including those where
accounting fraud is alleged.


Therefore, I assume that within a day or two of Suhail's initial analysis becoming public, every significant institutional
holder of VEEV was aware of the massive TAM and valuation issues confronted by this name.


My second assumption is that frantic calls went out from the sales desks at MS and Deutsche to the institutions that
they had put into the IPO - telling the investors that while there may be real issues with the VEEV valuation, that if
they wanted to have access to future IPO product they would do the right thing and not rush for the exit, but that of
course a gradual selldown over the period through to lockup expiry would be OK.


That explains why the share price hasn't fallen off a cliff. But who is buying, and supporting trading volumes of
$20million+ per day? Is it dumb retail sucked in by Motley Fool rubbish and Cramer's unsophisticated spruiking? Is it
an associate of a VC investor who can't exit til lockup expiry and who has been told that there will be something in it
for him if he does the right thing and keeps the price elevated? Is it less sophisticated clients of the underwriters who
aren't aware of Suhail's work and who don't realise that they are buying a dud? Are the undewriters spending their
own money to support the stock and minimise damage to their IPO franchises? Or are my assumptions wrong, and
many institutional longs aren't even aware of the valuation issues and aren't wanting to exit? Or is Chan doing all the
buying?


I'd welcome any intelligence on the above as it's not really my area of expertise.


15 Dec 2013, 01:52 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/suhail-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5022301

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4793321

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1062679

https://seekingalpha.com/user/678133
5/23/2018 What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The Entire LS ECM Space - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1891841-what-accelrys-qumas-acquisition-says-about-veeva-vault-and-the-entire-ls-ecm-space 5/5


pra
Well you got your answer today.. they cannot keep popping this bubble for ever. Down with huge volume on
an upday in markets. Recommend buying puts now for as long as you can go timewise.


16 Dec 2013, 11:48 AM


Bob Sutton
Thanks! Your first article raised some very glaring questions about the TAM opportunity, so I took a small profit and
got out of this one the day you published. Dammit, VEEV had looked so promising. But your analysis saved me a
fifteen percent paper loss just by asking the right questions.


I've been in the IT business as a participant or investor for 35 years; nearly every new thing that comes along is
accompanied by breathless Gartner or IDC estimates that we're watching an emerging multi-billion dollar segment
with lots of running room. When that TAM is so easily disputed though, no dice. The underwriters have some
'splaining to do.


16 Dec 2013, 12:03 PM


Suhail Capital, Contributor
Author’s reply »  Yep, they do. They had the opportunity to do the 'right thing'. Instead two of them upped
their price targets without even acknowledging the highly visible material flaws in their initiation reports. Fact
of the matter is this was royally bungled, and more and more people are going to make the calls and have the
conversations we had and discover just how much of a mess this is.


16 Dec 2013, 01:20 PM


mhxpts
Hi Suhail, 
After couple of days of your thesis, I noticed that their Market value for VEEVa has two different values :on yahoo
finance 1.2 B. On stockTracker, it still says 4.17B. What is going on here?Thanks


18 Dec 2013, 08:13 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/678133

https://seekingalpha.com/user/999853

https://seekingalpha.com/author/suhail-capital

https://seekingalpha.com/user/19263041
