5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 1/42


Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its
Claims About Deconstructive Testing
Mar. 15, 2015 6:45 AM ET153 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Lumber Liquidators is desperately pursuing a reckless deny-and-attack strategy.


Though the company knows that at least some of its Chinese-made laminate has
formaldehyde that exceeds CARB 2 standards, it continues to sell the product.


The company's attempts to muddy the waters around "deconstructive" testing have
no grounding in fact, and should be ignored.


When I first discovered compelling evidence nearly a year ago that Lumber Liquidators
was selling its American customers hundreds of millions of square feet of laminate flooring
sourced in China that contained high levels of formaldehyde, a dangerous chemical and
known carcinogen, I assumed that once this information became public, the company
would follow the standard playbook: apologize, immediately suspend sales of the toxic
product, fix the underlying problem, claim (however improbably) that the Chinese suppliers
duped it, and make amends to its customers.


Instead, the company has denied that there's any problem whatsoever and adopted a no-
holds-barred attack on its critics (not only me, which I expected, but also 60 Minutes, one
of the most respected news programs in the world, which it accuses of "making up this
story"). Most shockingly, the company is continuing to sell its Chinese-made laminate to its
customers, assuring them that it's "100% safe," despite overwhelming evidence to the
contrary. In fact, CEO Robert Lynch admitted on the conference call last Thursday that it
had failed tests done by the California Air Resources Board (CARB):


CARB has "deconstructed" our products in routine inspections, as well as we believe
others in the industry, in order to try to determine if the core materials complied. In
CARB's preliminary findings, some of our samples they deconstructed and tested
(due to the variability of the test) exceeded the limits for raw cores.


Even if management genuinely believes its Chinese-made laminate is safe (people have
believed more unlikely things, I suppose, especially when their self-interest depends on it),
why not simply suspend sales for a month or two until CARB can do its own investigation



http://investors.lumberliquidators.com/index.php?s=19&item=27
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 2/42


and weigh in? It's not like it's a perishable product that will go bad. Instead, however,
Lumber Liquidators' chairman and founder, Tom Sullivan, on national television on Friday,
defiantly said the company would continue selling the laminate because "we will sell what
customers want."


What could explain this obviously foolish and reckless behavior? I suspect it's because the
company wasn't duped by its suppliers at all. Rather, I have good reason to believe that
it's known for quite some time exactly what it was doing: going to China and buying
laminate flooring (and perhaps other types of flooring as well - stay tuned, as I'm running
more tests) that doesn't comply with CARB 2 standards, and thus, may have dangerous
levels of formaldehyde.


Why would the company do something so immoral and potentially destructive? The oldest
reason in the universe: greed. Non-CARB-compliant laminate is ~10% cheaper, so the
company saved a lot of money on sourcing costs (not a few pennies, as Sullivan claims),
which I think was a major contributor to a quick doubling of margins - which, in turn,
helped send the stock price up eight times from $15 to $119 in less than two years.
Sullivan and Lynch recognized a golden opportunity when they saw it, dumping $37 million
worth of stock at prices more than double today's level in early- to mid-2013.


If I'm right that the company has been knowingly putting untold numbers of American
families at risk, now that it's been caught red-handed, it must surely be feeling truly
desperate, as this is the kind of thing that could not only result in an implosion of the
company, but also big financial penalties and even criminal charges against senior
executives. Consequently, seen through management's lens, their current strategy
actually might be logical in a twisted sort of way: deny everything, take advantage of the
uncertainty about the testing methods and the harm formaldehyde causes to muddy the
waters as much as possible, bully critics and regulators, and hope the storm passes.
Under this strategy, in which they claim that all of their flooring is 100% safe, they can't
stop selling any of it or it might raise doubts.


While for the health and safety of Lumber Liquidators' customers I wish the company
would stop selling what I believe is a dangerous product, as someone who is short the
stock, I'm delighted that the company has adopted a strategy that I think is truly insane for
two reasons. First, management's credibility is plunging every day they continue to make
the preposterous claim that there's no problem at all. Perhaps the problem is minor, but
there's definitely a problem. Secondly, when untold number of lawsuits start reaching



http://www.cnbc.com/id/102503331
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 3/42


courtrooms, the fact that the company continued to sell tainted wood after the 60 Minutes
segment aired will look very bad. Rather than perhaps earning some sympathy by
claiming they were duped by lying Chinese mills, they will instead look like rogue actors.


Rebutting Lumber Liquidators' Claims About Deconstructive Testing


The key pillar of the company's argument that its Chinese-made laminate is, in fact, safe
and complies with CARB 2 standards is that the testing I, 60 Minutes and others did is
"improper," because we "deconstructed" the laminate (i.e., sanded off the outer layer to
get a good measurement of the formaldehyde in the MDF core; here's a video of the
process).


This argument is so critical to the company's defense that it was the opening paragraph in
a court filing the company made this past week:


Imagine taking a new car fresh off the assembly line, disabling its catalytic system,
and measuring the tail pipe emissions. If it flunked EPA emissions standards, it
would not mean the car's emission system was non-compliant. No one would alter a
product, measure its performance, then file a lawsuit pretending that the results are
comparable to emission readings taken from an un-tampered product. Yet, that is
exactly what Plaintiffs have done.


Unfortunately for Lumber Liquidators, this is a spurious analogy. A proper analogy would
be if the EPA set emissions standards for car engines and required testing prior to the
engines being installed in cars. If someone chose to test actual car emissions (which isn't
required), the testing must be of the emissions directly from the engine, before going
through the catalytic system.


In the case of laminate, it's true that CARB does not require testing finished products -
only the MDF core prior to being processed into laminate. But many companies that sell
laminate (including Lumber Liquidators), to their credit, also test the finished product for
the logical reason that, especially when you're dealing with Chinese manufacturers, it's
important to trust but verify.


CARB Requires Deconstruction Before Testing


But if one is to test finished laminate, CARB is very clear that it must first be
deconstructed. While plenty of people and companies (including, of course, Lumber
Liquidators) question whether this is the right way to do the testing, there's no question



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94EfKU3jZ1I
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 4/42


that CARB requires it - it's under the Frequently Asked Questions section of their web site
(emphasis added):


42. How will CARB test pre-assembled case goods made of composite wood
products (e.g., a small table) that are painted, with no edges unsealed? CARB
will purchase case goods, deconstruct them, remove the paint, and test the exposed
composite wood product surface using our enforcement test method. CARB staff has
developed the sample preparation protocol to be followed to remove the layer of
paint or laminate, and then will determine if the composite wood product in the case
good complies with applicable standards or not.


Contrary to Lumber Liquidators' claims, deconstruction isn't a new or unproven test
method. Rather, it was developed over several years, with industry consultation and peer
review, and was finally published in 2013. For more on this, see CARB's Standard
Operating Procedures (SOP) here and its Final Statement of Reasons (FSOR) here -
which, on page 42, states:


Agency Response [24-Landry-070423-CWIC]: Yes it is correct that finished products
must be deconstructed to test for compliance. But, we disagree that there is great
uncertainty in the enforcement program. Deconstructive testing is needed for
finished goods to verify compliance with the emission standards.


And on page 231, it states:


Agency Response [20.4-Bradway-080215-Mannington]: …To determine if compliant
materials are being used to make finished goods, we must deconstruct the finished
good and test its component parts...


To summarize, the regulation and the official legislative history make clear that finished
composite wood products should be tested through deconstructive testing, and that CARB
would be developing a sample preparation method for such testing. That method is the
SOP. The SOP is an official CARB agency guidance document that is consistent with the
regulation, and therefore, has the force of law and is entitled to deference. Lumber
Liquidators' argument that the SOP is to be ignored makes no sense and ignores black-
letter legal principles. Instead, the SOP is an official CARB agency document entitled to
great deference.


Trying to Muddy the Waters



http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/compwood/implementation/faq.htm

http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/compwood/outreach/testmethods.htm

http://www.arb.ca.gov/regact/2007/compwood07/fsorcompwood07.pdf
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 5/42


Yet, Lumber Liquidators, while claiming that its laminate is CARB 2-compliant on its
product packaging, its web site and in SEC filings, is simultaneously thumbing its nose at
CARB, doing its best to discredit the deconstructive test method CARB has mandated. For
example, on the conference call last week, CEO Lynch, after acknowledging that "some"
of Lumber Liquidators laminate failed the CARB 2 standard, said:


We have been engaged with CARB over many months, provided them with
additional information and, like others in the industry, have expressed our concerns
on the validity and applicability of the deconstructive testing method.


In addition, this is slide 30 of the slide presentation accompanying the company's
conference call last Thursday:


I understand why Lumber Liquidators is trying to save its skin by muddying the waters
about deconstructive testing and the damning results it shows, but what amazes me is
how many people are falling for the company's tricks. For example, here are excerpts from
four analyst reports after the conference call last week:



http://investors.lumberliquidators.com/index.php?s=19&item=27

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/16/saupload_saupload_Screen_shot_2015-03-15_at_12.30.26_PM_thumb1.png
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 6/42


Goldman Sachs: The firm... presented challenges to the test methodology used by
60 Minutes that were consistent with views of other industry participants we have
engaged.


Morgan Stanley: We thought management clearly explained deconstructive testing;
how it can distort formaldehyde emissions and that it is not a required test under
CARB, Prop 65 or the EPA.


SunTrust: This type of testing seems to fall into some type of gray area. The process
disrupts the product construction but it is unclear how good a measure it is for
product safety.


Jeffries: ...LL may ultimately win the debate around this confusing topic and may
technically be compliant...


While some of the analysts may be fooled, you shouldn't be. What Lumber Liquidators is
really saying here is: CARB has already inspected us and determined that "some of our
samples... exceeded the limits" - but don't worry, move along, nothing to see here,
because we "engaged with CARB... provided them with additional information [and]
expressed our concerns on the validity and applicability of the deconstructive testing
method."


To use another car analogy, Lumber Liquidators got caught driving 100 mph in a 25 mph
zone. To try to avoid the severe penalties that would result from a conviction, the company
hires fancy lawyers and PR flacks to raise questions about the accuracy of the police
officer's radar gun, whether it had been properly calibrated that morning, etc. - in other
words, make bogus arguments to try to get off on a technicality - and, worst of all, still
continuing to drive 100 mph while fighting the charges!


(To continue the analogy, many of the company's defenders are claiming that, even if it
was going 100 mph, no harm has resulted because it hasn't crashed and killed anyone
yet, so it's no big deal. I'll respond to this nonsensical argument in a future article,
perhaps.)


Conclusion


Lumber Liquidators doesn't like CARB's testing method for the obvious reason that it
reveals that the company is selling Chinese-made laminate drenched in formaldehyde - on
average 6-7 times the CARB limit. But rather than doing what any ethical and rational
company would do - acknowledge that CARB's SOP, however much it doesn't like it, is the
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 7/42


Comments (153)


regulatory requirement, and thus, the company needs to immediately fix the underlying
problem - it's instead basically telling CARB to go jump in a lake by ignoring its testing
method and coming up with its own - yet still claiming to be CARB 2-compliant.


I almost have to admire the company's enormous chutzpah, but somehow I don't think this
approach is going to work so well with the CARB or in court, especially now that this issue
has the attention of major media outlets, multiple attorneys general, various regulators,
and the senior Democrat on the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science &
Transportation, among others.


Disclosure: The author is short LL.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


pollen_catcher
"Lumber Liquidators doesn't like CARB's testing method for the obvious reason that it reveals that the company is
selling Chinese-made laminate drenched in formaldehyde..."


Lol - what skilled hyperbole!


Whitney....you are an amazing human being, a talented author/investigative journalist, environmental/chemical expert
AND one of the best investors of our time. Given some of these amazing calls you have had in the markets
(especially on the short side), your annual and all-time returns must truly be remarkable. And I'm sure you have a
growing list of clients to back that top notch track record.


You are a true jack of all trades, Sir!!! Congrats! Amazing stuff!!!!


15 Mar 2015, 07:32 AM


nhsully88
So you are short and as worried as he about your position? Doesn't it make you wonder why Mr Tilson is not
going after the third party certifier(s) that approved the mills LL purchased from and/or CARD for certifying the
third party's? Could it be there isn't money in that direction?


15 Mar 2015, 08:46 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/608067

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 8/42


HI nhsully,


You're a little off track.


1) The certified lab is in China. Not easy to go after. But no one has implicated the lab. It's the factory that has
been implicated 
2) If the lab made a mistake, then LL would go after it 
3) The mill allegedly put labels intended for one product, that did pass, on another product that didn't. If true,
the lab is not liable .. the factory is. 
4) If (3) is true, LL could go after the factory or claim a defense that they were defrauded 
5) If (3) is true and LL doesn't go after the factory, or raise the defense, LL may be implicated


Eventually the truth about what went on at the factory will come out and LL will be exonerated or hung.


15 Mar 2015, 10:53 AM


jakurtz
Good summation Ken. Anonymous factory workers in China though don't seem overly reliable and appear to
be a flimsy foundation to build a case on. 60 minutes has only one factory worker saying anything on tape
and his face is never exposed.


Either CARB finds some products sold in california to NOT be compliant and they file a complaint and fine LL
or the Mill or the factory worker that put the sticker on or they don't. What a Chinese salesmen said to
journalists posing as prospective buyers supposedly looking to buy cheap flooring means very little, imo.


Being a laymen there just seems to be very, very little here that implicates LL for gross misconduct.
Reputational damage that should be easily remedied through some keen marketing strategies and customer
awareness, possibly some fines from CARB which compliance of is not even a national requirement. The
street reacted last week to an unpolished not extremely articulate CEO, but I think the tide may be turning
sooner rather than later.


This story is already old to me and it hasn't even gotten to Sunday night. I think the best way for me to take
advantage is to go buy new flooring for my house from LL during their deep discounts. While I wouldn't
normally ever shop there, a deal is a deal...


15 Mar 2015, 11:18 AM


nhsully88
Reel, 
If by the factory you mean LL, it has been implicated by Mr Tilson who is short the stock and 60 minutes.
Maybe 60 minutes did not have all the facts as to who certifies the mills. Based on my research, that would be
a third party certifier approved by CARB. Like any manufacturer, or yourself, LL can go to a list of certified
mills and find those that were certified on the CARB website. If the mill is allegedly mislabeling the product,
then why is everyone attacking LL? I agree, the truth will come out but isn't it unfair that some can add to their
riches before that truth?


15 Mar 2015, 11:25 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 9/42


Paul9898
Whitney is the short seller of this LL stock and he is also the author of this article, go figure! 
The law is not clear on how they have to do the test so it's still along way to conclude that their laminated
wood is not safe. Keep this in mind and that 15% of LL's revenue is from laminated wood so at $30.55 a
share its a very good price to buy, even if its loose some of its reputation.


15 Mar 2015, 09:42 PM


Sluke
I think this author is trying to further is gains in his short position. See his other article, "Why I significantly
increased my LL short position in the last two days." I think he may be worried about getting squeezed.


15 Mar 2015, 10:08 PM


Advill
This is an orchestrated attack against the company, the author or this article is just an opportunist trying to
profit in the situation and have no doubt in redacting this kind of articles for that purpose.


1. CARB is valid only in California, no used even in greener countries as Germany, and is not applied in the
rest of U.S (as far I know), so legal actions...if any will be constrain to California clients.


2. What I know is that only 2% of the products are affected by this "problem", so 2% and only California


3. All the 60 minutes process sticks, using none one what methods to infiltrate and having opinions of people
they decided was valid, the methods were done in laboratories of a country that allows lead in paints and
toys, and who are full of crooks (anyone who has the experience of dealing with Chinese supplier knows what
I mean)


4. Formaldehyde es a normal chemical product that is use in the whole world in a variety of products, it´s only
in U.S (where natural ventilation is each day poorer because our dependence in air conditioning) that you find
problems with Radon ( a rare gas ) this problem only exists in U.S.


4. We accept what appears in T.V as written in the bible, and then find people like the author of this article......


Anyway this creates a beautiful opportunity to buy CALLS 2016 and 2017, that will be the investment of the
decade


Rgds


15 Mar 2015, 11:00 PM


Hardog
I wonder if LL ever sent quality engineers to see how the product is made. Or if the ever tested any of the
product after it was delivered. If they did and knew, then there is a case....


15 Mar 2015, 11:45 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/38711706

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3469421

https://seekingalpha.com/user/340122

https://seekingalpha.com/user/785235

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 10/42


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Paul,


Agree, regarding the short, but not with your comment


......"......The law is not clear on how they have to do the test...."


The regulations are perfectly clear and well spelled out. LL just disagrees with some parts of it .. particularly
the part that keeps failing their product.


Not surprising, most every business that faces regulation disagrees with the regulations and wants them
liberalized.


Also, the use of the word "safe" is somewhat nebulous. It is more proper to say is/ isn't compliant. "Safe"
means different things to different people.


16 Mar 2015, 07:26 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Sluke,


Absolutely, he is a profiteer.


However, that doesn't necessarily make him wrong about the stock.


We should all take heed because if there is truth to the claim that the Chinese Factory deliberately mislabeled
non-compliant product, LL has one big problem.


16 Mar 2015, 07:31 AM


Bird1
Whitney, when did you start to short sale LL?


16 Mar 2015, 09:16 AM


Sedric
Radiation is natural too. Can I offer you a dose? No?


16 Mar 2015, 08:12 PM


StumpLifter
I suppose you don't understand that "radiation" from the sun is what produces vitamin D in humans.
Something that doctors are finding in short supply these days.


18 Mar 2015, 02:01 AM


SeekingWorldlyWisdom
@Advill Formaldehyde is carcinogen no matter you are in California or Timbuktu, California have a reason
create the CARB standard and Lumber Liquidators average 6X (or 600%) over the limit, imagine your family



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34882215

https://seekingalpha.com/user/719506

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141

https://seekingalpha.com/user/117673
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 11/42


will be living in a Formaldehyde gas chamber while the chairman/ceo said: "we stand by our products" BS.


2% of the products "are problem"? LL did this because it saves cost, the management thinking will be: what
other products can we apply this 'technique'


There always more than one cockroaches in the kitchen. Just wait, my money is on there are more to come.


Please buy all the 2017 DITM calls you can. The fools and the money will soon be parted.


22 Mar 2015, 01:45 AM


nhsully88
On 12 Mar 2015 you said; "With numerous state and federal authorities as well as various law firms pursuing this
vigorously, I'm confident that the truth will be out, so I'm going to go back to my regular job of trying to buy the
occasional cheap stock of a good company."


You should follow your own advice and do what you say you are going to do. Is it that there are no cheap stocks, no
good company's or are you concerned with your position on LL?


15 Mar 2015, 08:43 AM


Pablomike
I wondered when he made that statement how long he would stick to it.


15 Mar 2015, 10:39 AM


GMNewt
In the article you mentioned Mr. Tilson, in my opinion, became the "victim". Then LL stock took a dive after
that dreadful CNBC interview and "he's back" pounding his chest! Keep your promise Mr. Tilson, let this
madness play out without your continued self serving interference. You are looking quite desperate.


15 Mar 2015, 01:33 PM


dc10
Companies.


16 Mar 2015, 08:36 PM


Edward J. Roche, Contributor
From what I see. it is not at all clear that passing the deconstructive test is required to meet the CARB regulations.
There are a number of CARB tests. For example Georgia Pacific offers another test method that they state can be
used to demonstrate CARB compliance:


"Another product and service offering is the GP™ Dynamic Microchamber (DMC) we created over 20 years ago to
support the wood panel industry. The GP DMC is approved by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) as an
alternative small scale test method for conducting quality control testing of formaldehyde emissions by manufacturers



https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/user/161233

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7613731

https://seekingalpha.com/user/629243

https://seekingalpha.com/author/edward-j-roche
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 12/42


of composite wood products. (CARB Letter) The majority of the Composite Panel Association’s qualified producers
utilize the GP DMC secondary test method as their primary testing method."


http://bit.ly/1GHnNs7


The financial analyst comments you cite also support the lack of clarity here regarding the need for the deconstructive
test.


In addition I have not seen clear scientific support demonstrating that the deconstructive test is a way to predict real
use levels of formaldehyde. The 60 minutes piece and the comments from Dr. Landrigan imply that it is, but LL is
disputing this. Other industry experts also seem to dispute this.


CARB should come out with clearer statements on these topics. Before that happens it is not possible to determine
what the real story is here. Both you and LL have strong financial incentives to push your points of view.


The public would best be served by a calm objective investigation of the real facts and risks.


I have no position in LL.


15 Mar 2015, 08:47 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Ed,


Here we go again ...


...."....From what I see. it is not at all clear that passing the deconstructive test is required to meet the CARB
regulations. There are a number of CARB tests. ..."


All very true, but you keep ignoring there is a difference in not using the deconstructive test (which is not a
required test) and FAILING the deconstructive test (which is an authorized and accepted test)


If another acceptable test is used and passed .. all is well and good. But if deconstructing is used and the test
fails you can't just simply brush it off.


The retailer doesn't get to choose which tests the INDEPENDENT lab uses. However, they must abide by it,
not dismiss it or say it isn't valid.


They can ask the lab to retest using another approved methodology and that's fine.


But, to do their own testing and try to pass it off is patently offensive. Even worse, providing consumers a DIY
"kit" to test is beyond the pail. Testing needs to be done in a controlled environment by trained technicians.


15 Mar 2015, 11:02 AM


ericlee06
Ken,


I think you are conflating LL's gesture to ease consumer anxiety/uncertainty (whether or not it is enough is
another issue) with what they proposed as test metric for their products compliance.



http://bit.ly/1GHnNs7

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 13/42


Also, if an independent lab finds products failed tests, wouldn't the reasonable and legally correct thing to do
to be work with CARB and re-examine the compliance of their products, which LL is doing?


15 Mar 2015, 01:33 PM


xf10036
But LL didn't do their own test and the regulation does not require the retailer to make their own test. The
regulation requires that the retailer document the third party tests and LL did that. LL is in compliance with
CARB. Tests done by 60 minutes are after fact and can not be used to hold LL liable. Ask yourself the
question, if you're driving at 35 mph at a 30 mph zone and someone jumped front of your car, should you be
hold liable of his injury?


15 Mar 2015, 01:34 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi ericlee,


Good points, but that's not where I'm coming from.


The issue is whether or not the factory in China is deliberately mislabeling failed product as complaint. This
impacts not only LL, not only flooring companies in general, but much, much more.


If the product was properly labeled then we know the product passed the independent certified lab test. If it is
mislabeled we know it did not pass.


And, if it failed and was mislabeled, did LL know, should they have known or are they complicit in it?


All this stuff about test "A" vs Test "B", etc. is a sideshow. It is interesting to follow, but the hammer will drop
when the China syndrome is investigated.


What is of particular interest to me is that LL is not going that route ... though their CEO acknowledged it
would be a major problem and he would investigate.


So, in my own little way, I'm disturbed that LL is trying to change peoples focus from failed tests to "real world"
tests instead of focusing on the elephant in the room.


15 Mar 2015, 02:18 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi xlf,


I think you are looking at it sideways....


The issue is whether or not there was deliberate mislabeling of non-compliant product by the Chinese factory.
The "after tests" are simply an indicator that this might be true.


If there was no mislabeling (that is the lab correctly certified it as compliant) there is no issue ... except that
Tilson is wrong and a bad person.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/19095811

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 14/42


If there was mislabeling, then one needs to find out if LL was involved or lacked proper quality control and
oversight.


p.s. If someone is speeding and a person jumps out in front of them ... are they liable ?... you bet they are. In
fact, sometimes they can be held liable even if they were doing the speed limit.


.


15 Mar 2015, 02:31 PM


Advill
100 % agree with your comment, however this is serving to Mr. Tilsen to find out what else is around for his
intention to create ma pain to LL.


If is true or not is not important, creating the impression that keep the stock downtrend is what is
important...until he buy again the shorts he is invest in.


Rgds


16 Mar 2015, 11:24 AM


xf10036
You also ignored that the SOP that requires deconstructive test is published after CARB 2 has been in
effective for more than a year. The original CARB 2 requirement is that the "Finished goods must be made
with composite wood products that meet these [emission] standard."


Failing the deconstructive test is no proof that the wood products used does not meet these standard. In fact
LL has data that shows the composite core does meet the emission standard.


It's not to say that, LL and/or the Chinese mill might well have taken advantages of some loophole in the
regulation, allowing inferior materials being used but still technically in compliance with the CARB regulation.
And if this is the case, LL certainly is not the only company that is doing it (maybe not Lowes and HD, but
there's a lot of other companies importing laminated floors).


CARB most likely will keep silence and without CARB ruling against LL, all the lawsuits will eventually be
dropped.


16 Mar 2015, 01:06 PM


dc10
Held.


16 Mar 2015, 08:39 PM


StumpLifter
If I deconstructed YOU - You wouldn't pass a formaldehyde emissions test either - THAT IS HOW RIDICULES
DECONSTRUCTIVE TESTING IS!!! Formaldehyde is produced during metabolism in humans - please look it
up and educate yourself



https://seekingalpha.com/user/340122

https://seekingalpha.com/user/19095811

https://seekingalpha.com/user/629243

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 15/42


18 Mar 2015, 01:50 AM


CarzKaan
You do have data to back this up, yes? That the level of formaldehyde in humans exceed the CARB
standards? On the other hand, I'd be willing to bet an embalmed corpse would not pass.


22 May 2015, 02:07 PM


User 509088
let's be clear, this is their cheapest stuff. it goes into rentals and flips and only hurts those who are suffering through
the jobless recovery and all the other things we submit our less well to do brothers and sisters to.


they put the carb sticker on their box.


when they did, they were self-certifying that their product complied to the carb standards.


they've lied. if they didn't like the testing standard, they shouldn't have put the sticker on their box. the rest is just
pretending they didn't inhale.


15 Mar 2015, 09:09 AM


nhsully88
I believe the mill put the sticker on the box user. If not, can you provide where we can see that bit of info?


15 Mar 2015, 10:12 AM


jakurtz
I have one question.


1. Has CARB formally declared LL's laminate as non-compliant and issued a fine/charge/levy either against LL or the
mill from which the laminate came from and that was sold in california?


15 Mar 2015, 09:14 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi jakurtz,


CARB failed the product on a preliminary screening.


They are continuing their investigation.


I guess this will play out slowly. Agencies like to be on firm ground, one way or the other.


LL's CEO said he will investigate the Chinese Mill. No statement from him one way or the other. Can't speak
for LL's CEO. My guess ... we never hear anything about it again.


p.s. I remember a post from someone, last week, similar to you, saying that since CARB hadn't done
anything, everything is all right. It was subsequent to that that we found out that CARB had tested and failed
LL.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/671142

https://seekingalpha.com/user/509088

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 16/42


Your query may just be pre-mature.


15 Mar 2015, 10:06 AM


ericlee06
In their latest 8-K filing, where LL answered investor questions after the 3/12 call, they did address the
investigation, and said a 3rd party is continuing to look into the claims.  
http://bit.ly/1ArN0Ty


Hence, it'd seem that your guess was also pre-mature.


15 Mar 2015, 01:33 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi ericlee,


I said he was investigating it. No conflict there.


My "guess" was in reference to the outcome of the investigation.


As a matter of logical construction, my guess can never be considered "pre-mature". If the investigation
results are made public, then the guess is simply "wrong".


15 Mar 2015, 02:46 PM


ericlee06
Hi Ken,  
Your statement was "Can't speak for LL's CEO. My guess ... we never hear anything about it again." So in the
context I provided, you were already wrong.


It seems unproductive to play semantic game on whether a query vs. guess can be "pre-mature", especially
so on a short form discussion forum.


Nonetheless, you seem to have a lot more energy and interest vested in this topic than I do. As such, I bid
you good luck.


15 Mar 2015, 09:45 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi ericle,


Thank you, I can use all the luck I get..


16 Mar 2015, 07:33 AM


xf10036
They can't, at least not based on deconstructive test results alone. The SOP that requires deconstructive
tests was published after CARB 2 was in effective more than a year. Holding manufactures against the SOP



https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925

http://bit.ly/1ArN0Ty

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/19095811
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 17/42


is akin to changing rules in the middle of game.


16 Mar 2015, 01:26 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
HI Whitney,


Well it seems like you bit the bait. Too bad.


It is obvious to anyone with a clear head that the whole testing format issue is a Red Herring, designed to focus
attention away from the factory workers that claim deliberate mislabeling of product.


What difference does it make which test you use IF IT FAILED TESTING AT THE FACTORY LEVEL ? It's not how it
tests now, it's how it tested then.


So, if, in fact, it failed testing at the factory and was deliberately mislabeled, that should be the one and only focus.


Every time LL or its spin doctors raise the "test issue" the one and only response should be ....


1) What testing method did the factory certifier use? 
2) Was the product shipped the product certified? 
3) What investigations are you making into claims that the product was mislabeled and what is the result?


Next, to whether or not LL knew, should have known or was complicit in deliberately mislabeling failed product as
having passed.


This "what is the right test" is a sideshow.


You are allowing yourself to be dragged into a discussion of how the crime was committed instead of who committed
the crime.


So, despite all your work, to date, I give this round to LL. They're winning the SPIN WAR.


15 Mar 2015, 09:15 AM


nhsully88
Reel,  
Glad to see you've looked into the next level of detail ;)


15 Mar 2015, 10:14 AM


xf10036
So what if the test method is the only thing Tilson has. If Tilson can't convince people here in the States
whether deconstructive test is required in the part of manufacture, how would you expect a plan manager in
China know what is exactly required to be CARB 2 compliant. Maybe 60 minutes crew told the Chinese plan
manager that the product is CARB 2 only after it passing the deconstructive testing. If I were the plan
manager, my goal would be to make a sell, I wouldn't be arguing with you what CARB 2 is or isn't. All I would
say is: "[If you say it's not CARB 2, then] it's not CARB 2. will be very expensive".


16 Mar 2015, 02:03 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/user/19095811
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 18/42


xf10036
Have you thought of the possiblity that the test method is the only thing Tilson has. If Tilson can't convince
people here in the States whether deconstructive test is required in the part of manufacture, how would you
expect a plan manager in China know what is exactly required to be CARB 2 compliant. Maybe 60 minutes
crew told the Chinese plan manager that the product is CARB 2 only after it passing the deconstructive
testing. If I were the plan manager, my goal would be to make a sell, I wouldn't be arguing with you what
CARB 2 is or isn't. All I would say is: "[If you say it's not CARB 2, then] it's not CARB 2. [What do I care, but
what you wanted] will be very expensive".


16 Mar 2015, 02:16 PM


JoeNatural, Contributor
What's a "fancy lawyer" ? One that's dressed for church ? I suppose it's a good thing they didn't hire lawyers not
wearing a Rolex.


The worst thing I see with LL is they have a CEO in desperate need of a public speaking class, as the stock would
have traded much differently after his CNBC interview. Also, I noticed CNBC headlines shortly after the interview
claimed that LL will continue to sell product made in China, but if you watch the interview again, you'll see the CEO
never said that. I suppose the story sells better ?


15 Mar 2015, 09:56 AM


Jolly_Rancher
In the end game, the loser always plays the bluff. Cut costs to the bone, deny everything, pump sales. More often it
means going out in flames. But sometimes the bluff wins. There are only a few relevant questions. 1) Can the
attorneys dredge up a "significant" number of people who can show they actually bought high formaldehyde flooring
and show bloody noses, a cough and/or head ache? Answer: No. There will be a manageable settlement eventually.
2) Aren't reduced margin, high inventory, high legal costs and flagging sales enough to send this stock back into the
teens from whence it came? Answer: Yes.


15 Mar 2015, 10:02 AM


ClintonSPX
The names of the stocks/products change but the way humans act never does. I've been reading post by coal bulls
for the past 3 years stating how global climate change is a farce, meanwhile coal stocks ANR ACI WLT are now below
a buck. This is starting to have the same feel. Good luck bulls debating your stock back to former glory and price
levels.


15 Mar 2015, 10:06 AM


Quickondraw
The only coal company to own = ARLP.


16 Mar 2015, 10:16 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/19095811

https://seekingalpha.com/author/joenatural

https://seekingalpha.com/user/210417

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5261061

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32800495
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 19/42


ClintonSPX
looks like a good one. revs increasing. earnings growth 28%


16 Mar 2015, 12:48 PM


User 793978
I intend to install LL flooring in all my college housing units this summer. It is priced right and the improvements have
rendered me increased rents. Moms love their children to have sporty new floors and backsplashes in their college
slum housing. Its amazing the payback on these cheap improvements.


15 Mar 2015, 10:24 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi sludgemonkey,


I'm sure, at some point, you'll get plenty of payback.


May not be the kind you're thinking of.


15 Mar 2015, 10:32 AM


dendod
The weather across most of the country was terrible the first week of March and could easily be a partial cause of
reduced LL sales. Also Tilson's gross profit increase for LL during certain years occurred at HD and Lowe's during the
same years. I wouldn't want Tilson defending me in court. He's an Ackman want-a-be and not a good one even. LL
will weather this storm and a year from now no one will care. With only 27 million shares of stock outstanding I hope a
big player comes in and burns the shorts. It wouldn't take a lot of capital. The rewards would be great and justice
would be served. My personal opinion is that Tilson is the "greedy" one and is trying to make a big lick to make up for
his major losses in the past several years. Desperate and willing to destroy a business and a man "Sullivan" who has
came up from nothing and in 20 years built a great American company. Shame on Tilson.


15 Mar 2015, 10:41 AM


nhsully88
If Tilson was so concerned about the safety aspects, why isn't he committing to used some of his ill gotten
gains to benefit those that have been exposed?


15 Mar 2015, 11:29 AM


borisb
if " he came from nothing" , then he didn't have the tools to build a "great American company"


16 Mar 2015, 03:14 PM


Nubevestor
Sullivan seems to act more like teenager than a leader. I was expecting to hear his stamp his feet on CNBC.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5261061

https://seekingalpha.com/user/793978

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24887323

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/user/324

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32609675
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 20/42


I'll bet one dollar that Sullivan is gone from LL before this year is over.


16 Mar 2015, 03:27 PM


Sam's Picks, Contributor
Could it be bc LL is the one selling the finished product?


15 Mar 2015, 10:46 AM


NT 61
--Tilson is desperately pursuing a reckless mislead-and-attack strategy.


--Though Tilson knows that all of LL's Chinese-made laminate is CARB 2 compliant, as confirmed by CARB, Tilson
continues to shill his pitch in order to promote his short.


--Tilson's attempts to muddy the waters by substituting “deconstructive” testing for CARB and industry standards have
no grounding in fact and should be ignored.


15 Mar 2015, 11:04 AM


Ponchovilla
There is a reason that shorting a stock is not a guarantee of fame and fortune. Assume for one millisecond that
Whitney is 100% correct in his allegations. Assume in the next millisecond than LL denies all claims of any wrong
doing. Now introduce attorneys , expert witnesses and a reading of the regulations before a jury of 12. How long does
this take to resolve while the attorney's have their meter running similar to a Taxi driver in downtown Manhattan trying
to get to JFK during rush hour with snow falling at 8 inches per hour?  
LL may know the truth. The manufacturers can claim gross ignorance. The installers may give testimony. Customers
can have claims. Evidence based on facts for a jury to sort out is a crap shoot. 
Personally I would avoid any consideration of playing this stock just as I would avoid sleeping on newly installed LL
flooring.


15 Mar 2015, 11:47 AM


Ivan Gault
Great work and I couldn't agree more!


Do you have any thoughts on whether these issues will have a long term effect on LL sales? I suspect the audience
for 60 Minutes and traditional media outlets is skewed older than the average buyer of wood flooring.


While I am shocked at how LL is handling this issue, they have a proven track record of understanding their
customers. After all, wood flooring doesn't exactly look dangerous and in a well vented home it likely wouldn't be. If
lawsuits and government actions don't overwhelm them, I suspect the strategy of just letting it blow over might work.


15 Mar 2015, 12:05 PM


Nubevestor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/sams-picks

https://seekingalpha.com/user/24539823

https://seekingalpha.com/user/483601

https://seekingalpha.com/user/17018382

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32609675
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 21/42


I was wishy-washy on LL until I saw that CNBC video with Tom Sullivan. I'm pretty sure he either told at least one lie
or stretched a story so far that it ended up a lie.


At one point in the video Chairman Sullivan says close to, "We've gotten calls from testing laboratories all over the
country that we aren't affiliated with that have had customers bring them our floors for testing and they tell us that the
product is perfect, the customers are happy with their floor and they wi.... they don't know what 60 Minutes is talking
about."


What a giant load of BS. There is no way I can believe that independent labs all over the country called to LL to them
that their product is "perfect" and there's certainly no way on earth scads of independent labs asked these LL
customers if they are happy with their floors, then reported the results of the question back to LL.


LL might be an alright company getting a lot of bad PR from an issue blown out of proportion, but at the same time,
their Chairman is full of it. There's no way I would put long money into a company with a Chairman that goes on live
TV and makes up stories.


15 Mar 2015, 12:10 PM


jakurtz
Tilson wrote: "acknowledge that CARB's SOP, however much they don't like it, is the regulatory requirement and thus
the company needs to immediately fix the underlying problem"


Nice turn of words you jackal! CARBS SOP is their low-emissions requirement *process* so you get by without lying
here. But your hope is that the reader does not notice you didn't say "passing deconstructive testing is a regulatory
requirement" -- though it is part of their process.


Well done, perhaps, for now you wont be sued for defamation.


15 Mar 2015, 01:25 PM


mikermoo
All I know is that the LL flooring in my house stated that it was Carb 2 compliant. If LL feels that Carb testing is flawed,
then the Carb 2 compliant claim should not have been made. LL needs to take responsibility for making that claim.


15 Mar 2015, 01:33 PM


Sartre
Tilson/Ackman, et al, the only testing you and others need to be concerned about is the testing by the FBI to see if
there were criminal actions that resulted in the manipulation of LL stock.


15 Mar 2015, 01:35 PM


SeekingWorldlyWisdom
@nhsully88 They print on it. Because LL doesn't care or willingly ignore. Most thought LL has only the lower cost
laminated floor has this problem, I doubt it, as one says, you rarely find one cockroach in the filthy kitchen. This might
the reason why LL choose to deny everything because there's no way out.


15 Mar 2015, 02:00 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34641865

https://seekingalpha.com/user/188595

https://seekingalpha.com/user/117673
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 22/42


Petrarch
two things Whitney -


1. This statement 
"When I first discovered compelling evidence nearly a year ago that Lumber Liquidators was selling its American
customers hundreds of millions of square feet of laminate flooring sourced in China that contained high levels of
formaldehyde, a dangerous chemical and known carcinogen..."


WOW. That is quite a statement.


When and how did you discover this and why did you not disclose this important public health information to the
authorities. Why not? What was stopping you from coming forward with "compelling" information


I recently heard you interviewed and you said your based your short on the source of the timber - you said the
information about the formaldehyde was not know to you. But now you have a different story.


2. 60 minutes  
As for 60 minutes. I got one word or you. Benghazi. It is a news magazine. It is not evidence. It is like relying on troll
bloggers.


As for you, Whitney. Sounds like you are doing a Brian Williams here with your tale of knowing all of this well before it
broke.


Let it run its course - the truth will out and if people are being damaged they should be compensate in the meantime
put down the megaphone before you do anymore damage to your credibility.


P


15 Mar 2015, 02:41 PM


DenaliOcean
This was known about more than a year ago. Back in 2013.


Look at the original Seeking Alpha article: 
http://bit.ly/1MDJds6


The article writer also contacted three members of Congress and regulators on the issue. And I would
assume also contacted CARB. Did they do anything? Obviously not.


In my own case documented here involving Chinese floorboards: 
http://bit.ly/17iUznF


I have contacted the NZ government about this, and although they have acknowledged my communication,
as of yet they have not begun an investigation.


15 Mar 2015, 03:52 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/4661011

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/1MDJds6

http://bit.ly/17iUznF
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 23/42


Pablomike
Known or alleged???


15 Mar 2015, 10:57 PM


DenaliOcean
Definitely known about because the author of that article commissioned his own testing through Berkeley
Analytical, testing Lumber Liquidators floorboards and they failed the test.


16 Mar 2015, 03:51 AM


Matt Brice, Contributor
Reel Ken--you are starting to change you tune. It takes more than a brief video clip to explain why Tilson is wrong in
making his conclusions. He may actually end up being correct, but his current logic is faulty both on a science/testing
basis and legal basis. I have been hesitant to take the time to flush out these issues, but if he continues to write stuff
that or logically invalid, then it deserves a more thorough rebuttal.


I will try to do something this week...


15 Mar 2015, 03:18 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Max,


I don't think I'm changing my tune .. but it might read that way.


I don't like how Tilson has handled this .. never have. I don't believe in bringing other people down just to lift
yourself up . There's no value added in that.


Tilson seems to be just willing to take from someone else's pot and put it in his own.


That said, I remain steadfastly opposed to businesses that, for financial gain, put the health or safety of
people at risk.


My criticism against LL has and is that I don't agree with how they're handling this.


What I am concerned about is getting to the bottom of what's going on in China with alleged mislabeling and
is LL complicit or not. I've been trying to turn everyone's attention to that issue. Apparently not too
successfully.


It's like watching two people argue over who started the fire, while the house burns to the ground. Can't
someone call the FD?


15 Mar 2015, 03:26 PM


jakurtz
The more I dig the more I find this to be an absolute joke and downright defamation by Tilson.


"If I'm right that the company has been knowingly putting untold numbers of American families at risk" -- Tilson



https://seekingalpha.com/user/161233

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 24/42


"Why would they do something so immoral and potentially destructive?" -- Tilson


"While for the health and safety of Lumber Liquidators' customers I wish the company would stop selling what I
believe is a dangerous product," -- Tilson


Now, what does CARB tell consumers if they suspect they have a non-carb compliant products --


" You may also leave your new product(s) in the garage or under a covered carport for a while to let it off-gas before
bringing it inside the house."


"Proper ventilation, such as opening up windows, bringing fresh air through a  
central ventilation system, and running exhaust fans will expedite formaldehyde off-gassing from finished goods in
your home."


"Panel products, flooring products and other finished goods that are  
covered with impermeable facing such as synthetic laminates may further reduce emissions."


http://bit.ly/1wJZEBi


This debacle has some folks and hypochondriacs worried sick they are about to drop dead from their laminate flooring
and what does CARB say...open up some windows or sit it outside for awhile or if there is a *laminate* on it don't
worry about it at all.


Put this garbage to rest.


15 Mar 2015, 04:09 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi jakurtz,


Tilson is making hyperbole, but you offer three quotes to support your accusation of defamation....


1) If I'm right that the company has been knowingly putting untold numbers of American families at risk" --
Tilson


2) "Why would they do something so immoral and potentially destructive?" -- Tilson


3) "While for the health and safety of Lumber Liquidators' customers I wish the company would stop selling
what I believe is a dangerous product," -- Tilson


Clearly #1 and #3 are NOT defamatory as a matter of law.


#2 ... well ... in the hands of a good lawyer ... maybe one could make the case, but it's such a longshot I
wonder if anyone would give it a go.


Taking all three together and #2 would not be defamatory.


15 Mar 2015, 04:16 PM


jakurtz
I couldn't begin to make the case for defamation against him but I hope someone far smarter than me can.



http://bit.ly/1wJZEBi

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 25/42


15 Mar 2015, 04:27 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi jakurtz,


Well, whoever does can start by eliminating from defamation any statement that is presented as opinion, not
fact,


Then, eliminate any statement presented as fact that is based upon responsible testing/research.


That leaves ... statements offered as fact that are known to be false.


No too much left.


15 Mar 2015, 04:32 PM


jakurtz
the market might give home his just desserts. it was a gift he got this thing below 30 but then he doubled
down. now, I don't which way this thing will go because I don't know who might be in cahoots with him and
how much firepower they may have, so over the short term he might win more I don't know but at some point
here a long bet made by a smart timer could make a lot of miney over a very short term.


15 Mar 2015, 05:08 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi jakurtz,


What you say can be true.


I think LL is a betting man's stock not an investible stock.


There is just too much uncertainty surrounding it. There are legal uncertainties, branding uncertainties, sales
uncertainties and earnings uncertainties. They could all play out in a few months or it could take years.


The "hedgies" and gamblers will surely try to make a buck on the volatility, but institutional investors will bail
out ... especially over the next few weeks as they do "end of quarter window dressing".


I'm an investor and this stock just doesn't meet any criteria I've set. But for gamblers it's a answer to a prayer
but it won't be an easy call.


15 Mar 2015, 05:14 PM


jakurtz
Im surprised though your not making a bet thats hedged out with writing some calls or puts depending on
your tilt. You seem to have some good strategies there based on your past articles. Puts are pretty expensive
right now so you could write those against a long or short position and have pretty decent protection. If your
short term bullish based on sentiment bottoming a small bet on short term calls as long as you sell them
before the IV dissipates could be a good payoff with little capital at risk.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 26/42


I would be interested in your thoughts on that if you have thought about it.


15 Mar 2015, 06:57 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi jakurtz,


I engage in option strategies for stocks I know and understand.


I understand the issues in this case, but I know very little about LL, as a company.


There are too many stocks without the problems, so if I want to research, I try to pick the cleanest company I
can, and use macro criteria.


As I said, it's a gamblers stock, not an investors stock .. so it's better for the "hedgies" and gamblers than me.


If I were to do anything, I'd short it and hedge by buying a January 2016 call. Based solely on the likelihood
that it will suffer in the next few weeks and if it pops up, it will take a little while. But the hedge is because I
have little faith in predicting which way it can go.


But like I said, I don't like it for an option play and it's just a passing thought.


15 Mar 2015, 08:24 PM


jakurtz
Hi Ken, 
The one issue with institutional investors continuing to put pressure on the stock is that the story has been out
in the mainstream for two weeks now. In that two weeks 172Million shares were traded on this stock which
had only 26M shares in the float and at least 10-20% of that is held short. So the institutionals that had to or
wanted to get out have most likely done so. I suspect Friday afternoons capitulation was retail going into the
weekend after getting whipsawed all week and my bet is that by mid-week this week the stock will be
between $40-$45, barring anymore major BS hitting the airwaves (which is a very serious risk to consider).
we'll see I guess.


Thanks for your thoughts. Its been fun talking back and forth with you this weekend. I know I don't come
across as overly considerate in forums so I will make a generally apology for myself.


15 Mar 2015, 08:32 PM


DenaliOcean
Another reason why deconstructive testing is a valid method and reveals a more accurate formaldehyde emission is
that when a floorboard is installed it is obviously in use and being walked on.


The banging on the boards and some amount of flexing of the boards which does occur when walked on, especially if
the subfloor is not completely flat, causes more formaldehyde to be released into the air.


A static test of a non-deconstructed board, is not necessarily a true measurement of the formaldehyde emission.


15 Mar 2015, 04:16 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 27/42


Edward J. Roche, Contributor
DenaliOcean -


You state:


"The banging on the boards and some amount of flexing of the boards which does occur when walked on, especially
if the subfloor is not completely flat, causes more formaldehyde to be released into the air.


Do you have scientifically designed controlled studies to support your claim?


Or are you just guessing?


15 Mar 2015, 04:29 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Ed,


Good point re: Denali...


Now my query ....


Do you have scientifically designed controlled studies to support your claim that static testing in a laboratory
is "real world" conditions?


Or are you just guessing?


15 Mar 2015, 04:59 PM


DenaliOcean
In all of my research, I have not seen any literature in regards to this particular subject, but it is a reasonable
conclusion and something that I have thought about and considered with my own case and the testing I have done.


The reason this was significant in my particular case was because the floorboards I got were bowed and were flexing
a lot and I figured that in addition to the high formaldehyde levels the core boards had, that this also contributed to
pushing the formaldehyde level up in the house by increasing the board emission. Certainly the formaldehyde that
gathers underneath the floorboards would help to get pushed out the sides by walking on them.


A test would have to be set up to verify this.


15 Mar 2015, 04:42 PM


Doc's Trading, Contributor
LL......I am short since 44 and remain so..... I see similarities to the former Johns Manville asbestos bankruptcy, and
Enron: 
3) How long did it take Enron to go into Bankruptcy from the mid 40´s price? 
August of 2000 - $90.56 
August 15, 2001 - $42 
October 31, 2001 - $15 
November 28, 2001 - $1 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/edward-j-roche

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

https://seekingalpha.com/author/doc-s-trading
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 28/42


December 2, 2001 - Filed for Bankruptcy 
http://bit.ly/orzZ6F 
I am up 800% since last 12 months, not a misprint, all documented on this SA forum... 
More later....


15 Mar 2015, 04:56 PM


Kartik Sivaraman
Stay short and you will be laughing all the way to the bank. There is no hope for LL because the CEO is in
deny mode which is what happened with Enron. Eventually the shareholders will be shafted. Customers will
also be shafted. Short sellers and put holders like me will be singing merry christimas way before
christmas....unless the CEO is fired and replaced with some one like Mary Barra of GM where the problems
with the car company were dealt with head on. It is not going to happen with LL. They are stuck with the
genius ceo.


15 Mar 2015, 07:37 PM


Doc's Trading, Contributor
LL......LL.....I am short since 44 and remain so..... I see similarities to the former Johns Manville asbestos bankruptcy,
and Enron: 
3) How long did it take Enron to go into Bankruptcy from the mid 40´s price? 
August of 2000 - $90.56 
August 15, 2001 - $42 
October 31, 2001 - $15 
November 28, 2001 - $1 
December 2, 2001 - Filed for Bankruptcy 
http://bit.ly/orzZ6F 
I am up 800% since last 12 months, not a misprint, all documented on this SA forum............ 
More later................


15 Mar 2015, 04:57 PM


jakurtz
haha, you think this is enron. that is hilarious.


15 Mar 2015, 05:13 PM


Edward J. Roche, Contributor
Reel Ken -


You ask:


"Do you have scientifically designed controlled studies to support your claim that static testing in a laboratory is "real
world" conditions?"



http://bit.ly/orzZ6F

https://seekingalpha.com/user/33239665

https://seekingalpha.com/author/doc-s-trading

http://bit.ly/orzZ6F

https://seekingalpha.com/user/940657

https://seekingalpha.com/author/edward-j-roche
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 29/42


It is up to CARB working with the industry experts to develop test methods that they believe reflect real use risk.
There appears to be agreement on some test methods such as the ones used by LL and the one I cited from Georigia
Pacific that CARB has approved as an alternate test method. There is clear disagreement on the predictive value of
the deconstructive test from what I see.


15 Mar 2015, 05:16 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Ed,


So I take that as a no.


I would argue that CARB does not discriminate against or in favor of any particular method.


If CARB uses "real world" as a metric it does so for all methods including deconstructive.


There is nothing I can find for any of their methodologies that puts a "real world" factor in the equation. If they did,
they would consider such factors as carpeting, rugs, furniture and traffic. The "real world" would need to consider pre-
existing health conditions of the occupants, their numbers and ages. Also ambient temperatures matter. That means
"real world" testing varies by geographic location.


Does the "real world" account for pets .. how about dogs .. large dogs, small dogs, parakeets? How about scratches
in the laminate from children and pets? My cat has scored my floors. So maybe some deconstructive testing is more
"real world" than none.


What exactly is the"real world" for LL.


So, let's be honest ... the "real world" cannot be tested for. One person's "real world" is not another person's "real
world". The only thing one can test for is emissions.


So lay off Denali ... glass houses and such ....


15 Mar 2015, 05:36 PM


Edward J. Roche, Contributor
Reel Ken -


I am not in charge of regulation here. CARB is. I worked for years in the Pharmaceutical industry and know how
Regulatory bodies such as the FDA assess risk and develop predictive test methods. There are no perfect tests but
tests can be developed in a scientific manner using the expertise of government and industry that do have value in
assessing real world conditions.


15 Mar 2015, 05:55 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Ed,


Understood. It's CARB's call and they approved deconstructive.


The whole real world parameter is a marketing gimmick.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/author/edward-j-roche

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 30/42


Let's not embrace it like it means something.


15 Mar 2015, 06:24 PM


ClintonSPX
whatever the test is, if LL products test 6 times higher than Lowes, Suzy homemaker will buy flooring from
lowes. just watch as sales data tanks next 12 months


15 Mar 2015, 07:47 PM


User 8193591
This link sheds some light on the matter:


http://bit.ly/1Fsugca


16 Mar 2015, 01:05 PM


David Pinsen, Marketplace Contributor
Just checked the cost of hedging LL against a >20% drop from here over the next several months. It was too
expensive to hedge that way with optimal puts (i.e., the cost of hedging that way was more than 20%). But not too
expensive if you were willing to cap your upside with a collar (assuming any LL investor would accept such a cap after
last week's drop): http://bit.ly/1FpIRoC


15 Mar 2015, 06:11 PM


User 486211
It is really hard to strike a balance between a big short seller and a concerned citizen for the whole society at the
same time.......In the past I had had good respect for Mr. Tilson's analytical caliber.........But in this case he is too much
tilted to his big short interest.......Really don't know whom to believe now, LL or WT? .........But eventually the truth will
prevail!


15 Mar 2015, 06:23 PM


surrydog
For what it's worth, no insider selling or buying in 2015. Only insider actions at market the end of 2014 were
purchases. No position in LL, but I did install laminate from LL in one of my lower level bedrooms 3 years ago, after
the room flooded from Hurricane Irene and I had to take up carpeting. Before I made the purchase from LL I took a
sample and placed it in water for 24 hours - no warping or discoloring at all! Not too worried, but will open the
windows in my son's bedroom (now vacant as he moved out last year to attend college in another state) more often
this spring and summer...just in case.


15 Mar 2015, 07:38 PM


FYI- Good Advice



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5261061

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8193591

http://bit.ly/1Fsugca

https://seekingalpha.com/author/david-pinsen

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=david-pinsen&source=comment_author_tag

http://bit.ly/1FpIRoC

https://seekingalpha.com/user/486211

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4174541

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34166045
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 31/42


Truth be told, 
What is next American Water Works- too much chemicals in the water? 
Burger King- meat products contain too much mixed exes above the acceptable requirement. 
Crest-too much teeth whitener. 
This reminds me of when they weighed squarer pounders said the meat wasn't s quarter pound 
Or Subway sandwiches didn't equal 12 inches, the I phone 6 bends-bendgate. 
It's just too much rhetoric!


15 Mar 2015, 09:20 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi FYI,


Good points.


Slightly off target, though.


I think if any business, such as the ones you mentioned, deliberately mislabeled product that contained
known carcinogens, we'd all want to know about it.


The truth in this case has yet to come out, but so far LL has not refuted the Chinese factory workers claims of
intentional mislabeling. I hope the claims are false and we can all go about our business. But so far, the
evidence, though sketchy, doesn't seem to be going that way.


Until this issue is resolved, it is worth following.


16 Mar 2015, 07:41 AM


Paul9898
so this article wrote by the short seller of the stock, go figure!


15 Mar 2015, 09:45 PM


ericlee06
The author selectively omitted LL CEO's statement, even while quoting the same paragraph: 
"CARB has indicated to us that no one in the industry is expected to conduct deconstructive testing for compliance
purposes and we know of no further action that has been taken by CARB with respect to our products or the suppliers
and manufacturers that provided these products to us." 
Diminishing the author's credibility, IMHO.


15 Mar 2015, 09:45 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi ericlee,


Thanks for adding the comment.


Unfortunately, the CEO is being clever and allowing for the very mis-interpretation you accepted.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38711706

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 32/42


CARB does not "expect" any particular test, over another. CARB "requires" only that the lab use an approved
the test.


The lab can choose any of several approved tests, and deconstructing is one of them.


Quite frankly, I don't expect LL to want, or like deconstructing because it has a high failure rate.


But, a real issue, is what test was performed by the Chinese selected lab that led to the workers comments
that the product was non-compliant and deliberately mislabeled, and is there truth in this claim.


LL has had sufficient time to discover this (nearly two years) and they haven't been forthcoming. The more
their hand is forced, the more forthcoming they will become. Simple math.


16 Mar 2015, 07:48 AM


nhsully88
I'll add; Why hasn't the CARB approved third party certifier addressed the issues presented, or why hasn't
CARB addressed this with the certifier. There are a number of parties involved in this issue, not just LL. And I
tend to agree with LL that there are no requirements to conduct any testing, for compliance purposes if they
use a third party certified mill, unless someone can point out those requirements.


16 Mar 2015, 09:47 AM


User 8193591
Here is an interesting release from a 3rd party that doesn't have direct skin in the game: http://bit.ly/1Fsugca


16 Mar 2015, 02:06 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Good post !!!


16 Mar 2015, 03:10 PM


nhsully88
Great input. This statement seems to say it all; "Applying precise measurement techniques to an
inhomogeneous product created in an imperfect manufacturing environment is impractical. The merits of the
language of the ATCM can be argued by attorneys, politicians and regulators and is not a discussion we will
enter. Opening a dialogue concerning the technical aspects of test methods used within the regulation is a
discussion we have entered before and continue to participate in today."


17 Mar 2015, 08:37 AM


dallenthom
From my experience in retail compliance issues are tested by a 3rd party labs with all packaging included. If the 3rd
party lab approves it there is no problem and the product ships. If the testing fails the produce can still ship but the
retailer is made aware of the situation and failing test records are kept on file. Most 3rd party labs have records of the
testing that stay on file for years. This should be a matter of asking for the CARB compliance testing. Assuming that



https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8193591

http://bit.ly/1Fsugca

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11357341
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 33/42


LL operates like other large retailers there should be little question about the compliance. If LL has this proof of
compliance someone should be held accountable for causing such a deflation in stock prices that does look like stock
price "influencing" for someones gain.


15 Mar 2015, 09:46 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi dallenthom,


You are 100% correct.


It is complicated in that factory workers, responsible for affixing the labels, have acknowledged that they put
labels from compliant product on non-compliant product, then shipped as if compliant.


Determining the veracity of these statements is paramount. If they are true ... well,


This requires some detective work (not that it can't be done). It's been two years since this surfaced and was
brought to LL's attention.


So, it is my opinion that until 60 minutes and all the hyperbole forced the issue, LL either didn't want to know
or does know the truth. Draw conclusions as you wish.


16 Mar 2015, 07:58 AM


Joe Figucia, Contributor
Whitney, I have no position in LL, nor have I ever. I did use and buy some product from them in the past however.
Quick question, are the carb standards only relevant in two states, or is it a federal mandate?


Also, though it may not be the way to test, once the product is fully manufactured, with the laminate attached, etc., is
there a way to test for levels of emitted formaldehyde?


In other words, are installed products emitting formaldehyde? 
If not, I would assume the company is guilty of, perhaps, breaking the CARB testing qualifications, but limited in it's
exposure to law suits regarding having caused anybody any cancer.


I would also guess their are many more importers of various wooden products 
getting their "cores" from similar Chinese manufacturers.


As to the specific charges regarding the high read out from the cores, was LL obligated to deconstruct and test, or
was it OK to simply trust the source company data? It would have to be more than "standard practice", it would have
to actually be mandated that they do it. And if they did it and got no negative result is the testing controlled and should
it only have been administered under UL laboratories?


If you already answered these above I'm sorry for the redundancy.


15 Mar 2015, 09:54 PM


quadrant8



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/author/joe-figucia

https://seekingalpha.com/user/20587681
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 34/42


I think this argument is based on FACTS, and thus, more convincing: 
http://bit.ly/1MEifjU


15 Mar 2015, 09:56 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi quad,


Motley left our the SEMINAL "FACT" .....


Factory workers admitted to deliberately mislabeling non-compliant product.


That is the fact that needs to be fact-checked.


Everything else is just hyperbole.


16 Mar 2015, 08:01 AM


Matt Brice, Contributor
Reel Ken-- 
You continue to go on and on about a few statements by no-faced, no-named individuals in chinese factories
as facts. I think you should step back and think about how much weight these statements should be given...


These are not necessarily statements of facts. There are a lot of different explanations for these statements--


I would point you to a few statements by an individual named Davies that 60 minutes mistakenly took as
"facts" a little bit ago.


17 Mar 2015, 07:58 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Max,


I don't think you really understand my posts.


I am not saying that the statements are true or false.


What I have and continue to do, is point out that the veracity of these individuals needs to be determined, for
if they are true, the party's over.


Arguing, as you do, whether or not a particular test is/isn't valid is immaterial. If product was mislabeled, LL is
in trouble. If product was not mislabeled they are compliant.


If you want to completely dismiss the "smoking gun" go ahead. Plenty of people like the thrill of potentially
being caught with their pants down.


And to suggest, in a complete vacuum, without investigating, that we should not give them much weight is
preposterous. We should give them precisely the amount of weight that is called for to initiate a full and
complete investigation. No more, no less.


17 Mar 2015, 08:31 AM



http://bit.ly/1MEifjU

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 35/42


seekingnews
For the health sake. I am more worry about feeding my kids beacon & eggs breakfast every morning, snack & soft
drink at noon and french fry & cheeseburger for dinner then worry that I might willingly place my nose to sniff the
formaldehyde off my hardwood flooring. This formaldehyde expo is over blown. The video shown the laminate
deconstruction testing for CARB is amazingly waste of time to proof wrong doing and trying to destroy a viable
business. This is not an American dream I am believe in. What's next? American auto dealers association try the
same sh!t to destroy Tesla? So anti business and anti competition.


15 Mar 2015, 09:57 PM


justmenow
Just one more reason not to trust ANY PRODUCT manufactured in China


15 Mar 2015, 09:58 PM


xraes
I have no dog in this fight, however, having seen the way 60 Minutes handled the BP oil spill, they've lost credibility
with most in the gulf coast states. At least most I've spoken to.


15 Mar 2015, 09:58 PM


jkurtz@cableone.net
Whitney, Thanks for your article and the acknowledgement that you are short LL.


"Drenched in formaldehyde" is not a technical description. The levels of formaldehyde under discussion here are less
than the level of formaldehyde currently circulating in your blood. http://bit.ly/1MEitaJ.


Action levels under the CARB standard are in the range of 0.05-0.10 parts per million vs greater than 2 ppm in your
blood.


Best Regards, Jim Kurtz


(No known relation to jakurtz.)


15 Mar 2015, 09:58 PM


Fanebrb
Exactly! Also gasoline is very explosive, so you shouldn't put it in your car! Duh.


15 Mar 2015, 10:03 PM


User 29478685
The Stock manipulation involved with this author seems borderline criminal. This stock is definitely a no touch until the
truth comes out. There is no doubt somebody is lying or stretching the truth. If you follow the money and look at who
benefits the most from these wild accusations, you can look at the author.


15 Mar 2015, 10:18 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/9765451

https://seekingalpha.com/user/23594513

https://seekingalpha.com/user/20773431

https://seekingalpha.com/user/26108243

http://bit.ly/1MEitaJ

https://seekingalpha.com/user/15227992

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29478685
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 36/42


rex.ter
A wonderful unbiased article. Thank you sir!


16 Mar 2015, 03:30 AM


Sartre
Just a few words to those expecting the author to respond to comments or questions, don't hold your breath. This
article was thoroughly vetted by attorneys to make sure the author doesn't end up in hot water at a later date. A to
and fro or open discussion can result in words that will hunt the author in future court hearings. This is nothing more
than a hit and run piece...How nice to live in such a democracy.


Never held LL or long.


16 Mar 2015, 04:41 AM


DUP
The high cost of low prices! Is Lumber Liquidators the WalMart of flooring? The dance and shuffle selling . f them and
Chinese garbage. Why is this garbage being allowed in.... Real wood flooring from legit dealers and suppliers is
readily available. Hardwood flooring made by legit factories in Canada and here,DUH, Boa Franc, Satin finish, Mirage
etc...you want 49 cent sq foot flooring, this is the garbage ya get, raise your standard and quit keeping the criminals in
business by buying low end garbage


16 Mar 2015, 09:56 AM


nhsully88
Most Americans are more interested in the lowest price, not necessarily jobs in America or quality of product
when it comes to their individual procurements....


17 Mar 2015, 08:40 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Satre,


Agree about Tilson not answering comments.


But I'm not with you on, what appears to be, a criticism of him having vetted the article.


It would also be a much nicer place to live if the people commenting bothered to take the time to vet their remarks.


Clearly more than 50% (maybe as high as 75%) of all the comments posted on threads involving LL, contain "facts" or
information that can be easily verified as incorrect or misleading.


I don't or wouldn't own LL, but if people could peel away their prejudices against Tilson or LL and all the hyperbole
and spin they produce, there is an underlying story that is of interest to every consumer.


Simply stated, a Chinese factory claims to have deliberately mislabeled a carcinogenic product. If this is true (I don't
know) what is wrong with exposing it and seeing how we can better protect ourselves from this type of behavior?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/24681473

https://seekingalpha.com/user/188595

https://seekingalpha.com/user/152025

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 37/42


I could care less about whether or not LL is fairly valued or Tilson makes or loses money. I care about deliberate acts
that put the health, welfare or safety of people at risk. 
.


16 Mar 2015, 10:16 AM


Sartre
Reel Ken, your comment is not seen as criticism I actually welcome your comment; I live for challenging
discussions.


" But I'm not with you on, what appears to be, a criticism of him having vetted the article."


I can't imagine that Tilsen didn't have his article reviewed by council. Also, if it wasn't just a hit piece (by the
way, I think the short sellers might just have a case) why wouldn't he enter in a healthy discussion that might
just raise the level of understanding about what really occurred with LL.


16 Mar 2015, 01:10 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Satre,


I agree with you that the article was probably vetted.


I was just trying to say there's nothing wrong with vetting, it should be employed by everyone. I don't see
anything wrong with trying to make sure you're on safe ground.


I also agree that Tilson is not trying to have a discussion ... he's trying to make a point. There's a big
difference between the two.


I'm not on Tilson's side ... anyone's side for that matter ...


I see a story, separate and distinct from stock market junk ... I'm concerned about the possibility that
manufacturers are deliberately mislabeling carcinogen product as safe, when they aren't. That's the story I'm
after.


16 Mar 2015, 03:18 PM


shb6000
Some of these defenses of the company are hilarious. If you want to be long, 60 Minutes and Tilson gave you a great
opportunity. Stop whining! Just like Ackman's original HLF presentation gave Loeb and Icahn great entries. So far,
Icahn, Loeb, Soros and others haven't piled in to squeeze the shorts. There is far more pumping done by longs than
shorts. CNBC is 99% long and no one has a problem with those people profiting from touting their longs. LL's
chairman should stop selling stock and start buying if he thinks he's right.


16 Mar 2015, 11:10 AM


Chuckx



https://seekingalpha.com/user/188595

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/946910

https://seekingalpha.com/user/468784
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 38/42


Regardless of the accuracy of the claims on either side, Sullivan's performance and approach in defending the co
have been pathetic.


16 Mar 2015, 11:39 AM


StumpLifter
Agreed - He needs to kick some tail and file a lawsuit on behalf of investors for their losses for say $500
million. Do an Oprah job on them. The beef people shut her cake hole but good. Formaldehyde is a naturally
occurring substance and is EVERYWHERE in the environment. It's the "new" smell you get for a while in cars,
homes and many other products. It doesn't last because it quickly decays in the presence of oxygen. Even a
"deconstructed" human being emits formaldehyde! That's how ridiculous the testing method is. It has no
relevance to the way the product is used.


16 Mar 2015, 01:37 PM


Nubevestor
Couldn't agree more. LL would be best served to keep Sullivan away from the media.


16 Mar 2015, 02:05 PM


adbrothers
Don't you think this statement is a little overboard?


"Lumber Liquidators doesn't like CARB's testing method for the obvious reason that it reveals that the company is
selling Chinese-made laminate drenched in formaldehyde."


I think everyone should read this and it might clear everything up a little more. There is a lot of hype in the articles
being written. It is on the deconstructive testing.


http://bit.ly/1BJYjsX


16 Mar 2015, 01:32 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi adbrothers,


Good post.


More people should try as you do and bring objectivity not hyperbole back into the discussion.


16 Mar 2015, 03:21 PM


Matt Brice, Contributor
I wrote something on the issue in long form here...


http://bit.ly/19sA49N


16 Mar 2015, 03:52 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32609675

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5407531

http://bit.ly/1BJYjsX

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

http://bit.ly/19sA49N
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 39/42


Sedric
The CEO acknowledge the product failed the deconstructive test and the deconstructive test was one of several
required per the regulations, ...but,.. but ... but it is safe anyway, .. trust us. That is why the stock has tanked. He
never said the test was incorrectly performed either. Wouldn't cheat for pennies!!!


16 Mar 2015, 06:33 PM


StumpLifter
Sed - you are absolutely wrong! CARB does not perform a deconstruction test for formaldehyde emissions on
laminate flooring for compliance purposes. Never has. Call them up and ask them. The number is - (916) 322-
8193.


30 Mar 2015, 03:56 AM


seekingnews
http://bit.ly/19sA49N


16 Mar 2015, 10:49 PM


Rj007
The plastic bottle is safe but if you burn it, its toxic.


17 Mar 2015, 01:20 AM


pbanik
I don't have an actual stake or interest in this company, but I would be more of an interested bystander, curious to see
how thing eventually unfolds and ends. Will they end up like $GTAT and $DNDN or will they survive this and have the
stock price recover is what I want to know?


Safety Issues of Laminate Flooring? How many Products are Actually made in the U.S? http://bit.ly/1ARlWMR


Lumber Liquidators To Provide Air Tests Following '60 Minutes' Report http://bit.ly/1ARlWMT


17 Mar 2015, 01:27 AM


Trading Alpha, Contributor
Tilson: for a guy who claims you are going to lower your public profile on Thursday, you have a funny way of doing
that with this weekend post within two days of the "lower my profile article". Clearly you have flipped on this claim. Are
there other claims you will flip on?


17 Mar 2015, 07:14 AM


seekingnews
Tilson is a self-interest short seller with a tiger head, snake tail. He will eventually shut up and covers his short
position. As I recall...he was saying that LL will be the short bet he never needs to cover. But I like to see him
puts the money where his mouth is.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/719506

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9765451

http://bit.ly/19sA49N

https://seekingalpha.com/user/19293571

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3038241

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DNDN

http://bit.ly/1ARlWMR

http://bit.ly/1ARlWMT

https://seekingalpha.com/author/trading-alpha

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9765451
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 40/42


18 Mar 2015, 08:53 AM


LeMarJackson
Tilson is no Ackman. I think he makes more money from his seminars than from his "hedge fund" business? Tilson
should put his money were his mouth is and donate his portion (as opposed to client money) of capital placed on his
short position to charity. Surely, he must have some skin in the game. Additionally, he can strip out the incentive fee
related to gains on this short position and donate them to charity. Ackman put his money where his mouth is on
Herbalife. I'd like to see Tilson do the same to show his true concern.


18 Mar 2015, 07:49 AM


Votd
"The company's attempts to muddy the waters around 'deconstructive' testing have no grounding in fact, and should
be ignored. When I first discovered compelling evidence nearly a year ago..."


Whenever you tell people to ignore the other side's argument you are spreading ignorance and fear. If you knew they
were selling a dangerous product why did you wait an entire year to release the news?


Cover up.


19 Mar 2015, 02:42 PM


DenaliOcean
It takes time for the news organizations to act on this kind of information. And they have to be very careful
that they are reporting on correct and reliable information.


In my particular case, the media organization who will be covering my case, has taken months. In part
because of the time to conduct tests and to have toxicology analysis so they have something they can trust.


Most likely Whitney Tilson did report this to CBS News 60 Minutes a while ago, but it was quite some time for
them to put together the actual story especially since they went to those Chinese factories. Which shows that
they were very determined to get accurate information.


23 Mar 2015, 06:03 AM


StumpLifter
Votd - By your definition you are a dangerous product. That's right you contain formaldehyde. Take a moment
to learn about human metabolism. Formaldehyde is produced in the human body during metabolism. Without
it we would all die. Hmmmmm! Maybe not so bad after all.


30 Mar 2015, 03:25 AM


StumpLifter
You mean like Dan "the man" Rather? Really?


30 Mar 2015, 03:39 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/6041271

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38886066

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 41/42


Matt Brice, Contributor
No kidding Votd. What he really did is have phony data and finally found someone stupid enough to shout it from the
rooftops for him....


19 Mar 2015, 02:54 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Max and Votd,


No none can say with certainty that anyone's data is phony until the factory tests have been reviewed.


Those are the only tests and data that can determine if LL's product is compliant.


If they passed an approved test at the factory, they are, by definition, compliant. If they did not and product
was deliberately mislabeled, thay are, by definition, not compliant (or worse).


The factory test (or lack thereof ) trumps everything.


19 Mar 2015, 06:02 PM


StumpLifter
Point of order - factory tests - because the factories are in China - are irrelevant as far as CARB compliance
is concerned. The law only takes affect when the product enters California. There it can be tested for
emissions. The product may not be tampered with - only tested as delivered in California. After all - it is a
California emissions law that we seem to be concerned with. Is it not?


30 Mar 2015, 03:36 AM


nhsully88
INCORRECT. Importers specify product characteristics and the manufacturers are responsible to deliver to
said specifications. CARB mandates that importers can only purchase these products from third party certified
mills. Testing, quality assurance and audits are done at the mills to ensure compliance to the specifications.
There are ZERO requirements for deconstructive testing by importers.


30 Mar 2015, 08:39 AM


Matt Brice, Contributor
To be honest, I can almost guaranty that the factory has records that say they passed the tests. The better question is
whether "someone" was falsifying those records and who knew about this--and when.


19 Mar 2015, 08:08 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Max,


Agree.


If there's something "fishy" it is likely substitution of core. Pretty easy to get core certified then use different core.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 42/42


19 Mar 2015, 08:25 PM


course2kid
Where are the California Air Resources Board (CARB) comments on all of this? According to their response to item #
95) on page 51 of the CARB's "Final Statement of Reasons for Rulemaking", "When the emission standards go into 
effect and the sell-through periods have expired, our inspectors will go to 
retail stores to collect products to test. ...". So, if they kept their word, CARB should have inspected LL products
(selected from their stores in CA) periodically and, if the products emitted excessive formaldehyde, then CARB should
have already stopped the importation from the guilty manufacturers and should have already fined LL and/or its
suppliers.


Of course, the above statement from CARB was made in 2007 before the Great Recession had its full effect, so
perhaps budgets were cut and there were no longer enough CARB inspectors to perform adequate compliance
testing. If that is the case, then it would seem that lawmakers must have agreed that the CARB testing wasn't very
important in the scheme of state budgets.


27 Mar 2015, 04:43 PM


NJLorelei
http://bit.ly/1AlV2xl


30 Mar 2015, 11:03 AM


StumpLifter
The SEC is committed to maintaining orderly securities markets. The abusive practice of naked short selling is far
different from ordinary short selling, which is a healthy and necessary part of a free market. Our agency’s rules are
highly supportive of short selling, which can help quickly transmit price signals in response to negative information or
prospects for a company. Short selling helps prevent “irrational exuberance” and bubbles. But when someone fails to
borrow and deliver the securities needed to make good on a short position, after failing even to determine that they
can be borrowed, that is not contributing to an orderly market — it is undermining it. And in the context of a potential
“distort and short” campaign aimed at an otherwise sound financial institution, this kind of manipulative activity can
have drastic consequences. 
— Speech by SEC chairman


01 Apr 2015, 02:27 PM


Paul9898
http://bit.ly/1bPJsVI


This is one of the reasonss LK is climbing higher today


01 Apr 2015, 03:34 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/38673046

https://seekingalpha.com/user/10182551

http://bit.ly/1AlV2xl

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38711706

http://bit.ly/1bPJsVI
