5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 1/44


Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To
Be A Sham
Apr. 20, 2015 10:08 AM ET113 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Two lawsuits filed recently make it clear that Lumber Liquidators’ offer to do indoor
air quality testing is a sham.


An expert testified that Lumber Liquidators’ testing program is “the cheapest
possible way to test,” “cannot be considered valid” and “will likely provide some
consumers with poor data that give them a false sense of security.”.


The lab Lumber Liquidators hired has numerous conflicts of interest.


The methodology used to collect the air samples is highly unreliable and unscientific
and is likely to significantly understate the true level of formaldehyde in the air.


Test results for four customers show troubling levels of formaldehyde, yet the lab told
Lumber Liquidators’ customers not to worry, citing a guideline that only assumes “30-
minute average concentration.”.


Even when customers, at their own expense, hired independent, qualified
technicians to measure the formaldehyde in their homes, Lumber Liquidators was
dismissive of the findings.


Lumber Liquidators needs to immediately cease its current testing program and
instead offer its customers a genuinely professional one that would give
homeowners information they could rely upon.


Of course, there is no chance that Lumber Liquidators will do this voluntarily, but I’m
optimistic that a judge or regulator will soon compel Lumber Liquidators to do the
right thing, which will be bad news for the stock for a number of reasons.


Note: The original version of this article, based on the Robertson lawsuit, said that "EDLab
is only certified to test for mold, not formaldehyde, and there is no evidence for Lumber
Liquidators' claim that EDLab is using other, unidentified 'properly accredited
laboratories'." Subsequently, Pure Air Control Services issued this press release, which
says, in part:



http://pureaircontrols.com/statement-by-pure-air-control-services-on-formaldehyde-test-kits/
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 2/44


To analyze our formaldehyde test kits, we work with our partner labs, each of which
is accredited by the American Industrial Hygiene Association for formaldehyde
analysis - the Industrial Hygiene Laboratory Accreditation Program (IHLAP). In
accordance with that accreditation, all original analytical data is developed and
maintained by those labs as per the policy.


Based on this, the article has been revised to remove the parts that questioned EDLab's
accreditation to test for formaldehyde.


Since the 60 Minutes story aired on March 1st, Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) hasn't
taken many basic, obvious steps that I think any honest and reputable company would,
including:


a) Stop selling the Chinese-made laminate flooring in question (even if it doubted the
validity of the testing 60 Minutes did, why take any chances with customers' health
and the company's reputation, not to mention future liabilities?);


b) Offer a full refund to any customers who wanted to return unopened product;


c) Set up a Special Committee of the board, made up of independent directors, to
oversee a full investigation, likely led by an experienced law firm; and


d) Hire an independent firm to do a wide range of testing, not just of Chinese-made
laminate, but all of the company's products.


This isn't rocket science - it's Crisis Management 101. Yet Lumber Liquidators hasn't done
a single one of these things.


However, at least at first glance, Lumber Liquidators does appear to have done one thing
that an honest and reputable company would: offer a free formaldehyde test to concerned
customers. Here's what the company says on its web site:



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 3/44


Air Quality Test Kit


To reassure our customers, we are providing indoor air quality testing at no cost to
qualifying customers as the fastest, most effective way to measure the total level of
formaldehyde in the home. The testing is being administered and the results
produced by an independent, accredited lab. The customer is in control of the
process, with clear instructions on the test and its results. We will conduct an in-
depth evaluation of air quality and potential formaldehyde sources for any customer
whose results are inconclusive or above established thresholds. Our customer care
team will work with our valued customers throughout the process.


The home test kits are being provided as a step for customers with our laminate
floors to help reassure them that their floor as installed is safe. Please fill out the
form found at the link below to determine if your floor qualifies for the free test kit. If
your floor does qualify, you will be walked through the process of ordering the test
via an independent lab.


Lumber Liquidators' customers are taking the company up on this offer in droves: on April
2nd, it reported that about 10,000 customers had requested air quality test kits. (Click here
to see what customers receive and here to see the typo-ridden web page the lab set up to
answer frequently asked questions.)


This all sounds great so, at least in this way, Lumber Liquidators is doing the right thing,
right? Not so fast… Two recent lawsuits (click here and here) filed by Hagens Berman and
Robertson & Associates charge that the indoor air quality testing program that Lumber
Liquidators' is offering anyone who bought its Chinese-made laminate is a total sham.


This came as little surprise to me, as I've spoken with numerous people in the industry
and, without exception, they tell me that Lumber Liquidators is a notorious bad actor:
cutting corners at every opportunity, selling very low-quality products and then not
standing behind them, treating customers, installers and employees badly, and, most
damningly, not being serious about compliance.


While I wasn't surprised to learn that Lumber Liquidators' testing program is a sham, the
details were nevertheless shocking. This company's brazenness and depravity appear to
know no bounds.


The primary charges of the Robertson lawsuit are:


1. The materials sent to customers make two false and misleading statements;



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLindoorairqualitytest.pdf

https://www.indoorairtest.com/ll.asp

http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLHagensBemanlawsuit.pdf

http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLRobertsonlawsuit.pdf
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 4/44


2. PACS cannot be considered independent;
3. PACS is doing both the sampling and the testing, which creates a conflict of interest


and is contrary to industry best practices;
4. PACS shares homeowners' test results with Lumber Liquidators, a gross breach of


confidentiality;
5. The methodology used to collect the air samples is highly unreliable and unscientific


and is likely to significantly understate the true level of formaldehyde in the air;
6. Test results for four customers (plaintiffs in the two lawsuits) show troubling levels of


formaldehyde, yet PACS told Lumber Liquidators' customers not to worry, citing a
guideline that only assumes "30-minute average concentration."; and


7. Even when customers, at their own expense, hired independent, qualified technicians
to measure the formaldehyde in their homes, Lumber Liquidators was dismissive of the
findings.


Let's examine each of these, with a particular focus on 5), 6) and 7), which are the most
damning.


1) The materials Building Health Check sends to customers make two false and
misleading statements.


According to the Robertson lawsuit:


The instructions on the Bio-Badges sent to Plaintiffs claim the badge "analyzes for
personal exposure and room concentration." However, the instructions omit to inform
the user that in its advertising on the internet, Building Health Services, LLC
advertises that in order to conduct "personal exposure monitoring", the user must
clip the badge onto the person (e.g., clothing) "near the breathing zone" and wear
the device for 24 hours. The instructions sent to Plaintiffs instruct the Plaintiffs to
place the Bio-Badge in the center of the room four feet above the floor…


Second, the Bio-Badge packaging claims that it is the "Same Sample Screen Used
by Professionals." This statement is false…


…The Defendants' "one-size-fits-all" approach to using the Bio-Badge is not "the
most effective way to measure the total level of formaldehyde in the home" as
represented on Lumber Liquidators' Health and Safety webpage, nor is it the "Same
Sample Screen Used by Professionals" as represented by Building Health Check,
LLC and EDLab on the packaging for the Bio-Badge.
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 5/44


2) PACS cannot be considered independent. 
In a declaration to the court associated with the Hagens Berman lawsuit, Elisabeth Black,
a Certified Industrial Hygienist with 25 years' experience, commented:


Finally, it is worth noting that the test kits provided by Lumber Liquidators cannot be
considered an independent assessment of formaldehyde exposures. Lumber
Liquidators has selected the test method, has contracted with the analytical
laboratory, and will likely determine which criteria to use for evaluation. A
scientifically valid test method should be selected, the sampling protocol defined,
and the analytical laboratory contracted by a truly independent laboratory in order to
reduce potential conflicts of interest.


3) PACS is doing both the sampling and the testing, which creates a conflict of
interest and is contrary to industry best practices. 
According to the Robertson lawsuit:


Pure Air Control Services, Inc. owns and has a financial interest in both the testing
company hired by Lumber Liquidators and the lab which performs the analysis of the
home test kits for Lumber Liquidators. This practice is contrary to the industry
standard where an industrial hygiene company typically collects the indoor air
samples and then sends those samples to an independent laboratory for analysis.
This standard practice removes any conflict of interest between the company taking
the indoor air samples and the lab reporting and explaining the results. According to
the American Board of Industrial Hygiene Code of Ethics, an industrial hygienist
must "disclose to clients or employees significant circumstances that could be
construed as a conflict of interest" and "assure that a conflict of interest does not
compromise legitimate interests of a client, employer, employee or the public and
does not influence or interfere with professional judgement." Neither Lumber
Liquidators, Building Health Check, LLC or EDLab disclosed the financial ties or
common ownership between the testing company and the lab Hired by Lumber
Liquidators to conduct the indoor air sampling in the Plaintiffs' homes.


When I asked Robertson to explain the importance of having one company do the indoor
air sampling and then another analyzing the results, he explained:



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/ElisabethBlackDeclaration.pdf
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 6/44


In most cases, the conflict (if one company does both) is that, when analyzing the
samples, they will over-report the results to drive more business to themselves.


But in this case, the concern is the opposite: that they'll under-report the results (on
behalf of Lumber Liquidators) to lull the customers into a false sense of security.


4) PACS shares homeowners' test results with Lumber Liquidators, a gross breach
of confidentiality. 
The Robertson lawsuit notes:


Further evidence that the lab is not "independent" is the fact that EDLab routinely
shares the results of the home test kits with Lumber Liquidators, a fact with both
Lumber Liquidators and Building Health Check, LLC conceal from Lumber
Liquidators' customers who order the home test kits...This gross breach of
confidentiality violates the American Board of Industrial Hygiene's Code of Ethics…


5) The methodology used to collect the air samples is highly unreliable and
unscientific and is likely to significantly understate the true level of formaldehyde in
the air.


Elsewhere in her declaration, industrial hygienist Elisabeth Black commented on the
testing program that Lumber Liquidators is offering its customers, which she says is "the
cheapest possible way to test," "cannot be considered valid" and "will likely provide some
consumers with poor data that give them a false sense of security":
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 7/44


Lumber Liquidators states that the formaldehyde test is "idiot proof". It may be true
that it is easy to collect and air sample using this test, but it is misleading in that it is
usually quite difficult to collect a scientifically valid sample that accurately measures
the true degree of risk related to the presence of formaldehyde containing flooring in
the home. It is unlikely that a user will be able to collect a valid and useful sample
using this oversimplified test protocol.


Hazard assessment is not a one-size-fits-all procedure. A qualified professional
trained in environmental science, industrial hygiene, or toxicology should be
employed to design a sampling strategy and collect sample data that will accurately
and reliably represent the degree of risk for homeowners with formaldehyde-
containing laminate flooring. A competent professional would design a custom
process to account for various conditions in an effort to collect samples the represent
worst-case conditions in order to be protecting for all conditions.


A number of factors must be considered when collecting valid and reliable air
samples where the results will be used to assess whether the level of formaldehyde
present in a home is safe. A qualified professional would take these factors into
account when designing a sampling strategy. The IAQ Screen Check for
Formaldehyde test kit does not adequately account for at least the factors listed
below...


…Without these considerations, it is my opinion that the testing cannot be
considered valid.


…Lumber Liquidators has selected the cheapest possible way to test formaldehyde
in its customers' homes, at the expense of valuable data. Even when the test kit is
used as directed, the results will not likely be valid because the air sampling failed to
account for existing conditions. In many cases, using [this] invalid and unreliable
sampling strategy…will likely provide a false negative - a test result indicating the
dwelling is safe, when in fact it is not. The resident then may feel that the issue is
resolved and may delay or forego the steps that should be taken immediately to
eliminate or reduce formaldehyde exposures.


…The Lumber Liquidators formaldehyde test kit procedure will likely provide some
consumers with poor data that give them a false sense of security. The result could
be years of additional exposure to formaldehyde above the health-based criteria
ending up with health issues, ranging from respiratory disease to cancer.
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 8/44


6) Test results for four customers (plaintiffs in the two lawsuits) show troubling
levels of formaldehyde, yet PACS told Lumber Liquidators' customers not to worry,
citing incorrect, dated information. 
This table summarizes the formaldehyde levels shown by tests of the indoor air in the
homes of four Lumber Liquidators' customers who've recently installed the company's
Chinese-made laminate:


As I discussed in my last article, More On Lumber Liquidators And Formaldehyde, even
the lowest of these numbers is troubling - and the high ones indicate extremely dangerous
levels of formaldehyde that would cause any sane homeowner to immediately rip out the
flooring in question.


So what is Lumber Liquidators telling its customers? We only have one data point, Ms.
Cottington, because she's the only one of the four who used Lumber Liquidators' test
methodology. In her case, the 38 ppb that EDLab reported is higher than the 7-33 ppb
range that four different regulators have set, as I showed in my last article.


So did EDLab tell Ms. Cottington that its test results showed levels of formaldehyde
significantly above safe limits set by numerous regulators, including two in her home state
of California? OF COURSE NOT! EDLab, no doubt following Lumber Liquidators'
instructions, in its report to Ms. Cottington wrote, "…any results which exceed 0.081 ppm
[81 ppb] warrant a re-test for further evaluation," citing this 2010 report by the World
Health Organization [see page 142; 0.1 mg/m3 = 81 ppb]. Note, however, that this is for
"30-minute average concentration", which is not the appropriate standard for flooring in
one's home, where children and babies might be playing/crawling on the floor for many
hours every day.


Notes: 1) The first three are tests by independent technicians; the Cottington results are from EDLab; 2) The lawsuit


doesn't specify, but the Brandt results are so high that I assume the technician did a chamber (CARB) test using


deconstruction, not an air test, so the relevant baseline is CARB's 0.011 ppm [110 ppb] standard; and 3) the 1,000 and


5,010 ppb results for the Collins family are from "air sampling at the floor level…and air sampling of laminate planks in


an unopened package."



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3072996-more-on-lumber-liquidators-and-formaldehyde

http://www.euro.who.int/__data/assets/pdf_file/0009/128169/e94535.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/4/20/saupload_Screen_shot_2015-04-20_at_4.20.39_PM.png
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 9/44


For more on what various regulators have established as safe levels of formaldehyde in
indoor air, see my last article and also this part of the Robertson lawsuit:


For example, the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) has
published a "minimum risk level" for chronic exposure to formaldehyde of 0.008 ppm
[8 ppb]. The California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA)
has recommended that formaldehyde levels not exceed 0.002 [2 ppb] for chronic
exposure. Finally, the EPA has stated that formaldehyde concentrations in indoor air
should not exceed 0.008 ppm [8 ppb] in order to minimize cancer risk. None of these
lower threshold levels were included in the lab report from EDLab sent to Ms.
Cottington. Ms. Cottington's lab test results from EDLab exceeded ATSDR, OEHHA
and the EPA's recommended exposure levels.


7) Even when customers, at their own expense, hired independent, qualified
technicians to measure the formaldehyde in their homes, Lumber Liquidators was
dismissive of the findings. 
Three of the four plaintiffs named in the two different lawsuits hired, at their own expense,
independent, qualified technicians to measure the formaldehyde in their homes. According
to the Hagens Berman lawsuit:


When the Brandts called Lumber Liquidators to report the technician's findings,
Lumber Liquidators was dismissive of the findings and did not offer to replace or
even remove the flooring. A customer service representative claimed the
independent test was not accurate, claimed that the tests reported on 60 Minutes
were also not accurate, and insisted that all Lumber Liquidators' products were
completely safe and that there was no reason to remove the floors.


After dismissing the findings of both the lab findings reported on 60 Minutes and of
the independent technician, the Lumber Liquidators' representative directed Ms.
Brandt to instead use the do-it-yourself air testing kit Lumber Liquidators would
provide for "proper testing." The Brandts were mailed the same kit that Industrial
Hygienist, Elisabeth Black, evaluated and found unreliable. The Brandts performed
the air test and mailed the kit to the address provided. Several weeks have passed
and they have not yet received the results.


Similarly, in the Robertson lawsuit:
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 10/44


Plaintiff Craig Lyznick…hired an industrial hygiene company to test the indoor air in
his home for formaldehyde gas. On or about March 20, 2015, Mr. Lyznick received
the results of that testing, which showed an "elevated" concentration of 46 and 41
ppb, respectively in the two rooms where he had installed the Formaldehyde
Flooring. On March 26, 2015, Mr. Lyznick notified both the Lumber Liquidator's store
where he purchased the Formaldehyde Flooring and Lumber Liquidator's corporate
office of the results of this testing and demanded that the Formaldehyde Flooring be
removed immediately. On or about March 26, 2015, Mr. Lyznick received and email
from "Misty" at Lumber Liquidator's corporate office instructing him to send his test
results to LLCustomerRelations@LumberLiquidators.com. Misty's email further
instructed Mr. Lyznick to retest his indoor air using Lumber Liquidator's home test kit
and submit that test for analysis and "we will review your test results as soon as we
receive them."


What Lumber Liquidators Needs to Do Right Now 
In light of this overwhelming evidence, it appears clear that the testing program Lumber
Liquidators is offering is a compete sham, sure to vastly understate the formaldehyde its
customers are being exposed to (which is, of course, the company's intention).


What Lumber Liquidators needs to do right now is very simple: immediately cease its
current testing program and instead offer its customers a genuinely professional one that
would give homeowners information they could rely upon - and either have peace of mind
or know that they need to take action.


Of course, there is no chance that Lumber Liquidators will do this voluntarily, in part
because of the cost (around $1,500/home) but mostly because the last thing the company
wants is for its customers (or anyone else) to know the truth: that its Chinese-made
laminate flooring is exposing large numbers of its customers to dangerous levels of
formaldehyde.


But I'm optimistic that a judge or regulator will soon compel Lumber Liquidators to do the
right thing, which will be bad news for the stock for a number of reasons:
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 11/44


Comments (113)


a) It will undermine the company's credibility with customers, investors, regulators
and courts;


b) The costs of a proper testing program will be substantial (simply re-doing the
~10,000 tests already requested by customers would cost ~$15 million); and


c) Results from a professional testing program will no doubt show very high levels of
formaldehyde in the air of many customers' homes, which will be a public relations
disaster for the company; undermine its ludicrous claim that "all of our products are
100% safe"; significantly impact sales; lead to very high costs to remove and replace
toxic flooring; and fuel lawsuits rooted in adverse health effects.


Needless to say, this remains my largest short position.


PS - A link to all 13 articles I've written since the 60 Minutes story aired is posted here.


PPS - I don't read the message boards for the articles I publish, but I do want to hear
thoughtful comments and questions so I invite my readers to communicate directly with
me via Seeking Alpha messaging. I will post my answers on the message board.


Disclosure: The author is short LL.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


tmiller85
Lumber Liquidators is a sham, and Whitney Tilson is desperate to make his trade work out. Ok got it.


20 Apr 2015, 10:42 AM


Harm Elderman, Contributor
Here we go agaaaaain...


If a "sham" needs 90 articles in order for it to be understood... might it not be a sham after all?


20 Apr 2015, 01:16 PM



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLTilsonarticles.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5423171

https://seekingalpha.com/author/harm-elderman
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 12/44


TheS77
I don't think anyone ever said that this particular sham needed 90 articles in order to be understood. Of
course if there is a large public scam going on, it will be covered by many authors.


20 Apr 2015, 03:13 PM


drjtiger
Statement by Pure Air Control Services on Formaldehyde Test Kits 
NEWS RELEASE 
April 20, 2015


*** A few quotes that were Copy/Paste from Article ***


"Recent media reports suggest that we do “not have the proper credentials” to perform these tests. Such
claims have no merit and are inaccurate."


"In the case of samples submitted by Lumber Liquidators’ customers, each customer’s lab report will identify
which partner lab has performed the analysis."


"To be clear, every sample has been or will be tested and analyzed by a IHLAP accredited laboratory."


20 Apr 2015, 09:59 PM


philipoball
I thought that you may be interested that California Air Resources Board has for the last fifteen years been
using a home testing kit for Formaldehyde---the Air Quality Research PF-1 kit. Price is $89.00 inclusive of lab
test resultss Lumber Liquidators could carry out a 10,000 house sampling effort for less than 2 million dollars.
Air Quality Research has been in business for more than 25 years. They can be reached directly 919-918-
7191. By the way Formaldehyde testing is their ONLY business


21 Apr 2015, 03:34 PM


Talascan
Dear sir,


I have personally contacted ED Labs which informed me that they are the largest retailer of Formaldehyde test kits in
the USA. And while they did admit that they are only equipped to test for mold and related issues, EVERY single test
kit they sell (which are easily bought on amazon http://amzn.to/1Dttp5O ) is sent to a sister company owned by Pure
aircontrol http://bit.ly/1Dttp5T that is 100% an “AIHA Accredited Lab"


It is completely disingenuous and totally consistent with how you operate that you wouldn't have lifted a finger to verify
any of this yourself since it further deconstructs your already broken short thesis.


Its just ridiculous to claim that this formaldehyde test kit is not exactly what it purports to be, and is the number one
result when you google "formaldehyde test kits"


EDlabs and PureAirControl are very reputable and this is what they do, so regurgitating what an ambulance chasing
lawyer says is just gonna make you look worse than you already do, which is getting easier and easier each time you



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5392831

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7703791

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39740966

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39189386

http://amzn.to/1Dttp5O

http://bit.ly/1Dttp5T
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 13/44


write.


20 Apr 2015, 10:53 AM


balert2
Of course they are the largest retailer of test kits after the LL test kit order. Whitney is doing a great service for
the general public and even Ralph Nader would be impressed.


20 Apr 2015, 12:02 PM


Ivan Gault
Talascan - Can you provide a link that shows ED Labs or PureAir Control is accredited to carry out
formaldehyde testing?


20 Apr 2015, 12:15 PM


ericlee06
Hi Talascan,


Just want to thank you, and rlp2451, indefinite, and Enersavr below, for disputing Mr. Tilson's continuous
distortions and attacks.


With the 10+ articles in about a month, some of us earlier defenders of LL simply didn't want to devalue our
time and energy to that of Mr. Tilson's level, but still feel compelled to dispute his deceit.


It is therefore encouraging to see more investors are now scrutinizing Mr. Tilson's claims more closely, and
did independent research to verify his position.


Sincerely.


20 Apr 2015, 12:27 PM


Debbie Lamoureux
i agree with you. I received 2 test kits from EdLab and the result not given to me yet will be emailed to me
from Pure air control. The package did state about 10 days for the result. My concern is that I will not get the
result, and only LL will receive the result. Pure emailed me a noted that because they are so busy it will take
longer that 10 days. My tests were mailed from my home by me 3/31/2015. Hopefully I will know soon if I am
living in a unhealthy home.


20 Apr 2015, 02:21 PM


Benni
Deb,


I worked in Environmental Engineering analyzing samples & producing written test results evaluating indoor
air samples. All air samples degrade over a very short period of time. The most accurate analyses are
analyses made within a few hours of collecting the sample.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1144602

https://seekingalpha.com/user/17018382

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925

https://seekingalpha.com/user/33005605

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13067382
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 14/44


The information you sent to the lab has a START date and a STOP date & usually the TIME. When you
receive your test report it is imperative you check for the DATE on which analysis of your sample was made. If
your test report shows the analysis was performed many days after your STOP date, it may be almost
worthless.


I see 10 days in your post, I don't know for sure what they meant by that 10 days. There may be three
different dates on your test report: RECEIVED DATE, ANALYSIS DATE, DATE OF REPORT. The DATE OF
REPORT is the least important because it may have been written many days or weeks after the ANALYSIS. A
word to the wise here.


20 Apr 2015, 09:52 PM


philipoball
I am writing to let you know that the California Air Resources Board has been using A home tester for
Formaldehyde for more than 15 years. The PF-1 Home Formaldehyde test kit is provided to the California Air
Resources Board and retail by the Air Quality Research Company . The Air Quality Research Company was
founded more than 25 years ago at the Dept. of Public Health at the University of California ( Berkeley).The
company can be contacted directly at 919-918-7191.


21 Apr 2015, 03:47 PM


rlp2451
Yes, called and talked to the guy who designed the test. Very straightforward. Had nothing bad to say about
the LL kit as he was familiar with it. No problems with it if it isn't evaluated right away, could sit on a shelf for
months (after the test) and still be effective. Testing procedures are very similar to the AQR test (hang it in a
room, leave it there for a few days, seal it up and send it to the lab.)


Thanks for the post.


21 Apr 2015, 04:21 PM


well
i would also do an independent test - and not take anyone word- even invite a technician ... while the waite is
on , so you can get clear results... there are even meters available not cheap, but its worth it for peace of
mind.... than you can come to a conclusion.


22 Apr 2015, 02:22 PM


deercreekvols
Note: The original version of this article, based on the Robertson lawsuit, said that "EDLab is only certified to
test for mold, not formaldehyde, and there is no evidence for Lumber Liquidators' claim that EDLab is using
other, unidentified 'properly accredited laboratories'." Subsequently, Pure Air Control Services issued this
press release, which says, in part:


“ 
To analyze our formaldehyde test kits, we work with our partner labs, each of which is accredited by the



https://seekingalpha.com/user/39740966

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/272046

https://seekingalpha.com/user/737795
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 15/44


American Industrial Hygiene Association for formaldehyde analysis - the Industrial Hygiene Laboratory
Accreditation Program (IHLAP). In accordance with that accreditation, all original analytical data is developed
and maintained by those labs as per the policy.


Based on this, the article has been revised to remove the parts that questioned EDLab's accreditation to test
for formaldehyde.


I am guessing that this is Mr. Tilson's way of saying "Whoops."


27 Apr 2015, 08:45 PM


rlp2451
You state the CARB standards are 110ppb - which is your original thesis as I recall, that LL must adhere to the CARB
standards - yet you quote another quasi-standard that says,"the EPA has stated that formaldehyde concentrations in
indoor air should not exceed 0.008 ppm [8 ppb] in order to minimize cancer risk. " Which one is LL "supposed" to
follow if you keep moving the goalposts?


The independent Lyzick tests showed levels far below the CARB standard - yet they were "elevated." Elevated as
compared to what? Zero?


20 Apr 2015, 11:04 AM


indefinite
I posted this in another article about LL but it is more appropriate here:


The lawsuit says quote: 
"...Lyznick’s formaldehyde gas concentration of 0.046 ppm far exceeds California Office of Environmental Health
Hazard Assessment’s health-based recommendation that formaldehyde levels not exceed 0.027 ppm for an 8-hour
exposure and 0.002 ppm for chronic exposure..."


Compare this with what EPA says quote: 
"The formaldehyde emissions standards in TSCA Title VI (which are identical to the CARB standards) apply to
unfinished composite wood panels. The standards are: 
Formaldehyde emissions standards in TSCA Title VI for unfinished composite wood panels. 
Hardwood plywood 0.05 parts per million (ppm) 
Particleboard 0.09 ppm 
Medium-density fiberboard 0.11 ppm 
Thin medium-density fiberboard 0.13 ppm "


link: http://1.usa.gov/1zwYZ24


As you can see 0.046 ppm claimed in the lawsuit as unsafe is still below any of the CARB limits. I'm not aware of any
law, regulation, or industry standard for laminate flooring that requires the numbers claimed as unsafe in the lawsuit.


As I said already, CPSC will tell if the LL products are safe or not and not what lawyers think or refer to. So, have this
in mind when trying to decide if those lawsuits have any chance


20 Apr 2015, 11:24 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39005456

http://1.usa.gov/1zwYZ24
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 16/44


3sidestory
Would it have been better to not offer any testing after you scared customers (in my opinion) unnecessarily? LL is
trying to do the right thing for its customers by providing them test kits free of charge.


If LL moves left, you will say they should move right. If LL stands still, you will say they should move. Ok. Got it.


20 Apr 2015, 12:09 PM


asdf11234
I think you forgot about the part that - Those tests are possibly fake and the reason why customers want to
get those tests done are to check to see if the products are poisoning them.


I'm not trying to side with anyone but it would have been better to openly investigate the issue instead of hide
it, obviously. Because in the end if there weren't any issues, the stock would skyrocket anyways instead of
staying around at the level it is now and facing lawsuits (1-2?).


But yeah, I agree with Tilson that this is basic Crisis Management 101.


20 Apr 2015, 12:28 PM


MedTrans407
I contacted LL to get my free test kit, and all they do is run me around in circles because they have no record
of my email address. I don't know who to believe anymore; but it is a fact that my son and I have had
neurological issues since putting these laminate floors in the house. So, how about someone sends me the
name of a good lawyer.


20 Apr 2015, 07:54 PM


loujo
This all is so crazy...I am a consumer who bought 4 rooms worth of this laminate flooring from LL. Two bedrooms
have been completed with the LL flooring...I have LL flooring unopened boxes stacked in my kitchen and in my
garage that was waiting to be put down...then the scandal and I sent off and got the test kit...waiting for
results...thinking it would be an answer so I could move on ...I'm literally stuck in limbo with these floors. No $ to just
pull up the floors and start over. This is such a huge mess and people like me are just toast!


20 Apr 2015, 12:35 PM


HeadyChick
loujo ~ I'm sorry that you got sucked into this morass of contradiction.


all I had to do is look at today's headline to know his latest angle. read it carefully . . . Lumber Liquidators'
Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing APPEARS To Be A Sham. APPEARS to be a sham. Appears.


Mr. Tilson is driving this train to short a stock by discrediting LL. It's perfectly legal for him to do this
(apparently). He's also fostering the climate for the class action suits. In fact, he's speaking at a LL litigation
conference in Minneapolis next month.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/38651236

https://seekingalpha.com/user/15523452

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39725256

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38960226

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38979776
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 17/44


20 Apr 2015, 01:24 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Ho Loujo,


The whole issue may have been overblown and then again, there may be some traction.


You're doing the right and only thing you can do for now ... wait for the results.


If test results are O.K., stop worrying, and put it on the shelf unless something comes up in litigation or
regulation that causes real concern.


If it comes up bad, you'll know what to do.


But, under no circumstances look for advice from an investing site. This is "Spin City". These people here are
interested in the stock price, not your health.


20 Apr 2015, 05:26 PM


well
i understand where you're coming from and its terrible to be trapped in this tug of war-confusion..in the end its
consumer who gets the bare end.... 
not to mention the fact this CPSA investation taking so long  
you should hire an independent technician to do some testing while you waite for your results...


20 Apr 2015, 08:35 PM


jim411
loujo, Sorry to hear this, but the only people who make money in class action suits are the attorneys.
Hopefully, your test will come out ok and you can move on.


21 Apr 2015, 04:50 PM


EnerSavr, Contributor
There is nothing wrong with your floors. OSHA put the limit at 750 ppm so 20-30 ppm does not even get on the radar. 
I have said this many times, a single cigarette has over 6000 ppb of formaldehyde. You would have to live inside your
home for over 400 years to be exposed to the same level of formaldehyde as a single cigarette. No one will die or get
cancer from being exposed to one cigarette. You be judge as to if your floor is safe.  
Good luck and I am totally appalled at Tilson and 60 minutes for disrupting people's lives with such an unnecessary
and ridiculous issue.


20 Apr 2015, 01:12 PM


DenaliOcean
Enersavr,


There is a lot you do not understand on this subject.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/272046

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1206421

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 18/44


First of all, the numbers you are giving in parts per million are wrong. You mean parts per billion (PPB).


Formaldehyde is immediately dangerous to life and health at only 20 ppm: 
http://bit.ly/1Duahow


Formaldehyde will cause effects at levels as low as 60µg/m3: 
http://bit.ly/1Duag3T


The rough equivalent to this in parts per billion is 48 parts per billion.


The OSHA level of .75 parts per million is a 8 hour exposure level that an employer must not allow a
workplace level to exceed. However, this is still a harmful level.


California Air Resources Board sets a level of 9 mcg/m³ for formaldehyde for continuous long-term exposure: 
http://bit.ly/18ndLRB


20 Apr 2015, 01:53 PM


PharmPicker
DenaliOcean,


I'd say you're not one to talk when it comes to telling others that they have much to learn on the subject of
toxicity. Please stop posting the Health Canada link. It's from 2006 and doesn't comport with WHO
conclusions. Please read these two papers to educate yourself:


http://1.usa.gov/1yc3SSH


http://1.usa.gov/1yc3SSJ


And I've addressed your citation of the Rumchev paper once before but I'll do it again. The 60 ug/m3 you
keep repeating was the concentration associated with an increased risk of asthma in children. This was from
a case-control study. It did not and does not establish causality, merely that there is an association.
Association does not mean causation. Got it? Good. Read the abstract below.


http://1.usa.gov/1DuiCIS


Rumchev's 2004 paper in the same children found a substantially increased risk of asthma from VOC's in
general and in particular, benzene and toluene. See abstract below:


http://1.usa.gov/1DuiAAw


I don't have time to explain to you the limitations of case-control studies and the differences between
interventional and observational data to begin with but the fact that formaldehyde was associated at the 50
ppb concentration with increased risk for asthma in children, yet very strong associations were also found for
VOC's in general and others like benzene and toluence in particular doesn't lend support to formaldehyde
alone, at these levels, playing a causal role. This is especially so when considering the fact that the WHO and
every review paper around has indicated that they aren't able to detect any effects beyond 80-100 ppb.


It's probably best that people without a strong toxicological or at least scientific background stop google
searching their way to an education. And to make matters worse, lecturing others about it.



http://bit.ly/1Duahow

http://bit.ly/1Duag3T

http://bit.ly/18ndLRB

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8342131

http://1.usa.gov/1yc3SSH

http://1.usa.gov/1yc3SSJ

http://1.usa.gov/1DuiCIS

http://1.usa.gov/1DuiAAw
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 19/44


20 Apr 2015, 02:33 PM


indefinite
"Formaldehyde is immediately dangerous to life and health at only 20 ppm: 
http://bit.ly/1Duahow"


OK, and the lawsuit in question claims the results from the LL floor made with a trusted tester got this result,
quote: "Lyznick’s formaldehyde gas concentration of 0.046 ppm" and they claim it as dangerous?


That is about 430 times less than 20ppm which you pointed out is dangerous.


20 Apr 2015, 02:52 PM


TheS77
"It's probably best that people without a strong toxicological or at least scientific background stop google
searching their way to an education."


I doubt any customers of LL flooring will just stop researching even if they don't have a strong toxicological /
scientific background. It is for the sake of their own health and families after all.


20 Apr 2015, 03:17 PM


DenaliOcean
Wait a minute:


"It's probably best that people without a strong toxicological or at least scientific background stop google
searching their way to an education. And to make matters worse, lecturing others about it. "


I was responding to a ridiculous statement like this: "OSHA put the limit at 750 ppm so 20-30 ppm does not
even get on the radar."


And I know you know, that that is flatly wrong with the units being given.


Respectfully, I disagree with you. I have my own personal experiences with formaldehyde and I know the
dangers of it at concentrations under 100 mcg/m³. Have a look at my YouTube playlist: 
http://bit.ly/17iUznF


Now I cannot say exactly what the maximum formaldehyde level I was exposed to, it probably was over 100
mcg/m³ at times, but it was at least 86 mcg/m³ and there were numerous other volatile organic compounds
with a TVOC of 1029. One lab found 21 different volatile organic compounds emitted by the floorboards.
However, based upon analysis from a highly qualified well-respected toxicologist, the predominant harm was
being done by formaldehyde.


You said: 
"This is especially so when considering the fact that the WHO and every review paper around has indicated
that they aren't able to detect any effects beyond 80-100 ppb."



https://seekingalpha.com/user/39005456

http://bit.ly/1Duahow

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5392831

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/17iUznF
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 20/44


I think this is a very serious mischaracterization. And that I am 100% certain of when you make mention of
"every review paper around". You have got to be kidding. You are really coming across as very un-credible
with statements like that. A quick look at those studies is that the analysis is for short-term exposure under 30
minutes. Also what you say does not make sense: "Beyond 80 to 100 ppb"? The higher the level, the greater
the symptoms. So it seems though your wording is backwards.


My comments here are based upon information I was provided by an environmental scientist which made
reference to Health Canada studies. I do not come upon these conclusions on my own. I am simply making
reference to information they have given me, which I have confirmed by my own research, and my own
experiences.


And as I said, my case has been reviewed by a very well respected and qualified toxicologist .


And how is it, that California Air Resources Boards specifies a level of 9 mcg/m³ for long-term exposure and
the World Health Organization says there is no problem under 100 ppb? I know the units are different but I
assume you know how to translate them. These differences cannot make sense. The difference between
these kinds of conclusions has to do with the length of the exposure to formaldehyde.


21 Apr 2015, 06:38 AM


DenaliOcean
I was responding to this incorrect statement from someone else: "OSHA put the limit at 750 ppm so 20-30
ppm does not even get on the radar."


21 Apr 2015, 06:45 AM


PharmPicker
"Respectfully, I disagree with you. I have my own personal experiences with formaldehyde and I know the
dangers of it at concentrations under 100 mcg/m³. Have a look at my YouTube playlist: 
http://bit.ly/17iUznF"


I won't argue with your personal experiences. Anecdotal case reports are considered the weakest form of
evidence, but I certainly won't discount your experiences. Relying upon an individual case report however, is
not scientific.


 
"Now I cannot say exactly what the maximum formaldehyde level I was exposed to, it probably was over 100
mcg/m³ at times, but it was at least 86 mcg/m³ and there were numerous other volatile organic compounds
with a TVOC of 1029. One lab found 21 different volatile organic compounds emitted by the floorboards.
However, based upon analysis from a highly qualified well-respected toxicologist, the predominant harm was
being done by formaldehyde."


The fact that your, "highly qualified, well-respected" toxicologist claims that the predominant harm was done
by a single compound out of several is, at the very least, suspicious. There is no scientifically accepted way to
tease out which of the chemicals out of that combination was responsible. Unless of course, the other VOCs



https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8342131

http://bit.ly/17iUznF
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 21/44


were in very low concentrations and the formaldehyde was above commonly accepted values known to cause
toxicological effects. I don't know the details of your case.


 
"I think this is a very serious mischaracterization. And that I am 100% certain of when you make mention of
"every review paper around". You have got to be kidding. You are really coming across as very un-credible
with statements like that. A quick look at those studies is that the analysis is for short-term exposure under 30
minutes. Also what you say does not make sense: "Beyond 80 to 100 ppb"? The higher the level, the greater
the symptoms. So it seems though your wording is backwards."


Ha! It's clear you took less than a, "quick look" at the studies I linked. They are for residential indoor air
values! If you don't have the common sense to understand what that means, take the direct statement from
one of the authors! "These data are relied upon in this review as the basis for deriving an acceptable
residential indoor air exposure limit for formaldehyde (i.e., 24 hours/day, 7 days/week)." You're on a roll!


And yes, I meant to say below, not beyond. And yes, coming from the guy that continues to make erroneous
statements and can't take two seconds to read a review paper (and then claims the paper doesn't review
something it does and in fact is the entire purpose of the review!), I'm really worried about my credibility. Ha!


 
"My comments here are based upon information I was provided by an environmental scientist which made
reference to Health Canada studies. I do not come upon these conclusions on my own. I am simply making
reference to information they have given me, which I have confirmed by my own research, and my own
experiences."


Well, those conclusions, as well as the data given to you by the environmental scientist do not comport with
the preponderance of opinions in the scientific community. And for the third time, those are not Health Canada
studies! They are not studies! They reviewed papers back in 2006 and issued guidelines.


 
"And as I said, my case has been reviewed by a very well respected and qualified toxicologist."


Good for you.


 
"And how is it, that California Air Resources Boards specifies a level of 9 mcg/m³ for long-term exposure and
the World Health Organization says there is no problem under 100 ppb? I know the units are different but I
assume you know how to translate them. These differences cannot make sense. The difference between
these kinds of conclusions has to do with the length of the exposure to formaldehyde."


Well, if you had read those papers I linked to you, it is explained. First, California is a state in the US. They
have their own EPA. They used their own risk assessment methods, which, some would argue, often are
extreme and go well beyond accepted methods, often employing additional safety factors. Which, is fine when
you want to feel good about setting really low standards, but not so good and sometimes downright foolish
when those standards aren't realistic. The next time you're in California, take a look in a coffee shop or bakery
and notice the Prop 65 warnings because random items don't meet state standards. Commonly used items in
every other state and country in the world. Items which continue to be used in the state, but which state law
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 22/44


requires a warning to the consumer. In cases where its difficult to establish a safe exposure limit, they will
assume there is no such thing as a safe exposure level. In the case of formaldehyde for example, it's
produced by all living things and is expelled in human breath at up to 1.7 ppb, so the idea that there is no
threshold is absurd. Unless of course, you consider living in a rural area or breathing to be hazardous
practices. In effect, as US federal agencies commented about California's standards, they are below ambient
air concentrations and aren't achievable! How insane is that?! If you follow their assessment logic, you can't
live here on planet Earth or be around other humans. Here is what you were supposed to have read:


"Finally, OEHHA (Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment; Cal/EPA) and the INDEX project have
derived even lower Chronic Reference Exposure Levels (CRELs), with formaldehyde inhalation exposure
values of 0.002 ppm (2 ppb) and 1 μg/m (0.815 ppb), respectively. These values were derived by the
application of various safety/uncertainty factors to empirically derived data. However, given that each falls
close to or even below measured formaldehyde concentrations in normal human breath (i.e., ≈2 ppb) as well
as rural air ambient formaldehyde concentrations (i.e., ≈8 ppb), it is unclear how such values should be
interpreted in the context of providing realistic public health protection. Importantly, with respect to the value of
0.815 ppb established by OEHHA, a recent (2008) joint communiqué from the Department of Health and
Human Services (DHHS), 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),the Department of Homeland Security (DHS),
FEMA,and US EPA noted that “Due to the fact that OEHHA determined that the CREL for formaldehyde is
less than typical ambient levels, they (i.e., OEHHA) recommended an office concentration level of 23 ppb,
based upon the concept of “as low as reasonably achievable.” However, even 23 ppb is far below the
empirically derived value of 0.3 ppm (300 ppb) that will be protective even for sensitive individuals."


And no, once again, you failed to read anything or comprehend it, I'm not sure which. The WHO limit of 100
ppb is for long term (read chronic) exposure! From WHO:


"An air quality guideline of 0.1mg/m (0.08 ppm) is considered protective 
against both acute and chronic sensory irritation in the airways in the 
general population assuming a log normal distribution of nasal sensory  
irritation. Thus, prevention of nasal cancer is considered to prevent 
lymphohematopoietic malignancies…. the guideline value of the WHO [of ]… 
0.08 ppm FA, is considered preventive of carcinogenic effects in compliance 
with epidemiological findings.”


If you had bothered to read what I had linked, you'd know that sensory irritation with formaldehyde doesn't
follow Haber's law (i.e., short and long-term exposure produced no difference in effects).


21 Apr 2015, 08:56 AM


tuebospyder
you tell him PharmPicker !!!


21 Apr 2015, 11:55 AM


User 39588526



https://seekingalpha.com/user/38253986

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39588526
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 23/44


DenaliOcean, 20ppm = 20,000 ppb. Here's the math: 1 million is one thousandth of one billion, so move the
decimal point three places to the right to get the equivalent in billions.


28 Apr 2015, 11:34 PM


DenaliOcean
PharmPicker,


The information you linked to is quite extensive and takes a lot of time to study. I apologize for the delayed
response, but I am quite busy in my day-to-day work. And I acknowledge that because of my time limitations
and because this subject is not my specialty, that it is not so easy for me to counter what you are saying. But I
do trust the information I have been given, that which is easily read and presented, and my own personal
experiences.


You said: 
"And no, once again, you failed to read anything or comprehend it, I'm not sure which. The WHO limit of 100
ppb is for long term (read chronic) exposure! From WHO"


I did read this from one of the articles you linked to: "Indoor air is the dominating contributor to FA exposure
through inhalation. Therefore, the World Health Organization (WHO) developed an indoor air guideline value
in 2010. The critical effects were considered the portal-of-entry effects, sensory irritation of the eyes and the
upper airways, resulting in a guideline value of 0.1 mg/m3 that should not be exceeded for any 30-min period
of the day "


Which simply confirms what I have said. These are short-term exposure levels. Not continuous ongoing 24
hours a day. You are not convincing especially based upon what I have read and upon my own experiences.
And the formaldehyde level established by CARB for long-term exposure of 9 mcg/m³. They obviously set that
level for a reason, to be protective for everyone with long-term continuous formaldehyde exposure.


Here is the New Zealand equivalent of the 60 Minutes Lumber Liquidators story: 
http://bit.ly/1JA0XHz


The person in the story is me.


Another piece of evidence, the reporter, Mark Crysell with TV NZ, contacted a New Zealand scientist who
said the 86 mcg/m³ detected of formaldehyde in the room we tested, is unacceptable to be living with in a
home. I did not speak to the scientist directly, but this is what I heard and understood.


29 Apr 2015, 05:07 AM


PharmPicker
"I did read this from one of the articles you linked to: "Indoor air is the dominating contributor to FA exposure
through inhalation. Therefore, the World Health Organization (WHO) developed an indoor air guideline value
in 2010. The critical effects were considered the portal-of-entry effects, sensory irritation of the eyes and the
upper airways, resulting in a guideline value of 0.1 mg/m3 that should not be exceeded for any 30-min period
of the day "



https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/1JA0XHz

https://seekingalpha.com/user/8342131
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 24/44


 
"Which simply confirms what I have said. These are short-term exposure levels. Not continuous ongoing 24
hours a day. You are not convincing especially based upon what I have read and upon my own experiences.
And the formaldehyde level established by CARB for long-term exposure of 9 mcg/m³. They obviously set that
level for a reason, to be protective for everyone with long-term continuous formaldehyde exposure."


It's interesting that you copy and paste that portion but leave out the very next sentence which states, "The
guideline intends to prevent sensory irritation after acute and chronic exposures and cancer at the portal-of-
entry as well as at remoter sites."


And no, it doesn't in any way confirm what you said. It reaffirms what I've been trying to tell you over and over.
I have already explained this to you. In fact, I've already pasted the exact quote from the WHO that the 80
ppb limit is considered protective for both short-term (acute) and long-term (chronic) exposure as Haber's law
isn't followed with the molecule. Again, read below:


"An air quality guideline of 0.1mg/m (0.08 ppm) is considered protective 
against both acute and chronic sensory irritation in the airways in the 
general population assuming a log normal distribution of nasal sensory 
irritation. Thus, prevention of nasal cancer is considered to prevent 
lymphohematopoietic malignancies…. the guideline value of the WHO [of ]… 
0.08 ppm FA, is considered preventive of carcinogenic effects in compliance 
with epidemiological findings.”


If you had bothered to read what I had linked, you'd know that sensory irritation with formaldehyde doesn't
follow Haber's law (i.e., short and long-term exposure produced no difference in effects; once that threshold is
crossed the effects are seen regardless of exposure time).


29 Apr 2015, 08:29 AM


PharmPicker
"Another piece of evidence, the reporter, Mark Crysell with TV NZ, contacted a New Zealand scientist who
said the 86 mcg/m³ detected of formaldehyde in the room we tested, is unacceptable to be living with in a
home. I did not speak to the scientist directly, but this is what I heard and understood."


This part was amusing. He spoke to a real life scientist? No way! Well, I think that just about solves the case!
If a real life scientist states an opinion, I think we can rest on that conclusion. What kind of bizzaro world does
the statement from someone count as, "evidence"? I have colleagues that say some pretty stupid things; I
wouldn't go around quoting whatever they say as, "evidence".


Instead of relying upon the supposed statement of some anonymous, "New Zealand scientist", who
apparently gave a statement to a reporter, how about relying upon the scientific literature itself? Or at least a
synthesis of those data in reports by respected toxicologists, where those reports are published in peer-
reviewed journals. Or the info from the WHO?


And by the way, you should check the section of the paper I linked, titled, "Exposures". It covers what the
average levels are in homes that have been surveyed around the world. The 86 mcg/m3 falls below the WHO



https://seekingalpha.com/user/8342131
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 25/44


limit (i.e., 100 mcg/m3) for acute and chronic exposure, so the, "New Zealand scientist's" statement is not
supported by the preponderance of scientific opinion.


Having said that, the 86 mcg/m3 does fall a bit outside the range seen in homes in the US, Canada and
Europe (ranges from 10 to 80 mcg/m3).


I decided to copy and paste from the paper's abstract as well which again, states:


Studies about formaldehyde (FA) published since the guideline of 0.1 mg/m 
3 by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2010 have been evaluated; critical effects were eye and nasal
(portal-of-entry) irritation. Also, it was considered to prevent long-term effects, including all types of cancer.
The majority of the recent toxicokinetic studies showed no exposure-ependent FA–DNA adducts.


29 Apr 2015, 08:43 AM


DenaliOcean
Not so fast. I have a response to PharmPicker showing at least one of the studies he referenced and quoted,
is written by the Formaldehyde Council, an industry group promoting formaldehyde. That study also makes
ridiculous claims.


I should have a complete response posted by tomorrow morning.


02 May 2015, 10:58 PM


DenaliOcean
I apologize for the long delay. I really have been quite busy. This is going to be my final posting on this.


I had some time to review one of the articles referred to by PharmPicker:  
http://1.usa.gov/1yc3SSH


First I want to clarify, this is an article. Not a study as I previously referred to it.


The author of the article was compensated by the formaldehyde Council. It states:


"The author is employed at ToxLogic LLC, a consulting firm that provides advice to private and government
clients on toxicological issues pertaining to human health, and was compensated by the Formaldehyde
Council Inc. (FCI) "


This is from Bloomberg about the Formaldehyde Council:


"Formaldehyde Council Inc operates as a nonprofit organization. The Organization represents the
formaldehyde industry in the United States. Formaldehyde Council Inc acts as a communications network and
lobbying group. Formaldehyde Council Inc offers educational resources, publications, technological tools,
political representation, conferences, and seminars."


Just because this article exists in the US National Library of Medicine, does not mean that it is accurate with
its claims. It clearly is a highly biased article that does its best to diminish the dangers of formaldehyde. I do
not back down from anything that I have said. I have personal experience with the harm that formaldehyde
causes and you are not in a position to counter that.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://1.usa.gov/1yc3SSH
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 26/44


You cannot also be dismissive of the California Air Resources Board formaldehyde regulations when even
tighter formaldehyde standards exist in Japan and similar standards are used in Europe now for a long time.
They have peoples health in their interest. For example, it is illegal to use any wood products within a home in
Germany and some other European countries that exceeds 100 ppb for formaldehyde.


The article states: 
"Generally, concentrations that do not produce short-term sensory irritation also do not produce sensory
irritation after repeated exposure.” Also noted by NAS (2007) was that “The degree of sensory and irritant
effects at lower exposure levels depends on concentration rather than duration.” This conclusion is based on
test results derived from human chamber studies (and now confirmed by genomics data) that show that once
symptoms are produced at a certain concentration, they are not enhanced with additional exposure time. "


Regarding the above, this does not make sense to me based on common sense and my own experience. The
fact is that if symptoms are produced at a certain concentration, the symptoms will be enhanced with
additional exposure time. This is only common sense. Someone for example may not get a headache right
away but after additional exposure, they may then.


 
From the World Health Organization Guidelines for Indoor Air-quality: 
http://bit.ly/1JLVlHh


States the following:


"The perception of odour may result in some individuals reporting subjective sensory irritation, and individuals
may perceive formaldehyde at concentrations below 0.1 mg/m . However, this is not considered to be an
adverse health effect. The NOAEL of 0.6 mg/m for the eye blink response is adjusted using an assessment
factor of 5 derived from the standard deviation of nasal pungency (sensory irritation) thresholds, leading to a
value of 0.12 mg/m , which has been rounded down to 0.1 mg/m . Neither increased sensitivity nor
sensitization is considered plausible at such indoor concentrations in adults and children. This value is thus
considered valid for short-term (30-minute) duration, and this threshold should not be exceeded at any 30-
minute interval during a day. Thus, a short-term (30-minute) guideline of 0.1 mg/m3 is recommended as
preventing sensory irritation in the general population."


So as you can see, .100 mg/m3 is a "short term" formaldehyde level. Whereas OEHHA specifies .009 mg/m3
as a safe level for long-term exposure: 
http://bit.ly/1WcBgEm


The fact that Lumber Liquidators says that the formaldehyde concentrations they found in testing of people's
homes were within World Health Organization guidelines, is extremely misleading.


There also must be consideration of the fact that people are exposed to many other volatile organic
compounds in the air and studies done on formaldehyde may not be considering these other VOCs. This is
why it is essential that formaldehyde levels are kept as low as possible because other chemicals in the air
have an additive effect and together with formaldehyde are detrimental to respiratory health.


Finally, I have been clear since the very beginning, that the situation with formaldehyde and Lumber
Liquidators was real and serious, and not just some irrelevant technical noncompliance. We can see with the



http://bit.ly/1JLVlHh

http://bit.ly/1WcBgEm
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 27/44


drastic fall of the stock price, that indeed the effect has been quite serious.


25 Oct 2015, 05:59 PM


DenaliOcean
For some informative background information, have a look at the video about the testing that CBS News did on
Lumber Liquidators floorboards, why that type of testing is necessary to determine compliance with CARB 2, and why
definitively Lumber Liquidators did indeed mislabel their products and is liable under the law.


Also, another floorboard supplier has been exposed in this video with mislabeling their Chinese floorboards.


Video: 
http://bit.ly/1J1SvAB


20 Apr 2015, 01:41 PM


Sinners
Unfortunately the link you provided is not working:(


03 May 2015, 08:55 AM


DenaliOcean
Yes I know, the video had to come down for reasons which I cannot disclose. All information was accurate in
that video, but under an agreement it needed to be removed.


And I did not have time to to remake another one which did not mention a certain business.


25 Oct 2015, 05:48 PM


loujo
Unfortunately, no matter what I think or feel, I have to go with the results of any federal testing done on these floors.
(Liability for the resale of my home in the future). Having been in real estate tells me that the general public will not
touch a house that has been condemned "unclean" unless there are official documents to prove that the floors are
OK. So I am in a hurry up and wait mode. But as they say....."this too shall pass".


20 Apr 2015, 02:36 PM


deercreekvols
Why does Seeking Alpha continue to provide a venue for Mr. Tilson to publish article after article on Lumber
Liquidators?


Enough was enough 5 articles ago.


20 Apr 2015, 02:49 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
The market is up broadly today. LL is down.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/1J1SvAB

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37859396

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38960226

https://seekingalpha.com/user/737795

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 28/44


Earnings for Q1 is slated for next week. It will be interesting to see if the "jockeying" prior to earnings will be up or
down.


If the pre-earnings "jockeying" is "up" it's probably a signal to sell and if its "down" its probably a signal to buy.


Of course, for most disciplined investors, they could care less, as LL is neither a compelling buy or sell. Wall Street
hates uncertainty and this is about as uncertain a stock as you can get.


For the poker player turned investor, it's a different story. Gather round and place your bets ... see the cards dealt and
laugh or weep. There's nothing more satisfying as winning with a poor hand.


20 Apr 2015, 02:50 PM


Clayton Rulli, Contributor
I hope the US and other countries learn to monitor cheap imports as a result of this circus act if nothing else.


20 Apr 2015, 03:22 PM


Sam's Picks, Contributor
While I do believe you are onto something I do not understand this quote.


"But in this case, the concern is the opposite: that they’ll under-report the results (on behalf of Lumber Liquidators) to
lull the customers into a false sense of security."


You contrast it to a company giving false information so that it can drive further business. However, in the second
juxtaposed quote there is no further business. You're implying the company will be biased to report there results in a
way favorable to LL, but why would they risk lying when there won't be follow up tests? Once they're paid by LL they
could simply report the truth even if it goes against what the company says.


20 Apr 2015, 04:03 PM


Bobble45
I am not long or short this stock, it isn't even on my radar, but everyone needs to chill about the author's article
volume. Let this guy write what he wants. He can write 30 a day and that is fine. Disagree with his statements? Write
your own article countering them.


20 Apr 2015, 04:05 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Bobble45,


Great comment.


Ever consider that the people complaining about the numerous articles are also the ones reading them.
Ummmmm.


20 Apr 2015, 05:07 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/clayton-rulli

https://seekingalpha.com/author/sams-picks

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9419601

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/20775261
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 29/44


pervaiz66
Sorry to disappoint you. I am just reading the comments section, to come to an understanding as to how
many people are for or against the articles. I am also counting the number of likes on both sides. You can do
that too, and get a rough guess of the sentiment. Other than Tilson, no one is writing articles on LL.


20 Apr 2015, 11:17 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi pervaiz,


I'm sorry ... I forgot to consider that there would be some people that read just to see how many people are
for or against something that the reader has not made an effort to understand.


Unfortunately, people like you miss the ultimate shortcut.


Why even bother to read the comments to "....get a rough guess of the sentiment..."? The sentiment is
ALWAYS pro-LL from the longs and ALWAYS anti-LL from the shorts.


I can tell you what the comment's sentiment is just by looking at the person's name. Just put them in the "for"
or "against" column, count up how many comments are entered for each group and there ... you've got it ...
without even having to make any effort to read the comments.


Personally, I like to read the articles, read the comments, do some independent research to determine the
veracity of opposing views and conclude who I think is "over-reaching". That tells me a whole lot more than
some pre-determined sentiment.


p.s. If you want to see where the "sentiment" really is ... look at the price action of the stock. that is the only
true indicator.


21 Apr 2015, 06:56 AM


Matt Brice, Contributor
Pure Air put out a press release refuting all the BS charges from Tilson.


http://bit.ly/1GdFOlz


The most ironic thing about this whole situation is that the same law firm that is suing has used Pure Air in the past as
an expert witness....


You just can't make this stuff up.


20 Apr 2015, 04:06 PM


EnerSavr, Contributor
Great post MAX. 
I wonder if that is what is causing the stock to shoot up afterhours. I believe the good news will keep on coming as
these folks are now taking on the entire industry and not just LL. Bad mistake. No one is competent but Tilson and the
lawyers based on them.


I think LL is going to blow out the sales projection numbers next week and being short is going to be a disaster.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/20775261

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

http://bit.ly/1GdFOlz

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 30/44


20 Apr 2015, 05:04 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Enersavr.


.......".............I think LL is going to blow out the sales projection numbers next week and being short is going
to be a disaster...."


Just curious, have any other good ideas?


29 Apr 2015, 05:19 PM


GetShortey
From the Pure Air Controls statement:


"All samples which do not fall within the category of environmental microbiology are analyzed by one of the qualified
partner laboratories.


To be clear, every sample has been or will be tested and analyzed by a IHLAP accredited laboratory."


So, should we continue trust this writer, who claims a company and its testers are a "sham" without giving them an
opportunity to respond formally, or taking the time to investigate completely?


Long play looking better all the time.


20 Apr 2015, 05:29 PM


tuebospyder
The Lab report states it was done by EDLab not a partner Lab.


"Recent media reports suggest that we do “not have the proper credentials” to perform these tests. Such
claims have no merit and are inaccurate. All of our partner labs have active accreditations and are managed
by dedicated, qualified professionals who are committed to providing quality data based upon industry-
acceptable technology and methodology. In the case of samples submitted by Lumber Liquidators’ customers,
each customer’s lab report will identify which partner lab has performed the analysis."


Nowhere on the report does it identify a partner lab did the testing. 
Nowhere!


20 Apr 2015, 10:40 PM


EnerSavr, Contributor
http://bit.ly/1GdSjh3


Cantor initiates with a $45 target. Lets see how much of a sham Tilson's short will be tomorrow.


20 Apr 2015, 05:30 PM


Edward J. Roche, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38938356

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38253986

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr

http://bit.ly/1GdSjh3

https://seekingalpha.com/author/edward-j-roche
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 31/44


WT and 60 minutes used the wrong test in the first place. Now WT is caught in a situation where he feels the need to
constantly write questionable articles.


Where have we seen this before?


"My dear, here we must run as fast as we can, just to stay in place. And if you wish to go anywhere you must run
twice as fast as that.”


said the Red Queen....


20 Apr 2015, 06:27 PM


mktrades
WT should take his fat profits already. This thing is way oversold. At least take off half.


20 Apr 2015, 06:31 PM


reemax
Im with you Mr. Tilson. I commented before on how I wish you would've laid low after the 60 minutes story. As time
goes by, I've changed my opinion. I say, keep the articles coming. This company has cut corner after corner and
there's good chance people are getting sick from their flooring. I purchased and installed engineered hard wood
flooring from LL last fall. My entire family has been fighting upper respiratory problems all winter long. Sinus, eye, ear
infections, bronchitis and coughing. My son has had several allergic outbreaks to an allergen we can't figure out. He's
been to the doctor and referred to an allergist for blood tests. All test came back negative. We have a dog who's had
3 or 4 bouts of uncontrollable tremors. Of course we are concerned. I can tell you we "freaked out" after watching the
60 minutes peace. We couldn't help but wonder if the flooring was to blame for all the illnesses. We later found out
that only laminate flooring was being questioned. I'm still concerned as I'm finishing a 3rd round of antibiotics to help
with an inner ear infection. Honestly I'm hoping all of this is just a coincidence and are floor is not toxic. We haven't
had the flooring tested. My understanding is, test are only given out to those who purchased China made laminate.
The other thing that concerns me is, the flooring we purchased was manufactured by a company called Schon. When
I search for Schon online, I get nothing. Does this company even exist? I called a friend who's has been in the flooring
business for 30 years. This same friend warned me about LL and their products over a year ago. I didn't listen and
purchased the flooring to install myself in order to save money. Anyway, I needed 3 cases of Schon engineered
flooring to finish the project. My friend searched for this product and came up with nothing. The whole thing is strange
and really leaves a bad taste in my mouth. Again I don't know if this flooring is to blame, but really have some
concerns. I'm not the only one who has questions and is concerned about the safety of their flooring purchased from
LL. Do a quick search on Twitter. There are a lot of concerned people out their searching for the truth. All of those on
here who want to quickly disclaim WT, I say relax. This company has some questions to answer and from what I seen
so far they are dropping the ball. I believe we need people like WT who are fighting to get answers to some serious
questions. If this company is guilty of doing what WT claims, then I'm glad he hasn't let up. These are serious
allegations and despite the many on here who want to slam WT, I'm glad he's still fighting for the truth. I wonder how
many of you on here who are defending this company actually have LL flooring in their house. Better yet, I wonder if
they would buy LL products for their own home. I can't wait until all the truth comes out. I'll admit, I purchased LL puts
on the Monday after the 60 minutes telecast. I've made a nice profit on my investment. Ive cashed out most of
position but I'm still holding on to some August puts. I believe there's more bad news to come and I appreciate WT



https://seekingalpha.com/user/37353786

https://seekingalpha.com/user/36089775
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 32/44


taking the time to write these articles and push for the truth. I don't care who's side your on, if this company did what
WT and 60 minutes claim, they should go to zero. Feel free to slam my comments. Honestly I've been reading
investment articles for many, many years and I have never made a single comment. This particular story hit home for
me personally and became even more personal after establishing a short position. Call me a gambler, but I think the
only play here is short and in no way shape or form should you go long.


20 Apr 2015, 07:47 PM


jwfrazier
From my admittedly limited research on this subject, it looks like the formaldehyde is trapped in the lower layers of the
floor. Unless you do destructive testing, it is doubtful you are being exposed to a dangerous level. If I was worried, I'd
get the air tested in the home.


I would not base my fears on anything 60 minutes does. The last time I watched that show back in the 70's they were
claiming Audis accelerated when you pushed the brake pedal.


20 Apr 2015, 09:11 PM


Benni
I worked in Environmental Engineering analyzing samples & producing written test results evaluating indoor air
samples. All air samples degrade over a very short period of time. The most accurate analyses are analyses made
within a few hours of collecting the sample.


The information you send to the lab has a START date and a STOP date & usually the TIME. When you receive a test
report it is imperative you check for the DATE on which analysis of your sample was made. If your test report shows
the analysis was performed many days after your STOP date, it may be almost worthless.


I see Debbie posted something above with something about 10 days. I don't know for sure what they meant by that 10
days, but be real careful here. There may be three different dates on a test report: RECEIVED DATE, ANALYSIS
DATE, DATE OF REPORT. The DATE OF REPORT is the least important because it may have been written many
days or weeks after the ANALYSIS. An ANALYSIS date 10 days after the STOP date is often just about worthless for
any air sample, a word to the wise here.


20 Apr 2015, 10:06 PM


tuebospyder
Great information Benni. Thank You !!!


21 Apr 2015, 11:55 AM


powrsurf
I used to have just about every major hedge fund in the world as a client. I am personally good friends with a number
of activists. This behavior out of Tilson is irresponsible and reeks of doing everything he can to push a position. Mark
my words, it will end his career....not because he is wrong down here from a stock perspective, but because of how
much time he spends talking his book. The short trade is over and this thing goes up. Mr. Tilson now needs to focus
on keeping his clients. I would have pulled my money.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/5595161

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13067382

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38253986

https://seekingalpha.com/user/33370065
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 33/44


20 Apr 2015, 10:11 PM


ericlee06
Glad that someone point this out...


I used to work for an in-house hedge fund for a major bank, and find Mr. Tilson's behavior in the past few
weeks baffling, as it is practically scaring clients away with all the repeated attacks. (even if he's right, which I
disagree, most private investors find this level of publicity to undesirable, IMO).


20 Apr 2015, 10:35 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Totally agree.


If Tilson had it right, he would just calmly sit back and wait for it all to unfold in his favor.


To me, at least, these articles exhibit a basic un-easy feeling in his gut ... and the corresponding need to try
and get it to go his way.


These type of "talk it up tactics" are most regularly employed by penny stock boiler rooms. And we all know
how that goes.


p.s. I can't decide which article offends me the most ... his "evil" article or this one. Naw ... it was the "evil"
one.


21 Apr 2015, 07:08 AM


Benni
........you are entitled to have an opinion about the subject matter, but there are a lot of little factoids about
composite materials that are hugely disturbing with regard to outgassing of VOCs.


As I have stated above, I have worked in the Environmental Engineering profession, I have supervised the
operations of a test lab handling air samples.


I have been inside home furnishing stores & had to leave the premises within ten minutes due to burning eyes
which cleared up within a minute or two of leaving the store. There are specific home furnishing stores in our
area I simply cannot walk into. The worst part of the store is the area of floor coverings. These stores sell stuff
mostly made in China, but absolutely none in the U.S., business at these places is often brisk.


I built the house I live in, I drove every nail. In the process of building, I was careful not to use composite
materials no matter what the source. In comparing my premises with those of others of similar age, there is
often a stark difference in air quality as well as durability of materials used.


I would suggest that anyone who has in the past ten years installed any wallboard or floor coverings to
recover the receipts for those purchases & begin source checking for origin of materials as I did before I
installed any of these kinds of material, you just might uncover a rectifiable problem & add years of quality to
your lifestyle. Materials you installed more than ten years ago are probably due for replacement anyway, so
be certain you know the products origin when updating.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13067382
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 34/44


21 Apr 2015, 08:45 AM


rlp2451
If you "have been inside home furnishing stores & had to leave the premises within ten minutes due to
burning eyes" I'd suggest you call Tilson and give him the names of those stores so he can disparage them
as well.


21 Apr 2015, 08:52 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi rip,


You know I'm a fan of yours.


I find the comment very humorous ... kudos ...


One small beef ... your comment can read as implying Benni is not being forthright. I hope that is not the
case.


When someone makes an anecdotal comment on SA, I check out their profile to see if they just joined, have
no bio, are uni-directional, etc. If so, I got the picture and I discount there statements.


Benni checks out 100% ... so anyone questioning his veracity is likely playing a losing game.


Just want to make that point so your comment remains in the humor section and not the bash section.


Take care.


21 Apr 2015, 09:22 AM


rlp2451
Ken: 
It was semi-tongue-in-cheek. To me anyone who was allergies so sensitive they can't be in a Bed Bath and
Beyond for more than ten minutes has to have a biased opinion.


21 Apr 2015, 11:25 AM


Benni
RK,


I don't find the Comment by Rip the least bit humorous. It is not a pleasant experience to walk inside a dying
person's home to see if the cause of their illness is sourced within the boundaries of the home itself.


The home is the one place on this planet where they thought they could isolate themselves from deleterious
forces in the culture about which they can do nothing, then chronic illness strikes from within & suddenly they
feel they've been invaded in a manner they never envisioned from sources inside their own home.


I take it very seriously to avoid creating scenes of: "The sky is falling, the sky is falling", but I do keep it in a
proper & professional perspective as one who is a concerned neighbor of my fellow man.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13067382
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 35/44


21 Apr 2015, 11:35 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Benni,


Please .. chill a little.


If the comment was intended as a satire of Tilson ... frankly it is humorous. that's how I took it.


If the comment was intended to poke fun at you ... it is out of line.


I think RIP had a little of both in mind.


Because of that, I have to side with you and would hope that RIP re-examines.


21 Apr 2015, 11:52 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi RIP,


Still admire you, but we need to disagree on this.


I believe Benni ... simply because there is no evidence to dis-believe and ample established credibility.


Therefore, his opinion is based upon personal experience and may be one-sided ... but not biased.


There are plenty of people with allergies and sensitivities to many things. Their story adds to our perspective
rather than diminish it.


21 Apr 2015, 11:59 AM


Benni
Rip said: 
"It was semi-tongue-in-cheek. To me anyone who was allergies so sensitive they can't be in a Bed Bath and
Beyond for more than ten minutes has to have a biased opinion"


Benni's response:


Rip....... everyone can see your own problem with bias by your own words: "Bed, Bath and Beyond", and the
caustic remark about allergies.


Why are you mis-stating what I said above when I was discussing the precautions I took while I was building
my house? I'm not aware BBY sells plaster wallboard, 2 x 4's, carpeting, etc.


You're still not humorous & thus still not a comedian worth additional attention of this Engineer who has six
years of education in my chosen profession. You may have an opinion of yourself as a comedian which you
imagine is the equal of my years of formal education & experience, but having a high opinion of yourself
usually will not make you a better person than one of whom you are so caustically critical.


Good Luck to you Rip, and please, always be in good health.



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13067382
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 36/44


21 Apr 2015, 03:58 PM


Benni
....then I'd suggest you look at my Reply to his caustic remarks about ten minutes inside Bed, Bath & Beyond.
He was personal with that remark.


21 Apr 2015, 04:03 PM


jim411
Benni, I hope you watch what you eat because Monsanto and the US industrialized food complex is killing a
lot more people than Tilson or 60 minutes could ever dream of. GMO's, fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides,
antibiotics..to name a few. But, alas, Monsanto and their like will probably never be exposed because they
have way too much money.


21 Apr 2015, 05:15 PM


Benni
Jimbo,


I'm an avid nonGMO gardener. There's no Roundup on the premises, I probably know more about these
things than you can imagine.


21 Apr 2015, 08:12 PM


jim411
good for you....now stay away from antiobiotic fed meats.


21 Apr 2015, 09:19 PM


QNB
Hi Benni,


I totally agree with you! So sorry for what you are going through. I guess one would not understand until they
themselves or someone they loved suffered from allergies or asthma. It's not a pretty picture when you're
gasping for air, your throat closes up and your lungs feel like an elephant is sitting on your chest! I've had
asthma my entire life so I understand how you feel. It's not something to joke about. And yes, there are so
many things that we eat and breathe that contain chemicals on a daily basis! That is why it's so important to
limit our intake. It makes me crazy when I read people arguing about the levels of formaldehyde and what is
safe and what's not safe....especially when there is no "good reason" to use it in flooring except that it is
cheaper to manufacture! Unfortunately, this forum for some has become a platform for comedic
humor....especially when it comes to WT's never ending articles, but to find humor in another persons illness
is about as low as one can go!


I wish you well!


21 Apr 2015, 09:25 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/13067382

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1206421

https://seekingalpha.com/user/13067382

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1206421

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32251675
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 37/44


EnerSavr, Contributor
reemax, 
Engineered hardwood? really. That does not even give off more that the recommended levels even if you do
deconstruct it. I am sorry about your family troubles and I hope they get better soon. Unfortunately I really have to tell
you that your flooring is not the cause of it and you would need to find some thing else to blame.


Good Luck.


20 Apr 2015, 11:07 PM


ShawnKayy
Why don't you read this response http://bit.ly/1Dv0rTl


21 Apr 2015, 11:52 AM


ShawnKayy
http://bit.ly/1Dv0rTl


21 Apr 2015, 11:53 AM


course2kid
When is the SEC going to investigate Tilson for manipulating LL stock?


21 Apr 2015, 04:09 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Course2Kid,


Right after they investigate Jon Corzine and Ackerman.


21 Apr 2015, 05:14 PM


jim411
When this is all over, I will miss Tilson. These articles and comments have been entertaining for the most part.


21 Apr 2015, 05:18 PM


Matt Brice, Contributor
Please note the correction at the top of the article.


21 Apr 2015, 08:17 PM


SA Editor George Moriarty, Contributor
Whitney Tilson issued a correction to this article late this afternoon. Please see the top of the article for his complete
explanation and a note on what has been changed.


21 Apr 2015, 08:58 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9903111

http://bit.ly/1Dv0rTl

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9903111

http://bit.ly/1Dv0rTl

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38673046

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1206421

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

https://seekingalpha.com/author/sa-editor-george-moriarty
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 38/44


simplevalue274
Tilson is really pushing or has broken the envelope of credibility. He makes hyperbolic outlandish accusations
and when he is called out, quietly makes a correction with no apology or separate press release etc. again
why does he have any credibility left to write more and more articles? If you have been shown to be horrible
at research or worse dishonest then why should he be able to continue to write?


22 Apr 2015, 09:25 PM


Clayton Rulli, Contributor
based on this correction, it seems like this entire article's thesis has been dis-proven. Too bad SA can't retract
this hit piece


23 Apr 2015, 12:24 PM


simplevalue274
Tilson's whole way of being is so distorted and promotional. When he finds something he thinks is wrong w a
company they r evil, the worst people in the world, killing babies. When he makes a mistake, no apology,
small note w correction. No explanation how the mistake happened or if perhaps he has been purposely been
embellishing his case.


23 Apr 2015, 04:50 PM


EnerSavr, Contributor
Denali, 
SA decided to delete my original esponse to you because they thought it was too personal. Thank you for noticing my
ppb versus ppm typo. If you look at my other posts you will see that I do use the correct term. You do not know about
my science background but choose to attack a single posting with a typo.  
I will take it on the surface for what it is and make sure that I use the correct term next time.


20 ppm which you describe as toxic is the same as 20000 ppb that is equivalent to about 3 cigarettes. although
harmful, it is not the end of the world and since formaldehyde does not accumulate in the body as long as the source
is taken away quickly it will not have noticeable effects.


Why I keep using these examples? That is because it gives people something to judge all these numbers by so they
can decide for themselves. The scare was so ridiculous that it prompted two senators to issue an investigation when
all they had to do was read their own law that they had written to know what they are doing is creating more
unnecessary panic.


For many that knew this was nothing but a sham, it created a buying opportunity, but at the same time this affected
many 401Ks and people's investment and personal lives. I would have had no problem with this if it was true, except
that the people involved knew it was not true and were creating a situation to take advantage of the normal human
fears of the chemical unknowns. People run first and ask questions later. Then it becomes fraud IMO. 
We needs a law to prevent this as this can not happen again. 60 minutes, Tilson or any one else should not be able to



https://seekingalpha.com/user/105661

https://seekingalpha.com/author/clayton-rulli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/105661

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 39/44


create a mass panic without running it past the appropriate authorities first. In this specific case all 60 minutes had to
do was to dig in just a little deeper and they would have known that were being duped.


There are many chemicals that people need to be concerned about. Formaldehyde does not even make it to the top
50.


22 Apr 2015, 07:59 PM


ericlee06
Hi Enersavr,


I am a skeptic of Mr. Tilson and his claim, and have a long position as LL, but I think it needs to be pointed out
that your comparison of inhalation of cigarettes' formaldehyde (on the order of 10ppm) to that of flooring
(generally on the order of <10ppb, even for LL flooring), is somewhat flawed.


For regulations such as Prop 65 (and, to lesser extend, that of CDC/NIOSH pocket guide) that specified an
exposure limit, they usually refer to a life time exposure condition/model, eg. 75 years adult life, with 8 hrs/day
exposure. In that context, the toxicity standard will render a much *lower* hazardous number (hence, 30ppm,
or so).


You can't really use the 20ppm = 20e3ppb number for cigarettes (don't know for sure), and say smoking is so
much worse, since, nobody will have lit cigarettes in their mouth 8 hrs a day: most smokers probably have ~
10 minutes of that exposure per day, hence you have to correct for that accordingly.


This is *not* to say that Mr. Tilson and GCM's monitor isn't shady, but the simplifications that you've used
were just not very accurate.


Regards.


22 Apr 2015, 11:49 PM


DenaliOcean
Enersavr,


Thank you for your comments.


If you are interested in my own formaldehyde floorboard story as presented by the mainstream media, it can
be found here: 
http://bit.ly/1JA0XHz


I do not claim formaldehyde was the only chemical involved, but apparently the predominant one.


29 Apr 2015, 05:54 AM


EnerSavr, Contributor
Hi Ericlee, 
I am not sure I follow. 1 ppm = 1000 ppb. that is just a simple conversion equation between ppm ( parts per million to
parts per billion). 
OSHA sets the limit at 750 ppb for 8 hours a day for the workplace. I am not sure that is life time as they do not say. I



https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/1JA0XHz

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 40/44


have not seen any lifetime comparisons.  
Although, one can assume that if some one works at such a factory it is for lifetime, but not necessarily. The major
reason for this is that formaldehyde DOES NOT ACCUMULATE in the body. 
A cigarette has about 6000-10000 ppb concentration of formaldehyde ( I do not even want to go into its other
carcinogens) and the person smoking it gets most of that in the span of the few minutes it takes to smoke a cigarette.  
I do not think that you are suggesting that some one can even stand in a 1 cubic meter room with the amount of
smoke from 3 cigarettes. 
Therefore per OSHA one can be exposed to about 5000 ppb of formaldehyde per day.  
5000 ppb * 365 days = 1,825,000 ppb per year 
which is the same as 1825 ppm per year


What I am trying to explain is that even 100 ppb for 12 hours a day exposes a person to 1200ppb of formaldehyde
from the laminate( I just took this high number as an example). That comes close to smoking 1/5th of a cigarette. 
People know what a cigarette does and 1/5th of a cigarette means a lot more from a comparison point of view that all
these numbers being thrown around.  
The point is that 1/5th of a cigarette per day is not going to kill anybody (I understand the point about people with high
sensitivity and in my opinion they should not use laminate at all) and I do not think I have to explain that. This is just to
put things in perspective. So when people complain about 47ppb or think 20 ppb is a high number, it is not IMO. 
The government also thinks that 50-80 ppb is an acceptable number for a home environment. Again, this is all with
having no ventilation or never opening a door or window. I do not know who lives in a home that never opens a door
or window. Formaldehyde wants to get out, that is the good part about formaldehyde. One has to go through
extensive measures to keep formaldehyde contained. 
Hope this helps.


23 Apr 2015, 08:19 AM


ericlee06
Hi Enersavr,


To start, usually assessment of this sort is done in the units of ug/day (micro-gram per day), which can be converted
from ppm/ppb, based on well established parameters. Whether or not CH2O accumulate is somewhat irrelevant, as
regulations are set after consideration of relevant facts.


My point was that, suppose you have a smoker colleague, who takes a 5 minute cigarette break every hour, and
spend every other breath inhaling smoke during that time, you're already talking about a 30x reduction in exposure
(2mins in an hour). And I think most would agree that this person has a serious smoking problem.


On top of that, smokers don't smoke from age 1 to 75 non-stop.


But the most important point is, cigarette is a product that has much higher consumer awareness of carcinogens
(whether it's CH2O), whereas buyers of flooring products would not be expecting the same health impact, and it
affects consumers in a broader way (the whole family). 
This is not to say that the GCM/Tilson claim automatically is valid, but to simply use cigarette to dispute/ridicule any
such claim is not productive. 
Finally, in emission assessement, the air flow rate is indeed important, however, I think your claim of 50-80ppb as a



https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 41/44


result of "no ventilation or never opening a door or window" is much of a hyperbole: even in GCM's expert decl (Dr.
Rosenfeld), they assume a air change/hour at around 0.23 (don't quite remember). It is indeed a low number, but not
a *sealed* home. Similarly, the 0.11ppm CARB2 standard in ASTM6007 has a implied air change/hr in the same order
of magnitude (from specified Q/A ratio for MDF laminates). 
If you're interested in the details, I recommend reading Dr. Rhomberg's declration, page 56 on from the following link:
http://bit.ly/1K9mfct


23 Apr 2015, 11:46 AM


ericlee06
Just realized that the link I pasted wasn't working, here's a corrected link: 
http://bit.ly/1xLMizo


23 Apr 2015, 04:36 PM


EnerSavr, Contributor
Hi ericlee, 
I have to disagree on the accumulation in the body. Whether a carcinogen accumulates in the body or not make a
huge difference (Chem101). Also there are simple conversions between ug/unit and p/unit (100 ug/m3 = 81 ppb) as it
is also in the original description of the post.


I am not suggesting that smoking is good by any means, however, is not good for many other reasons much more
important than formaldehyde. I am using smoking from the simple formaldehyde point of view to put away fears that
formaldehyde is not as dangerous as it is being protrayed.


24 Apr 2015, 03:19 PM


DenaliOcean
"Also there are simple conversions between ug/unit and p/unit (100 ug/m3 = 81 ppb) as it is also in the
original description of the post."


My understanding is that the conversion depends upon the particular compound and temperature. It is not a
set conversion.


29 Apr 2015, 06:01 AM


indefinite
Mr. Tilson, it is time to write a new article. The earnings report is coming on 29th, you must be ready with something.
Can't wait to read the comments :)


27 Apr 2015, 04:24 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi indefinite,


It's there. Not so sure you'll be in such a hurry.



http://bit.ly/1K9mfct

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32079925

http://bit.ly/1xLMizo

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39005456

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 42/44


29 Apr 2015, 08:37 AM


well
Booom!!! thanks tilson 
ill take this to the BANK!!!


29 Apr 2015, 08:09 AM


well
all these bag holders/ bulls on this dog calling a 45/price target just blow my mind......


29 Apr 2015, 08:13 AM


tagdarkside
Gotta give credit, when credit is deserved. GREAT CALL!!!!!


29 Apr 2015, 10:47 AM


Edward J. Roche, Contributor
Just shows that sometimes the bad guys who spread rumors and innuendo, unfairly hurting companies can win at
least for awhile.


29 Apr 2015, 05:47 PM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Edward,


I agree that deliberate actions intended to bring down a company for financial gain is a crime just as surely as
deliberately mislabeling product that puts people at health risk is to make a few extra bucks.


Frankly I don't know who is on the right side of this.


But I do know, "You can fool all the people ....etc..."


I'll wait to see who's fooling who and hope that the scales of justice work (not so sure about it, though).


29 Apr 2015, 06:39 PM


Sinners
Good morning, Reel Ken!


I used to have Apple and now LL. I just started in this field. Nice to meet you. Well seems like you earn my
trust based on my behavior to write a comment to you. I have learned up to now:


Although we can predict or speculate through numbers, consistences, statistics, etc., stock market is similar
to life which is sometimes full of strange forces of nature even when think of the people here meet by the
organic nature of our interactions here (emotions, logic, the unforeseen and the invisible).



https://seekingalpha.com/user/272046

https://seekingalpha.com/user/272046

https://seekingalpha.com/user/17036612

https://seekingalpha.com/author/edward-j-roche

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37859396
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 43/44


Coincidence, accident, inconsistency, unforeseen circumstances, multiplicity, differences, etc. are parts in
stock market as life...


When I just opened an account in stock market, I got an email that notes something like time to buy LL and
got to know here in this community. The strange force of nature lead me to come here....What a life!


About LL, I guess I have emotion attached to the company. LL has been working hard to gain its reputation.
LL put "customer satisfaction" first. I guess it is a good sign. About the LL announcement yesterday is nothing
new. We speculated the sales in March would go down and other financial juggles that come with the scandal.
Yes, there is a big gap between what is predicted and what really is. Still unclear in the future, but it is not a
bad idea to encourage the company as long as they are aware of the issues and working on them hard rather
than crush/step on it until it dies.


Well, nice out here in Champaign, IL. Hope you guys enjoy the fresh air and the sun. And thank you all:)


30 Apr 2015, 09:06 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi Sinners,


Nice post. Complete agreement.


Good luck with LL.


I have pre-set criteria for any investment and am a disciplined investor. LL just doesn't meet any, though I
acknowledge it can meet others with different criteria or disciplines.


As you go through your investing "trip" eventually you'll see the benefits in setting criteria beforehand. It's
much better than "shooting from the hip". Sure, you'll miss some buys, but at least you'll know why.


Happy hunting.


01 May 2015, 08:35 AM


Sinners
I am glad that LL has made a progress in its costumer care.  
Hope it juggles with all difficulties and issues raised for its business and customers and grows much more that it used
to be through this painful experience. I am still supporting the company:)


29 Apr 2015, 05:55 PM


Hasty
It looks like you've got numerous "expert" opinions about the safety of wood floors and the biggest factor for the
results is who's writing the paychecks.


It's no surprise that people that want to sue Lumber Liquidators have too much formaldehyde.


30 Apr 2015, 02:06 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37859396

https://seekingalpha.com/user/27089623
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 44/44


rlp2451
Xuhua Zhou, who raised the original red flag on Lumber Liquidators' floors back in 2013, says Lowe's (NYSE:LOW)
floors are riddled with the same formaldehyde issues that sent LL's stock into a tailspin after the infamous 60 Minutes
segment on March 1.


Independent tests show that one of Lowe's floors scores 10x the allowed formaldehyde threshold. To put that in
context, 60 Minutes tested 31 samples from Lumber Liquidators; Lowe's Chocolate Cherry Hickory would have been
the third worst of all 31 samples. The results from Lowe's were 1.134 ppm. The CARB 2 threshold is 0.11 ppm.


60 Minutes seems to have taken Global Community Monitor's testing of Home Depot (NYSE:HD) and Lowe's
products at face value, and did no independent testing. Still, Zhou's research suggests that Home Depot's flooring is
CARB 2 compliant.


01 May 2015, 11:52 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor
Hi RIP,


I'm glad to see Zhou back in action.


His original articles and expose of LL weren't taken seriously enough. The "spin doctors" buried his findings.


Now, maybe people will realize exactly what's going on.


02 May 2015, 09:43 AM


DenaliOcean
True, I have been saying this many times that this is not specific to LL but noncompliant HDF coming out of
China and sold by many suppliers in the US and Canada.


I have mentioned one particular Canadian company which is also misrepresenting their products in regards to
the formaldehyde levels and the general health and safety of their products.


02 May 2015, 11:00 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/384258

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686
