5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 1/24


More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core
Oct. 5, 2015 2:50 AM ET67 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Two former installers for Lumber Liquidators told me that the company has major
quality problems across many of its product lines, especially bamboo flooring.


They said that the company is aware of this, yet rather than improving quality, it
instead has set up a rigged inspection system that results in the company rarely
standing behind its highly publicized warranty.


I added to my short position at numerous points on the way down and, though I’ve
taken a bit of profits around today’s prices, LL remains a substantial short position in
the funds I manage.


Soon after the 60 Minutes story on Lumber Liquidators first aired on March 1st, I heard
from numerous people in the industry, including a number of the company's current and
former employees and contractors. Without exception, told me that Lumber Liquidators
(NYSE:LL) is a notorious bad actor: that it cuts corners at every opportunity, sells very low-
quality products, treats customers, installers and employees badly, and, worst of all, is not
serious about compliance.


Since then, I (and customers, the media and regulators) have been primarily focused on
the most important and damning charge: that Lumber Liquidators sold its American
customers hundreds of millions of square feet of laminate flooring sourced in China that
contained high levels of formaldehyde, a dangerous chemical and known carcinogen - and
that senior executives knew (or should have known) this.


I don't have any new information on this topic - we're all waiting for the Consumer Product
Safety Commission and other regulators to complete their investigations and take action -
so in this article I'd like to share what I heard from two former installers for Lumber
Liquidators, who told me that:


The company has major quality problems across many of its product lines, especially
bamboo flooring, which is consistent with the widespread quality and customer service
problems highlighted on many review websites - see here, here, here, here and here;



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

http://www.consumeraffairs.com/homeowners/lumber_liquidators.html

http://mythreecents.com/reviews/lumber-liquidators

http://lumber-liquidators.pissedconsumer.com/

http://www.resellerratings.com/store/Lumber_Liquidators

http://www.glassdoor.com/Overview/Working-at-Lumber-Liquidators-EI_IE38603.11,29.htm
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 2/24


The company is aware of this, yet rather than improving quality (which would raise
costs and lower profits), it instead has set up a rigged inspection system that results in
the company rarely standing behind its highly publicized warranty.


I was reminded of these issues when I read this recent article about a Canadian customer
who bought Lumber Liquidators' bamboo flooring that, soon after it was installed, was
gapping, squeaking and buckling - yet a year later, the company still hasn't fixed the
problem.


This family's tale of woe is very common among Lumber Liquidators' customers based on
everything I've heard and read, including what these two installers told me.


Installer #1


The first story I heard was from someone (let's call him Jim) who's been in the flooring
installation business for decades and for four years from 2011-2014 installed thousands of
floors exclusively for Lumber Liquidators. While installing laminate flooring was the largest
part of his business (he guessed 40%), bamboo was a close second, in the 30-40%
range.


Jim told me that Lumber Liquidators' flooring had quality problems across the entire
product line, which had been the case since the company was founded:


Lumber Liquidators is a pretty miserable company. Tom Sullivan founded it in the
early 1990s by buying for ten cents on the dollar excess flooring that had often been
sitting in warehouses for years and then reselling this junk for 20 cents. But that
wasn't a scalable or sustainable business model, so that's when he started buying in
China. But they're still applying the same principles.


Lumber Liquidators' products have huge warranty issues. The company had a
production problem [when sales were booming in 2012 and 2013]: they couldn't find
enough cheapo product to sell, so they pushed their manufacturers to put out
quantities of product that led to big quality problems.


[All of the quotes in this article are from my notes, not a recording, so I verified them with
the two sources.]


Jim explained that it had to do with the moisture content of the flooring:



http://globalnews.ca/news/2248797/lumber-liquidators-customer-having-hard-time-with-installation/
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 3/24


It's really important that the moisture content of the flooring is in the 6-9% range
because if it's higher, then the flooring will dry out and buckle and gap when the
humidity in the home declines, as it typically does in the winter.


Thus, the manufacturer is supposed to season the product for months: take the
rough cut, then put in a big room or an oven to decrease the moisture content down
to 6%, then put it through the finishing process.


But Lumber Liquidators pushed its manufacturers so hard that all of the company's
products were coming in wet: 20-28% moisture content. Thus, it contracts after it's
installed, causing it to look terrible.


Lumber Liquidators tries to deal with this problem by telling their customers to leave
the flooring in their homes for a week before installing it, but this isn't enough time. In
a week, the moisture content only declines by 4-8%.


Jim said this is a particularly acute problem for bamboo flooring, especially when they
switched to a water-based resin from a formaldehyde-based one:


The process of making bamboo flooring involves injecting resin into it to strengthen
it. For years, the resin had formaldehyde, which produced a good product, but
suddenly in early 2014 I started getting huge numbers of warranty calls from
customers in whose homes I'd installed Lumber Liquidators' bamboo flooring - it was
insane.


I complained to a Senior VP at the company, and he was completely honest with me:
he explained that they knew they had a formaldehyde problem with the bamboo line,
so around the end of 2013, they told their manufacturers to switch to a water-based
resin. But this resin is inferior, so the bamboo flooring was contracting and
separating - just look online and you'll find huge numbers of complaints about this
problem.


If true, this is a stunning revelation: that Lumber Liquidators' senior management was
aware of a formaldehyde problem years ago and were so concerned that they instructed
their suppliers to switch resins, even knowing that the new product was of terrible quality
and would fail at high rates. In light of this (again, if true), it's equally stunning that they
didn't deal with the formaldehyde problem in their laminate product lines.
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 4/24


[I cannot verify that Lumber Liquidators' bamboo flooring had high levels of formaldehyde
prior to 2014 because neither I nor the lab I hired was able to find any old product to test.
But even if we had, I suspect that we wouldn't have found high levels of formaldehyde
today due to off-gassing (though it still might have been highly toxic at the time it was
installed). As for the company's current bamboo flooring, I've had numerous samples
tested, none of which had any meaningful levels of formaldehyde. Thus, Lumber
Liquidators' customers who have bought this product likely only have to worry about lousy
quality, not being poisoned.]


Jim told a damning story of how Lumber Liquidators handled customer complaints when
its products failed:


When Lumber Liquidators' flooring fails, they send in an inspector using a nationwide
company called Inspect Solutions. This person is just a hired gun. The inspector can
say the product failed for three reasons: a product-related reason (which is Lumber
Liquidators' problem), an installation issue (the installer's problem), or a site problem
(too much or not enough moisture in the air, etc., which the inspector will say is the
homeowner's fault). Guess what they determine? The inspector nearly always
blames either the homeowners or installers. It's a joke.


They know they're sending product into customers' homes that's not been
manufactured right. Then in the winter, when it gets dry, the flooring gaps. Then the
inspector comes in with a moisture meter, says it's too dry in the home, and blames
the homeowner and refuses to fix the problem.


Or else they blame me, even though I always take all of the precautions and
necessary steps. I'm a third-generation floor installer. I put down 6,000-8,000 floors
prior to installing for Lumber Liquidators and didn't have a single warranty claim. But
in four years with Lumber Liquidators, I had warranty claims on 8-10% of my
installations. It got to the point I couldn't make any money.


Jim concluded:
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 5/24


I quit because of ethical issues - I couldn't keep installing such a poor quality
product.


Lumber Liquidators is a terrible, greedy company. Everything they do operationally
relates to their bottom line: the way they source product, treat installers and treat
customers. It's a dirty, rotten company. I hate the company and what they stand for.
They're taking advantage of everybody.


Installer/Inspector #2


The second person I spoke with (let's call him Steve) was an installer for Lumber
Liquidators (also for four years) and then became an inspector. He told a similar story:


Only 1% of the oak floors I install fail, whereas 20% of the bamboo floors do. Most
bamboo on the market is a low-end product - but Lumber Liquidators' is the worst.


The moisture level in the bamboo flooring has to be in the 6-12% range before it can
be installed, but it typically takes two months for it to reach this level and neither
homeowners nor installers are willing to wait this long. If you told customers how
long they should wait, they'd never buy it so Lumber Liquidators' salespeople don't
say anything. And then once it's installed, the company doesn't want to deal with it.


I use a moisture meter, but it's only good for the specific product it's calibrated to, so
I called all of the meter manufacturers and asked if their meter was calibrated for
Lumber Liquidators' strand bamboo. They all said no, that it's impossible to
accurately measure it [the moisture content in Lumber Liquidators' bamboo flooring].


Nobody would say it, but it's because Lumber Liquidators doesn't control the
sourcing of the bamboo stalks - they get bamboo from three different plants, which is
all mixed into one batch. Each supplier has its own construction process, with
different levels of formaldehyde (a lot of the issues with moisture in bamboo flooring
is related to the resin used). To cut costs, the suppliers use cheap resin with lots of
formaldehyde.


There is no meter that can read the moisture - and Lumber Liquidators knows this.
I've talked to their head of tech services.


As a result, I stopped installing all bamboo flooring in the southeast - the hot, humid
climate is bad for it. I also told customers to return the bamboo flooring they'd bought
- that was the end of Lumber Liquidators sending me any business…
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 6/24


Steve's comments about the inspection process also echoed Jim's:


Overall, Lumber Liquidators' products are crap, but when customers complain the
company hires the worst inspectors who blame the customer or the installer - never
the company. The inspectors, many of whom are low quality and unscrupulous, side
with whoever pays them.


In one inspection I did, I determined that the problem was defective flooring, but
when I submitted my report to The Home Service Store, Lumber Liquidators'
installation "partner", they told me to amend it and blame the customer. When I said
no, they backed down - but have never hired me again (and instead blamed the
installer and made him eat the cost of fixing it).


Steve mostly blames Lumber Liquidators, but also its customers:


The American consumer is so dumb. People buy in droves from Lumber Liquidators
because it's so cheap. Their wood products are as inexpensive as carpet. Lumber
Liquidators' salespeople convince them it's high quality, but it's not. You don't buy
ground chuck and expect a fillet dinner.


Conclusion


Normally after a stock declines more than 80% from the price at which I first shorted it, I
declare victory, cover the position, and move on. But in the case of Lumber Liquidators, I
haven't: I added to my short position at numerous points on the way down and, though I've
taken a bit of profits around today's prices, it remains a substantial short position in the
funds I manage.


The primary reason for this is that I don't think this is a case of a good company
encountering temporary, isolated and fixable problems. Rather, everything I've heard, read
and observed leads me to believe that Lumber Liquidators is rotten to the core. Tom
Sullivan says, "Our goal is to sell a good product at a good price." While the company's
prices are indeed low, all of the research I've done leads me to believe that this is more
than offset by product quality that ranges from mediocre to outright defective (not to
mention, in the past, illegally sourced or poisonous!). Worse yet, if the flooring fails,
Lumber Liquidators is unlikely to stand behind it.


This business model isn't sustainable in my opinion - and bringing back its architect, Tom
Sullivan, only makes things worse.
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 7/24


Comments (67)


 Like this article


scabello2
I am an expert in this field. Tell me the name of your two "experts" so i can contact them to verify these facts. Bamboo
wood, no matter where is sourced, may need up to a month to acclimate properly. I don't care where you buy the
wood or how, but the best strand-woven bamboo needs 30 days. Minimum.


The problem may be that LL customers and installers want to "bang out" the project. Perhaps if they spent 3-5x the
cost then they would be suddenly be willing to wait 30 days for their precious wood to acclimate.


I do not own shares of LL and I am not a customer. But I am an expert in this field. If you do not wait the time required
then you are not going to get a good result. I suspect nobody waits the recommended one week either for oak flooring
-- the installer comes in with the wood and starts installing, which is the biggest mistake with all woods and in
particular bamboo. I have never seen a quality job without acclimation. This is why most new construction looks great
(the wood sits there for weeks or months) but when doing remodels people that do not use the right wood are in for a
rude awakening after a few weeks or months.


Also, rarely is the issue with contraction which is what you are purporting would happen with LL's wood. Most
installers can work with contraction easily by putting extra wood under the base trim. It gets challenging when the
wood is going to expand because the installer does not want to have a gap near the base that would eventually
'expand' and become hidden.


As for moisture detection on bamboo, it is correct that it is not easy to get a precise reading on moisture without
calibration for bamboo. But most installers know the proper multiplication factor to use against what the meter is
saying to get an near accurate estimate on the moisture content. So there is really no excuse there. Every installer
that has some competence knows this. This is for all bamboo wood. I suspect these low cost installers "let me do a
thousands of installs in 4 years" (which is a ridiculous number and a testament to your "experts" quality) are the root
of the problem and not the wood.


05 Oct 2015, 07:41 AM


Whitney Tilson, Contributor
Author’s reply »  One of the installers, who isn't a member of this site, asked me to post this reply:


1. I'm aware that bamboo flooring needs to acclimate for at least 30 days. I pointed this out to LL in 2014
based on moisture readings from multiple projects, yet LL failed to change their policy even after I presented
them with this evidence. I suspect LL doesn't want to be honest with their customers because they fear it will
negatively affect sales.


2. Even more important than just acclimation is the relative humidity of the site that the floor is acclimating in.
Unfortunately most new construction projects don't qualify because of a lack of working HVAC systems in
place. 



https://seekingalpha.com/user/41995786

https://seekingalpha.com/author/whitney-tilson
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 8/24


I've seen hundreds of flooring failures on new construction projects because of the reason above, a few
months to years after the homeowner has moved into the house.


3. The issue with LL bamboo is contraction. The bamboo product is packaged and double wrapped in plastic,
which traps the moisture. Immediately after opening up a box, most of the bamboo flooring registers 20%
moisture readings and above. Add in the fact that LL employees are telling unsuspecting customers to
acclimate for 7 days and what you have is floors that are being installed before they have been properly dried.
With the lack of proper acclimation these floors are shrinking/contracting in excess of 3/4" - 1-1/2" over a 20-
foot span.


4. As of today the only moisture meter that tests strand bamboo correctly is called a lignometer.


5. It is possible to do thousands of installs without compromising quality. As a professional installer you need
the right people, systems, training and manufacturers in place to make it work. Unfortunately LL was the weak
link in my company's case.


05 Oct 2015, 10:34 AM


fleshtone
Having been in the flooring business for 35 years I know only one way to install floors. That is as per the
manufacturers specifications. If you aren't willing to do what they specify, you void the warranty. Case closed. 
Anecdotal evidence is generally worthless and your article is a thinly veiled attempt to push down the price of
LL.  
Full disclosure: I don't own LL and don't intend to. I don't have a dog in this fight unlike the author.


05 Oct 2015, 12:54 PM


sawdoctor
Bamboo is not wood. It's grass.


"It gets challenging when the wood is going to expand because the installer does not want to have a gap near
the base that would eventually 'expand' and become hidden."


What?


07 Oct 2015, 08:11 PM


QNB
Scabello2, 
You say: 
>>The problem may be that LL customers and installers want to "bang out" the project. Perhaps if they spent
3-5x the cost then they would be suddenly be willing to wait 30 days for their precious wood to acclimate.<<


You suggest the problem may be with the installer or the customer wanting to "bang out" the project! First let
me say if theres anyone who wants to "bang out the project" it's LL and they do this by "telling the customer"
they only need "7 days to acclimate" the flooring. The "installer knows" that it takes longer but if they complain
they know they will lose the job and any other future business with LL's. LL's also tells the customer when



https://seekingalpha.com/user/15407692

https://seekingalpha.com/user/36877536

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32251675
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 9/24


acclimating, to only open the ends of the boxes and remove the cellophane......wrong again! This will result in
the ends swelling and the middle of the boards to retain a high moisture content. There have been several
complaints regarding the widths of the boards along with extreme gapping that cannot be remedied by putting
extra wood under the base trim. A customer wouldn't realize this until months after the install and seasonal
changes which would effect the temperature and humidity in the room. This is when LL uses the temperature
and humidity card to exonerate them from any liability or the warrantee. They misrepresent the product and
then who gets screwed?......the customer!  
So if you're going to blame someone let's start with LL's giving the customer the wrong information just to
make a sale! 
Now you can say "well this is a big box store and you get what you pay for" and you'd probably be right. I had
to learn this the hard way after losing several thousands of dollars, but it still doesn't give LL's the excuse to
misrepresent the product!


22 Oct 2015, 02:28 PM


well
all in good time- i also cashed in my 15.00 puts with nice profits


05 Oct 2015, 08:50 AM


FarFromGuru
I'd like to interview two employees of Whitney Tilson in regards to the articles he writes about LL.


05 Oct 2015, 09:11 AM


bitterwind
n


05 Oct 2015, 09:37 AM


bitterwind
almost did not read the article. I have built many homes. put in many floors. even waiting to install, some
floors gap. direct sunlight can cook a floor. Tilton has a short winner here for sure, but going for zero is getting
old. Move on. any installer doing the hat many for cu tsla corners big time...... 
not one I would use. Let alone base and art I 
cleaned like this, on. Tilton I 
should pushing 
no it hard with him 
so dumpster diving. very poor.


05 Oct 2015, 09:51 AM


bitterwind



https://seekingalpha.com/user/272046

https://seekingalpha.com/user/22359151

https://seekingalpha.com/user/519372

https://seekingalpha.com/user/519372

https://seekingalpha.com/user/519372
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 10/24


should read...move on. any installer doing that many floors is cutting corners. l would not use him to install or
as a source. very poor choice for Tilson and shows he is still pushing it hard.


05 Oct 2015, 10:08 AM


Richard0623
English fun welcome


05 Oct 2015, 12:18 PM


HeadyChick
LTNS, WT. The timing of this article is interesting!


05 Oct 2015, 09:37 AM


TheDoktor
I believe that a more appropriate title for this posting would be "More *anecdotal* evidence that LL is rotten to the
core"


Talking to a couple of installers can be helpful, but talking to any random selection of former emloyees or contractors
of many companies could get you a similar answer.


People who stop working at a certain company are often those who see the worst in the company and decide they
don't want to deal with it.


As one commenter points out, flooring needs acclimation before installation (yes - even I, in a former life, installed
flooring, or different types and quality).


Does LL manage it badly? Perhaps - according to these two installers. But, we are talking about two installers. That
doesn't seem to be adequante to drive an investment decision.


05 Oct 2015, 09:41 AM


Whitney Tilson, Contributor
Author’s reply »  I tried to make clear that I've spoken with A LOT of people who know Lumber Liquidators,
both from the inside and outside. Their stories are all consistent. I chose to highlight what these two
gentlemen told me because their stories are the most insightful and in-depth.


I've spoken with numerous bulls on the stock over time and I've asked them the following: "It's possible that
I'm only hearing from people who agree with me (fellow short sellers, disgruntled former employees, etc.), so I
would be grateful if you would share any research you've done or conversations you've had that are
inconsistent with my own. Have you ever spoken with anyone who's said, 'I was really shocked by the 60
Minutes story. That's not the Lumber Liquidators I know. It's a good, honest and reputable company.'?"


To date, not a single person has shared a single data point with me -- nor has my own research uncovered
anything -- that's inconsistent with my belief that this company is rotten to the core.


05 Oct 2015, 10:15 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/2427161

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38979776

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32861885

https://seekingalpha.com/author/whitney-tilson
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 11/24


Michael P in AZ
The BBB would disagree.


Every one of my local stores is accredited by the BBB.


05 Oct 2015, 12:51 PM


ccsiMgr
well I must say, I installed LL bamboo flooring in my house about 12 years ago. did it myself. it still looks great
and is going strong. I'm a data point of one, but a satisfied customer.


06 Oct 2015, 08:13 AM


Marky56
What kind of nonsense did I just read?


05 Oct 2015, 09:47 AM


EnerSavr, Contributor
More nonsense again in the article. I think we are not far away from the class action dismissal that was used scare off
the customers and not far away from EPA and CPSC to announce that there was nothing wrong with the method or
formaldehyde limits.  
HD and Lowes also have the same quality problems with bamboo sourced from China but in those cases the
customer is the installer so no one hears anything about them.


Just move on, because shorting here is going to be very bad idea IMO.


05 Oct 2015, 12:13 PM


Courage & Conviction Investing, Marketplace Contributor
Whitney - Any thoughts on Volkswagen?


05 Oct 2015, 02:11 PM


TheRonbo
That's Funny!


05 Oct 2015, 02:44 PM


Who Dat?
Whitney probably kicking himself to death for not "whistle blowing" on VW before getting 60 Minutes to air his
show. LOL. The dude is in it only for the money. Karma always have it's way....


15 Oct 2015, 11:25 AM


Reel Ken, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/925414

https://seekingalpha.com/user/21414511

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40108886

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr

https://seekingalpha.com/author/courage-conviction-investing

https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=courage-conviction-investing&source=comment_author_tag

https://seekingalpha.com/user/701329

https://seekingalpha.com/user/765344

https://seekingalpha.com/author/reel-ken
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 12/24


Hi Author,


One should always assume that an author is providing the best information that is available to them.


I'm no fan of LL and think they are a little "slimy".


However, if the BEST you can offer is un-named third parties ... shame on you.


No responsible person would put forth such information unless the accusers were willing to be identified ... or .. they
could put forth some other neutral party that would affirm the statement's veracity.


Even if your recollections are 100% accurate (and rarely is that so, with anyone) sometimes the information is not
enough to warrant publication.


In this article, I find no indication that the information is so conclusive, so revolutionary and so supported that it was
worth passing on ... especially since much of it is your interpretation of what they said.


You diminish yourself and your arguments. Too bad ....


05 Oct 2015, 03:10 PM


User 316261
Story doesn't sound right to me.


I don't see how LL makes more money by not advising customers to wait three weeks more before installation.


Jim installed this stuff for years without advising customers to wait a very small number of weeks before installation.


LL have no motive to act in the way described, and the quoted experts knew the flooring wasn't ready to be installed
and installed it and got paid for doing so anyway. For years and years.


There's something significantly wrong with this story.


05 Oct 2015, 04:58 PM


TheRonbo
I'm long LL.


His contention is: Telling users to wait several weeks or a month or longer ... Would discourage sales. i.e. if
you told users this you would not be able to make a sale.


The whole point is, the company is so underhanded that they would not tell clients this. Let them install the
flooring prematurely, have it 'fail'. Then have a group of inspectors that would subsequently blame the
customer based on them not waiting.


Yes, really poor customer service, and only something a really slimy company would do. That's the authors
entire point.


The author is so biased and has so much to gain from LL loss, that he is simply not credible.


I don't disbelieve this story - but, the question is, just how pervasive is it. 
I find that hard to believe. LL had grown fast over a number of years, if they were exhibiting this behavior



https://seekingalpha.com/user/316261

https://seekingalpha.com/user/701329
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 13/24


consistently, i.e. it was their business model. They would not have seen such growth over a period of years.
The word would have gotten out quickly. New flooring is a significant purchase - people would talk.


I bought at 25, 20 & 15. I think the next quarter is the 'tell'. If they don't start turning things around, Tilson
might get his wish & see this thing go to zero. 'Course I was hoping last quarter they'd have turned the corner.


06 Oct 2015, 09:39 AM


Casualobserver55
Isn't there something illegal about this? This guy is hunting this company.


Everything about the scenario seems born out of a short seller research lab. Company is relatively small and narrow
product line (flooring), easy target. Company was relatively generously valued when he started. Targets compliance,
where you can basically make something stick with a PR campaign, and it takes years before regulators get back with
a ruling. Targets the PR campaign with major primetime coverage focused on consumer health and safety, playing off
fears of Chinese made "stuff." The aptly noted "investigation" PR release from a Dem congressman (how much does
that cost, 20k campaign contribution?). I'm impressed with the diligence, discipline, and execution. I'm not so
impressed with how easily a small and poorly diversified business can be taken down. By the time the regulators
check back in, LL may be LLQ.


05 Oct 2015, 09:16 PM


QNB
I hate to burst everyones bubble here, but Whitney Tilson's article is right on! I read this article and what he talks
about is exactly what happened to myself and two friends of mine. Both myself and my friends purchased Morning
Star Bamboo from LL in 2013. This is when they were still using the formaldehyde resin. We were both told by the LL
sales person that we had to acclimate the flooring for seven days and to only open both ends of the boxes and
remove the cellophane. Now it was 3 weeks of acclimating the flooring for my friends and 4 weeks for myself before
we had ours installed. Three months after installation it started to gap, separate and split not to mention the distinct
odor of formaldehyde. Installer came out to fix it and then 4 months later the same thing. The bamboo pulled away
from under the molding leaving a visible gap of an inch and a half from the molding (not the wall) on a 23 foot wall and
it continued to gap in other areas throughout the two rooms. My friends were having the same problems along with
respiratory problems due to the formaldehyde. After several calls and letters they finally agreed to send out an
inspector......and yes, the inspector was from "Inspect Solutions!" My installer, who was referred through LL and hired
through The Home Service Store was at my home when the inspector arrived. This inspector was rude and we were
told he could not answer any of our questions......we would have to wait for his report. He did not do a full inspection
and completely ignored the gapping along the 23 foot wall. We also tried to point out that there were several boards
when measured, that were 1/8 of an inch off at one end of the board. He said "please....let me do my job!" Well, a
week later we got our "denial letter" and of course he blatantly lied about everything! We had purchased a very large
humidifier, a meter to measure the humidity in the room and cleaned the flooring with products that were
recommended by LL. He lied about the humidity level, never mentioned the gapping along the 23 ft. wall or the
splitting of the boards and of course blamed everything on the installer. My installer said "he was sick of LL always
blaming him for their inferior product"....he also said "half of his business comes from LL and he has kept quiet, but he
has reached his limits." He said "he has gone through this so many times with installing LL defective bamboo that it is



https://seekingalpha.com/user/42580416

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32251675
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 14/24


not worth it for him to continue doing business with them" and basically told me about all the things the two other
installers mentioned in Whitney Tilsons article. I was totally aggravated not only with LL but with the installer because
the installer didn't tell me it was a defective product until after it was installed. 
So I don't care if you're an expert or you don't agree with Tilson' interpretation of what the installers said or you can't
possibly think of a motive of why LL would tell their customers they only have to acclimate the flooring for 7 days! The
point is this happened "exactly" to myself and my friends. We both had our floors removed and lost thousands of
dollars due to a defective product, a dishonest installer, a lying inspector .......and yes, a greedy company rotten to the
core!


You may not like WT for whatever your reasons, but I can tell you I can relate to everything written in this article!


05 Oct 2015, 11:11 PM


ccsiMgr
qnb,  
wow. sorry to hear of your bad experience. all I can say is that in my case, it was just the opposite. I bought
the flooring (morning star bamboo), installed it (myself) in the upstairs of my house ... about 1200 Sq ft. and
haven't had a problem since (about a dozen years). perhaps LL has changed since I bought my flooring, but
back then and even today, I'm a satisfied customer.


06 Oct 2015, 08:57 AM


User 316261
I was thinking this as well. Also sorry for the posters bad experience.


We had a great experience after getting quotes from 3 installers and choosing the one who told us the most
about potential pitfalls and how to do the job right.


Sounds like the poster went with an installer who had repeated bad experience installing LL product, makes
you wonder what that installer didn't know or didn't learn.


To quote one expert above " I don't care where you buy the wood or how, but the best strand-woven bamboo
needs 30 days. Minimum."


My problem with the story is that it implies a conspiracy without evidence.  
And it doesn't even describe how LL would profit from the implied conspiracy.


At this point this is just "he said she said", and is beginning to sound quite desperate from this high profile
short. Makes one wonder why.


06 Oct 2015, 11:58 AM


QNB
ccsiMgr, boisterousbob, 
Thank you!


First let me say that 12 years ago this was a different company. LL's major problems started when they
started pushing their Chinese manufacturer's to pump out product that led to extremely high moisture



https://seekingalpha.com/user/21414511

https://seekingalpha.com/user/316261

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32251675
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 15/24


content.....that being a formaldehyde resin! The bamboo was not properly seasoned by the manufacturer. 
Now regarding my installer, (which by the way was recommended by LL...I didn't find one on my own) was
supposedly an expert and hired through the partnership LL has with the Home Service Store was not the
main issue with the problems I had. My main issue was with the product! Now I'am sure there are some
happy customers out there, but when a customer does have a problem and it is clearly the product (as in
splitting, boards different lengths on one end and extreme shrinkage) I would expect that the warrantee and
the company would take care of the issues and not pass the blame onto the customer or the installer. Please
note that my flooring sat in my home to acclimate for a little over 4 weeks! Also note that it took me months
and a ridiculous amount of phone calls just to get someone from LL to even look at my flooring. 
Now you may say this is just "he said she said" but there are hundreds if not thousands of complaints all over
the internet regarding LL's products and business practices. Some so similar (as what this article states and
customers who have posted their stories & pics) that you would think they were scripted. 
To date, LL's still has not addressed the current issues after saying they would be in the mills the next day,
there are still people waiting for test results and there are thousands of people still getting the runaround from
their customer service! 
So I'am glad you two were lucky enough not to have the problems that many of us have had and are having
now with LL, because I will tell you, no one needs to have that kind of aggravation in their lives or the cost of
having a floor ripped out and replaced after you initially spent thousands of dollars!


Now let me also state ....I do have several stock investments but LL is not one of them!


06 Oct 2015, 01:23 PM


User 316261
QNB,


Again I am sorry for your experience.


The long and short from your story is most likely the installer put the floor down before it was ready to be put
down.


Even if this was a bad product in your specific case, we will never known for sure, and any company selling
this much product to this many customers will inevitably result in some misses.


This is an investing site not a product review forum.


What the author implies is a conspiracy which he fails to back up.


There is nothing in this article to reliably inform longs or shorts.


07 Oct 2015, 04:13 PM


User 316261
QNB,


Again I am sorry for your experience.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/316261

https://seekingalpha.com/user/316261
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 16/24


The long and short from your story is most likely the installer put the floor down before it was ready to be put
down.


Even if this was a bad product in your specific case, we will never known for sure, and any company selling
this much product to this many customers will inevitably result in some misses.


This is an investing site not a product review forum.


What the author implies is a conspiracy which he fails to back up.


There is nothing in this article to reliably inform longs or shorts.


07 Oct 2015, 04:13 PM


User 316261
QNB,


Again I am sorry for your experience.


The long and short from your story is most likely the installer put the floor down before it was ready to be put
down.


Even if this was a bad product in your specific case, we will never known for sure, and any company selling
this much product to this many customers will inevitably result in some misses.


This is an investing site not a product review forum.


What the author implies is a conspiracy which he fails to back up.


There is nothing in this article to reliably inform longs or shorts.


07 Oct 2015, 04:13 PM


QNB
boisterousbob, 
Unfortunately posting to an article that was written by WT, and most of the comments being from stockholders
going long on the stock I can understand the negativity. My post was not to boost WT position with LL, my
post was to state the facts.....facts that I personally had to deal with and relate to this article, whether you
choose to believe it or not.


You say: "This is an investing site not a product review forum."


I posted my comments because what WT stated and the comments made by the installers is exactly what I
experienced, and there are hundreds if not thousands of other people who have went through the same with
LL's bamboo. I've read enough complaints to make ones head spin.


You also say: "What the author implies is a conspiracy which he fails to back up." 
Well, this is the reason I posted my comment, and "not to give a product review" as you stated. I think my post
along with all the other complaints posted on the internet regarding LL's bamboo products would back up his



https://seekingalpha.com/user/316261

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32251675
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 17/24


statement and the installers comments. I would suggest you do some research. I'm sure several of these
installers will be making an appearance when the class action suits go to court.


Lastly you say: "The long and short from your story is most likely the installer put the floor down before it was
ready to be put down."


In my post I did say that the flooring acclimated for a little over a month before it was installed....even though
LL said it only needed to be acclimated for 7 days! I also stated that the boards measured 1/8 inch less on
one end of the boards then the other end. And then there was the splitting! This is all product related! There is
a post on this thread by "floorinspector" and he is absolutely correct. This is where the installer gets
hammered by working for LL. 
So as far as saying "There is nothing in this article to reliably inform longs or shorts", I would say you are
wrong or maybe it's in what you choose to believe. From my own experience and from the hundreds of
complaints I've read, I wouldn't calculate these complaints as "some misses."


07 Oct 2015, 10:31 PM


User 316261
So in summary you expected strong customer service from a deep discount retailer, asked a salesperson how
to do an installers job, didn't establish that your installer had many prior failures at the job you actually hired
them for, and were disappointed at the result.


This is well beyond the point at which caveat emptor applies.


I am genuinely sorry for you experience, but cannot turn it into an investing premise.


09 Oct 2015, 03:32 PM


vjust
Thanks for sharing your experience QNB. For an investor, it does make a difference to see that there was an
issue with the product. There's no doubt they had a formaldehyde problem (in addition to customer
service/quality problem).


How the courts/CARB gives its verdict on formaldehyde may be the main question on the stock, from this
point onwards.


10 Oct 2015, 11:13 AM


QNB
vjust, 
You're very welcome and thank you for your comment. Having personally dealt with LL, I can attest to their
lying and cheating, not only with myself but with friends who also purchased flooring from LL. And Yes....LL's
customer service is the worst I have ever seen. It shouldn't take over 3 months to get someone from their
company to look at a defective floor, even for a deep discount retailer. They boast quality, cutting out the
middle man and in my case (and most of the consumers who filed complaints) a 30 year or more warrantee
that means diddly-squat! They also boast "the customer is our main concern." LL's only main concern is profit



https://seekingalpha.com/user/316261

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9716281

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32251675
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 18/24


and not the customer, which eventually will catch up with them as it already has. 
Some people will say this article is BS and why would LL advise a customer not to wait to install! Well, I will
tell you why, because once they make the sale it's like hitting a home run! A home run for the salesperson
because they get incentives based on monthly sales, a home run for LL because their company has a million
reasons and an inspector hired by them to exonerate them from any liability and the warrantee. You can bet
that before they will ever admit to a defective product they will blame the consumer for a plethora of reasons
and if that doesn't work there is always the installer. Now I'm not saying there isn't happy customers out
there....I'm sure there are. My point is, it's how they treat the consumer who has had problems (and there are
plenty) and what they do about it. Just this morning (here on the East coast) I received another flyer for there
"Once A Year Yard Sale" where they are again advertising the sale of one of the laminates (Bristol Country
Cherry) listed on the contaminated list even though LL said "they would remove the listed contaminated
laminate nationwide." So what I think we can conclude is, they have little concern for the customer and they
don't stand by their word! As an investor I would find this very concerning.


11 Oct 2015, 11:52 AM


hqasset
I don't think Whitley's article make sense this time. After the product is sold, it's in LL's benefits to advise customer to
wait few weeks, instead of telling customer to install right away.


I guess Whitley tried to test the formaldehyde level at LL's bamboo floors, it would be another big blow to LL's stock
price if he could find high level of formaldehyde in either LL's old or new bamboo floor, but seems he could not find
any evidence, so instead he used some ex-contractor's comments.


it is dangerous to short LL at this level for two reasons: 
1. LL has almost zero debt, You have to admit, financially it's a very well managed company. As long as the damage
from their laminate floor case is not significant, LL can survive easily and expand in no time. 
2. After march, LL starts to cut price aggressively, it is hurting their bottom line, but LL store successfully attract
customers and they are actually opening new stores this year. This will help LL in the court, and after the case is
closed, LL can then gradually increase price. As of today, seems this strategy works.


I started to accumulate LL at $13~14 level, I think it's a good buy if you can wait for one year.


06 Oct 2015, 09:26 AM


pool
I thought Whitney Tilson stated in other LL bashings that he doesn't read the comment sections of his articles??


06 Oct 2015, 11:05 AM


HeadyChick
nice catch. yes. Mr. Tilson previously stated that he doesn't need the "aggra" of reading the comments and
only responds to those who PM on SA.


06 Oct 2015, 12:45 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1046356

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39189866

https://seekingalpha.com/user/38979776
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 19/24


Who Dat?
He only shows up on SA to manipulate the stock price. Why else would he be here...?


Anytime there is a violent move to the upside, he is quick to rehash his same old FUD. Yawwwn.


I dont' mind losing money on my investment but to have an unfair level of playing field is disgraceful.


15 Oct 2015, 11:50 AM


floorinspector
Of course, it's in Lumber liquidators interest to mislead customers. If a customer was told that to properly acclimate
the product it should be 2 or more weeks, when other retailers say 7 days they would lose sales. The store employees
get paid incentives based on gross sales monthly. And of course it's in the installers interest to install the product, the
installers are sub contractors and only get paid when they lay floors. If the installer returns products to the store as
defective, it costs both the installers and the store managers money. It also creates significant tension between the
store management And the sub contract installers. I'm not saying the lumber liquidators is the only store with this
dynamic, but they are the largest part of the market with this much "control" over the process


06 Oct 2015, 02:30 PM


Chemist98
I have purchased three floors from LL. First was defective, LL paid to replace and reinstall. The last two were perfect
(different homes) and had no problems. People need to remember that the "problem" is with the low cost laminates. If
you are buying the cheapest stuff and expecting great performance, then I have some ocean-front property to sell you
in Kansas. 
WT, I can't wait for the hammer to drop on you. The level of tabloid trash that is allowed in your articles is amazing!
You probably have made a lot of money on this. I hope that your antics are investigated by the sec as rumors and
innuendo. Shame, shame, shame. This is getting to the level of reading the Sun or some other garbage.  
SA-get serious and sensor this author. Third person heresay?! This is adding to the investment community
discussion?! Shame, shame, shame.


06 Oct 2015, 04:09 PM


Confounded Interest, Contributor
I have also purchased 2 floors from them and have been very happy... I also know that spending $1.99 sq ft does not
get me $20 sq ft quality. LL gave me a decent floor that looks good at a ridiculously good price, which was exactly
what I was looking for. I think a lot of people expect perfection with a low price tag... Like shopping for a Ferrari at a
used Chevy dealership.


Disclosure, I do own LL and am looking to add more if it drops.


06 Oct 2015, 09:32 PM


Gurl
As a FORMER LL employee I must say, I'm tired of Tilson and his obvious intentional hit on a good and solid
company. Bamboo is his new focus now? Then why only LL? Why not Home Depot too? Bamboo is a grass, grown



https://seekingalpha.com/user/765344

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39574426

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9296561

https://seekingalpha.com/author/confounded-interest

https://seekingalpha.com/user/39585156
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 20/24


and manufactured the same regardless who sells it. But the nature of the product means an experienced and
knowledgable installer is a MUST. When installed by an experienced professional, it's a beautiful and extremely
durable product. I may not work for them anymore but I still stand behind them - and their products - 100%.


07 Oct 2015, 12:02 AM


antjoh
I think ole Whitty Tils there is trying to pull another Ackman. Yes LL stock took a hit (and I guess rightfully so given the
perceptual problems they faced), but this article is just an attempt at a counter-punch to the measures LL has taken to
rectify its problems. I personally have never purchased flooring from these folks and I do own a few shares of stock
from a recent purchase, only because I believe they will either be vindicated in the end or correct their mistakes. The
more I watched the 60 minute interview and LL's response,, the more I became convinced that, although there may
have been an issue with some of the flooring, it was blown way out of proportion by Tilsy and his minions. Whitty, the
stock is not going to zero, just like Herbal Life is not going to zero. You were smart to take profits but if you are trying
to pump this stock down with your hearsay, my friend, I don't think it's going to work.


07 Oct 2015, 03:17 PM


antjoh
I think this author is just trying to save face. It's obvious that LL is not going to zero. They will probably end up settling
and agreeing to rectify any problems. When I first saw the 60 min piece I was, at first, of the opinion that LL was
acting fraudulently. But after looking at the arguments on both sides, I am inclined to believe that, although there was
an issue with some of their product, the scope of the problem and its efficacy on the environment was WAY
overblowned by this guy and the environmentalists he hired. I think he realizes that the ride is over and that is why he
has taken profits. But if he thinks that LL is going to zero, then I hope he made enough from his present lucre to offset
the loss he will probably take on his existing short position.


I do not work for LL nor have I ever used their product. I prefer another mfr myself, but as an analytical person, I think
I know when smoke is being blown. And all I can say is, there is enough smoke in this author's article to set off
detectors in every floor of the empire state building.


07 Oct 2015, 03:35 PM


zorrow
LL Bamboo floors kill Pandas. If you feed LL bamboo flooring to Pandas they will get sick and possibly die. Sixty
Minutes are you hearing me?? Pandas dying!!!! CAncer!!!! SELL SELL. Ohoh the stock is up $2.00 after hours.


07 Oct 2015, 04:45 PM


jcb4008
So Whitney you want a case to take on? You can take mine. I have posted before with support for LL but after putting
all the pieces together I think they truly are rotten. I have the laminate floor and it looks great, I installed it. I got a high
formaldehyde test result back from one of the two rooms I sampled, the floor that was a year newer, the older floor
had probably off gassed already. The reading was four times the recommended exposure. LL sent out an installer to
remove a piece and I am awaiting the report back on that but expect it to be show the floor is the source of



https://seekingalpha.com/user/42631436

https://seekingalpha.com/user/42631436

https://seekingalpha.com/user/323646

https://seekingalpha.com/user/21171221
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 21/24


formaldehyde as I don't have gas in my home. If your interested in helping me get a case against LL I would be
interested in talking to you. I have medical problems around the install that we didn't realize we're probably related to
exposure. Now I need to remove this flooring and have it replaced and that's a big cost I don't feel I should have to
take on.


07 Oct 2015, 05:05 PM


User 316261
Maybe now the DOJ announcement is out we can choose to surmise more about the timing of this article?


07 Oct 2015, 05:37 PM


antjoh
Sounds like you are just looking for a payday just like Whitty there. Medical problems around the install?
please.


08 Oct 2015, 08:56 AM


jcb4008
Not ambulance chasing. I was invested in LL for over $30k and held thru the fall and thought Whitney was a
dirtbag sorta still do. We do have documented medical issues prior to the release of the 60 minutes story but
never did we think it was related to to flooring. Even long after the report we still didn't put it together but after
hours of research and timeline consideration we started to put the puzzle together and it is very real.


09 Oct 2015, 10:58 PM


turmantl
I have two friends who used LL to purchase their bamboo floors in NE Oklahoma several years ago. Both of their
floors remain fabulous. I don't own LL but this article seems a bit over the top. Maybe that's what hedge fund
managers do when they have large short positions; write snarky articles.


07 Oct 2015, 10:32 PM


Bob Saga
dude, it is called lumber liquidator. as the name suggests, ppl go there because they want to pay rock bottom price for
lowest quality. you think bad quality will stop this type of ppl?


08 Oct 2015, 03:02 AM


Bob Saga
whiney, you are up 88%, and you are going to risk it all just so you can make another 12% under the best case
scenario? i do not know and do not care about either you, LL, or floor b4 i bought the stock today. All i see is a
extremely smart manager who is blinded by his greed, and throw risk management and common sense out of the
window.


08 Oct 2015, 03:47 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/316261

https://seekingalpha.com/user/42631436

https://seekingalpha.com/user/21171221

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5713701

https://seekingalpha.com/user/42644366

https://seekingalpha.com/user/42644366
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 22/24


Who Dat?
Right or wrong, WT doesn't care. What matters most to him is that he's laughing all the way to the bank...!


15 Oct 2015, 12:40 PM


zorrow
I think the fine was unjustified. Lumber is not easily distingushable, like rhinocerous horn; ivory; or whale oil. An
American company has no way of affecting Chineses and Russian gang activity; much less gang activity in our own
country. In my opinion this whole attack was an anticapitalist conspiracy between a short seller; some radical
environmentalists; and disgruntled anonymous employees trying to cash in with a short seller; rather than contact
legitimate authorities with their story.


08 Oct 2015, 07:31 AM


EnerSavr, Contributor
The point is that the DOJ case is over and there are no $500 million fine nor did DOJ shut down LL as some short
sellers were scaring the average investors with.


It might be excessive but it is a hard lesson that I hope they learned.  
I have been behind LL since the beginning of the fiasco but the LL buyers should know something is fishy when they
get a great quality wood for a cheap price. There is no free lunch.


This is just the beginning of list of good news to come for LL IMO and stories such as the above will not have much
effect as facts will start to emerge.


08 Oct 2015, 09:17 PM


QNB
EnerSavr, 
>>I have been behind LL since the beginning of the fiasco but the LL buyers should know something is fishy when
they get a great quality wood for a cheap price. There is no free lunch.<<


Are you implying that LL's buyers didn't know they were buying ilegally sourced wood from the Russian Far East?
Because the EIA investigators traced the supply chains through China and their biggest trading partner was LL! I
mean even you can't be that naive.


>>This is just the beginning of list of good news to come for LL<<


Yeah...good news for LL because they got a slap on the wrist! I guess this good all American company makes you
feel proud to be an American. I mean they are the first major US corporation to be found guilty of a criminal felony for
smuggling wood and dealing with a Russian supplier that was convicted of organized crime! Yep....that's the sort of
company everyone should stand behind. But you are correct about one thing.....LL's "free lunch" is over!


09 Oct 2015, 12:59 AM


Bob Saga



https://seekingalpha.com/user/765344

https://seekingalpha.com/user/323646

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32251675

https://seekingalpha.com/user/42644366
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 23/24


if ll cuts down all commies' tree they will all die from the lack of oxygen. so ll works for cpt america after all.
lmao


09 Oct 2015, 12:04 PM


User 316261
I would accept that LL buyers were incompetent in establishing the provenance of the wood they bought in
line with the regulations.


Whether is reasonable to unload responsibility for policing this stuff onto a commercial retailer is a different
and rather bigger question.


The law effectively makes them a transnational law enforcement agency, which I personally take issue with.


I think the minimal fine probably reflects this dichotomy.


09 Oct 2015, 06:33 PM


Cassandra Veritas, Contributor
ANYONE CAN SUBSCRIBE TO ZEPOL IF THEY HAVE THE CASH, AND IF THEY DON'T THEY SHOULD
CONSIDER GETTING A LOAN DO IT AND HIRE SOMEONE WHO UNDERSTANDS THE VALUE OF IT.


THERE ARE 100s of shorts you would see...if you had the time. This is the most valuable piece of intel you
can buy....next to the up to the minute TRUE short (naked/legit) positions on various stocks.


25 Oct 2015, 07:10 PM


EnerSavr, Contributor
QNB, 
You have lot to learn. That is all I can say.


09 Oct 2015, 08:41 AM


QNB
EnerSavr, 
If I showed you the color black I'm sure you would come up with thousand reasons why everyone should see
it as white. I guess it's all in what you choose to see and believe and in your case manipulate the facts.


11 Oct 2015, 12:58 PM


zorrow
If Indonesians, Russians, Chinese, Brazilians, and Africans don't protect their environments; truth is, there is little the
US government can do about it. Forcing LL to determine the "family tree" of every tree processed into flooring in
China is ridiculous, even if it is the law. Even a slap on the wrist is too much. I doubt they willingly admitted guilt; they
were probably shown the instruments of financial"torture" and decided to "confess".


09 Oct 2015, 08:48 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/316261

https://seekingalpha.com/author/cassandra-veritas

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32251675

https://seekingalpha.com/user/323646
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 24/24


loubordman
Tilson's comments are made to benefit only himself. LL will work their way out..they have a viable business. 
'


09 Oct 2015, 11:49 AM


EnerSavr, Contributor
I think it is time to cover or risk losing a big chunk of the short. The CPSC decision is right around the corner and
there is no doubt in my mind in what direction it is going to go.


15 Oct 2015, 12:17 PM


Cassandra Veritas, Contributor
Whitney is right, but realize all the chicanery is not obvious to all, unless they have completed their homework. I trust
Whitney is sleeping quite well.


22 Oct 2015, 03:25 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/31090845

https://seekingalpha.com/author/enersavr

https://seekingalpha.com/author/cassandra-veritas
