5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 1/36


Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception
Mar. 10, 2015 7:45 PM ET115 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


For most customers and investors, it really boils down to a simple question of
credibility: whom are you going to believe?


One might not agree with my analysis or conclusions, but know that my beliefs are
genuinely held.


My short position simply reflects my best assessment of the many possible
outcomes and the probabilities I assign to each.


In what appears to be a desperate attempt to distract customers, employees, investors,
regulators and the media from the charge that it may have been poisoning its customers
with dangerous levels of formaldehyde (which, if proven, I believe could eventually lead to
the company filing for bankruptcy), Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) is pulling out all the
stops. On a new web page the company created, it declares unequivocally that "all of our
products are 100% safe" and smears its critics (like me) as "a small group of short-selling
investors who are working together for the sole purpose of making money by lowering our
stock price." Management will no doubt repeat these points on its conference call
scheduled for Thursday morning.


I believe that both of Lumber Liquidators' assertions are false for reasons I will detail in a
moment. But before doing so, allow me to share some thoughts about credibility, because
in many ways that's what this battle is about. Most people don't have the time, money or
expertise to test the company's products themselves, weigh the competing arguments
about testing methodologies, evaluate how dangerous formaldehyde is, how many
Lumber Liquidators customers and installers were exposed to how much of it, what harm
might it have caused them, etc.


So for most customers and investors, it really boils down to a simple question of credibility:
whom are you going to believe? 60 Minutes, one of the most long-standing and respected
news programs in the world, whose lawyers no doubt went through every word of the
segment with a fine-toothed comb before it aired, or a company with every reason to lie, a
terrible reputation (see here, here, here, here and here), and Chinese sourcing questions



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations/

http://www.consumeraffairs.com/homeowners/lumber_liquidators.html

http://mythreecents.com/reviews/lumber-liquidators

http://lumber-liquidators.pissedconsumer.com/

http://www.resellerratings.com/store/Lumber_Liquidators

http://www.glassdoor.com/Overview/Working-at-Lumber-Liquidators-EI_IE38603.11,29.htm
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 2/36


hanging over it that are so credible that Federal agents raided its headquarters in
September 2013, which (as the company recently disclosed in its 10-K) could result in
criminal charges?


The question sort of answers itself, doesn't it?


An Improper Test Method?


Lumber Liquidators claims that "60 Minutes used an improper test method in its reporting
that is not included in California's regulations and does not measure a product according
to how it is actually used by consumers." To support this statement and demonstrate how
safe the company's laminate is, the new web page has two impressive-looking charts. The
first shows the results from tests of the fiberboard cores before they are processed to
produce laminate flooring and concludes that "test results over the last three years fall well
below the accepted California standard for fiberboard (MDF) cores." The second tests the
"products that have fiberboard cores in their finished state (i.e., laminate flooring), which is
how our products are sold and used in our customers' homes." The company goes on to
state that, "These tests also fall well below the California standard for fiberboard (MDF)
cores."


Before I dive into the weeds on this issue (which is in reality quite simple, though the
company is furiously trying to muddy the waters), just apply common sense and ask
yourself this simple question: if 60 Minutes' testing (all of which is posted here) was
improper, why did the same testing methodology and labs that found that 30 out of 31
samples of Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate had formaldehyde levels
averaging 6-7 times the CARB 2 (California Air Resources Board) limit also show
formaldehyde levels below the CARB 2 limit for every sample of laminate flooring from
Home Depot, Lowe's and even Lumber Liquidators' own flooring sourced from U.S. mills?


Again, the question answers itself.


If you're interested in the details of exactly why Lumber Liquidators' claim that 60 Minutes
(and others') testing is "improper" is wrong - it's their testing that's questionable and/or
improper - I suggest reading my article, Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't
Comply With CARB, and this one: GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our
Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study.


Then why, you might ask, do the two charts on Lumber Liquidators' new web page show
that its products are, in fact, CARB 2-compliant? The answer is different for each chart.


Test 1



http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/more-on-tests-used-to-investigate-lumber-liquidators/

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study

http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 3/36


Let's first examine the one on the left, reproduced here:


This chart shows the results of tests of the medium-density fiberboard (MDF), which is the
core of laminate flooring.


Before discussing the test results, allow me to give a little background on MDF. According
to Wikipedia, it is:


"an engineered wood product made by breaking down hardwood or softwood
residuals into wood fibers, often in a defibrator, combining it with wax and a resin
binder, and forming panels by applying high temperature and pressure…


…Formaldehyde resins are commonly used to bind together the fibers in MDF, and
testing has consistently revealed that MDF products emit free formaldehyde and
other volatile organic compounds that pose health risks at concentrations considered
unsafe, for at least several months after manufacture."



http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medium-density_fibreboard

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/12/8/saupload_saupload_witney1.png
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 4/36


In light of the formaldehyde risk, it's critical to test the MDF to make sure levels are below
acceptable limits, which, as shown in the chart above, CARB has set at 0.11 and 0.13
ppm for MDF Core and Thin-MDF Core, respectively.


My quarrel with this chart isn't the testing methodology, but rather I don't believe the
results shown. Why? Because based on my conversations with a number of experts, I
don't think it's possible for formaldehyde levels of the finished product that 60 Minutes,
Drury and I all independently tested to be as high as they were - 6-7 times CARB 2 limits -
if the MDF cores had low levels of formaldehyde. Thus, I can only conclude that the test
results must be bogus.


If so, I can only speculate how the tests have been rigged. One way would be for the
Chinese laminate mill to buy a small amount of safe MDF to give to the labs, while actually
producing the laminate with tainted, cheaper MDF. Another way, as told to me by an
industry insider with first-hand knowledge of many mills that Lumber Liquidators buys
from, is to use corrupt and/or conflicted inspectors:


"What even LL does not know is their own QC (quality control) inspector is paid a
commission by the factories. This inspector knows there's no way to make CARB2
compliant product at the prices LL demands, especially after he takes his cut of the price."


I have no way to verify this statement, but: a) I believe the person is credible; and b) It's
consistent with what I know about China - namely, that creating phony documents is very
common.


Test 2


Here's the other chart that Lumber Liquidators shows on its new web page:



http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 5/36


This chart shows the results of tests done in the United States of finished laminate
flooring. I have identified two problems with it:


1) CARB doesn't require testing of finished laminate at all (only the initial MDF), but if it's
done, it specifies clearly how to do it - and Lumber Liquidators is doing it wrong, as I
discussed in my article last week, Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply
With CARB:


I, 60 Minutes and others used the correct CARB testing protocols, and it's LL that's using
its own made-up tests. It's a complex story, but briefly, the generally accepted and used
test is to sand off the outer layer of the laminate and then test it. This allows for an
accurate reading of the formaldehyde that's embedded in the product. LL, in contrast,
tests the laminate without sanding it, which is, in fact, how the product "is actually used."
But:


a) CARB, scientists, etc. all do it the other way; they could do it LL's way, but then
they'd set a much lower exposure/detection threshold - pick your poison (pun intended)
but it's incumbent upon LL to do the tests the way the regulators do or the results are



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/12/8/saupload_saupload_witney2.png
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 6/36


meaningless (as are the claims LL makes that their products are all CARB 2 compliant,
blah, blah, blah; in short, you can't do the tests a different way than CARB - which
minimizes the amount of formaldehyde detected - and then proclaim that your flooring
complies with CARB standards); and
b) just because the formaldehyde is somewhat "sealed" into the laminated wood by the
outer layer doesn't mean LL's customers aren't being poisoned - it just means that the
formaldehyde leaks out slowly over a long time, along the edges, as the floor wears,
etc.


Since I published this article, Lumber Liquidators has posted the following statement:


60 Minutes used a "deconstructive test," which would be like testing the emissions of
a car by removing the catalytic converter and muffler.


This is a spurious analogy. A correct one would be if the emissions standard for cars was
set by regulators based on a test in which the catalytic converter and muffler were
removed, and then a company rigged the test by not removing them - and then (falsely)
reported that its cars met the standard.


For more color on this, I spoke with Kip Howlett, the President of HPVA, which operates
HPVA Laboratories, a CARB-certified lab that I hired to test samples of Lumber
Liquidators' laminate. When I asked him about the charts the company posted on its web
site, he first pointed out that the number of tests the company has done over the past 18
months "is laughable - so few samples for such a huge volume of products."


When I asked about Lumber Liquidators' assertion that his lab, by removing the outer
layer of the laminate, was doing the test improperly, he replied:
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 7/36


CARB has an SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) where you take the surface
layer off to test the formaldehyde level in the core. So when you have five labs follow
the SOP and remove the surface layer - and all show levels of formaldehyde higher
than the CARB 2 standard, you have a problem. And when it's 1,000% higher, you
have a big problem!


When you have five labs all doing it the same way and getting the same results, it
isn't about the test method. The company either didn't understand the SOP, or did
understand it and did a work-around. They're either stupid or they're lying - which is
it?


Another problem they have is that if you stamp the box CARB compliant, you had
damn well better be CARB compliant.


It's telling that the American-made laminate was all compliant, but every sample from
China wasn't. The Chinese producers are completely and totally unfairly competing
with American and Canadian companies who abide by the law and produce safe
laminate.


I can't say it any better than this.


2) Lumber Liquidators claims that its tests "measure a product according to how it is
actually used by consumers." Again, this is highly misleading and deceptive because its
tests only measure the formaldehyde that's present in the test chamber, not what people
are actually exposed to in a home, school or workplace.


To determine the latter, one must follow rigorous protocols established by the California
Department of Public Health ((CDPH), including making assumptions that are widely
accepted and scientifically based regarding various factors such as how much
formaldehyde is seeping through the veneer of the laminate, the ventilation in the home,
school or workplace, etc. Such testing is expensive, but obviously necessary - yet Lumber
Liquidators didn't do it. Why? Maybe they're just cheapskates - but I would also bet it's
because this more rigorous methodology would have shown troubling levels of
formaldehyde in a true real-world setting.


Unlike Lumber Liquidators, 60 Minutes did the full CDPH testing, not once but twice
(again, all of its results are posted here), and presented the results to Dr. Philip Landrigan
during the segment:



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/more-on-tests-used-to-investigate-lumber-liquidators/

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 8/36


Dr. Philip Landrigan: It's not a safe level, it's a level that the US EPA calls polluted
indoor conditions.


Anderson Cooper: Would you want that in your home?


Dr. Philip Landrigan: No.


Dr. Philip Landrigan of N.Y.'s Mt. Sinai Hospital, specializes in environmental
pediatrics and exposure to toxic chemicals. He's talking about the results of another
kind of test Drury and Larson conducted measuring the concentration of
formaldehyde emissions coming off the laminates into the air of a typical home.


Dr. Philip Landrigan: I would say long-term exposure at that level would be risky
because it would increase the risk for chronic respiratory irritation, change in a
person's lung function, increased risk of asthma. It's not going to produce symptoms
in everyone but children will be the people most likely to show symptoms at that sort
of level.


In light of these frightening risks, especially to children, it's little wonder why Lumber
Liquidators didn't do the proper tests to determine its customers' actual exposure to
formaldehyde.


A Short-and-Distort Campaign?


Lastly, Lumber Liquidators writes:


These attacks are driven by a small group of short-selling investors who are working
together for the sole purpose of making money by lowering our stock price. They are
using any means to try and scare our customers with inaccurate allegations. Their
motives and methods are wrong and we will fight these false attacks on all fronts.


It's almost not worth responding to the usual trope about we're-the-victim-of-a-conspiracy-
of-nefarious-self-serving-short-sellers, but a few points are in order.


I've spent my entire life building a good reputation. Of course I have an interest in making
money - that's my job - but the idea that I would destroy my reputation by inventing a story
to smear an innocent company to benefit a ~3-4% position in my portfolio is beyond
absurd. One might not agree with my analysis or conclusions, but know that my beliefs are
genuinely held.
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 9/36


I believe that Lumber Liquidators' stock remains significantly overvalued, even though it
has fallen ~70% from when I first shorted it above $100 (and, shortly thereafter, shared my
analysis with the public). In fact, I think there's a not-immaterial chance that the company
eventually collapses into bankruptcy amidst a wave of lawsuits and the stock goes to zero.
And even if it doesn't, I think it has meaningful downside from here, as I explained in my
article last week, Why I Significantly Increased My Lumber Liquidators Short Position In
The Last Two Days. My short position simply reflects my best assessment of the many
possible outcomes and the probabilities I assign to each.


Regarding the conspiracy-of-short-sellers charge, I'm certainly not aware of one. While
I've of course discussed my research and analysis with numerous people over time, I
reached my conclusions and have acted independently. What I suspect is really going on
is that Lumber Liquidators' misdeeds are so broad, deep and long-standing that, over
time, numerous people were able to figure out at least pieces of what the company was
doing.


Rather than having a conflict of interest, I believe I have a confluence of interest: in
speaking out, I am both doing my job and also serving the public interest by warning
others about the possible dangers posed by certain Lumber Liquidators' products.


I find it quite ironic that the company is accusing me of distorting the truth for my own
financial gain when it is, in fact, the senior executives of the company who have far
greater incentives to do so than I. This is one of two dozen positions in my fund (only six
of which are shorts), so it's not going to make or break me one way or another. In contrast,
the outcome of this battle means everything to founder and Chairman Tom Sullivan and
CEO Robert Lynch, both reputationally and financially. Sullivan currently owns 608,998
shares - still worth a pretty penny - and both were heavy sellers in mid-2013, after the
stock had soared, pocketing $26.7 million and $10.6 million, respectively.


This $37 million jackpot helps answer the question I'm often asked: "Why would the senior
management of Lumber Liquidators knowingly (or at least willfully ignorantly) sell toxic
products when, if discovered, it could destroy their reputations - and the company?" This
question could, in fact, be asked of all sorts of bad behavior and the answer is generally
the same: the short-term rewards are wonderful/profitable and immediate, and the long-
term costs, even if much greater, are deferred and uncertain (after all, nobody ever
expects to be caught).



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LL.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2980746-why-i-significantly-increased-my-lumber-liquidators-short-position-in-the-last-two-days
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 10/36


Comments (115)


(Editor's Note: Following a discussion with a former senior executive at Lumber
Liquidators, the author has removed this section, based on information provided to him
that changed his view of Mr. Cotton's role.)


Conclusion


I think management knows that they and their company are in very deep trouble, which is
why they, not their critics, are engaged in a campaign of distraction and deception to
further their own self-interest. Don't be fooled!


Disclosure: The author is short LL.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article


Equitable Research, Contributor
I think this is overdone now.


10 Mar 2015, 08:25 PM


TAS
I use Lumber Liquidator's laminate products in all of my Section 8 HUD rentals. Maybe the claims of toxicity
will drive my tenants out of the house to find a job :)


All effective humor contains an element of truth.


10 Mar 2015, 10:07 PM


ztff2
Agreed - overdone to almost comic proportions - not buying the story line here. Motivations are very much in
question


10 Mar 2015, 11:07 PM


The Specialist, Contributor
Fantastic piece. Again.


10 Mar 2015, 08:41 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/equitable-research

https://seekingalpha.com/user/354657

https://seekingalpha.com/user/16908092

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-specialist
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 11/36


bdy
dancing diva,  
Doesn't almost everyone who post on SA have an bias or agenda? I much prefer someone who puts their money
where their mouth is. When I read an written by someone with no position in the underlying then anything they write
loses value. Would you prefer to read all articles and recommendations from someone who has no skin in the game?


10 Mar 2015, 08:45 PM


dancing diva
Many on SA use the forum to teach or instruct. Rarely does one see someone of Tilsons' stature write a
bearish article seemingly every time the stock has an up day.


Note I wrote a similar comment to his last article but erased it before publishing it. I'm just fed up.


10 Mar 2015, 08:53 PM


dancing diva
Amazing, but my original comment - that several liked - was eliminated - I assume by the staff of SA. I wonder
why?


10 Mar 2015, 09:30 PM


crushedbyoil
I'm slightly long LL, as of today; but I appreciate Mr. Tilson's articles.


If someone believes Tilson is wrong, he should submit a counter article. That would be enjoyable - and likely edifying
for me.


10 Mar 2015, 08:51 PM


DoowopDave
I stopped reading after just a few paragraphs. I don't care about your tests or the company's tests. I want to see
unbiased, independent testing done by a reputable testing agency. I'd like them to pull samples from several stores @
random. Let's see the results. Someone is going to get sued. It might be LL, but it might not. Either way, it will be for
big bucks. Mr. Tilson and 60 minutes reputation & money are at risk, just as is LL.


10 Mar 2015, 08:54 PM


The Specialist, Contributor
DoowopDave,


You really should read it to the end. It's truly a fantastic piece.


10 Mar 2015, 09:14 PM


Tactical Technician



https://seekingalpha.com/user/940092

https://seekingalpha.com/user/20369

https://seekingalpha.com/user/20369

https://seekingalpha.com/user/25508633

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11171741

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-specialist

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12404911
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 12/36


If you want tests, look at a chart. Usually, they lead in the right direction. Follow the money.


10 Mar 2015, 09:14 PM


Tradestoxx
As far as I'm concerned I've seen all the numbers I need to see. Wikipedia describes an expert panel as
saying 1.0PPM is safe even from watery eyes (the first sign of problems as its the most sensitive) in up to
95% of people. Using Mr Tilsons + 60 Minutes OWN data one arrives at about .70PPM on average for their
tests. And so..that in itself is well under even the 1.0PPM. But..one then has to look at how they arrived at
their data which was by DECONSTRUCTING the panels. Removing the laminate and getting down to the
glued particle board. Doing that lets a LOT of trapped vapors escape and would dramatically RAISE the
numbers from real world testing. And so...in reality...Mr Tilson's numbers based on REAL WORLD usage
would probably be 1/10th what wiki says is a starting point for problems.  
In other words...there is no problem at all with those finished Chinese panels because no one is using them in
the manner in which Mr Tilson + 60 mins conducted their tests. 
This isn't just my random opinion. It explains why CARB THEMSELVES is now out with a document simply
saying..let these things air out. 
Open a window. turn on a fan. It's what we as consumers should do with ALL newly installed major products
like that. Ever paint a room and have it smell pretty strong? Put in new carpet? It's all the same.


I'm long the stock...but I have to tell you this. In a heartbeat I'd install those Chinese panels. At 79c Sq foot
they are a real value. And they are safe.


10 Mar 2015, 10:05 PM


Tactical Technician
Google carpet sickness/fever. Give me wood. However, something definitely awry, here. Big business or bad
business? All i know is new carpet is toxic. I don't know about LL, all I know is the carpet industry makes me
sick (health wise).


10 Mar 2015, 11:20 PM


FrankArabia
how did Ray Cotton get in the oscars red carpet? he is just some executive at a small company. Seriously, why would
he even care for those celebrities?


10 Mar 2015, 09:00 PM


User 720731
Maybe Mr. Cotton was a seat holder at the Oscars.


10 Mar 2015, 11:25 PM


Sam's Picks, Contributor
Perhaps LL provides the flooring?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1037402

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12404911

https://seekingalpha.com/user/4119491

https://seekingalpha.com/user/720731

https://seekingalpha.com/author/sams-picks
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 13/36


11 Mar 2015, 02:07 AM


Bobstert
Judging from his resume, he was probably working security. LOL.


12 Mar 2015, 10:59 PM


larger20
I added small position Long LL today....as I felt this is over done....now.....Going to be holding it for a while..


10 Mar 2015, 09:04 PM


Tactical Technician
Jim Rome thanks you.


10 Mar 2015, 11:29 PM


Barry Robbins, Contributor
I added a long position on Tues. Wasn't an investor either way before that. I feel this whole story is a Whitney
Tilson concoction. Show me the people who are getting sick because of their flooring? Where is the actual
injured party? Are there widespread complaints from people the bought or installed LL flooring? Where is the
real world proof? To me, this is one of the most obvious BUYs I have ever seen.


11 Mar 2015, 07:36 AM


Nubevestor
I think that's the catch from an investing standpoint. If the product doesn't comply, it doesn't comply
regardless of who does or does not get sick. As a result, LL is in for some legal troubles. Perhaps it's just a
fine from the state of CA or perhaps some group of lawyers find people to claim they got sick from the
flooring. The latter could be terminal to LL, the former, not so much and LL might well be viable as a going
concern and the current share price might prove a good place to be long from.


11 Mar 2015, 09:46 AM


John Naccarelli, Contributor
I read the article completely and read the comments up to this one. Nubevestor has it right... remember
perception is reality. The legal issues, lawsuits, etc., whether valid or not, could simply kill LL financially over
time. We are the most litigious country with too many lawyers, and many unscrupulous ones at that, willing to
come up with the necessary fictitious BS from 'impacted' consumers with health issues. Believe me, it's
coming and it's only a matter of time starting in CA.


From an investor standpoint, how about this idea - a straddle - buy a call and put out a few months or so.
Either the author is right and LL plummets further or he is wrong and there is a sharp recovery. It doesn't
matter what happens as long as LL moves substantially one way or the other.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/15585232

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12618491

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12404911

https://seekingalpha.com/author/barry-robbins

https://seekingalpha.com/user/32609675

https://seekingalpha.com/author/john-naccarelli
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 14/36


And like the author with full disclosure, that's what I am going to do. Maybe I'll write an article to report the
outcome :-)


11 Mar 2015, 01:04 PM


Jeff Boyd, Contributor
I tend to believe LL is selling laminates with excessive formaldehyde and they have a problem. Still, it would be nice if
the article (or anyone for that matter) would address:


a) Who gives a rip what the State of California says? I own a car that has a sticker talking about how it is so low in
emissions and isn't that great. I really don't care to be honest, I bought it because it met my needs and struck me as a
good value. If LL products are basically safe and cheaper than the competition I'd buy them anyway.


b) Did Mr. Tilson do any checking of products from other companies such as Home Depot? If everyone is violating the
rules it isn't like I can go across the street and buy a different product.


c) How significant to LL's sales are the laminates?


d) Understand that there are no standards violations outside of California. Does this mean they have no legal
exposure beyond nuisance suits outside of California? I get the mis-labeling issue, that is an issue but I can't say I
remember hearing about a company with a safe product that works with a mis-labeling issue getting into serious
financial difficulty.


e) What are the penalties for violations of CARB rules in California? I know I'm not worried about the Lacy rule
problems beyond some fairly minor penalties and I'm not sure why the CARB rules are a problem.


f) Seems like I read that the formaldehyde isn't a problem for the laminates on a long-term basis. As in, after six
months it is gone. Is this true?


I'm not saying it is a non-issue but do you have to replace the boards or is it simply a matter of paying homeowners
for the .0001% chance they get cancer? Hate to be so rude but there are dangers all over the place, we live with
danger, sell dangerous products such as cars and we do not put companies into bankruptcy because they make
honest mistakes. They pay a penalty of some kind or the courts assess damages. Mr. Tilson isn't addressing the
damages at all.


g) Isn't formaldehyde all over the place when new construction takes place? As in, what about the cabinets and the
paint, etc. New homes tend to smell bad but it clears out and I'm not convinced LL is the sole reason those new
homes have formaldehyde.


The shares aren't cheap enough for me. I'm not an owner and I'm not going to run out and buy shares tomorrow but if
someone knows the answer to any of the above questions, I'd love to hear their take on them.


10 Mar 2015, 09:11 PM


The Specialist, Contributor
Jeff Boyd answers:


a) The FTC for starters would probably care if LL is bragging about something that is false. 
b) Home Depot, Lowes, etc. were all tested as well and passed with flying colors. Try reading the article. 



https://seekingalpha.com/author/jeff-boyd

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-specialist
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 15/36


c) Over 20%. 
d) LL is under CARB in all 50 states because of the label. If somebody claims they got sick in Maine who
thought they were buying a CARB-compliant product then they have a case. 
e) Penalty = brand destruction and sales plunge for all products. Watch. 
f) No idea. 
g) Even if so, that doesn't make it right. Or legal.


10 Mar 2015, 09:20 PM


The Specialist, Contributor
Jeff Boyd answers:


a) The FTC for starters would probably care if LL is bragging about something that is false. 
b) Home Depot, Lowes, etc. were all tested as well and passed with flying colors. Try reading the article. 
c) Over 20%. 
d) LL is under CARB in all 50 states because of the label. If somebody claims they got sick in Maine who
thought they were buying a CARB-compliant product then they have a case. 
e) Penalty = brand destruction and sales plunge for all products. Watch. 
f) No idea. 
g) Even if so, that doesn't make it right. Or legal.


10 Mar 2015, 09:20 PM


Jeff Boyd, Contributor
Large companies are perpetually under investigation and being sued. You have to look at what potential
damages are. You really didn't address that and that is what my questions are driving at.


I agree that there is a good chance sales decrease by a material amount and that there might be an inventory
write-down. Those aren't good things but they have an extremely strong balance sheet and it is just a matter
of numbers. Unlikely that this is a moral issue, it is a product liability issue.


10 Mar 2015, 09:48 PM


NTI investor
CARB is “the only currently active formaldehyde emission regulatory agency in the U.S.” specializing “in
products like wood flooring,” as it appears 49 states and the federal government, including the Environmental
Protection Agency, do not have any regulation that applies to this issue, Citron says.


“CARB clearly states that it does not recommend removing non-compliant flooring products,” Citron says, if
there are no health reactions. It also doesn’t appear to date that CARB has advised customers to rip out their
wood flooring.


“They have not even ordered Lumber Liquidators China import product off the shelves in California,” Citron
says. “If in fact the company was ‘poisoning’ people, as some investors would have you believe, than at the
least CARB would immediately halt all sales of non-compliant product.”



https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-specialist

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jeff-boyd

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9964581
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 16/36


Lumber Liquidators’ laminate products amount to about a little more than a fifth of its overall sales, Citron
estimates. But a fraction of those sales, less than 2.5%, are made in California.


Citron Research is closely followed by Wall Street short sellers.


10 Mar 2015, 10:30 PM


Microcap Growth Investor, Contributor
Agreed. I think Citron is correct here...


http://bit.ly/1Mqf3IO


10 Mar 2015, 11:16 PM


Tradestoxx
Mr Tilson, Let's first start with this. CARB doesn't agree with you and has said don't remove the floorboards and has
basically reduced your issue to just open a window, turn on a fan or let the boards air out in a garage before installing. 
http://bit.ly/1wJZEBi


That is a FAR cry from you and your 60 minutes friends calling for boards all across America to be ripped out and
your overall portrayal of this issue. 
And so, readers can first decide for themselves as to whom to believe. The California Air resource board with no short
interest in the stock, no financial gain to be had or lost, and who is without a doubt among the STRICTEST judge of
issues like this with their VERY restrictive levels and testing methodologies.... 
or...to believe you. With your short interest. Your financial gain. Your repeated cries now about how everyone should
believe you because of your honesty...but yet....the back drop of how you chose to approach this issue. 
You apparently didn't go to carb with this issue out of any consumer concerns. 
You went to 60 mins...along with attorneys and representatives who drastically over portrayed this issue. Everything
about you and your behavior in my view was centered around the stock gain apparently. And again...Carb totally
disagrees with you. As does Citron apparently out today. And blackrock apparently having increased their positions.
And so......? you might now be spinning in the wind trying to convince yourself. Because you surely haven't convinced
me or them apparently.


Mr Tilson...let me explain to you my personal viewpoint on this. First, I'm not connected with the company in any way.
Not employed by them and only recently going long the stock for a small position around the current levels.  
But along with this I started to do a lot of research. And in doing so, I understand EXACTLY why Carb isn't expressing
the same concerns you profess to have. 
Let's start with Wikipedia. They characterize an expert panel as saying that up to 1.0 PPM (parts per million) as being
safe even for 75-95% of people....EVEN FROM HAVING WATERY EYE symptoms. Which is described as being the
most SENSITIVE part of the body to exposure such as this. 1.0 PPM. 
Now..let's take YOUR numbers. And 60 minutes numbers. You have presented the numbers to be on average 6 to 7
TIMES The Carb limits. Carb limits are .11PPM. And so...using YOUR numbers...we're talking about .70PPM?


Now...using YOUR NUMBERS....lets look at that testing. 
It is based on DECONSTRUCTED testing. As you describe..taking OFF the laminate. Sanding DOWN THE TOP
LAYERS. And letting the trapped vapors escape into the air. And THEN...testing it. And In doing that....In presenting



https://seekingalpha.com/author/microcap-growth-investor

http://bit.ly/1Mqf3IO

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1037402

http://bit.ly/1wJZEBi
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 17/36


this to consumers in that way...you can't even arrive at barely over half what Wikipedia describes as even STARTING
levels for even just watery eyes. 
This is why Lumber liquidators disagrees with you. This is why CARB disagrees with you. Because when you add
BACK those layers you sanded down...when you RECONSTRUCT the panels to be in a finished form....you are
probably back at ...1/10th the wiki #'s? 1/20th? You are back...to there being..NO ISSUE AT ALL. Which of course is
why CARB is saying...just open a window. 
Just turn on a fan. Just do what we consumers do with ALL newly installed products like carpet...cabinets..paint a
room....just let it air out a little bit.


Mr Tilson..I'm not here to judge your honestly. But honestly? I fail to see how you can't see this. You say that Lumber
liquidators shouldn't be judging the finished product but in my view..that's really all they should be judging. Because
that is what we as consumers use the product for. I don't know about you but I don't have family over for thanksgiving
and have them rest their feet on my newly sanded down laminate flooring. Do you?


Mr Tilson, there's also more involved here. In your interviews you seem to want to mix things up as being the
MANUFACTURERS responsibility vs Lumber Liquidators. The 60 mins interview..going into a china factory. That
person (supposedly) saying no..it's not carb compliant. That wasn't lumber liquidators Mr Tilson. That was them.
Lumber liquidators is a retailer. Their legal requirements are VERY different. They are not making this product. They
conduct random testing on it. I've reviewed California laws and it appears to me that Lumber liquidators is complying
with every single one of them with key points being using 3rd party CERTIFIED CARB testers. It is those tests that LL
has on their website. 
LL also has apparently their own in house testing that again..to them..says the product is safe. And in my view..using
YOUR OWN NUMBERs....they are absolutely correct. Because it's a huge difference between what you are doing
with deconstructed testing versus how a product is used.


Mr Tilson..let me ask you this. Would you test the safety of a battery by dumping the acid out and pouring it on
yourself? No...you don't deconstruct a battery...any more than someone would deconstruct a floor panel.


Again..the main point I want to leave here is this. Wiki. 1.0 PPM. Watery eyes...not even in 95% of people. YOUR
TESTS..characterized as 6 to 7 times the carb limits....... .70PPM... DECONSTRUCTED. 
reconstruct that number and again..we're probably talking about 1/10th the watery eye syndrome. Right?


And you think that this should bankrupt this American company? You think that floor boards should be ripped out
because of that? 
If you really believe that....you are very mistaken.


Carb doesn't buy your argument. The numbers don't add up.  
What does add up is your short position.


I also think that you and 60 minutes have actually harmed consumers...and even helped lumber liquidators. 
Those boards are safe Mr Tilson. At 70c Sq. foot they are a great value in my view. I'd install them myself after doing
all my DD on them. But what YOU and 60 Minutes have done is to scare people. Now what will some do...go into LL
and buy the 3.99 sq foot ones instead? 
Which brings me to how LL might now BENEFIT from what you have done. 
Do they make more at 79c sq. Foot..or 3.99? 
Starting to see the point..Mr Tilson? How this very well may be IMPROVING LL's business instead?
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 18/36


Good luck to you Mr tilson. PERSONALLLY..I'd be covering. :)


Oh..and by the way..do I think some boards aren't carb compliant? Of course. 
Nothing is perfect. Everyone makes honest mistakes Mr Tilson. 
But those mistakes weren't made by LL. And those mistakes aren't harming anyone In my view.


Have a nice night. :)


CARB notice.. http://bit.ly/1wJZEBi


Wiki... " In fact, the expert panel found that a level of 1.0 ppm would avoid eye irritation—the most sensitive endpoint
—in 75–95% of all people exposed.[64]" 
http://bit.ly/GXfFrE


10 Mar 2015, 09:13 PM


biffster7199
I have no "horse in this race" but where exactly has CARB issued a statement SPECIFICALLY refuting what
the author/60 Minutes etc. have said SPECIFICALLY regarding LL flooring ? The links in your reply are
merely to CARB produced "information bulletins " NOT STATEMENTS regarding the LL situation. 
"Carb doesn't buy your argument" where exactly have they said that? Without commenting on the veracity of
the author's statements/claims I find it ironic that you seem to be misrepresenting what CARB has said/not
said.


10 Mar 2015, 09:50 PM


The Specialist, Contributor
Might want to read your own link more carefully.


CARB staff conducts inspections where composite wood products and finished goods are sold to 
the public in California. We check for proper labels, invoices or bills of lading, and may purchase 
composite wood panels or finished goods for further testing to ensure compliance with the 
emission standards. CARB has several investigations pending that include all aspects of the 
composite wood industry, including finished products. Any resulting enforcement actions will 
be made public upon the successful resolution of each case.


10 Mar 2015, 10:36 PM


Fair Value, Contributor
I think you're missing the point. The fact that you'd install these panels in your house doesn't matter. It's illegal
for LL to sell them.


10 Mar 2015, 10:55 PM


NTI investor
Tradestoxx, you should submit this as an article yourself. Very well written and to the point about this whole
matter. Thank you.



http://bit.ly/1wJZEBi

http://bit.ly/GXfFrE

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7212811

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-specialist

https://seekingalpha.com/author/fair-value

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9964581
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 19/36


10 Mar 2015, 11:05 PM


Tradestoxx
I don't have to read anything more carefully. You might want to review your short position more carefully
however because if you think that with wiki at 1.0PPM even as a starting point for problems and Tilson/60
mins testing averaging out at just only over HALF that number and THEIR number being based on
Deconstructed testing then frankly...I think any 5th grade math student could tell you that there is no issue
here.  
Sealed panels would then emit VERY little of that .70PPM that Mr Tilson and 60 mins claim is their
deconstructed test results and we would likely be talking about 1/10th of the 1.0PPM that Wiki cites experts
as saying would be a starting point ONLY for even watery eyes.


Mr Tilson, Shorts..and 60 minutes aren't even close on this one.


But hey..good luck with that short. I'd certainly be covering it however if it were me.


11 Mar 2015, 07:30 AM


Tradestoxx
Like Citron said in their research report certainly CARB has known about this issue for some time and clearly
if they felt there was some health crisis then they would have ordered the panels removed themselves.


Instead..what you see now from them is an information bulletin saying generally speaking one wouldn't
remove boards unless there was a noticeable problem and offering their suggestion for what would be
common sense anyway with any new installations like this of properly ventilating the area.


In any event...CLEARLY..using Tilson/60 mins own numbers there's no issue here. Not when those numbers
were arrived at by UNSEALING the panels...REMOVING the laminate...letting the VAPORS flow out..and
THEN testing it.


And then they STILL CAN BARELY GET TO ONLY JUST OVER HALF what wiki cited an expert panel as
sayng is the STARTING point for ONLY Watery eyes.


As for you having no horse in this race...who knows? 
But if it's not the case and it's a short horse then I don't think that things are looking good for your case.


But good luck anyway. :)


11 Mar 2015, 07:36 AM


Tradestoxx
BTW...to the poster above who said this "I have no "horse in this race" but where exactly has CARB issued a
statement SPECIFICALLY refuting what the author/60 Minutes etc. have said SPECIFICALLY regarding LL
flooring ?"


The Carb document above was released by them IN RESPONSE to the 60 mins piece on LL. It was not just
some general guidelines found on their website. While they didn't name LL by name the fact that this



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1037402

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1037402

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1037402
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 20/36


response came from them directly in response to the 60 mins story I think clearly demonstrates what they
were directing their response towards.


11 Mar 2015, 08:16 AM


Nubevestor
What wiki says is safe, doesn't mean a thing. Whether or not the product meets the standards that LL claims
it to is what matter.


Quick question, if someone edited wiki a couple weeks ago to say .5 was problematic, would you still be
defending the product based on what wiki says? Would you know the number listed on wiki is accurate or
not?


11 Mar 2015, 09:53 AM


2020 Hindsight
How is it illegal for LL to sell them? If their proven to be non-compliant in California, what does that matter to
other states where the product is sold?


11 Mar 2015, 12:02 PM


krug
One should also access the CARB link at the bottom of the CARB notice on composite wood products. 
http://bit.ly/1KZ6A3S 
According to this formaldehyde is a known carcinogen for which no safe levels for humans has been
established as yet. The eye watering at 1.0 ppm that Jim Boyd refers to is an acute effect. Long term, chronic
exposures may possibly be harmful at lower levels. 
The web page also has a search feature. Enter lumber liquidators and you will find some interesting reads. I
like the one commentators put/call straddle idea. This stock is likely to go strongly one way or the other.


11 Mar 2015, 08:19 PM


biffster7199
Really? Here's a link to CARB's "news releases" where do you see one that show this or any other bulletin
being released IN RESPONSE TO THIS STORY?


http://bit.ly/1B6Drsn


Here's a link to a "fact sheet" from their website however:


http://bit.ly/1B6DsMR


Finally, I PERSONALLY, feel that a lot of CARB's regs are "overkill" to say the least, but that is not the issue
here. Given the number of vitriolic responses to various posters on this "issue" I have to wonder what your
"connection" to the issue is? Do you own LL stock? I don't; never have and never will. Do you work for the
company or know sopmeone who does? I don't, I'm just commenting on an issue of interest to me as an
investor and reader of seeking alpha and "NO" I am not "short" the stock or "long" puts on the stock either.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/32609675

https://seekingalpha.com/user/469296

https://seekingalpha.com/user/185230

http://bit.ly/1KZ6A3S

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7212811

http://bit.ly/1B6Drsn

http://bit.ly/1B6DsMR
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 21/36


11 Mar 2015, 11:23 PM


loufah
"CARB doesn't agree with you and has said don't remove the floorboards" Being a government organization,
they will say anything to avoid a panic. I'd discount anything they say and let the numbers speak for
themselves. Something that's 20x the legal limit is hardly safe.


16 Mar 2015, 12:18 PM


Mark_A
Maybe the state of CA said that because after the laminate has been installed for awhile, the levels dissipate
and are no longer off-gassing harmful amounts.


16 Mar 2015, 01:02 PM


JeffLassle
Tradestoxx you are somewhat accurate and would discuss in more detail sometime outside of this forum but
doubt that would occur. In the pre-CARB regulation concentrations of formaldehyde in hardwood plywood
imported from SE ASIA at around 1.2 ppm and out of China and elsewhere who most were using melamine
resins at 3 ppm and higher without any perceivable health risks other than the water eye and upper
respiratory problems if the product was not aired out sufficiently. MDF were slightly higher due to the surface
area of the needed glueline in that product. Today phase 2 is at .05 for hardwood plywood and .11 I believe
for mdf configurations.


CARB is considered a rogue agency of the California government and we fought them on this issue and the
diesel regs beginning in 2006 and much confusion came from this opposition to this agency. In the diesel reg
we caught their chief scientist and author of the rule as having a fake PhD, a degree that he bought for $1000
from a mailbox in NYC. We subsequently proved his science wrong and CARB agreed. The rule went on. Not
much different in the formaldehyde atcms.


Phase 1 of these rules brought the ppm concentration down to the olfactory detection limit of the human
sense of smell so at least the odor would not be present to any degree. CARB took it further on plywood to
.05 ppm. CARB also knew that testing would create a lot of data outside of the regulation requirements based
on the procedure that is used to lower emission levels which isn't accurate so a state percentage would fall
outside the reg. CARB knew this and wished for at least a 97% passing rate.


Lumber Liquidators issue is not with the emissions but with whom they hired to comply with these regs. Not
one in their organization as I had seen had any forest products, natural resource, or science background
lending to trouble if I have ever seen it. For their negligence and naivety they are guilty; buying out of China is
tough and you have to really know what you are doing. I had done it for over 13 years and out of SE Asia for
over 20 years. I was also an EPA scientist and was one of the largest importers of Chinese hardwood
plywood and flooring in NA along with Russia and South America. I have degrees in forest engineering and
the physical sciences. I know what I am doing, Ray Cotton, from Facebook did not.


14 Sep 2015, 01:04 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/792963

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29971065

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40586805
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 22/36


Nat Stewart, Contributor
There was no reason to make a personal attack on an individual named Ray Cotton. If you took issue with his
qualifications, you should have made a precise case of it.


The elitism and snobbery implied by your critique of his background was very unpleasant to read and not something I
expect to see on an investment site.


Then you chose to end with ominous statement, "Mark my words: Cotton will not survive this scandal"


An unfortunate choice of words given the psychological stress a person in his position must be under right now -
unnecessarily cruel.


10 Mar 2015, 09:28 PM


NTI investor
Consider the source. Whitney Tilson would lie about his mother if he could make a buck off her.


10 Mar 2015, 10:51 PM


Nat Stewart, Contributor
That is funny, I always thought he seemed like a good guy. That is why I was so shocked by this article.


10 Mar 2015, 11:30 PM


Matt Brice, Contributor
Nat--Well said regarding the attack of Ray Cotton. Well said.


11 Mar 2015, 09:11 AM


William Apel, Contributor
Yea its odd. I was always of the same impression. I've actually had people specifically mention him as a
decent guy to kick ideas around with.


That said, since I've been following him more closely the last couple years I've really been put off by how
promotional he is, and further, how little responsibility he seems to take when it comes to following up on his
investments, especially the ones that look bad, as I mentioned CALL, SODA, DDD, TSLA, OPK to name a
few. I mean why go public, especially on a site like this if you are then subsequently going to ignore everyone
and play the "I'm too important" card. I don't think he's followed up once, even on any of the comments
addressed to him for this article. It's literally just a "look at me" victory parade, "here's what I have to say in an
article, its gospel, and I won't even bother to see what anyone else thinks either". He's just too self
aggrandizing for my taste.


RE: the belittling and elitism in regards to the attacks on Mr. Cotton, I agree completely. This whole thing
reeks of a desperation attempt to replicate Ackman's HLF campaign. Straight down to the "it's going to 0"
rhetoric.


11 Mar 2015, 08:56 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/author/nat-stewart

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9964581

https://seekingalpha.com/author/nat-stewart

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

https://seekingalpha.com/author/william-apel
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 23/36


Mark_A
"c) How significant to LL's sales are the laminates?"


It is hard to tell exactly, because laminate sales are grouped together with vinyl, bamboo, and cork flooring when
reported by LL in their financials.


Laminate (which has a composite fiberboard base with a plastic veneer top) sales are definitely less then the
combined total sales of solid wood strip, and engineered wood strip flooring.


Also, the problem only exists for the the "house" brand of laminates that LL sells custom made for them in China. LL
also sells "name brand" laminate which are the same as ones sold by HD and Lowe's (such as Pergo). and are not
affected by the excess formaldehyde problem.


10 Mar 2015, 09:32 PM


The Specialist, Contributor
Laminate was broken out separately until 2012 or 2013 so you can still get a pretty good idea how much.
Check the 10Ks.


10 Mar 2015, 10:38 PM


Mark_A
Even if they were broken out separately in previous years, I doubt they revealed how much was LL branded
product (that are the only ones implicated), and now much was "name brand" product such as Pergo. I
believe that Pergo pretty much invented this category.


10 Mar 2015, 11:49 PM


User 1056791
Did you or 60 Minutes test formaldehyde levels in the air in real-life settings? Specifically, did you test inside a
significant sample of houses around the country that have previously installed the suspected flooring? (The tests
should include new and older laminate installations from a representative sample of their installation regions.)


How many human victims of formaldehyde poisoning from LL's flooring did you or 60 Minutes uncover in your
research? (Not just suspected and self-proclaimed victims, but actual victims with laboratory-confirmed formaldehyde
poisoning directly tied to confirmed toxic LL flooring.)


Does your research suggest that the California Air Resources Board has been incompetent in monitoring and
preventing toxic formaldehyde from making its way into California homes? Did you interview CARB representatives
before the show to get their opinion on your claims of toxicity?


10 Mar 2015, 09:33 PM


Ibrahim El-Awady
A few thoughts a research chemist.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/29971065

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-specialist

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29971065

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1056791

https://seekingalpha.com/user/34449425
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 24/36


1. Formaldehyde is volatile and elevated outgassing will not persist past a few months. (Think new car smell.)


2. Formaldehyde is a poor carcinogen. Even with outgassing at 7X CARB limits, any manifestation of health problems
will be rare and mild.


3. The destructive nature of the CARB testing procedure is absurd. Nobody sands the surface of brand new laminate
down to the fiberboard center in an enclosed space.


10 Mar 2015, 09:44 PM


DenaliOcean
This is excellent work by Whitney Tilson to bring awareness to this problem and back it up with very credible facts. It
does not only affect Lumber Liquidators but other suppliers of Chinese laminate and hardwood floor boards using
high-density fiberboard (also known as MDF) in their core.


This is a real situation with people being hurt by these high formaldehyde floors. This is my YouTube playlist on the
subject: 
http://bit.ly/1Mq64as


Current Lumber Liquidators stock chart: 
http://bit.ly/1F9aB0H


I have personal knowledge of this situation because I am one of these consumers who got one of these high
formaldehyde floors from China. With the highly toxic effects of these floorboards, there is going to be very serious
liability against Lumber Liquidators and the other suppliers.


10 Mar 2015, 09:45 PM


chris_dress
DenaliOcean


wow! this is what the bulls keep missing, this is a story about a company who has no regard for its
customers...


Did you buy product in NZ?


10 Mar 2015, 10:31 PM


DenaliOcean
The product was brought in New Zealand . Supposedly a Canadian product. I learned about 3 weeks ago it
was Chinese made and the supplier in Canada admitted to it.


Their position is just like Lumber Liquidators. In the face of enormous evidence, they deny there is any
problem and take it even further and say the product is "formaldehyde free".


11 Mar 2015, 01:48 AM


nhsully88
So what are the testing results from your installation?



https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

http://bit.ly/1Mq64as

http://bit.ly/1F9aB0H

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40655

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37725686

https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 25/36


11 Mar 2015, 09:36 AM


2020 Hindsight
What credible facts do you speak of that Mr. Tilson presents that are relevant to the safety of homeowners
who have installed these floors? I have yet to see any facts on measurements for pollution inside their homes.


Were you personally hurt by the formaldehyde in your floors? What were the measurements in your home
which you were DIRECTLY exposed to?


If labels stated CARB-2 compliant and they weren't, then that is clearly a problem, However it has not yet
been proven to be a safety issue to homeowners with these floors installed.


11 Mar 2015, 12:04 PM


ComeOnReally
How is that SODA position you never talk about anymore? You harp on and on about LL because it's going in the
direction you want, yet not a peep about SODA. Remember when it was such a great deal at $40 and was going to
$70? Then again at $30. And then at $20 well by gosh you told everyone it could double!!!... back to the original price
of $40 where you started pumping it.


But I guess you're only going to be accountable for what is working now.


But hey, I guess if SODA sees a bump back up to low $20s and the LL story is so yesterday.


10 Mar 2015, 09:45 PM


schwagerdvs
Mr.Tilson. Fear breeds Fear. Congrats! You have scared every family in America. Now let's hear some non biased
truth. The media is not exactly the golden goose of truth. I suspect media had some fowl play in all this to make a
good story. There is a lot of grey. Let's see what the Law has to say. It should read guilty or not guilty. As an investor
you have to evaluate all sides.


10 Mar 2015, 09:46 PM


schwagerdvs
Mr.Tilson... with all due respect. I believe that there are two sides to every story. I heard your story.. read your stories.
There are a lot of holes in them. This too would not be the first time the media and 60 mins has been wrong. There
are facts on both sides. Yours is to make a name for yourself and money off this. Great job. You did this well.


All of the lawsuits reference the 60 mins episode. With words like "may have" or " might have" laws are clear. There
are a lot of hands in this pot. I hope people reviewing your articles think logically.


#fearbreedsfear #congrats


10 Mar 2015, 09:46 PM


seekingnews



https://seekingalpha.com/user/469296

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7443001

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37453116

https://seekingalpha.com/user/37453116

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9765451
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 26/36


Mr. Tilson correct me if I am wrong. If formaldehyde sealed in the laminate flooring materials causes cancer then
wouldn't you think the nails salon workers and all the women got their nails done in the nail salons could potentially
got cancer by now? Nail polish is know to contains high level of formaldehyde and it vapor escape in the air by twist
off the cap from the bottle. So, why not shorting the companies made nails polish...why Lumber Liquidators?


10 Mar 2015, 09:46 PM


jerseygrown
I have been short heavily (for me) until today; taking some profits off the table. I grew cautious with this big question
on my mind with regard to the 60 minutes tests were pointed out by Citron:


Why hasn't CARB demanded LL to remove all suspect flooring from showrooms? It seems like CARB would have
known about this while the tests were occurring for the 60 minutes story.


10 Mar 2015, 09:46 PM


Duane Bair, Contributor
Great article and great work. Given the company's massive liabilities, I dont see how anyone would get long (except
for a quick trade)


10 Mar 2015, 09:48 PM


winningpanthers
We Americans don't like americans. We kill the business and then express grief about no jobs/job market low and
blah blah. LL should be given opportunity to defend, correct their action if found guilty. Tons people in India and China
live in dangerous situations but they still make it to 80-90 years. There are several other habits that can kills us more
quickly than this. Get a life. We should support companies like LL. Bankruptcy at LL means tons would lose jobs and
you know the rest!!


10 Mar 2015, 10:00 PM


chris_dress
would you buy and install a floor for a friend or loved one?


10 Mar 2015, 10:33 PM


winningpanthers
All I am saying is give them a chance to rectify the problem. That is what is taught in schools. You make a
mistake, yes, give them a chance to rectify.


16 Mar 2015, 08:41 AM


Dr. Z.
Maybe not, but would you buy cheap flooring for the house that you are flipping? Sure, put a fan in there and
open the window for a few hours and you saved yourself a bunch of money.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/7977881

https://seekingalpha.com/author/duane-bair

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11368751

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40655

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11368751

https://seekingalpha.com/user/19859901
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 27/36


16 Mar 2015, 04:48 PM


User 1056791
"Whom do you trust?"


I'm going to wait until Dick Cheney and Colin Powell confirm the presence of formaldehyde in the flooring.


10 Mar 2015, 10:04 PM


chris_dress
Whitney: Thanks for your continued work on this.


I started to read some of the letters about $LL customer experience from the links you posted.


After I read a few, it was heart breaking....many people have spent significant (to them) $$ for all kinds of floors that
had failed to meet expectations by a mile. Company employees at all levels and locations giving them the run around
etc all in the name of making a fast buck at the customer's expense.


The piece about Cotton is too funny and does say plenty about this company's approach to customer safety as well.


Lumber Liquidators the SS Titanic of the Flooring industry with Capt Tom Sullivan at the helm.


10 Mar 2015, 10:25 PM


Matt Brice, Contributor
Just one note, HPVA (and its President Kip Howlett) is an industry association (read: lobbying arm) for the domestic
lumber association. The HPVA lab may be CARB certified, but I think it is somewhat dishonest to use them, since
they hate LL so intensely.


60 minutes performed these tests in Oct/Nov of last year. Supposedly, they spoke with Arb to clarify the method of
testing. I know govt regulators are always late to the game, but why no statement at all, besides the one-page flyer.


10 Mar 2015, 10:25 PM


letspaddle
Deconstructing is the standard way of testing these products. Did you not read the article?


10 Mar 2015, 10:28 PM


StumpLifter
IT IS NOT THE STANDARD WAY! Nondestructive testing is the standard for production quality and
compliance testing. You are quoting the author who is quoting a news man who is quoting a short seller who
is quoting a competitor. Take one moment to educate yourself about materials testing standards. We started
phasing out destructive testing in the 60's with the space program. You are talking about horse-and-buggy
testing methods which are used in preliminary product design testing - not a method used in production line or
product compliance testing.


14 Mar 2015, 04:38 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1056791

https://seekingalpha.com/user/40655

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9246011

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 28/36


letspaddle
Give it a rest.


10 Mar 2015, 10:33 PM


NTI investor
Whitney Tilson should have done some research on formaldehyde before he started all this. I hope he is found in the
wrong about his claims and this brings him down.


He's probably doing the pump and dump (with all these articles) and will be out of his short position by this Thursday
morning.


If Tilson felt he was 100% right about this, he would not have had to write anything again about this after the 60
minutes show on March 1st. But, he continues on with his pump.


10 Mar 2015, 10:44 PM


Microcap Growth Investor, Contributor
I have no position in LL, but this is yet another interesting article by Whitney Tilson. Given anyone that has skin in the
game has seen the 60 minutes piece, what incremental value does this particular article have for the short case. In
my estimation, not much.


One thing is clear, Whitney appears to be using very similar smear tactics that Bill Ackman has used Re: HLF, I.E. of
repeatedly hammering his negative points to anyone who will listen. Why not just state your case and then let the
appropriate federal agencies take it from there? Why mount such an aggressive media compaign (as Ackman has
also done against HLF) to completely destroy the brand one way or another?


As was stated above, its time to let unbiased 3rd parties (judge/jury, CARB, etc) make the determination of how
detrimental these levels of formaldehyde are to the public and how liable LL should be for its misdeeds, if any.


One question for you Whitney? I am very curious, why aren't you as outspoken about the levels of formaldehyde that
Americans use on their own bodies in many cosmetics?


"Nail polishes, nail polish removers and hair-styling products contain the most formaldehyde, up to 5% as formalin in
some cases. But the chemical is also used as a preservative in skincare and baby products, even natural and organic
ones, said Julie Gabriel, author of The Green Beauty Guide, in an email interview."


10 Mar 2015, 10:48 PM


NTI investor
Don't forget formaldehyde is in your toothpaste too!


11 Mar 2015, 12:34 AM


joecole123
it is fun read as I am not long LL haha.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/9246011

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9964581

https://seekingalpha.com/author/microcap-growth-investor

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9964581

https://seekingalpha.com/user/11943351
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 29/36


10 Mar 2015, 10:55 PM


doitright
Smoking indoors produces high concentrations of formaldehyde. Burning wood products, fuel, paper and other
products is also an important source of formaldehyde. Source- American Lung Association


10 Mar 2015, 10:59 PM


MoMoInvestor
I can't get past the fact that regulators haven't even pulled the product from the shelves... if carb hasn't seen fit to do
that, then I really can't believe in the seriousness of the issue...Tilson may be 100% correct re the test results (as I
believe he likely is) but the reaction of the regulators speaks volumes with regard to the actual risk of the product...


10 Mar 2015, 11:17 PM


biffster7199
I'm wondering if that (regulators in Cali pulling the product from store shelves) will be the "other shoe to drop".
Pure speculation on my part, but perhaps the reason CARB has not done that already is because they are in
the midst of performing their own analysis of a wide range of samples. Again, that's just a "hunch" on my part.
Or as you have stated it may be because CARB does not view the issue as that serious. No doubt the next
few weeks should tell ;).


11 Mar 2015, 01:53 PM


User 720731
Outstanding article Mr. Tilson. Thank you.


Should LL have known that the cheap wood they were receiving from the Chinese mills was potentially dangerous
and potentially non-CARB compliant (despite their own testing)? I think it is clear that they should have known. If the
QC people that were hired to inspect and test the wood were paid on commission by the factory, then the factory and
the QC people, all had a large incentive to ship product at the cost LL wanted it. The QC people had an incentive to
sample "good" wood, so the factory could deliver "bad, cheap" wood to get that done. I think LL's management had to
have known this lumber was substandard because of the price they were getting, but likely turned a blind eye as long
as they continued to get the cheap lumber and had what they thought was a legal out based on the testing. I dont
know if this can be proven in a court of law, but I think that greed superceded safety concerns which allowed LL to get
a competitive advantage and create a very large increase in the value of the company, and thus massive wealth for its
largest shareholders.


It looks like LL is going to fight hard which is really the only way the company survives, but goodbye cheap lumber,
and good bye big profit margins if they do survive.


10 Mar 2015, 11:48 PM


Matt Brice, Contributor



https://seekingalpha.com/user/18488382

https://seekingalpha.com/user/5712741

https://seekingalpha.com/user/7212811

https://seekingalpha.com/user/720731

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 30/36


Mr. Tilson,  
I think you might want to respond to this from Benchmark, the other lab used by 60 minutes.


http://bit.ly/1MqjROf


11 Mar 2015, 12:02 AM


kitstricker
I'm surprised that Benchmark does not take credit cards. All the labs I work with do.


11 Mar 2015, 10:47 AM


NTI investor
In case you have not heard yet, The Blackstone Group L.P. has upped their position in LL to 10%. Gee, who knows
more, a major publicly owned investment firm or some little hedge fund pumper?


11 Mar 2015, 12:49 AM


The Specialist, Contributor
I'll take "some little hedge fund pumper" with a great track record only owning 20-30 focused positions at a
time over mega-fund with hundreds of seemingly randomly positions that swings all sorts of pitches.


11 Mar 2015, 01:39 AM


Dr. Z.
Good try but we need a more human touch to this story: small orphaned babies with asthma, cute puppies who fall
over from the toxic fumes. All this CARB2 technical bla bla is not going to keep a jury awake.


11 Mar 2015, 03:53 AM


User 1056791
One of the ironies in this article is the denigration of Ray Cotton for having "a college degree from an online, for-profit
school."


Controversial and costly diesel pollution rules implemented by CARB were crafted by a man who allegedly lied about
his scientific background. His PhD was allegedly purchased from a mail-order diploma mill. Yet he was merely
demoted, not fired, and he continues to write state regulations.


I don't understand the claim that "Cotton doesn't appear to be a serious person" based on some unremarkable
internet photos from his personal life. Would you like the spotlight turned on your personal life? Does the following
photo/article depict you as a serious person?


http://read.bi/1b1rHSZ


Is wagering up to $25,000 on the outcome of a Presidential election serious behavior--even if the proceeds go to
charity? (If case you're unaware, $25,000 is is the better part of a year's income for hundreds of innocent LL store
employees who could lose a desperately needed job if LL's demise comes to fruition.)



http://bit.ly/1MqjROf

https://seekingalpha.com/user/825227

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9964581

https://seekingalpha.com/author/the-specialist

https://seekingalpha.com/user/19859901

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1056791

http://read.bi/1b1rHSZ
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 31/36


Your public persona seems to be that of a nice and earnest guy. I'm not sure this campaign supports that image.


11 Mar 2015, 04:36 AM


Kartik Sivaraman
When I saw 60 Minutes showing how LL has been deceptive, I realized LL is going down and may be chapter 11. LL
has too many holes to fill. They can expect lots of legal liabilities which may exceed their assets. The result could be
chapter 11.


11 Mar 2015, 07:35 AM


Clayton Rulli, Contributor
another short article? why you pumping this so hard


11 Mar 2015, 07:57 AM


User 15880922
LL has really bad managment. Tone deaf.


11 Mar 2015, 09:10 AM


shb6000
Whitney, 
What do you think about Citron Research's call to cover shorts yesterday and that company will not have to replace
floorings? 
Thanks, 
Scott


11 Mar 2015, 09:13 AM


amywils
60 Minutes has been wrong before. I remember they championed ZZZBest and that turned out to be a fraud. They
retracted other political stories.


11 Mar 2015, 09:31 AM


Kartik Sivaraman
60 Minutes has been wrong before. In this case, the proof (that they are not wrong) is their live interview (not
hidden camera) in China with the manufacturer stating what goes on the LL's floor laminants. How LL tried to
save a few bucks of unit cost and getting the crap into the boards was evident from the manufacturer. So LL
should be hanged. It is not the short sellers or put buyers like me are at fault. It is the CEO. He does not want
to own up to the problem and blame every one including 60 Minutes. Mismanagement and short sighted
approach to any business will always be costly to shareholders - big times. This company has to get their act
together and may be fire the CEO and get someone with integrity (someone who insists they are kosher and
the fact shows they are not, lacks integrity). or go bankrupt because customers are not stupid.



https://seekingalpha.com/user/33239665

https://seekingalpha.com/author/clayton-rulli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/15880922

https://seekingalpha.com/user/946910

https://seekingalpha.com/user/36532336

https://seekingalpha.com/user/33239665
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 32/36


15 Mar 2015, 12:04 PM


nhsully88
With this type of accusation, you certainly should have named your source.


"Another way, as told to me by an industry insider with first-hand knowledge of many mills that Lumber Liquidators
buys from, is to use corrupt and/or conflicted inspectors:


"What even LL does not know is their own QC (quality control) inspector is paid a commission by the factories. This
inspector knows there's no way to make CARB2 compliant product at the prices LL demands, especially after he
takes his cut of the price."


I have no way to verify this statement, but: a) I believe the person is credible; and b) It's consistent with what I know
about China - namely, that creating phony documents is very common.'


I "believe" that using unnamed sources leads to creating phony accusations is very common. If this person was so
"credible, why didn't that person alert LL or CARB of their concern when they first learned of it?


11 Mar 2015, 09:52 AM


darnoc111
I guess the moral of the story is to never buy anything made in China. Just curious does all of their flooring come from
China or are there other places that provide flooring? Here is an interesting article that gives a little more information.  
http://bit.ly/1AiV6wP


11 Mar 2015, 10:19 AM


Mark_A
A lot of name brand flooring is made in China, and does not have the formaldehyde problem. It just depends
on how diligent that the buyers are in making sure that the Chinese suppliers follow USA rules about these
issues.


I personally have purchased Armstrong engineered wood flooring and the box says it was made in China.
However, solid wood or engineered wood flooring have so far not been implicated in the problem (only
laminate flooring so far).


I recently saw laminate flooring at Costco that was made in China, and I assume it is OK (but don't know for
sure).


Unfortunately, not many know the difference between laminate flooring (wood fiber base with plastic surface)
and engineered wood flooring (usually a plywood base and real wood veneer surface).


11 Mar 2015, 10:44 AM


Esol Esek
Whle everyone criticizes the USA, for being a warmongering superpower, all I have to say is I'm glad the USA is
around to set environmental and legal consumer standards, since China, India, Russia seem not to care less about



https://seekingalpha.com/user/28069923

https://seekingalpha.com/user/9931961

http://bit.ly/1AiV6wP

https://seekingalpha.com/user/29971065

https://seekingalpha.com/user/155336
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 33/36


the issue. At least we Americans care about living without poison day to day.


11 Mar 2015, 11:14 AM


loufah
You're right, it's about whom we believe. Would I believe a company that is required by law to make multiple
independent tests every week on their products, or a short seller who has enlisted the help of media friends at CBS
and the NYPost to make his case?


11 Mar 2015, 11:55 AM


Doc's Trading, Contributor
LL......Magnificent oportunity to purchase puts and put spreads before tomorrow announcement which will be DOA. I
hereby advise the March 35/29 put spread 10X. the April 40/30 10X put spread and the Mar 13 32 puts 10X
naked...Target = $.0. 
I am up 800% past 12 months, not a misprint, all documented on this SA forum.... 
More later.....


11 Mar 2015, 12:31 PM


John Naccarelli, Contributor
can you elaborate a bit on these spreads? What are Mar 13 32 puts naked? the Mar expiration is the 20th.
were you suggesting going long the 20 mar 32 puts?


11 Mar 2015, 05:11 PM


piggysun
totally biased. Attacking another person by just viewing his working experiences is rude, unprofessional.


11 Mar 2015, 01:11 PM


StumpLifter
I just want to say "Thank you so much!" to the anti business press for providing me with yet another opportunity to buy
a great company at a huge discount. Also, if I forgot to do so before - thanks for BP and thank you for Snapple. Every
time you shoot your mouth off I get richer. Laughing all the way to the bank - Stumpy


11 Mar 2015, 04:35 PM


John Naccarelli, Contributor
as the debate here continues, I can see this going either way based upon the evidence and arguments presented on
both sides. I bought the straddle at the close with the put more pricier than the call because the options market in the
last few hours was betting to the downside even though LL moved up 10% today.


personally, as a very hard-working, small-business owner (in healthcare services & real estate investments) dealing
with business challenges every day, I would hate to see LL succumb to a government attack and litigious BS. It's



https://seekingalpha.com/user/792963

https://seekingalpha.com/author/doc-s-trading

https://seekingalpha.com/author/john-naccarelli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/3727191

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141

https://seekingalpha.com/author/john-naccarelli
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 34/36


simply sad to see this happen to all the employees, especially if they invested in LL stock for their retirement
accounts.


11 Mar 2015, 04:40 PM


User 1056791
If LL is doing a "Campaign of Distraction and Deception," what is the opposition doing? Perhaps a "Campaign of Junk
Science and Demagoguery"?


11 Mar 2015, 04:51 PM


19Larry42
I've worked in the wood industry most of my life. This entire thing is all about $ & politic, not health. The CARB testing
method is not even close to real life. All wood has some natural formaldehyde. Humans emit it also. For many years
formaldehyde was commonly used in many products giving much higher concentrations than the CARB limits. When I
was in college the cadavers that were used for teaching were kept in a tank of formaldehyde. So lawyers on your
mark, find out who took those classes and get filing those lush class actions.


11 Mar 2015, 05:52 PM


William Apel, Contributor
At this point I think this story is over done. I enjoy hearing opinions and love a great thesis long or short. But to be
honest have kind of grown tired of what is occurring here with Mr. Tilson.


He's shared quite a number of his calls(no pun intended) on very public forums, but for the most part ignores follow
ups from the audiences he's sharing his thoughts with(save for the occasional "how dare you question my reputation"
rebuttal). Typical "I'm too big and too busy to talk to you" stuff that you generally get from multibillion dollar hedge fund
guys that DON'T regularly share their opinions on a public forum.


Guess my point is that if you regularly tout your investing acumen in a very public way you should have no problem
keeping people in the loop when the advice rendered may be causing people to lose money.


I've heard Ackman was unofficially short this as well, which explains where Whitney got this and why it is differing in
outcome from a lot of his other recent ideas like CALL, SODA, TSLA, OPK, DLIAQ


End of the day, shorting this a few weeks ago was a great call. This is a thesis thats been out there for a while that
came nicely to fruition. But I'm tired of how all of a sudden Tilson has no problem offering follow ups and doing the self
indulgent victory parade. We get it Whitney, you dont need to keep telling us you shorted this over $100. You got one
right, congrats.


11 Mar 2015, 06:06 PM


stockplaza
This author's track record is so bad (based on my previous observations and comments on his articles). I have taken
a small long position in LL yesterday and today.


12 Mar 2015, 01:17 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/1056791

https://seekingalpha.com/user/166668

https://seekingalpha.com/author/william-apel

https://seekingalpha.com/user/1622381
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 35/36


NARSpin
Go get them Whitney. My target price is below even yours. I target $0 for the stock and mega billions in liabilities for
execs and BOD.


12 Mar 2015, 06:18 PM


John Naccarelli, Contributor
"I target $0 for the stock and mega billions in liabilities for execs and BOD." 
NARSPIN, you think that they will be personally liable for the claims. you are completely ignorant and haven't
a clue about piercing the corporate veil. Only the employees and shareholder are the losers in corporate
America, so don't make statements when you have no knowledge!


14 Mar 2015, 11:26 AM


i^2 = j^2 = k^2 = ijk = -1
Wrong on both counts:


#1 If you consider it is not the cores but the glue attaching the laminate with the formaldahyde, then the first chart
stands as LL produced it. 
#2 Misreading the SOP: laminate flooring does not require a desconstructed test, because the bottoms of those
floorboards are exposed already. 
READ THE S.O.P.!!!!!!! BASICS!


Lastly, seem to be demoting arguments from "LL mgt is clearely evil" to "LL may have been duped by its Chinese
suppliers". At this point, no evidence to believe either is true, but even if now claiming that LL mgt was duped, this is
quite a different argument, both legally and from standpoint of customers buying flooring.


bottom line: 
In real world testing, LL laminate flooring, even those sourced from China which are supposedly failing your lab tests,
ARE NOT HARMING ANYONE, according to CARB 2 standards set by the California regulator body.


"THE SKY IS FALLING" would be a correct label to put on this entire battle, but that's too innocent since there are
multiple profit motives involved from trying to demonize mgt and this company.


13 Mar 2015, 02:47 PM


Nat Stewart, Contributor
Is anyone else reminded of the 60 minutes "sudden acceleration" hysteria/hoax from the 80's that almost destroyed
Audi?


http://bit.ly/1x2Y6md


13 Mar 2015, 07:37 PM


Matt Brice, Contributor
Another good example is Dateline's and GM's "exploding trucks"



https://seekingalpha.com/user/129210

https://seekingalpha.com/author/john-naccarelli

https://seekingalpha.com/user/346372

https://seekingalpha.com/author/nat-stewart

http://bit.ly/1x2Y6md

https://seekingalpha.com/author/matt-brice
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 36/36


http://lat.ms/1x3iLq8


13 Mar 2015, 09:28 PM


StumpLifter
Of course if you rip open the encapsulation - you will get formaldehyde - a naturally occurring substance produced by
the human body during the metabolic process that breaks down quickly in the presence of oxygen. That's why it's
ENCAPSULATED in the first place - to meet the California standard for "New House" smell - that CARB (California Air
Resources Board) sets.


If you want that New House smell - paint your house or put in new carpet - but ripping open the encapsulate in your
new flooring seems a little impractical.


Let's pray that 60 minutes doesn't demand that our nuclear subs, aircraft and spacecraft be ripped apart like they did
with Lumber Liquidators flooring.


As a mechanical engineering student in the early 1960's the one thing that remained with me was how Neanderthal
and unreliable DEstructive testing was - while NONdestructive testing was proving infinitely more reliable when it
came to proving how a part would perform once incorporated into the target environment. Nondestructive testing
became the "Holy Grail" of materials testing in the 1960's. Without it we never would have made it to the moon. With
destructive testing - you could only prove that the part you just destroyed COULD HAVE WORKED but it put you in
the position of having to make another part and then assuming it would work like the last one. Which, as we now
know is NEVER the case. That is why parts are pulled from production lines constantly and then non-destructively
tested. And in the case of electronics EVERY part is tested and many have designed in self repair capability -
something that is coming to materials sciences even as I write. Think bridges that repair themselves and flooring that
renews it's surface.


Nondestructive testing, the method used by CARB, NASA and virtually every manufacturer today to certify parts for
use, is the only way we could have possibly made it to the moon and back. Millions of parts tested and proven to work
as designed in the targeted environment before integration into the spacecraft.


Nondestructive testing - Proving that THE actual part is good to go - as finished, installed, used and within design
standards AS SPECIFIED - ALL STANDARDS. It's called "Quality Control"


I suppose you could rip open the gas tanks of every automobile then declare all automobiles a fire hazard - Oops,
you've already done that. Remember the Ford "Exploder!"


60 minutes - you disappoint - maybe I should call you "Stuck In The 60's Minutes" as that seems to be where your
thinking remains. Please stay out of engineering. You look foolish trying to demonstrate knowledge you clearly don't
possess.


14 Mar 2015, 03:33 PM


mapgirl
Tilson has been so wrong, so often. Aren't laminates only about 10% of their inventory? Sell-off way overdone.


15 Mar 2015, 10:36 AM



http://lat.ms/1x3iLq8

https://seekingalpha.com/user/12927141

https://seekingalpha.com/user/2004341
