1http://sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
2http://sumzero.com


Disclaimer:


SumZero is not a registered investment advisor or broker-dealer, and is not licensed nor quali-


fied to provide investment advice. There is no requirement that any of our Information Providers 


be registered investment advisors or broker-dealers. Nothing published or made available by or 


through SumZero should be considered personalized investment advice, investment services or a 


solicitation to BUY, SELL, or HOLD any securities or other investments mentioned by SumZero or 


the Information Providers. Never invest based purely on our publication or information, which is 


provided on an “as is” basis without representations. Past performance is not indicative of future 


results. YOU SHOULD VERIFY ALL CLAIMS, DO YOUR OWN DUE DILIGENCE AND/OR SEEK YOUR 


OWN PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR AND CONSIDER THE INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES AND RISKS 


AND YOUR OWN NEEDS AND GOALS BEFORE INVESTING IN ANY SECURITIES MENTIONED. IN-


VESTMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE A POSITIVE RETURN AS STOCKS ARE SUBJECT TO MARKET 


RISKS, INCLUDING THE POTENTIAL LOSS OF PRINCIPAL. You further acknowledge that SumZero, 


the Information Providers or their respective affiliates, employers, employees, officers, members, 


managers and directors, may or may not hold positions in one or more of the securities in the 


Information and may trade at any time, without notification to you, based on the information they 


are providing and will not necessarily disclose this information to subscribers, nor the time the po-


sitions in the securities were acquired. You confirm that you have read and understand, and agree 


to, our full disclaimer and terms of use, a copy of which can be accessed by clicking here and that 


neither SumZero nor any of its Information Providers is in any way responsible for any investment 


losses you may incur under any circumstances.


All content and material within in this document is the exclusive intellectual property of 


SumZero, Inc., and may not be reproduced without the prior written permission of SumZero, Inc.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
3http://sumzero.com


Ideas within this report were selected as the 15 Winners/Runners-Up of an investment research 


competition in December 2016 called the Top Stocks Challenge. The contest was run within the 


SumZero platform and was open to all members of the SumZero Buyside community.


All SumZero Buyside members are current investment professionals at hedge funds, private equi-


ty funds, or mutual funds, or have substantial prior fund experience. The complete research histo-


ry of individuals featured in this report, as well as bios, and firm details, can be found on SumZero.


All contest submissions were independently assessed and voted on by a panel of 27 senior fund 


professionals and asset allocators. The following, multi-factor criteria was utilized to determine 


the Winners/Runners-Up:


• Validity of the Thesis;


• Strength of the Supporting Argument;


• Feasibility of the Trade;


• Originality.


150 entries were submitted for consideration into the Top Stocks Challenge. The 15 ideas featured 


in this report were the consensus favorites across 5 key categories.


About the Top Stocks Challenge


Event Sponsors



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sohnconference.org/

http://www.canalyst.com/
4http://sumzero.com


Table of Contents


Introduction................................................................................................................5


Special Situations.......................................................................................................9


Liberty Media Corp Cl C Braves Grp.............................................................................................................10


Voya Financial Inc............................................................................................................................................18


Adient Plc Com................................................................................................................................................25


Shorts.........................................................................................................................32


Wingstop Inc Com...........................................................................................................................................33


Spark Energy Inc Cl A.....................................................................................................................................40


Westpac Banking Corp...................................................................................................................................45


Ex-US..........................................................................................................................49


Bollore Sa Ord..................................................................................................................................................50


Coca Cola European Partners Plc.................................................................................................................65


Novo Nordisk A/S B........................................................................................................................................70


Small Caps..................................................................................................................83


Commercehub Inc Cl C...................................................................................................................................84


Siteone Landscape Supply Inc Com.............................................................................................................105


Asia Cement China Holdings Corp................................................................................................................113


Mid/Large Caps..........................................................................................................121


Micro Focus International Plc Ord................................................................................................................122


Yoox Net A Porter Group Spa Ord................................................................................................................134


Fannie Mae........................................................................................................................................................149



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
5http://sumzero.com


Introduction: A (Calculated) Game of Unknowns
By: Morgan Housel (Collaborative Fund)


As results poured in at 8pm EST on the night of the elec-
tion, the New York Times’s forecasting model gave Hillary 
Clinton a 94% chance of becoming the next President of the 
United States. 


By 10pm, she was down to a 25% chance. 


At 2:30am, she conceded the race to Donald Trump. 


More time, money, and analysis goes into predicting the 
presidential election than any other endeavor. Yet our abili-
ty to predict major events in the next five hours -- let alone 
the long run -- is so clearly structurally challenged. 


How, in this world, can we with a straight face confidently 
predict what comes next? 


What will the economy do? 


How will markets react? 


Of course, there are things -- big, important things -- we can 
forecast about the future of our economy. 


One is that demographics over the next 50 years will be a 
U.S. growth headwind compared to the last 50 years, thanks 
to a decline in births that began decades years ago. The U.S. 
working-age population grew an average of 1.9% a year from 
1950 to 2000. It’s now growing at less than half a percent 
a year, and forecast to pick up to just over 1% a year for the 
next 30 years, according to the Census Bureau. The econo-
my may do tremendously well over the next 30 years. But it 
will have a roughly one percentage point headwind com-
pared with our old potential output. 


A second is that housing construction as a share of GDP is 
still where it typically sits at previous economic bottoms, 
requiring a significant bump from current levels just to keep 
pace with household formation. Housing starts are current-
ly about 1 million per year, far less than the 1.5 million per 
year required to meet estimates of household formation 
over the next 20 years.


Source: Federal Reserve



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
6http://sumzero.com


Another is that the first generation to grow up with tech-
nology as an everyday way of life is just now entering the 
workforce. Baby boomers learned how to use the Inter-
net in their 30s and 40s. Millennials picked it up in their 
adolescence. Today’s new college grads have been using it 
for as long as they’ve been learning anything. If you’ve ever 
watched the ease at which a three year old can navigate 
an iPhone, you know how big a deal this is. New discover-
ies consistently take decades before taking off, because it 
takes that long before a generation who has never known 
anything different comes to power. Stanford professor Paul 
Saffo once said: “Technology does not drive change. It is 
our collective response to the options and opportunities 
presented by technology that drives change.” If you think 
the last 30 years of technological improvements have been 
impressive, wait until people who have spent their entire 
lives immersed in them take the helm. 


But the fact remains: What we can clearly see coming pales 
in comparison to the world we’re blind to and can’t predict. 


One of two sides typically emerges when this topic is 
brought up. 


The first, who I call the “fatalists,” say the economy and 
markets are unpredictable, so even attempting to try to beat 
the market is a lost cause. The second -- we’ll call them 
the “optimists” -- see markets as inefficient and prone to 
creating identifiable opportunity, and describe an economy 
whose ebbs and flows can be predicted with theories and 
models. 


There’s rarely much in between, no shade of grey. The in-
vesting world is filled with fatalists and optimists. 


That’s a shame, because accepting a world that is both 
maddeningly hard to predict but driven by identifiable 
high-probability trends is a smart way to think. 


It’s possible to be both respectful of how hard it is to fore-
cast the future and optimistic about our ability to put the 
odds of prediction in our favor. 


What it requires is three things. 


• Room for error. Benjamin Graham once said “The 


purpose of the margin of safety is to render the forecast 
unnecessary.” I’d nominate those to be the smartest 13 
investment words even spoken. Too many predictions 
fail not because they were wrong, but because they 
were roughly right on a bet that required them to be 
precisely right. Making accurate predictions in a world 
as complex as ours has less to do with being right and 
more to do with the ability to be a little wrong and still 
turn out OK. An example: Predicting that value as a 
factor outperforms over time is one thing. Having the 
stamina and liquidity to wait, potentially for years, 
while it’s out of favor is a necessary amount of room for 
error. 


• Cognitive flexibility. Few things are harder to let go of 
than a prediction you’ve invested time and energy into. 
Admitting you were wrong can be viewed as an admis-
sion that your time and effort were wasted. This is trag-
ic, as no one is infallible, and most people readily admit 
their frequency of being wrong. There’s a paradox: The 
acceptance that we are often wrong in hindsight is far 
greater than our ability to admit we’re ever wrong in 
the present. Marc Andreessen promotes the idea of 
“Strong beliefs, weakly held,” which I love. Confidence 
in your beliefs mixed with the ability to let go of them 
when you realize you’re wrong is a prerequisite to good 
forecasting. 


• A focus on the few variables that make all the differ-
ence. Rarely do more than a few variables account for 
most of the variance in outcomes. Banks were under-
capitalized. Tech stocks were overvalued. Shale added 
supply. The variables themselves are not easy to predict, 
but most of the time there aren’t many of them. The 
knee-jerk reaction to a complex system like our econ-
omy is to make complex forecasts. But that often isn’t 
necessary, as complex forecasts are not only more prone 
to being wrong, but overestimate the simplicity of what 
actually drives big events. 


Mixing obvious trends with these softer, less analytical 
parts of forecasting is, I’ve come to realize, the biggest 
factor that sets apart successful stock pickers. And it’s how 
we reconcile a world where predicting appears impossibly 
difficult at one level, but clearly long-term rewarding for 
some investors on another -- a world where two-thirds of 
actively managed funds underperform their benchmark, but 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
7http://sumzero.com


a small number of funds produce extreme amounts of long-
term alpha. 


This report presents 15 investment ideas from SumZero’s 
buyside analyst community. They are, of course, predictions. 
I challenge you to view them through this lens -- a world 
that is both difficult to predict, but still filled with reward-
ing long-term opportunities for those who view markets as 
a calculable, flexible, game of unknowns.


- Morgan Housel


The Collaborative Fund


About Morgan Housel
Morgan Housel is a partner at the Collaborative Fund, a venture capital firm backing 
young companies that are moving the world forward. He is also a columnist at The 
Motley Fool, where he specializes in the psychology of investing. Previously, he was a 
columnist at The Wall Street Journal. He is a two-time winner of the Best in Business 
Award from the Society of American Business Editors and Writers and was selected by 
the Columbia Journalism Review for the Best Business Writing anthology. In 2013 and 
2016, he was a finalist for the Gerald Loeb Award and Scripps Howard Award. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
8http://sumzero.com


you have 
an idea


your analysts 
pull filings


analysts build 
models 


or call the 
sellside


buyside pays 
by trading


you have 
an idea


you download 
a model


models are
inconsistent


sellside knows
what you’re doing


you have 
an idea


your analysts 
pull filings


analysts build 
models 


or call the 
sellside


buyside pays 
by trading


you have 
an idea


you download 
a model


models are
inconsistent


sellside knows
what you’re doing


modeling status ouo


modeling with canalyst


modernizing eouity research


canalyst.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://canalyst.com

http://canalyst.com
9http://sumzero.com


1 Special Situations
All ideas within this category are special sit-
uation theses with a tangible trigger event. 
Ideas must cite at least one or more hard 
catalysts in the “Catalysts” section of the 
submission form on SumZero. Catalysts in-
clude bankruptcy, spin-offs, litigation, regula-
tory changes, etc. About 25% of research on 
SumZero is Special Situation focused.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
10http://sumzero.com


Winner
Best Special Situations


Liberty Media Corp Cl C Braves Grp
Class:  Equity Symbol:  BATRK:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


EXPECTED RETURN


109.2%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Wills Manley


Mitotic Investments


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


6 Mo. - 1 Year
SITUATION:


Deep Value
MARKET CAP:


1B USD


High-growth monopoly trading at 50% NAV. Unique tax shielding benefits 


+ mixed-asset security + underestimated impact from new facilities + 


company errors in their own valuation


About Wills Manley
Wills Manley founded Mitotic Investments in 2016 with the goal of revolutionizing hedge 
fund industry practices, including the elimination of management fees. As Portfolio 
Manager, he generates asymmetric credit and equity trades with low correlation and high 
margins of safety. An intense risk-aversion is paramount to his analysis process. Wills is 
currently meeting with qualified investors to raise initial seed capital for the fund’s launch. 
Prior to Mitotic’s inception, Wills was an analyst at Whitebox Advisors, where he worked 
across multiple credit and equity strategies.


About Mitotic Investments
Mitotic Investments is a new hedge fund that intends to establish next-generation 
industry standards: no management fee, unprecedented transparency, and generous 
liquidity terms – all managed by a lean and focused organization. The fund seeks highly 
anomalous pricing in credit and equity securities, within deep-value and special situations 
themes. These opportunities most frequently arise in obscure, complex, or niche areas of 
the market. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
11http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  BATRK:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


Liberty Media Corp Cl C Braves Grp


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Wills Manley


Mitotic Investments


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 65%


High-growth monopoly trading at 50% NAV. Unique 


tax shielding benefits + mixed-asset security + 


underestimated impact from new facilities + company 


errors in their own valuation


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Deep Value
TARGET ALLOCATION:


10%+
CATALYSTS:


M&A/Buyout 
Target


TIMEFRAME:


6 Mo. - 1 Year


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


109.2%


20.08 USD


43.20 USD


LO N G


Trade Overview


Braves Group owns two key and misvalued assets:


• The Atlanta Braves (baseball-related revenues from 
MLB team and stadium)


• The Battery Atlanta (mixed-use facility adjacent to the 
stadium)


The primary reason that investors have drastically under-
valued BATR is that management’s own NAV projection is 
unrealistically conservative and misleading:


• Below market multiple on team revenues


• Valuation inappropriately based on trough of team 


performance cycle


• Zero return on equity attributed to Battery Atlanta


Many analysts and investors have accepted management’s 
valuation as within the range of fair value, likely because 
there are few comparable entities and the unusual nature of 
valuing a tax-shielding business based on the performance 
and popularity of a sports team. Also, the true economic 
value of the stadium and mixed-use facility has yet to be 
observed.


Management’s conservativism is understood and its cer-
tainly better to miss low than high. However, accepting 
management’s NAV projection is akin to valuing a media 
monopoly and all of its intangible assets at 1x book value – 
wholly unrealistic.


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
12http://sumzero.com


Many investors will miss this opportunity because they 
think a private buyout is years down the road. Even if this 
is true, they are missing a huge piece of the puzzle: with the 
new SunTrust Stadium and new Battery Atlanta mixed-use 
facility completing construction in Q1 2017, FY2017 will 
see a dramatic increase in revenues not captured by man-
agement’s projections. For a business that is valued on a 
multiple of revenues (as professional sports teams are), this 
is a strong catalyst for share appreciation throughout the 
2017 fiscal year and baseball season.


Although this trade does not rely upon on-field perfor-
mance, there is large potential upside in that everyone’s 
projections of 2017 revenue are based upon 2015/2016 reve-
nue – two of the worst seasons in Braves history. 2014-2016 
were intentionally rebuilding years for the Braves team 
(losing recordsàtop draft picks and player trades) so that 
the team can best capitalize on revenue opportunities with 
the new stadium in 2017 by timing the acquisition of player 
talent.


An additional bonus could come in the form of a private 
buyout, for which there are many tax, social, and political 
incentives. Primarily, a wealthy buyer can use 90% of the 
purchase price of the club for depreciation expense for up 
to 15 years. Uniquely, this depreciation can be applied to the 
individual’s other unrelated business interests. A buyout is 
not rumored or expected, but could provide surprise upside 
while there are few factors that could create surprise down-
side.


Company Overview


Liberty Media Corporation bought the Atlanta Braves 
in 2007 for ~$458 million (exchanged Time Warner Inc. 
shares). Liberty, founded and chaired by John Malone, has a 
strong multi-decade history of acquiring large media assets 
and generating mid-to-high double digit IRRs.


On April 15th 2016, Liberty created three tracking stocks 
for its largest assets: Liberty Media, SiriusXM, and Braves 
Group. Liberty has a history of creating tracking stocks for 
individual businesses to allow investors to isolate the valua-
tion of each component of its media portfolio.


Shortly after issuance of the tracking stock, the trading 


price of BATR fell due to forced selling from original hold-
ers of Liberty Media Corp. Since then, the share price has 
risen from a low of $15 to approximately $20 today. This 
trading price is no longer plagued by forced selling, but it 
is clear that a market cap of just under $1 billion drastically 
undervalues the Braves’ assets.


Due to the nature of irregular earnings and cash flows, as 
well as the complication of tax shield valuation, profession-
al sports clubs are valued using revenue multiples. There-
fore, most of the analysis of the actual MLB team will focus 
on its revenue generation.


After a division-winning year in 2013 ($260m revenue), the 
Braves held the worst record in the league for most of 2014, 
2015, and 2016. As a result, game attendance fell 19% (to its 
lowest level since 1990) and revenues fell 3.8% to $250m in 
2014, and rose to $266m in 2015.


Management has explicitly stated that they intend to pru-
dently spend on acquiring top player talent only when there 
are attractive revenue opportunities to justify it. The deal 
to construct SunTrust Park was signed in 2013, so manage-
ment planned for 2014-2016 to be rebuilding years (losing 
records top draft picks and player trading) and for a strong 
winning team to be built for 2017 and beyond in the new 
stadium (>25% boost to revenue).


Investment in BATR is low-risk because of the trade cre-
ation price at under 50% of NAV, but also because of the re-
gional monopoly the Braves hold. MLB has grown revenues 
every single year on record, excluding years of player strikes 
in the 80s and 90s.


Introduction to Professional Sport 
Valuation


The “Big 4” US professional sports leagues (NFL / MLB 
/ NBA / NHL) and their 123 constituent teams compose a 
very unique asset class within the entertainment industry. 
Although the combined estimated enterprise value of these 
entities is over $235 billion (roughly the size of Proctor & 
Gamble), there is virtually no coverage of this sub-industry 
by analysts or investors. The obvious reason is that nearly 
all but three of them are privately-owned. However, there 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
13http://sumzero.com


are several completely unique characteristics that make US 
sports teams virtually incomparable to traditional compa-
nies (or even to international sports teams).


Tax Shielding


The most important economic characteristic of a major 
league sports team is its ability to create a tax shield for its 
owner. The IRS allows for 90% of a team’s purchase price to 
be depreciated. The depreciation can follow any schedule 
of the owner’s choosing, as long as it is utilized within 15 
years. The depreciation expense can even be applied against 
earnings from the owner’s unrelated business interests. As-
suming a marginal 35% tax rate, a $2 billion purchase would 
immediately create $700 million in tax shield. If applied 
evenly over 15 years, this creates a guaranteed 2.3% yield 
without any franchise growth or profit. In other words, the 
tax benefits reduce the effective purchase price of a club by 
35%.


True Monopoly


Each league is a true national monopoly and each team a 
true regional monopoly. Unlike established blue chip stocks, 
once-believed to have large economic moats (AOL, Dell, 
General Motors), these leagues never see their aggregate 
worth decline, even throughout the 2008-2009 recession. 
Individual teams may lose value in the short-term if they 
perform poorly, but these gyrations are small due to balanc-
ing mechanisms that lift all teams higher year after year.


Adaptable, but Never Displaceable


Most established sources and channels of entertainment 
are easily displaced by new technology. One of today’s most 
plaguing examples of this is the cord-cutting phenomenon 
among millennials. Interestingly, professional sports have 
continued to adopt new technologies and resist displace-
ment. While overall viewership has transitioned from tra-
ditional television to streaming services like Netflix, sports 
television broadcasting has continued to grow steadily 
(due to the urgency of live viewership). Additionally, sports 
viewing easily molds into the new viewing media created by 
technology: online streaming, mobile apps, etc. 


Trophy Asset


The intangible benefits of owning a sports team likely needs 
no description. For one, there is a large supply of billion-
aires who love their sport of choice and enjoy the team 
ownership experience. Individual and family owners get 
tremendous publicity and recognition for owning a well-
known sports team, as well as enhanced connections that 
could benefit their other business ventures (ex. Mark Cuban 
& Shark Tank). The trophy asset phenomenon is widely be-
lieved to be the primary driver of such high valuations, but 
this mistakenly discounts the very tangible after-tax return.


Structurally Limited Supply


With each of the Big 4 leagues virtually at capacity, there 
are a lot of tax-averse billionaires chasing however few 
teams may be available for sale at a given time.


These factors make valuation an entirely different exercise 
than for any other kind of business. As a result, the two pub-
licly traded US professional sports team operators (Liberty 
Braves and Madison Square Garden) are underfollowed and 
misunderstood (particularly Liberty Braves).


Forbes Valuation Considerations


Forbes has been publishing professional sports team values 
since 1997 and their estimates are frequently cited by in-
dustry participants. The Forbes contributors have primarily 
sports-oriented backgrounds, so their financial insights 
should be taken with a grain of salt. The most prominent 
manifestation of their valuation shortcoming is that they are 
primarily backward-looking. Their 2016 valuations use EV 
multiples of 2015 revenues and they adjust multiples only 
after new transactions have occurred. As a result, private 
market transactions occur at a 38% premium to Forbes 
value on average. In an industry in which league revenues 
consistently grow at 6% annually, being backward-looking 
while buyers are forward-looking can have a huge effect.


Another complication for Forbes and for anyone who 
attempts to assign a fair value to a US sports team is per-
spective. Much like how the pricing of municipal bonds is 
only attractive to taxable investors, these sports teams are 
significantly more valuable to new buyers than to long-



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
14http://sumzero.com


term holders. For example, the going-concern value of the 
Chicago White Sox doesn’t include any tax shield as Jerry 
Reinsdorf has owned the team since 1981. Forbes lists its 
current value at $1.05 billion. If Reinsdorf was to suddenly 
sell the Sox to a buyer who viewed the team’s value on par 
with Forbes, the buyer would be willing to pay up to $1.615 
billion to take advantage of the $565 million tax shield and 
net $1.05 billion for the underlying team economics. That 
price is 53.8% higher than Forbes, so after making a pres-
ent value adjustment for the tax shield, a 38% premium to 
Forbes starts to make a lot of sense from a buying perspec-
tive.


The variation above and below the average 38% premium 
reflects Forbes’ inability to capture unique situations within 
each individual valuation. For example, Forbes makes no 
adjustment for the fact that the Braves will be generating at 
least 21% more revenue in 2017 due to the new stadium and 
mixed-use facility. This is an easy adjustment, but there are 
more difficult ones that deal with stadium purchase options, 
micro-market dynamics, and un-publicized sponsorship 
deals.


In the case of the Atlanta Braves, it isn’t a trophy asset, not 
even for John Malone. It’s purely a strategic play that will 
ultimately result in a sale to a private buyer. This is con-
trasted with the NY Knicks and NY Rangers, both owned by 
The Madison Square Garden Company (MSG). MSG is now 
fully controlled by James Dolan who certainly considers the 
famous New York teams and venues to be his trophy assets. 
Besides Dolan’s image of being one of the worst capital allo-
cators in professional sports, MSG should suffer from being 
valued on a going-forward basis instead of as an asset for 
sale. However, due to the market’s lack of appreciation for 
the difference in objective, the Braves are actually trading at 
a discount to MSG (Braves: 2.2x 2017E revenue, MSG: 2.4x 
2017E revenue) [after extracting mixed-use facility from 
revenue and EV]. Part of this mispricing is attributable to 
the lack of understanding around 2017’s impending revenue 
increase, the other part reflects the misunderstanding of 
Liberty’s strategic objective. MSG’s stated objective in their 
10-K is to own teams that consistently compete for champi-
onships while Liberty Media has a long history of purchas-
ing media and entertainment businesses and selling them 
7-15 years down the road.


Valuing a Sustainable Monopoly


Many observers balk at the prices paid in some of the recent 
team purchases. This would be a very justified assumption 
using traditional valuation metrics, even after accounting 
for the tax shield. However, even well-established blue chip 
companies with large economic moats cannot claim the 
permanence that professional sports can. 2017 will mark 
the Braves’ 141st season and their 51st in Atlanta. Needless 
to say, the Braves nor the MLB are going anywhere. Public 
equity investors aren’t used to approaching true and sus-
tainable monopolies. Even in current examples of public-
ly-traded monopolies, most of them are susceptible to their 
entry barriers being destroyed by regulation or new com-
petition. Singular, unified professional sports leagues are a 
common societal good in the US, immune from regulation 
or the threat of competing leagues. While European soccer 
leagues are threatened by talent poaching from neighbor-
ing leagues, the US and Canada are geographically isolated. 
Additionally, the Big 4 US sports are “American sports” 
while foreign nations focus on soccer. So far, there has been 
no evidence of one league cannibalizing another’s revenues. 
The leagues are likely complimentary in that supporting the 
Atlanta Falcons makes you more likely to also support the 
Atlanta Braves. While each league faces their own challeng-
es (NFL: concussions and player safety, NBA: racial and 
cultural controversies, MLB: relevance with African-Amer-
icans, NHL: limited appeal outside of hockey regions), 
leagues have traditionally adapted their rules to improve 
their appeal (increasing pace of play, instating safety rules, 
enforcing dress and behavior codes, etc.).


In the 50 years since the MLB’s first national television 
broadcasting contract with NBC in 1966, there have only 
been three years of decline in aggregate league broadcasting 
revenues. All three were labor strike years, the last of which 
was in 1995. MLB broadcasting revenues have increased 
steadily by 11.7% annually since 1966. Since 2001, the 
MLB, NFL, and NBA have had no down years in aggregate 
revenue, except one during the 2011 NBA lockout. Absent a 
player lockout, there is nothing that has stopped US pro-
fessional sports revenues from climbing year after year, 
not even the global financial crisis, during which all three 
leagues grew their revenue.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
15http://sumzero.com


National and Local Broadcasting 
Contracts


* Note: Contract chart is available as an attachment to this 
idea on sumzero.com.


Unlike the NFL and NBA, an outsized share of team broad-
casting revenue is from local networks (RSNs).


Just before selling the Braves to Liberty Media in 2007, 
Turner Broadcasting signed a 20-year deal to grant air-
ing rights to Braves TBS Baseball (owned by Turner) at a 
below-market value. This was highly self-serving but also 
something that Liberty was aware of at the time of pur-
chase. While its expiry in 2027 is not for another decade, 
Liberty did have the chance to renegotiate parts of it in 
2012, a deal they now consider to be in the upper half of 
league deals. While better, this is still unacceptable for a 
team that will soon be in Tier 1 on a revenue basis. When 
Liberty does sell the Braves, they will point to the 2027 local 
broadcasting contract renewal as a cause for a premium EV 
/ revenue multiple to be paid.


On a national level, the MLB agreed to an 8-year deal in 
2012, effective 2014-2021. The $12.4 billion deal includes 
annual contributions of $700m, $500m, and $350m from 
ESPN (Disney), Fox, and Turner Broadcasting, respectively 
($1.55 billion annual total, $51.67 million per team). Similar 
to the 2027 local broadcasting expiration, the 2021 expi-
ration of the national broadcasting deal creates a future 
catalyst for increased revenue and valuation.


Liberty Media is acutely suited to manage the Braves, 
having bargained for MLB broadcasting deals since its 
founding in the early 90s. Liberty also has a long history of 
working with Fox and Turner, the league’s current national 
broadcasters: Liberty has formed joint ventures with Fox 
to air MLB games and Liberty has partnered with Turner 
on non-baseball content. The Braves themselves also have 
extensive history with Turner, having been owned by the 
broadcasting group since 1976 and sporting the Turner 
name on their ballpark. Braves CEO Terry McGuirk was 
CEO of Turner Broadcasting from 1996-2001 and currently 
serves as vice chairman. Liberty is arguably better posi-
tioned to financially manage an MLB team than most other 


owners who may have backgrounds in unrelated fields or 
are more concerned with personal interests.


MLB Advanced Media and BAM Tech


MLBAM Overview


Forbes calls Major League Baseball Advanced Media “the 
Biggest Media Company You’ve Never Heard Of.” MLBAM 
was formed in 2000 as a JV between the 30 MLB owners to 
consolidate online rights and ticket sales. MLBAM operates 
all of the internet and interactive operations of the MLB 
and many other sport media outlets. During the 2000s, ML-
BAM bought Tickets.com and signed deals with StubHub, 
Yahoo, and Sports Illustrated.


MLBAM created superior backend infrastructure and now 
supports not only MLB and Minor League Baseball, but also 
many large regional baseball broadcasters, WWE Network, 
WatchESPN, ESPN3, HBO Now, PGA Tour Live, NHL Net-
work, and European coverage of the Olympic Games.


Mobile Technology


MLB At Bat has been the world’s top-grossing sports app 
for eight years consecutively, downloaded more than 11 
million times annually. At $19.99/year for premium features, 
fans receive live broadcasts, highlights, and a dense array 
of interactive information including schedules, rosters, and 
stats.


MLB At the Ballpark has used Apple’s iBeacon technology 
to transform how fans experience live games. iBeacon uses 
geofencing technology to track fans and send relevant mes-
sages and offers to their iPhones based on their location at 
a ballpark. Fans receive coupons for concessions and offers 
for apparel and merchandise at optimal times when they 
near certain areas in the stadium. This has the dual effect 
of driving revenue per fan while also making fans more en-
gaged with timely and customizable team information and 
video highlights.


MLB At Bat and MLB At the Ballpark are excellent exam-
ples of how professional sports leagues adopt all applicable 
new technologies to improve their business instead of being 
displaced by them.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
16http://sumzero.com


BAM Tech


In August 2015, MLBAM approved the spin-off of its 
streaming technology division (BAM Tech) as an indepen-
dent company (excluding MLB-specific properties).


In August 2016, ESPN (Disney) purchased a 1/3 stake in 
BAM Tech for $1 billion with the option to purchase a 
majority share. ESPN’s intention is to develop an over-the-
top subscription streaming service. At this stage, the service 
would not include any current ESPN channel or its content, 
but tap into rights held by BAM Tech, MLB and NHL, and 
additional ESPN-held college rights.


Another 10% of BAM Tech is granted to the NHL in ex-
change for a $600 million deal for MLBAM to manage the 
league’s digital properties for six years. The remaining 57% 
of BAM Tech is worth ~$1.71 billion per the ESPN transac-
tion ($57 million per team).


MLBAM and BAM Tech Valuation


MLBAM reportedly generated $620 million in revenue in 
2012. Total valuation including BAM Tech is estimated at 
$6.75 billion by Evercore ISI ($225 million per team). Little 
financial data is publicly available for MLBAM, so this could 
potentially contribute to difficulty in valuing BATR.


Precedent Transactions


*Note: Full precedent transactions chart is available on 
sumzero.com.


Everyone trying to value the Braves looks at the Forbes esti-
mate and at revenue multiples of recent transactions. Even 
Liberty Braves management cited the Forbes valuation in 
their April 2016 presentation. By their November 2016 pre-
sentation, they began to show revenue multiples for recent 
transactions. The Forbes valuations, as discussed earlier, 
notoriously underestimate actual market transactions due 
to their backward-looking approach. Since 2012, the noted 
exceptions to these rules were the Jaguars and Browns, who 
were (and are) the lowest of the Tier 3 NFL teams. 


However, looking at simple averages doesn’t tell a complete-


ly accurate picture. Liberty Braves uses the simple average 
of MLB and NBA revenue multiples since 2012 to apply to 
their own NAV (4.5x). The primary flaw with this method 
is that each league is “tiered” into three distinct groups 
of teams with their own multiple ranges: high-revenue 
teams that continuously drive attendance and viewership, 
mid-revenue teams with cyclical popularity, and low-reve-
nue teams that have been consistently unpopular for years. 
Each tier has its own revenue multiple range that is the 
ultimate determinant of real-world transaction pricing. 


MLB Team Tiers


Tier # Teams Avg. Revenue Avg. Forbs EV Avg. Forbes Mul-
tiple Implied Private Multiple


• 1st Top 7 $390 million $2.3 billion 5.8x 7.9x


• 2nd Middle 12 $260 million $1.1 billion 4.3x 5.8x


• 3rd Bottom 11 $230 million $820 million 3.6x 4.9x


The Braves are currently Tier 2 but have historically been 
a Tier 1 team. Without any on-field performance improve-
ment, the new stadium construction will boost 2017 reve-
nues well into Tier 1 range again (even using conservative 
estimates). This has the double-effect of improving valu-
ation by increasing the revenue basis while also creating 
multiple expansion. The lowest Tier 1 revenue multiple is 
the Mets at 5.3x, according to Forbes. Applying an average 
Forbes premium of 36% yields an actual private market 
value multiple of 7.2x. The last time a Tier 1 baseball team 
was sold was the Dodgers in 2012, before a 30% increase in 
private market multiples. If the same Dodgers transaction 
were to occur in 2017, it would be for 6-7x revenue or more. 
Therefore, to value the Braves, a soon-to-be Tier 1 team, a 
4.5x multiple would be irresponsible. Of the 10 most recent 
transactions in NBA/MLB/NFL, six are Tier 3, one Tier 1 is 
excluded from averages, and the only other Tier 1 occurred 
5 years ago before a 30% multiple expansion. This average 
produces misleading results that analysts, investors, and 
management use, then everyone is surprised when the Clip-
pers sell for 13.7x. If the Braves are sold after penetrating 
Tier 1, it will certainly be for 6x or greater. However, using 
5x for valuation purposes ensures the highest degree of con-
servativism.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
17http://sumzero.com


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full BATRK:US report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
18http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Special Situations


Voya Financial Inc
Class:  Equity Symbol:  VOYA:US Updated:  12/9/16 Posted:  12/6/16


EXPECTED RETURN


98.3%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Eric Gregg


Four Tree Island Advisory LLC


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years
SITUATION:


Value
MARKET CAP:


7.7B USD


Positioned to be the “Comeback” Life Insurance/Retirement Services stock 


of 2017 – “Orange Money” Voya Financial


About Eric Gregg
Eric Gregg is the Principal and Founder of Four Tree Island Advisory LLC (“FTIA”), a long-
only registered investment advisory firm that opened to outside investors in 2011. Eric 
spent 15 years in investment banking in New York City starting in Credit at Goldman Sachs 
and finishing at Credit Suisse in a corporate advisory group helping companies focus 
on ways to maximize shareholder value. After a couple years as CEO of an intellectual 
property firm, Eric launched FTIA.


About Four Tree Island Advisory LLC
FTIA manages separate accounts for high net worth and institutional investors across 
two primary strategies: Capital Appreciation and Total Return. The Capital Appreciation 
strategy is a concentrated value and GARP based strategy that is focused on beating the 
S&P 500 over the long-term. FTIA’s Total Return strategy is more diversified and focused 
on delivering a high income component and an absolute return (between income and 
capital appreciation) of 8-10% per annum.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
19http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  VOYA:US Updated:  12/9/16 Posted:  12/6/16


Voya Financial Inc


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Eric Gregg


Four Tree Island Advisory LLC


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 74%


Positioned to be the “Comeback” Life Insurance/


Retirement Services stock of 2017 – “Orange Money” 


Voya Financial


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Value
TARGET ALLOCATION:


5% - 10%
CATALYSTS:


M&A/Buyout 
Target


TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


98.3%


40.16 USD


78.00 USD


LO N G


• At 66% of book value, stock trades at less than half the 
book value of peers


• Despite a dramatic (~70%) recovery from its July 2016 
(post Brexit) low, VOYA shares have significantly lagged 
performance of peers ytd 2016 (7% total return vs. 30% 
for peer median)


• Anticipated December blockbuster IPO of Apollo’s 
Athene (fixed annuity provider) at 2x Voya’s valuation 
(mid-point of range) only further highlights the oppor-
tunity in Voya Financial


• Company strongly benefits from higher interest rates
• Company amidst multi-year turn around effort that’s 


leading to much improved ROE/ROC


• Management team led by a number of AIG alums that 
played a significant roll in AIG’s post financial crisis 
turnaround. We believe that management is strongly 
focused on turning around Voya Financial and ultimate-


ly selling the business.


• Aggressive share repurchase program has been (and 
will continue to be absent a step shift in VOYA’s share 
price) highly accretive to growth of book value per 
share


• Company has been working down its Closed Block Vari-
able Annuity (“CBVA”) business and pending regulato-
ry approval plans to make another significant offer to 
certain CBVA holders (to reduce the CBVA liability) in 
Q1 of 2017. Reductions in VOYA’s CBVA are an unadul-
terated positive for Voya shares as it de-risks an invest-
ment in Voya.


• Compelling takeout candidate for AIG, Prudential, 
Lincoln National, Principal Financial or even Metlife 
(especially if new administration diverts from the prior 
administration’s bias towards expanding the list of Sys-
temically Important Financial Institutions (“SIFI”))


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
20http://sumzero.com


• Recovery in energy prices and recent OPEC agreement 
lessens concern over energy related exposure in Voya’s 
investment portfolio


• Voya “Orange Money” campaign is effectively reposi-
tioning and establishing the Voya brand in the market-
place – which should accrue to long-term value cre-
ation for the company.


Key Risks


• Closed Block Variable Annuity business - if assump-
tions are not sufficiently conservative additions to 
reserves may be required


• An enduring return to rock-bottom interest rates would 
negatively impact the stock and in all likelihood require 
additional reserves


• Global/regional/or industry recession(s) could impact 
credit quality in Voya’s investment portfolio


• Question as to whether Voya is “sub-scale” and able to 
compete on a long-term basis vs. larger competitors


• If Voya has been or does in the future engage in uneth-
ical or unsavory activity that damages the company’s 
reputation (or makes a major actuarial mistake like ING 
did with its variable annuity business)


 Key Figures 


Background


Voya Financial (“VOYA”) is a retirement, investment and 
insurance company that serves approximately 13mm indi-
vidual and institutional clients. Until its IPO in May of 2013, 
Voya Financial was a wholly owned subsidiary of ING - 
formerly dubbed “ING US.” The Company was largely built 
through a series of acquisitions starting back in 1975 with 
the acquisition of Wisconsin National Life and followed by 
the acquisitions of:


• Midwestern United Life Insurance Company in 1976
• Security Life of Denver Insurance Company in 1977
• Equitable Life Insurance Company of Iowa in 1997
• Furman Selz, an investment advisory company in 1997


• ReliaStar Life Insurance Company (including Pilgrim 
Capital Corporation) in 2000


• Aetna Life Insurance and Annuity Company (including 
Aeltus Investment Management) in 2000


• CitiStreet in 2008


The divestiture of Voya by ING was not an opportunistic 
exercise. ING was compelled to sell off Voya Financial as a 
condition of its receipt of a bailout from the Dutch govern-
ment in the wake of the 2008/2009 financial crisis. ING 
sold Voya off in a series of six offerings between May of 
2013 and March of 2015 with every offering of the stock at 
a significant discount to book value per share. Of note, all 
offerings since the IPO were done at a higher price as a % 
of book value than where Voya currently trades. Exhibit 1 
below provides a broad overview of the offerings.


Exhibit 1


Discussion of Investment Thesis and Key Catalysts


Stock trades at a steep discount to book value and 
trades at an ever steeper discount to peers


As highlighted in the Key Data section, VOYA currently 
trades at 66% of book value vs. the peer median of 135%. 
This is a dramatic discount by any measure.   We will 
discuss later in this report the likely reasons for this steep 
discount, but we will emphasize in this section that we a) 
find this discount highly compelling and b) it provides a 
tremendous opportunity (that the company is availing itself 
of ) for the company to deliver rapid book value per share 
growth through the repurchase of shares at a substantial 
discount to book.


Despite a recent, sharp recovery in Voya’s share price, 
the stock has meaningfully underperformed peers in 
2016 leaving room for the company to catch-up


YTD the median company in Voya’s peer group has deliv-
ered +30% total return vs. Voya’s total return of 7%. We 
believe that there are two principal reasons for this un-
derperformance YTD: 1) continued overhang of the CBVA 
business and b) the market just being slow to re-focus on 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
21http://sumzero.com


the opportunity in VOYA shares. Voya is not nearly as estab-
lished in the market as its peers – each of which have been 
public for extended periods, have well recognized brands 
and have meaningful dividends. Historically, Voya has had 
high hedge fund ownership, which in and of itself may have 
played a significant roll in volatility in the shares.


Expected Athene IPO highlights steep undervaluation 
in VOYA shares


Apollo Management (majority owner) is anticipated to IPO 
Athene Holdings by mid-December. At the mid-point of the 
marketed range, the selling shareholders are expected to 
monetize in excess of $1 billion and the company secure an 
$8 billion+ valuation. At that mid-point of the range, Apollo 
will be selling its Athene shares at 1.2x book value – in line 
with peers, but 2x the valuation of Voya. We believe that 
this IPO will draw attention to the opportunity in VOYA 
shares.


Exhibit 2


Company strongly benefits from higher interest rates


Arguably the primary reason why Voya and its peer group 
hit trough valuations post Brexit was the concern about 
how record low interest rates, if they persisted, would im-


pact life insurers. Big picture, the concern for life insurers 
in a nominal interest rate environment is whether they will 
be able to meet all their policy obligations? But with interest 
rates having risen 100bps from the post Brexit lows (the 10 
year UST has risen from an all time low yield of 1.37% on 
July 8 to 2.37% currently) and the Federal Reserve appear-
ing increasingly likely to go on a series of Fed Funds rate 
increases over the next 12-24 months, risks of Voya being 
unable to reinvest monies at suitable rates have receded. 
The lessened risk is particularly relevant to Voya’s CBVA. 
Voya manages its CBVA not as a profit center, but as a busi-
ness it is working to run-off and at all times keep adequately 
capitalized from a regulatory and rating agency perspective. 
According to Voya’s Q3 earnings presentation, a 100bps 
increase in rates would have no negative impact in terms 
of capital and would result in a $200mm GAAP benefit to 
earnings (discussed in more detail in Exhibit 6).


Further, rising rates should allow Voya to make higher 
income off its cash investment products and short-term 
financial assets.


Company amidst multi-year turn around effort that is 
leading to much improved ROE and ROC


Exhibit 3


Highlighted in the Q3 2016 earnings presentation above 


12/5/16 VOYA Athene


Stock Price $39.50 $40.00


TTM Revenues $10,771 $4,090


Book value per share ex AOCI $60.07 $33.06


TTM Operating Earnings (pre-tax) $801 $587


TTM Operating Earnings (pre-tax) 
per share


$4.12 $2.90


P/Book ex AOCI 65.8% 121.0%


P/TTM Operating Earnings (pre-tax) 9.6 13.8


*Athene IPO is being marketed at $38-42 per share - $40 mid-point



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
22http://sumzero.com


is both the improvement that Voya has made on an ROE / 
ROC basis as well as the targets the company has put forth. 
Voya is a restructuring/operational improvement story. The 
company is in the midst of a cost reduction program that 
is expected to bring $100mm in annual expense savings by 
2018. The Company is well on its way (through investment 
in the business, cost reductions and returning capital to 
shareholders) of delivering highly attractive ROE and ROC .


Management team with restructuring chops led by 
a number of AIG alums that played a significant roll 
in AIG’s post financial crisis turnaround efforts. We 
believe that management is strongly focused on turn-
ing around Voya Financial and ultimately selling the 
business


Three of Voya’s senior management (CEO Rodney Martin, 
COO Alain Karaoglan and EVP (Operations and Continuous 
Improvement) Nan Ferrara) all came from AIG between 
2011 and 2012. Notably, Alain and Nan are principally fo-
cused on improving the profitability and returns of Voya’s 
core businesses. We believe that management is strongly 
focused on turning around Voya Financial and ultimately, 
should the markets prove sufficiently receptive, selling the 
business. There are over 3.6mm shares held in Voya’s 401K 
plans. Additionally, senior management and Voya’s board 
appear to have in excess of 2mm shares between actual 
stock holdings, restricted stock and performance based 
stock.


Aggressive share repurchase program has been (and 
will continue to be absent a step shift in VOYA’s share 
price) highly accretive to growth of book value per 
share 


Exhibit 4


Voya has spent almost $2.8 billion since the start of 2014 
repurchasing its own stock. This has led to a diluted share 
count at the end of Q3 2016 that is more than 25% below 
the share count at the time of the IPO. In addition, netting 
stock based compensation against the stock repurchases to 
date, Voya has effectively repurchased shares at a weighted 
average price of $41.80 per share or ~70% of the company’s 


current book value per share ex-AOCI. This has created, 
effectively $4.32 per share of book value for existing VOYA 
owners.


Going forward, Voya has $978mm of excess capital and 
approximately $830mm of share repurchase authoriza-
tion representing another ~10% of share outstanding at the 
current $39.50 stock price. The company committed to a 
minimum of $200 million of stock repurchase in Q4 and the 
rest of the share repurchase authorization has an expiration 
date of December 2017. If past behavior is any indication, 
Voya may very well complete its current authorization in 
advance of its expiration and announce another authoriza-
tion before the end of 2017.


The company’s repurchasing ~2% of its shares per quar-
ter, on average, provides some consistent buying support 
for Voya shares and should increasingly be taking weak 
hands out of Voya shares. None of Voya’s peers have been 
anywhere close to as aggressive as Voya has been in terms 
of buying back its shares since the start of 2014. The only 
peer even in the same ballpark is Lincoln National, which 
repurchased 13% of its stock (vs. 26% for Voya) over the 
comparable period. 


If Voya were able to complete its full authorization at $45 
per share, that would add another $1.2 in book value per 
share on top of the ~$4.6 in consensus earnings per share 
that is likely to accrue over the next five quarters. That $5.6 
per share represents ~10% book value per share growth over 
the next five quarters.


Company has been working down its Closed Block Vari-
able Annuity business and pending regulatory approval 
plans to make another significant offer to CBVA holders 
(to reduce the CBVA liability) in Q1 of 2017. Reductions 
in VOYA’s CBVA are an unadulterated positive for Voya 
shares as it de-risks an investment in the Company


Exhibit 5


The risks and market perceptions of the CBVA book will be 
discussed in later sections, but for the purposes of invest-
ment thesis and catalysts what must be noted is that Voya 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
23http://sumzero.com


has been shrinking this book of business (see Exhibit 5 
above) and plans to make another large effort to do so early 
in the near term. The company has a GMIB (guaranteed 
minimum investment benefit) enhanced surrender value 
offer filed with the SEC. This would be an enhanced offer 
to the prior three offers Voya made that led to $1 billion of 
accelerated accumulative runoff on that book of business.


Over the past three years, the size of the CBVA liability has 
declined by approximately 14%.


Compelling takeout candidate for AIG, Prudential, 
Lincoln National, Principal Financial or even Metlife 
(especially if new administration diverts from the prior 
administration’s bias towards expanding the list of Sys-
temically Important Financial Institutions (“SIFI”))


If Voya were to agree to it, the Company could be purchased 
at a 40% premium to its current value and still be purchased 
at a 30% discount to the P/Book value of its median peer 
($39.5 x 40% premium = $55.3 which is 94% of Q3 book 
value per share[1]– as the median peer trades at 135% of 
book value, a purchase of Voya at a 40% premium would be 
accretive on a market to book basis for all the public com-
petitors we have listed). 


Additionally, there is significant synergy potential if any of 
Voya’s large peers was looking to purchase the company.  
Voya’s “corporate expense” line has grown almost 100% on 
a run rate basis since 2014 on the back of investments to 
implement Voya’s continuous improvement program and, 
presumably, to build out the brand. Over the last four quar-
ters corporate expenses have averaged $82mm per quarter 
or $330mm in aggregate when total operating earnings 
were $800 over the period. To the extent another acquirer 
were able to cut those costs by, a third (conservatively), that 
would add an additional $110mm per year in pretax income 
to the business (a 14% increase over the last 12 month run 
rate).


While prior to the Trump election it would have been 
viewed as almost impossible that Metlife would consider 
purchasing Voya for fear of tripping a SIFI designation 
(they successfully fought to remain off the SIFI list), under 
a Trump administration it may be less likely that regulators 
are looking to expand the list of SIFI institutions. A po-
tentially less aggressive regulatory posture combined with 


higher rates are two noted positives for Voya under this new 
administration.


Recovery in energy prices and the recent OPEC agree-
ment to cut back on production lessen concern over 
energy related exposure in Voya’s investment portfolio


As is the case with banks, one of the key risks for insur-
ance companies is how much exposure they have to any 
one sector in their investment portfolio – especially if 
that sector is in distress. As oil prices continued to decline 
in late 2015 and early 2016, the market was particularly 
focused on Voya’s exposure to the energy sector. Over the 
past 12 months Voya has reduced that exposure on both an 
absolute basis (by 14%) and on a relative basis (to 7% of its 
investment portfolio on 9/30/16 from 8.7% of its investment 
portfolio as of 9/30/15).


The reduced exposure compounded by the improved out-
look for the energy sector have both de-risked an invest-
ment in Voya. 


Voya “Orange Money” campaign is effectively reposi-
tioning and establishing the Voya brand in the market-
place – which should inure to long-term value creation 
for the company 


When independent financial advisers are trying to advise 
their clients on options, having some brand recognition can 
be helpful. That is exactly what’s behind the Voya’s “Orange 
Money” campaign – most recently including an orange 
money, origami rabbit named “Vern.” We believe these 
efforts are helping further establish the brand and market 
position for Voya.   It cannot hurt when going up against 
Metlife’s Snoopy (at least until recently), Prudential’s rock 
and Lincoln National’s bust of Lincoln.


Thoughts on likely reasons for steep discount to peers 


Closed Block Variable Annuity Business


Voya’s Closed Block (run-off ) business represents approxi-
mately 17% of Voya’s asset base. No other major life insurer 
has such a large (as a % of assets) closed block of business 
on their balance sheet. Prudential’s closed block of business, 
the second largest on a percentage basis, represents only 8% 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
24http://sumzero.com


of Prudential’s balance sheet.


In early 2010, Voya stopped selling individual variable 
annuities and put the portfolio into run-off. This business 
line ended up being a bad idea as many policies included 
“substantial guarantee features” (often what’s called a 
guaranteed minimum income benefit or “GMIB”) that were 
particularly hard to meet in a low interest rate (and volatile 
equity market) environment.


ING took all these variable annuity policies, put enough 
capital against the book of business to make it actuarially 
sound and effectively ring fenced the business. Voya has 
hedged with a focus on protecting regulatory and rating 
agency capital. They do not run this book of business as a 
profit center and are actively taking steps to accelerate the 
run-off of the business. That said, absent a sale of the busi-
ness (which is eminently possible in the current environ-
ment), Voya’s CBVA will take many years (well more than a 
decade) to wind down.


What concerns investors focused on this book of business 
is what happens if everything goes wrong: i.e. morbidity 
declines (meaning obligations extend and increase), rates 
decline impacting their fixed income hedges (and ability to 
put on additional investments with sufficient returns) and 
the stock market shoots dramatically higher (as they are 
hedged against downside in the stock market they are also 
somewhat hedged on the upside).  Exhibit 6 on the follow-
ing page from Voya’s Q3 earning presentation highlights 


impacts of various rate and stock market scenarios. The 
upshot is this. While we believe that Voya has this business 
well managed and the market seems less concerned about 
the CBVA when the broader markets are healthy, when the 
market is experiencing bouts of mass anxiety (like it did im-
mediately after Brexit) the market, arguably, seems acutely 
disinterested in being exposed to Voya’s CBVA business.


Exhibit 6


ING holds warrants that expire in 2023 covering 26mm 
shares struck at $48.75 per share


Importantly the warrants are net share settled which means 
no cash will be paid by ING upon exercise of the warrants 
and that VOYA will provide ING consideration in shares 
upon exercise. We do not believe that this warrant overhang 
is a major reason for the steep discount in Voya shares, but 
it is something that needs to be accounted for and is unique 
to Voya in its peer group. We believe that as Voya’s stock 
price comes closer to or exceeds the exercise price of the 
warrants, that Voya is likely to offer to repurchase those 
warrants from ING. Voya shareholders would be even better 
off, in our opinion, if they could come to some agreement to 
buy those warrants back in the near-term.


In Exhibit 7 on the following page, we have run a sensitivity 
analysis highlighting how we believe the dilution from the 
ING warrants works. 


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full VOYA:US report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
25http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Special Situations


Adient Plc Com
Class:  Equity Symbol:  ADNT:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


EXPECTED RETURN


50.3%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Azhar Quader


Queens Court Capital


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years
SITUATION:


Value
MARKET CAP:


5.2B USD


Long Adient PLC (ADNT) as recent spin dynamics and independence from 


Johnson Controls will allow the company to execute on a business plan for 


top line growth and EBIT margin improvement.


About Azhar Quader
Azhar Quader is the Founder and Managing Partner of Queens Court Capital a value 
oriented partnership focused on public and private opportunities. Mr. Quader has over 
15 years of experience in public and private investing as well as building entrepreneurial 
ventures. Before founding Queens Court, Mr. Quader worked at Perry Capital where he 
focused on idea generation, research and opportunistic investing up and down the capital 
structure. Mr. Quader began his career at Credit Suisse within the Fixed Income Division 
after which held positions at Morgan Stanley and a family office. 


About Queens Court Capital
Queens Court Capital is a value oriented opportunistic partnership that takes a go-
anywhere approach to investments in a mission to compound capital at the highest 
rate possible. As part of its opportunistic approach QCC can invest in a variety of asset 
classes including credit, equities, private situations, illiquid situations, and off the run 
opportunities including trade claims, litigation finance, take-privates, and esoteric 
investments. Once an opportunity is identified, QCC performs rigorous fundamental 
analysis and “off-line” due diligence to get a variant view and develop a thesis.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
26http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  ADNT:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


Adient Plc Com


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Azhar Quader


Queens Court Capital


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 57%


Long Adient PLC (ADNT) as recent spin dynamics and 


independence from Johnson Controls will allow the 


company to execute on a business plan for top line 


growth and EBIT margin improvement.


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Value
TARGET ALLOCATION:


5% - 10%
CATALYSTS:


Spin Off
TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


50.3%


54.13 USD


84.00 USD


LO N G


Independence from JCI:  ADNT was part of a global 
multi-industry company where it was capital constrained 
and is being spun “clean” with a leaner cost structure.  Man-
agement is targeting $100m in net earnings benefit from 
restructuring and cost-cleanups. 


Spin Dynamics:  Spin dynamics are obscuring earnings 
power of the business as there are many one time restruc-
turing and separation charges. 


Variant View of Intrinsic Value:  Street looks at the auto 
supplier business from EV/EBITDA basis which is not ap-
propriate given  (1) lower corp tax rate, (2) China JV equity 
income is not appropriately valued (3) does not capture or 
give credit to deleveraging story and earnings impact  


Tax Efficiency:  Domiciled in Ireland which long term is 


10-12% tax base


Industry Leader:  ADNT is a market leader in complete 
range of seating products support all major automakers 
delivering 25m seat systems a year with 34% global market 
share in a $60B industry


Quality Management and BoD:  Former CFO from Vis-
teon; focus is on cash flow generation to pay down debt, 
invest in the business and return capital to shareholders


Financial Strength:  Net Debt/EBITDA at 2.0 and actively 
de-levering; longer term debt maturities;  $550m cash on 
balance sheet; minimal working capital needs; company is 
focused on FCF generation used to pay down debt, invest in 
growth and shareholder friendly actions


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
27http://sumzero.com


Summary


Catalysts: management execution against stated cost goals, 
initiation of dividend policy, shareholder base turnover, 
decrease in leverage and upgrade to IG credit


Risk to long thesis include:  Peak auto SAAR, China macro, 
OEM pricing pressure


(1) Adient is a high quality company with a wide moat 
that happens to have classic spinoff + event stock dy-
namics


• Background: JCI and Tyco merger closed on 9/2/16. 
JCI Board approved spinoff on 9/8 and ADNT officially 
became an independent company on 10/31


• Shareholder Dynamics: JCI is an industrial franchise 
business and Tyco shareholders are not familiar ADNT. 
As such stock had initial negative pressure.


(2) Adient now independent is undergoing changes 
which will increase earnings power of the business


• Leaner cost structure: Restructuring and cost reduc-
tions will increase profitability of the business


• Management expects a 200 bps margin improvement 
over mid-term


• Limited pension liabilities
• Automotive not burdened with stranded corporate 


costs


• Focused management team: focused on improving 
FCF generation, increasing margins, deleveraging, and 
returning capital to shareholders


(3) Adient has many hidden levers and is misunderstood 
by the Street


• Net cash on Chinese JV balance sheet
• Lower going forward tax base (10-12%)
• Growing equity income from Chinese JV
• Lower future capex due to reduced cash restructuring 


and one time IT startup costs


• Can invest in restructuring weaker divisions (e.g. met-
als/mechanisms)


• Variant perception: Street buckets this into auto sup-
pliers and slaps EV/EBITDA of 5-6x but clearly the 
company should get fuller value for Chinese JV equity 
income growing at 14% CAGR + lower corp tax rate and 
positive earnings impact from declining leverage over 
time


Company Description


World’s largest automotive seating supplier delivering 25+ 
million seat systems a year with market leadership in Amer-
icas, Europe and China.


36% market share in Americas, 38% market share in Eu-
rope, 44% market share in China


50% larger than #2 in Americas, 2x larger than #2 in Eu-
rope, 4x larger than #2 in China


Operates 230 wholly owned manufacturing facilities with 
operations in 33 countries and ~75,000 employees (4500 of 
which are engineers)


Complete suite of automotive seating solutions including 
seating systems, frames, mechanisms, foam, head restraints, 
armrests, trim covers, and fabrics – emphasis and distinc-
tion on quality, technology and performance


By far market leader in each individual category listed 
above


Provides such solutions to over 190 automotive OEM cus-
tomers 


Dominant leader in China through 17 joint ventures, 3 tech 
centers and 31,000 employees across 32 cities


On average JV’s have 50% ownership


ADNT brings technology products, management and sys-
tems.  China partner brings market access, local knowledge, 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
28http://sumzero.com


connections, and commercial support


For years was growth engine of Johnson Controls and was 
often capital constrained


Talented management team with strong vision and mission 
statement


Diversified high quality customer base: largest customer is 
Ford at 13% of sales and FCAU with 12%


Key Investment Highlights


(1) Wide And Growing Moat and durable competitive 
advantages:   ADNT is a market leader not only by reve-
nues and geography but by sub-segment in which it oper-
ates – it has erected significant barriers to entry by provid-
ing a complete solution to automotive OEMs from design to 
delivery.  The company is also ahead of the curve in con-
nected/autonomous cars and on top of industry trends for 
passenger focused technologies


Why durable competitive advantage? 


1. Scale required player with just in time capabilities to 
190 OEMs including top brands worldwide – twice the 
mkt. share of #2 competitor Lear;


2. Specialist knowledge that is highly difficult to replicate 
– 4500 engineers, 14 technology development centers 
located near OEMs and 9 regional engineering offices; 
capable of full design and engineering from product 
planning/design to prototype/testing and production


3. Think global/act local: regional level monopolies – 230 
manufacturing facilities in 33 countries capable of JIT 
delivering to OEM; 


4. Product quality and service far superior to competition


5. Doesn’t face threat of substitution as much as OEM 
requirement and demands only increasing – OEMs 
requiring suppliers to respond faster with new designs 
and product innovations


(2) Significant Margin Uplift Opportunity: Margins are 
below peers despite being much larger and was due to being 
part of a larger global industrial company


Management calling for 200 bps opportunity in core EBIT 
margins with primary drivers being leaner cost structure 
and metals integration (see below); implementation of glob-
al operating system further operational efficiencies


SGA as % revenue vs Lear – alone could be 150-200  bps of 
rationalization (see below)


Significant restructuring program to deliver $100mm net 
earnings benefit


Metals & Mechanism business is $3B consisting of multiple 
acquisitions not fully integrated:


• JCI unwilling to let them spend to restructure and inte-
grate the business


• Takes time to move production from Germany plant to 
lower cost structure


• Could ultimately get to 10% margins in this business or 
180 additional margin improvement


(3) China JV:  ADNT entered China early, invested in 
local partners and is now bearing the fruit of its success.  
The Chinese JVs drive a good portion of ADNT earnings 
growth and double digit operating margins demonstrate the 
strength of business.


–Today 30% of revenues ($7.3B) and 24% of Net Income 
from China alone


–Invested $150m in cash since 1997 and received dividends 
of over $1B


–Regional/Country DOMINANCE: 17 Joint Ventures (aver-
age JVs have 50% ownership),


3 tech centers, 1300 engineers, 32 cities, 60 manufacturing 
plants, 31,000 employees


–Higher top line growth than industry and EBITDA mar-
gins at 12%



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
29http://sumzero.com


–Business has 45% market share and is 4x the next largest 
competitor and expecting to grow to 55% market share by 
2021


–Growing business:  Expanding operations to non-Tier 1 
cities and positioned to growth through


JV structure with all OEMs.  Further demand in SUV/pre-
mium auto segment is fueling uptick.   Expecting business 
to continue   to grow 3-5% annually for next decade which 
is a conservative figure


–Auto market continues to grow more rapidly than other 
markets at 4% CAGR and 27m in light vehicle sales in 2016


–Growing bottom line: See below 14% 5YR CAGR in Net 
Income from JV. 65-70% of annual JV income paid as cash 
dividends.  Resulted in $357m in Equity income and cash 
dividends of ~$200m in FYE 2016 alone


–Very low debt balance sheet on JVs; YFJC has $600m of 
net cash on balance sheet or $300 to ADNT (50% owner-
ship).  Assuming all JVs have equivalent cash could be $8 
per share of just CASH in China to ADNT


(4) Hidden Normalized Earnings Power: significant 
amount of costs in business in 2016 was one time expens-
es including separation, restructuring, non-recurring tax 
expense, MtM on Pension.  According to the company net 
income would have actually gone up by $219m from FYE 
2015


Assuming management view on margin improvement com-
pany can easily generate $13-14 of EPS by 2020.


Assuming management guidance the company could ramp 
to $1.072B by 2019 representing a normalized FCF yield of 
20% to the market cap today.


(5) Unconstrained and Positioned for Growth: outside of 
the constraints of JCI, ADNT has a lean and improving cost 
structure and can pursue several initiatives including


–Not burdened with stranded corporate costs and strong 


backlog of business (can invest more to win more)


–Restructuring of the metals & mechanism business to a 
lower cost base


–Further investment into regional manufacturing centers as 
well as new technologies for the future of driving (autono-
mous cars)


–Growth into regions where it isn’t as dominant such as SE 
Asia, Japan, Korea


–Opportunistic M&A of new passenger seat technologies 
such as occupant sensing, connected car interior solutions, 
internet of things, etc.


–Opportunities for growth outside traditional auto markets 
such as railway seating, commercial vehicle seating, aircraft 
seating


(6) Lower tax rate vs peers:  domiciled in Ireland the tax 
base is 10-12%; even if Trump administration cuts corporate 
taxes will still be very competetive to Lear.  As such indus-
try analysts should focus on EPS and not EV/EBITDA when 
looking at ADNT


(7) Financial Strength:  Lowly levered at 2x and expect-
ed to decline materially – eventual transition to IG rating; 
policy of maintaining $500m of cash and a credit facility 
of $1.5B; low capex requirements of 3% of sales; dividend 
paid out of CFO not borrowings; small pension; materially 
increasing normalized cash flows


(8) Lower Pension Liabilities: Approx $100M of unfunded 
liability vs. automotive peers with large unfunded positions 
and Lear with $250m of unfunded liability – adds to under-
valuation of name


(9) Management Quality:  focused on free cash flow 
generation, investing in business to support organic growth 
and shareholder value (return of capital);  former CFO from 
Visteon who was very successful in that role in mid 2014 
purchased JCI’s electrical business and less than 2 years 
tripled EBITDA far exceeding timing and cost savings



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
30http://sumzero.com


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full ADNT:US report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
31http://sumzero.com


Monday, May 8, 2017


David Geffen Hall  |  Lincoln Center  |  NYC


The Sohn Conference Foundation spearheads the premier series of 
philanthropic investment conferences across the globe to benefit 


children’s causes and scientific research. Its flagship Sohn Investment 
Conference in New York City raises funds for its signature cause of 


pediatric cancer research and care.  


Sohn Investment 
Conference


22ND ANNUAL


For sponsorship opportunities contact paula@sohnconference.org


REGISTER TODAY
sohnconference.org


Upcoming Sohn Conferences


New York
May 8, 2017


Hong Kong
June 7, 2017


India 
June 2017


Tel Aviv
October 2–3, 2017


Australia
November 2017


London
November 30, 2017


San Francisco
October 4, 2017


Canada
October 18–19, 2017



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sohnconference.org

mailto:paula%40sohnconference.org?subject=Sponsorship%20Opportunities
32http://sumzero.com


2 Shorts
All ideas within this category must be direc-
tionally short bets against a company’s stock. 
Factored into consideration is the availability 
of shares to short (i.e. borrow), as well as the 
cost to short. Roughly 20% of research ideas 
on SumZero are short-focused.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
33http://sumzero.com


Winner
Best Short


Wingstop Inc Com
Class:  Equity Symbol:  WING:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/15/16


EXPECTED RETURN


65.4%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Adam Patinkin


David Capital Partners, LLC


S H O R T
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years
SITUATION:


Contrarian
MARKET CAP:


829.6M USD


We think richly-valued Wingstop Inc. has 70%+ downside to fair value as 


(i) same-store sales growth goes from positive to negative and (ii) unit 


expansion misses expectations.


About Adam Patinkin
Mr. Adam J. Patinkin, CFA, is the Managing Member and Portfolio Manager of David 
Capital Partners, LLC. Prior to founding David Capital Partners, LLC, Mr. Patinkin was a 
member of the investment team at Chicago-based Sheffield Asset Management, L.L.C., 
a $500M long/short equity hedge fund. At Sheffield, Mr. Patinkin was responsible for 
sourcing and evaluating investment opportunities in public securities and commodities 
markets on a global basis. Mr. Patinkin specializes in cyclical industries and businesses 
undergoing substantial structural or competitive change. 


About David Capital Partners
David Capital Partners, LLC (“DCP”) is a long/short equity hedge fund manager based 
in Chicago, IL. The firm’s investment philosophy is “valuation plus a catalyst”: DCP seeks 
out investment opportunities on a global basis that are both materially mispriced relative 
to intrinsic value and that also have one or more clear, identifiable catalysts to cause the 
security to revert to fair value. DCP’s investment process is bottom-up, research-intensive, 
and utilizes both quantitative and qualitative analysis. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
34http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  WING:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/15/16


Wingstop Inc Com


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Adam Patinkin


David Capital Partners, LLC


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 67%


We think richly-valued Wingstop Inc. has 70%+ downside to 


fair value as (i) same-store sales growth goes from positive to 


negative and (ii) unit expansion misses expectations.


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Contrarian
TARGET ALLOCATION:


2% - 5%
CATALYSTS:


Insider Buying/
Selling


TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


64.9%


31.56 USD


10.00 USD


S H O R T


Featured Short Position: Wingstop Inc. (NASDAQ: WING)


Our Featured Short Position is Wingstop Inc. (“Wingstop” 
or “WING”), a franchisor of chicken wing restaurants head-
quartered in Dallas, Texas.  WING shares are listed on the 
NASDAQ Stock Exchange and currently trade for roughly 
$32 per share ($925M market cap).  Taking into account the 
firm’s $150M of net debt, Wingstop’s total enterprise value 
is just shy of $1.1B.


The investment community views Wingstop as a growth 
concept with a long runway; as a result, the company’s 
shares are richly-valued at 32x EV/EBITDA.  Our variant 
view is that Wingstop is an indebted, mediocre concept in 
a highly-competitive industry that should be valued in-line 
with its restaurant franchisor peers, which trade for 9-10x 
EV/EBITDA.  As unit expansion fails to meet expectations 
and same-store sales go from positive to negative, we think 


WING has substantial downside of 70%+ to a sub-$10 share 
price.


The Boom in Restaurant IPOs


Each year, our team meets with 300+ publicly-traded com-
panies from around the globe.


These meetings serve several purposes.  They are an ongo-
ing source of new potential investment opportunities.  They 
provide us with a unique, real-time perspective on the US 
and world economy.  And they help us identify trends in the 
investment world – which companies are “hot” or popular 
at the moment, and which are not.


In 2014 and 2015, we noticed an emerging theme: restaurant 


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
35http://sumzero.com


operators had suddenly become fashionable.  Valuations 
for restaurant companies, especially concepts with growth 
potential, had reached record highs – and restauranteurs 
responded by raising enormous sums of capital to grow 
their businesses.  Spurred on by the Jumpstart Our Business 
Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), which reduced the 
disclosure requirements and cost of going public for sub-$1 
billion market capitalization firms, a wave of restaurant 
IPO’s hit the market.  On average, these newly-public firms 
projected a quadrupling of store locations in coming years 
(see Exhibit A).


To us, such aspirations set alarm bells ringing.  A surge in 
restaurant openings of this magnitude, we believed, would 
lead many operators to experience revenue and profit 
declines on a per-restaurant basis.  Furthermore, while the 
JOBS Act eased the regulatory burden on small businesses, 
it seemed just a matter of time before shakier firms that 
might not have passed a traditional IPO vetting process took 
advantage of the new rules.


Small-cap restaurants, in our minds, seemed a rich hunting 
ground to look for new short positions.


A Double Thesis


Which brings us to Wingstop.


At a high level, Wingstop checks many boxes.  It is a recent 
small-cap restaurant IPO that came public via the JOBS Act.  
The business is decent but not great, with a replicable con-
cept (cooked-to-order chicken wings) and same-store sales 
growth (“SSS” or “comps”) of 3-4% that puts it squarely 
middle-of-the-range relative to peers.  The disconnect be-
tween WING’s business quality and its valuation is substan-
tial, as the firm’s shares trade at far-outside-the-mainstream 
multiples of revenue, EBITDA, and earnings per share.


Our thesis, however, is about more than just business qual-
ity and valuation.  Our view is that consensus expectations 
for unit growth and SSS are too high and that WING will 
meaningfully disappoint on both fronts in the next 12-24 
months, leading to reduced profit expectations and a severe 
de-rating of its valuation multiples.


Exhibit A: Restaurant IPOs


Sources: Public Filings, David Capital Partners



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
36http://sumzero.com


With respect to unit growth, consensus forecasts have 
WING’s store count rising from 1,000 locations today to 
nearly 1,500 locations by the end of 2019, an increase of 
close to 50% in three years’ time.  The crux of WING’s bull 
case centers on reaching these ambitious unit growth tar-
gets.  In contrast, we are skeptical that WING can do so.  In 
our experience, as a retail concept passes the 50% threshold 
relative to its long-term saturation target (in this case, 2,500 
domestic stores), unit growth becomes increasingly difficult 
as (i) the best locations are already taken (WING is now 
present in 40 US states) and (ii) new locations risk canni-
balizing sales from existing stores.


Importantly, we already see signs of stress in the WING 
system.  A review of franchise reseller websites turns up 
numerous Wingstop franchises for sale; in Chicago alone, 
more than 30% of stores are currently on the market.  This 
poses a serious headwind to unit growth as prospective 
franchisees may elect to purchase an operating location 
instead of taking the risk of greenfield expansion.  Even 
worse, asking prices are hardly inspiring, with a typical 
seller suggesting a value of only 3-4x EBITDA – indicating a 
lack of confidence in future profits.


Another red flag we look for with franchisors are “Hail 
Mary” expansion deals in far-flung places.  Such deals often 
serve as warnings that attractive opportunities closer to 
home may no longer be available.  In recent months, WING 
has inked deals with partners to open 30 stores in Colombia 
and Panama, 15 stores in the United Arab Emirates, and 100 
stores in Saudi Arabia.  It’s hard enough to open a store in a 
new city or new state – trying to do so continents away, with 
a chicken wing concept that may or may not translate cul-
turally, is a different game entirely.  With the best locations 
already taken, cannibalization risks rising, existing franchi-
sees selling, and the company “reaching” for growth, our 
view is that WING is at real risk of missing its unit growth 
forecasts.


With respect to comps, we think the peril is even worse.  
Same-store sales growth has significantly decelerated over 
the last year, falling more than half from +8% SSS in 2015 to 
guidance of less than +4% SSS in 2016.  We think the down-
ward trend is set to continue for two reasons.  First, younger 
stores tend to achieve stronger comps than more-stabilized 
mature stores as they build up a customer base.  As ma-
ture restaurants become a larger percentage of the store 


base due to the “law of large numbers” – and as new stores 
increasingly open in secondary and tertiary locations – a 
structural headwind develops that makes it difficult to 
achieve attractive SSS.


Second, we are concerned about traffic trends.  We recent-
ly analyzed Wingstop menu pricing using the Wayback 
Machine (a digital archive of internet web pages), which 
indicated that over the last two years WING raised prices 
at a 3-4% annual rate.  As comps represent the combined 
effect of pricing and traffic, the data suggests WING’s traffic 
in 2015 was about +4%, but that 2016 traffic is close to flat 
and likely to go negative in Q4 2016 (based on company 
SSS guidance).  This is a deeply concerning data point, 
as WING’s price increases appear to be having a negative 
effect on customer counts.  Should WING ever find itself 
unable to raise prices, we think WING’s comps are at risk 
of going from positive to negative – a scenario currently 
unimaginable to most investors.


A Chicken Conspiracy?


Contrary to the market’s view, we expect comps to turn 
negative within 12-24 months.


The reason?  In a word: chicken.  And it’s a heck of a story.


Over the last year-and-a-half, restaurants have faced an 
increasingly difficult operating environment.  Grocery 
stores have experienced significant price deflation, making 
it relatively more attractive for consumers to cook at home 
instead of going out to eat at restaurants (see Exhibit B).  
As a wide swath of food commodities have fallen in price 
due to oversupplied markets (pork, beef, corn, milk, etc.), 
grocery stores have reduced prices while restaurants, faced 
with rising labor costs and property rents, and flush with 
the accumulated profits of an extended period of cyclically 
good performance, have been reluctant to match the price 
reductions.


An important exception to this divergence has been the 
price of chicken.  Two years ago, we wrote about our short 
thesis for the major US-based chicken companies predicat-
ed on our view that a looming increase in chicken produc-
tion would prove devastating to chicken prices and there-
fore to the respective companies’ stock prices.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
37http://sumzero.com


As it turned out, we were half correct.  The supply response 
materialized and USDA chicken prices, used to price chick-
en purchased by food service customers (such as restau-
rants), fell precipitously.  Something curious happened, 
however, to the Georgia Dock Price – the benchmark most 
retail customers (i.e., grocery stores) use to price chicken.  It 
didn’t move.  For a commodity that has been highly vola-


tile over time, the price stability for the last two years has 
been unusual and perplexing (see Exhibit C).  With retail 
chicken prices (i.e., prices in the grocery store) remaining 
high, restaurants such as Wingstop have had little incentive 
to pass along price reductions to their customers.  Instead, 
restaurants have maintained and even raised prices for 
chicken products.


Exhibit B: Food Index: Away from Home vs. At Home


Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics


Exhibit C: USDA Composite vs. Georgia Dock


Sources: US Department of Agriculture, Georgia Department of Agriculture



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
38http://sumzero.com


In September 2016, an anti-trust lawsuit was filed against 
US chicken producers by an industry distributor alleging 
collusion and price-fixing by those companies.  The details 
that have emerged since are remarkable.


The USDA chicken price and similar benchmarks (such as 
the Urner Barry Chicken Price Index) conduct broad sur-
veys of industry participants, often 100+ for each survey, to 
determine current pricing.  The Georgia Dock Price, it turns 
out, is a survey of only eight-to-ten chicken producers who 
participate anonymously.  Their responses are not verified 
or cross-checked, and are weighted based on the production 
capacity of each company that participates.  In other words, 
just a few companies can effectively set the market price by 
which they contractually sell their product (an estimated 
25% of all chicken is priced off the Georgia Dock Price via 
1-to-3 year contracts) without any oversight or independent 
verification.  Every incentive exists to quote a higher price.


And that appears to be exactly what has happened.  In an 
internal memo published by the Washington Post, the indi-
vidual responsible for compiling the Georgia Dock Price – a 
trained gardener with no previous agribusiness experience 
– wrote that the Georgia Dock Price had become “a flawed 
product that is a liability to the Georgia Department of 
Agriculture” and that he had “come to question the validity 
of some of the information provided,” even going so far as 
to outline the exact methodology by which the index was 
being manipulated higher.
In the aftermath of these allegations, the Georgia Depart-
ment of Agriculture required chicken producers to sign 
sworn affidavits that the pricing information provided for 
the Georgia Dock Price is accurate.  For the last two weeks, 
the Georgia Dock Price has failed to publish for lack of 
responses.


The potential implications of the lawsuit and price-fixing 
allegations are enormous.  If indeed the major US chicken 
companies engaged in price fixing, they may have over-
charged consumers who purchased chicken at grocery 
stores by as much as 20-30c per pound.  With close to 20 
billion pounds of chicken sold through this channel each 
year, the costs to these companies in dollars – not to men-
tion reputation – could be staggering.


Returning to Wingstop, our view is that one way or anoth-
er – either because the Georgia Dock Price comes back 
in-line with the USDA Composite, or because the Georgia 


Dock Price is dropped altogether as an industry pricing 
mechanism – we think retail chicken prices will soon drop 
materially.  When that happens, we believe the current 
“goldilocks” environment, where Wingstop can purchase 
its chicken off a low-priced benchmark but sell it in compe-
tition with grocery stores that price chicken via a different 
and more expensive benchmark, will end.


That means Wingstop may have to reduce prices for chick-
en wings, by far its #1 product, just to stay competitive 
with retail chicken.  Pricing could well go negative.  And as 
comps represent the combined effect of pricing and traffic 
(which likely is already down year-on-year), our view is that 
comps will go negative too.  If and when that happens, we 
think the 32x EV/EBITDA multiple the company receives 
today will quickly fade into history.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
39http://sumzero.com


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full WING:US report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
40http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Short


Spark Energy Inc Cl A
Class:  Equity Symbol:  SPKE:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


EXPECTED RETURN


65.3%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Saidal Mohmand


GrizzlyRock Capital


S H O R T
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


6 Mo. - 1 Year
SITUATION:


Other
MARKET CAP:


187.4M USD


Unsustainable churn, set-up to enrich Keith Maxwell, weak dividend/retail 


shareholder base, accounting games.


About Saidal Mohmand
Saidal plays an integral role in GrizzlyRock’s investment idea generation, analysis and 
portfolio management. Saidal began his career in research at Greenleaf Trust, a leading 
trust company in Michigan. Prior to joining GrizzlyRock Capital, Saidal served as an analyst 
for a regional bank’s Sponsor Leveraged Finance team based in Chicago. Saidal holds a 
B.B.A. in Finance and Accounting from Western Michigan University (Magna Cum Laude).


About GrizzlyRock Capital
GrizzlyRock Capital seeks to invest in mispriced corporate securities with the goal of 
providing investors exemplary risk-adjusted returns via long / short corporate credit and 
equity securities. We demand a substantial mispricing opportunity to warrant investment; 
the result is a focused portfolio with low correlation to corporate risk markets.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
41http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  SPKE:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


Spark Energy Inc 


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Saidal Mohmand


GrizzlyRock Capital


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 97%


Unsustainable churn, set-up to enrich Keith Maxwell, 


weak dividend/retail shareholder base, accounting 


games.


ASSET CLASS:


Equity


SITUATION:


Other
TARGET ALLOCATION:


1% - 1.5%
CATALYSTS:


Regulatory 
Change


TIMEFRAME:


6 Mo. - 1 Year


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


65.3%


29.50 USD


10.00 USD


S H O R T


Spark Energy, Inc. (“Spark”, “SPKE” or the “Company”) is 
an energy service company (“ESCO”) selling natural gas and 
electricity to retail and commercial clients across 16 states 
and 66 utility service territories. A member of the JOBS Act 
Class of 2014, Spark is a roll-up founded in 1999 and is head-
quartered in Houston, Texas. As of 12/15/2016, Spark has a 
pro-forma market cap of $500 million, enterprise value of 
$620 million (inclusive of ~$50MM tax receivable liability) 
and trades for 14x GR Adj. EBITDA of ~$45 million.


The short selling thesis behind Spark is fairly straight 
forward. Spark is a low quality business that takes advan-
tage of customers, pays an unsustainable dividend, and has 
crafted a nefarious web of related entities concocted by its 
chairman W. Keith Maxwell (see the corporate entity chart 
below) to milk Spark Energy at the expense of customers, 
ratepayers and shareholders. After reading numerous law-
suits and hundreds of consumer complaints, it is painfully 
evident Spark Energy is a modern-day Stratton Oakmont 
equivalent to the retail energy industry. While the Wolf of 


Wall Street preyed on the middle class, Spark and the ESCO 
industry have shown no boundaries by taking advantage of 
low income consumers, non-English speakers, the elderly 
and a plethora of unsuspecting homeowners. Further, as 
we will delve upon later in this report, Spark has associated 
itself with questionable characters, including one who was 
recently indicted for involvement in an energy scam.


 Beyond the repulsive items mentioned above, at the end of 
the day Spark Energy operates a low-quality business model 
with egregiously high customer churn of over 60% per 
annum, increasing customer acquisition costs, low barriers 
to entry and is drastically over-valued vis-à-vis a plethora 
of private market transactions, all while boasting more cus-
tomer complaints than the slimiest used car dealership.


 Importantly, there are multiple near-term hard catalysts 
over the next six months including regulator intervention in 
states such as New York which have enacted rules that will 
instantly eliminate 5% to 18% of Spark’s current subscriber 


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
42http://sumzero.com


base and substantially increase customer acquisition costs.


Spark equity offers a highly asymmetric return profile.  
When the aforementioned catalysts occur over the next six 
months, we expect the stock price will re-rate downwards 
to ~$10 per share offering a 70% return. If additional regu-
lation is announced or the Company can no longer acquire 
competitors to replenish churn, the entire public equity is 
likely worthless.


Business


Spark Energy, Inc. is an independent retail energy services 
company also known as an “ESCO” which provide resi-
dential and commercial customers in competitive markets 
across the United States with natural gas and electricity. 
SPKE purchases natural gas and electricity supply from 
a variety of wholesale providers and bills their customers 
monthly for the delivery of natural gas and electricity based 
on their consumption at either a fixed or variable price. 


Natural gas and electricity are then distributed to their cus-
tomers by local regulated utility companies through their 
existing infrastructure. As of May 2016, Spark Energy had 
750,000 residential consumer equivalents (“RCE”) pro-for-
ma for their two latest transactions.


How does Spark make money? We can describe it over the 
following three steps


Phase 1: Collect Customers. Spark hires a sales & marketing 
firm or sends its own employees/contractors door to door in 
unregulated energy states such as Illinois or New York.


Phase 2: ???. These door to door sales representatives 
ask for the homeowner’s energy bill (sometimes illegally 
portraying themselves as a local utility employee) and often 
pitch an intricate sales script on how the homeowner qual-
ifies for a discount or that they can lower their utility bill. 
These representatives through their sheer aggressiveness 
and inability to back down, compel these customers into 
handing over their bill. Sadly, there have been quite a few 


How Does Spark Make Money?


Step 1  - Collect Customers


Step 2  - ???


Step 3  - Profit


Spark hires a sales & marketing firm or sends its own employees/contractors 
door to door in unregulated energy states such as Illinois or New York.


These door to door sales representatives ask for the homeowner’s energy 
bill (sometimes illegally portraying themselves as a local utility employee) 
and often pitch an intricate sales script on how the homeowner qualifies 
for a discount or that they can lower their utility bill. These representatives 
through their sheer aggressiveness and inability to back down, compel these 
customers into handing over their bill. Sadly, there have been quite a few 
cases of consumers being from low-income, non-English speakers or elderly 
demographics.


Once signed (knowing or unknowing), the ESCO’s bill the consumer’s utility 
for energy usage. Once the utility passes on the monthly charges to the con-
sumer’s bill, they often quickly realize they were duped as their utility bills are 
noticeably higher, in some scenarios more than double. The ESCOs then try 
everything in their power to delay the customer cancelation, often charging 
a $100 early-termination fee. Despite this, over 50% of customers cancel per 
annum



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
43http://sumzero.com


cases of consumers being from low-income, non-English 
speakers or elderly demographics.


Phase 3: Profit. Once signed (knowing or unknowing), the 
ESCO’s bill the consumer’s utility for energy usage. Once 
the utility passes on the monthly charges to the consumer’s 
bill, they often quickly realize they were duped as their 
utility bills are noticeably higher, in some scenarios more 
than double. The ESCOs then try everything in their power 
to delay the customer cancelation, often charging a $100 
early-termination fee. Despite this, over 50% of customers 
cancel per annum


Red Flag #1: Spark Energy Operates 
a Dubious Business Model with 
Unsustainable Churn


Spark operates a deceptive business model with a dubi-
ous product offering that ultimately rips-off low income, 
non-English speakers, elderly customers as well as other 
unassuming consumers who simply hand over their energy 
bill to Spark sales reps.


The Company utilizes hyper-aggressive, if not illegal sales 
tactics, often claiming to work for the underlying utility 
(i.e. ConEd in NYC). From reviewing customer complaints 
and litigation, customers note that Spark representatives 
often state they can save the consumer on their energy bill, 
however once signed up the energy bill is often materially 
higher, in some instances 2x - 8x.  The customer reviews 
ultimately speak for themselves:


The above reviews are small examples of Spark’s unscru-
pulous business practices. We encourage readers to check 
out the Company’s Yelp profile. http://www.yelp.com/biz/
spark-energy-houston-2


Reddit reviews offer similar tales of Spark’s swindling:


https://www.reddit.com/r/chicago/comments/1z6l5f/evan-
ston_spark_energy_why_are_they_walking_around/


https://www.reddit.com/r/chicago/comments/1t7ewa/any-
one_else_get_visited_by_a_questionable_spark/


https://www.reddit.com/r/boston/comments/2s3gc3/
be_alert_extremely_aggressive_spark_energy/


https://www.reddit.com/r/boston/comments/2l8d4a/
spark_energy_reps_coming_around/


https://www.reddit.com/r/California/comments/36044d/
warning_spark_energy_scam_in_california/


We also encourage readers to watch this brief one minute 
video of a Spark sales rep in action: https://www.youtube.
com/watch?v=3qYfQEGxhM4


Churn


Despite Spark’s ability to deceive customers into signing up, 
its fundamentals are weak. This can be viewed through the 
Company’s unsustainable monthly churn which has gener-
ally ranged from 4.5%-6.5% per month or 55% - 80% per an-
num.  Note while the Company has attempted to highlight 
“lower” monthly churn sub 4% over the past two quarters, 
this appears to be predominantly driven by the Company’s 
recent acquisitions which increases the base numbers. Said 
simply, Spark loses a majority of its customers every year.


High churn and slowing organic customer growth has 
forced Spark to replace churn with costly acquisitions 
which carry customer acquisition costs more than 2x higher 
than organically acquired customers. While historically 
Spark could acquire an organic customer for ~$75 to $125 
per RCE sub, acquisitions have collectively averaged at 
~$310 per RCE (“residential customer equivalent”) sub-
scriber. As seen below and in-line with the Company’s 
MD&A commentary, organic customer acquisition has 
become harder and harder, forcing Spark to acquire peers at 
elevated valuations.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://www.yelp.com/biz/spark-energy-houston-2 

http://www.yelp.com/biz/spark-energy-houston-2 

https://www.reddit.com/r/chicago/comments/1z6l5f/evanston_spark_energy_why_are_they_walking_around/

https://www.reddit.com/r/chicago/comments/1z6l5f/evanston_spark_energy_why_are_they_walking_around/

https://www.reddit.com/r/chicago/comments/1t7ewa/anyone_else_get_visited_by_a_questionable_spark/

https://www.reddit.com/r/chicago/comments/1t7ewa/anyone_else_get_visited_by_a_questionable_spark/

https://www.reddit.com/r/boston/comments/2s3gc3/be_alert_extremely_aggressive_spark_energy/

https://www.reddit.com/r/boston/comments/2s3gc3/be_alert_extremely_aggressive_spark_energy/

https://www.reddit.com/r/boston/comments/2l8d4a/spark_energy_reps_coming_around/

https://www.reddit.com/r/boston/comments/2l8d4a/spark_energy_reps_coming_around/

https://www.reddit.com/r/California/comments/36044d/warning_spark_energy_scam_in_california/

https://www.reddit.com/r/California/comments/36044d/warning_spark_energy_scam_in_california/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3qYfQEGxhM4

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3qYfQEGxhM4
44http://sumzero.com


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full SPKE:US report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:
• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
45http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Short


Westpac Banking Corp 
Class:  Equity Symbol:  WBC:AU Updated:  12/17/16 Posted:  12/14/16


EXPECTED RETURN


37.3%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Ismail Guennouni


Meridian Investment 
Management Advisory


S H O R T
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years
SITUATION:


Contrarian
MARKET CAP:


112.9B AUD


WBC has benefited hugely from rules to use IRB models to calculate its own 


RWAs. Regulatory changes coupled with a difficult macro backdrop will see 


profitability and valuations fall.


About Ismail Guennouni
Ismail is a former Trader and Portfolio Manager specialising in fundamental investment 
analysis and volatility trading. Ismail started his career structuring and trading derivatives 
at Goldman Sachs, before moving to the buy side to set up and manage strategies that 
mix fundamental insights with volatility expertise. He managed various Long/Short and 
volatility strategies on sectors ranging from Financials, TMT to Healthcare and Energy. In 
2016, Ismail founded Meridian IMA to provide a novel idea generation platform leveraging 
his fundamental and volatility expertise.


About Meridian Investment Management Advisory
Meridian IMA is an investment management research & advisory firm that aims to provide 
a novel idea generation platform to asset managers, with a strong focus on in depth 
analysis, original content and consultancy around trade implementation. Our thematic 
approach adopts both global macro and rigorous fundamental analysis to identify themes, 
sectors and custom baskets to trade globally. We aim to structure the recommendations 
using our volatility expertise to yield asymmetric risk rewards, using Equity, Credit and 
their derivatives.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
46http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  WBC:AU Updated:  12/17/16 Posted:  12/14/16


Westpac Banking Corp Ord


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Ismail Guennouni


Meridian Investment Management Advisory


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 69%


WBC has benefited hugely from rules to use IRB 


models to calculate its own RWAs. Regulatory 


changes coupled with a difficult macro backdrop will 


see profitability and valuations fall.


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Contrarian
TARGET ALLOCATION:


2% - 5%
CATALYSTS:


Regulatory 
Change


TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


37.3%


32.29 AUD


21.00 AUD


S H O R T


Australian Banks have benefited the most from adopting the 
IRB-A approach to calculate RWAs that was one of the main 
pillars of Basel II. This allowed them to gain a competitive 
advantage on pricing mortgage loans in the home market, 
and the pricing power translated into a higher profitability 
albeit with a much higher leverage.


We are negative on the names most exposed to a reversal of 
this trend, and believe that future headwinds will damp-
en profitability materially. We believe the banks will have 
higher RWAs on housing loans due to ongoing and expected 
regulatory changes, removing competitive advantage vs 
regional banks and putting pressure on ROE numbers. 


On top of that, LLRs are very low by historical standards, 
and compared to other major economies with better Macro-
economic prospects. A normalisation of Loan Loss Reserves 
(LLRs) higher to long term averages will further dampen 
profitability.  Finally, a re-set of funding costs structurally 
higher due to the implementation of upcoming Basel II 


liquidity rules will also hit ROEs.


These factors alone will see ROE levels decrease by 
300-400 bps, and should result in a 30-50% downside to 
the Equity values of these banks. Our thesis is based on 
regulatory headwinds and a normalisation of cyclical macro 
conditions in Australia, and the trade does not depend on 
current macro worries from a Chinese hard landing and a 
commodity bust being proven right.


Having said that, tail risks related to the overvaluation in 
the housing sector in the face of increasing supply, as well 
as the effects of china’s rebalancing act increase the risk-
iness of these investments and are likely to yield further 
downside.


The most exposed name in our view is Westpac Banking 
Corporation. We are negative on the Equity and believe it’s 
ripe for a short position with opportunistic underwriting of 
put options when Macro worries about China flare. We also 


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
47http://sumzero.com


believe 2018 dividends are at risk and would monitor the 
pricing of dividend swaps on the names for the opportunity 
to short if current pay-out levels are extrapolated into the 
future.


We like pairing a short on these names with a long banks 
position in a region benefiting from a better Macro back-
drop and yield curve steepness. We particularly like the 
long US - Short Australian housing exposed banks trade. 
This has the advantage of offsetting the significant dividend 
yield on the short side and would better crystallise the 
large divergence in interest rates and yield curve steepness 
expectations between the US and Australia.


Westpac Banking Group Downside


For WBC, using management estimates for the impact of 
higher capital requirements on RWAs, we estimate an im-
pact on ROE of 1%. If APRA decides to increase the RW on 
mortgages to 30% then ROE will decrease by another 50bps.


With regards to LLPs, assuming the level of provisioning 
goes back to the “through the cycle average” of 77bps 
of NHL, we estimate a 5% hit to earnings and a 70bps 
lower ROE. If the level of provisioning, as a percentage 


of NHLs, were to increase so that it compares to the 2008 
recession losses, then this would reduce earnings by around 
20% and ROE by 300bps.


Funding headwinds from increased competition for term 
deposits (+50bps modelled), a lengthening of wholesale 
funding maturity and a higher short term spread will 
jointly hit earnings by around 15%, and should result in 
an ROE that is 1.6% lower.


Taking all these effects together, we estimate that ROE will 
likely stabilise around 11-12% for WBC in the next 2 years.  
Based on the relationship between P/B and ROE, it would 
mean the stock trading at around 1.2x BV, or 34% lower 
than current levels.


Assuming there is a housing crisis in Australia due to 
stretched valuations, a weaker economy as recessionary 
risks spill over from China and South East Asia - the down-
side is much bigger. Using the same framework, with benign 
assumptions on housing losses, we expect WBC to trade 
around 60% lower than current levels.


Catalysts to Watch


• Further clarity on Basel IV rules on the standardised approach to calculate credit risk 
(Q4-16 to Q1 -17).


• Announcement from APRA regarding capital ratios to achieve the “Unquestionably 
strong” designation recommended by the FSI (Q1-17)


• Failure to settle the huge supply of apartments in the largest cities. This could lead to 
potential defaults among property developers and a wave of higher LLPs on banking 
books CRE Exposure.


• A continued increase in unemployment rates especially among the low-income popula-
tion and the areas impacted by the mining bust.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
48http://sumzero.com


Trade Structure


Given the difficulty in timing catalysts exactly, we believe 
the trade should be structured as a short equity trade 
WBC with opportunistic short term underwriting to gener-
ate income on the position while the thesis plays through. 


Catalysts to watch


• Further clarity on Basel IV rules on the standardised 
approach to calculate credit risk (Q4-16 to Q1 -17).


• Announcement from APRA regarding capital ratios to 
achieve the “Unquestionably strong” designation rec-
ommended by the FSI (Q1-17).


• Failure to settle the huge supply of apartments in the 
largest cities. This could lead to potential defaults 
among property developers and a wave of higher LLPs 
on banking books CRE Exposure.


• A continued increase in unemployment rates especially 
among the low-income population and the areas im-
pacted by the mining bust.


Risks


The time horizon needed for the profitability to mean revert 
lower would be extended if the BCBS guidelines for risk 
floors on mortgage RWs are dropped or significantly dilut-
ed. This may lead APRA not to contiue reforming this area 
of banking regulation.  There is also a risk of a loosening of 
NSFR requirements from the national reulators. A resur-
gent chinese demand for commodities and a steepening of 
yield curve led by a belief in better economic prospects may 
boost the profitability due to higher top line growth and 
stronger NIMs. 


We view these risks as minimal at present. Although the 
Basel IV rules are likely to be modified due to pressure from 
European banks, the Australian regulator’s approach has 
been consistently prudent in the past, and we do not belive 
they will stop or reverse the RWAs floors they have pub-
lished in 2015. On the Economy front, the Australian Econ-
omy is deeply dependent on the prosects of chinese eco-
nomic growth, through commodity and agriculture exports 
as well as portfolio flows. The latest economic datapoints 
are painting a picture of worsening economic conditions in 
both countries. 


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full WBC:AU report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
49http://sumzero.com


3 Ex-US
All ideas within this category must be asso-
ciated with companies that are domiciled 
outside the United States and earn more than 
50% of revenues outside the USA. SumZero 
research coverage includes ideas related to all 
regional markets and exchanges. Nearly 40% 
of research on SumZero is non-US focused.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
50http://sumzero.com


Winner
Best Ex-US


Bollore Sa Ord
Class:  Equity Symbol:  BOL:FP Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


EXPECTED RETURN


236.1%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Steven Wood


GreenWood Investors


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years
SITUATION:


Event / Spec. Sit
MARKET CAP:


10.3B EUR


World class assets trading at a 60% discount at the exact moment when 


multiple segments are poised to show substantial improvements in ‘17. Run 


by an outsider in a very attractive market.


About Steven Wood
Steven Wood, CFA founded GreenWood Investors in late 2010 based on core beliefs that 
great returns are generated through a concentrated global portfolio of special situations 
and deep value opportunities, and cannot be generated by being overly concerned with 
month-to-month returns. Prior to founding GreenWood Investors, Steven worked with 
notable investors at Carr Securities, Kellogg Capital Group, and Aslan Capital in distressed, 
deep value, and special situations strategies. 


About GreenWood Investors
GreenWood Investors is a mostly-long, deep value investment firm focused on special 
situation opportunities globally. Our portfolio consists of a great team of managers 
guiding under-appreciated companies through transformational moments in their history. 
GreenWood Investors is known for producing valuable in-depth research on its investment 
ideas, which has been both award-winning and company-changing. GreenWood Investors 
Traditional Composite has outperformed the MSCI All World index by over 185% since its 
inception in August 2008 (as of December 2016).



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
51http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  BOL:FP Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


Bollore Sa Ord


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Steven Wood


GreenWood Investors


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 83%


World class assets trading at a 60% discount at the 


exact moment when multiple segments are poised 


to show substantial improvements in ‘17. Run by an 


outsider in a very attractive market.


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Event / Special 
Situations


TARGET ALLOCATION:


5% - 10%
CATALYSTS:


M&A/Buyout 
Target


TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


236.1%


3.31 EUR


12.00 EUR


LO N G


Macroeconomic and Investing Climate


Europe is the world’s consensus short. One need not look 
too hard to find news stories about the instability of gov-
ernments all over the continent, rising populist movements 
and “stagnant,” economies. This view has been well honed 
by economists, thought leaders and the global “elite.” In the 
run-up to and in the wake of the Italian referendum, there 
have been innumerable attempts by Wall Street commenta-
tors to talk about the “next domino” to fall and how a failure 
of the Renzi government to convince the Italian population 
of the need to reform would cause imminent doom and 
gloom. These views were well-baked into market expecta-
tions, which is why in the wake of the “worst case scenario,” 
outcome in the Italian referendum, European markets have 
actually rallied - including Italy’s. Of course fluid political 
environments are nothing new for Italy, having had now 66 
governments since the end of World War II. In fact, Italians 
have shown a predictable skepticism against increasing the 


strength of the government, with Berlusconi’s similar elec-
toral reforms were defeated by nearly the exact same mar-
gin as Renzi’s political reforms exactly a decade later. With 
President Mattarella asking Paolo Gentiloni to form a new 
government under the same electoral coalition that Matteo 
Renzi relied upon, it looks to us that within a matter of a 
few weeks and some fresh capital injections into a couple of 
weaker Italian banks, Italy will soon return back to business 
as usual rather than the nightmare political vacuum mar-
kets had priced-in. 


In the wake of Donald Trump’s surprise election in the 
United States, investors have concluded that similar an-
ti-immigrant populists everywhere will win elections and 
disrupt economic progress. Marine Le Pen, the leader of 
France’s National Front, may steal a lot of headlines with 
her promise to hold a referendum on France’s membership 
to the eurozone, but these headlines are simply a side show 
to recent political developments which have seen Francois 
Fillon to emerge as her top contender, a candidate whose 


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
52http://sumzero.com


policies look much more similar to Trump’s than any other 
in France. And he’s not just a top contender, but has opened 
up a commanding 32% lead in recent polls. Now, of course 
polls have become increasingly unreliable this year, but 
this kind of lead is well outside any heightened margin for 
error. Yet still, populist parties in Europe have stolen most 
of the headlines of the recent year which has witnessed an 
unabated withdrawal of international investors from Euro-
pean equities.


Exhibit 1: Weekly European Equity Fund Flows ($ in bil-
lions)  


Source: DB, EPFR


The world remains significantly underweight peripheral 
European securities at a time when easy monetary policy is 
keeping heavy pressure on the euro foreign exchange rate, 
which has been a boon for international European compa-
nies. This increase in competitiveness relative to their US 
counterparts will only continue to increase as the European 
Central Bank has committed to more Quantitative Easing 
for a longer period while the US Federal Reserve is poised 
to continue raising rates at its December FOMC meeting. 
This will continue to be a major theme for 2017 as Europe 
goes through its own electoral season. 


Exhibit 2:  Cumulative Equity Fund Flows in the Last 12 
Months


Source: DB, EPFR


While the populist parties in Europe, who typically make 
the most ridiculous, outlandish, and headline-grabbing 
statements, occupy the majority of newspaper headlines 
and investor attention, a more quiet and conciliatory free 
market slate of candidates stand poised to win this vital 
electoral season. France’s Fillon has a free-market agenda 
that would unlock a stagnant French economy by reducing 
regulations, promoting longer work weeks, lowering enti-
tlements, reducing the importance of unions, and lowering 
French government spending outside of defense. Proposed 
policies include a reduction in numerous taxes, including 
corporate taxes, and a complete re-writing of labor laws. Yet 
the market is largely unaware of such a positive outcome 
being remotely close to possible. As such, as polls currently 
predict a landslide run-off election in which Fillon will like-


ly become the next President of the Republic, the French 
market is set for a far more dramatic response to such a 
win than that in of the US market in the wake of Donald 
Trump’s election. The major difference is that Fillon will 
be inheriting an economy that has been subjected to nearly 
a decade of economic stagnation as more regulation, lower 
incentives to work and high government entitlements have 
held back economic activity far below potential normalized 
levels. 


Exhibit 3: Expectations vs. Reality in France’s Upcoming 
Presidential Election  


Source: GreenWood Estimates based on qualitative and 
quantitative factors.


Thus, while the market is currently expecting a high risk of 
a protectionist or anti-free-market outcome in France, the 
recent polls published since Fillon’s win of the Republican 
primary have suggested that the Presidency is in the bag for 
the free-market candidate. Almost reliably all year, the mar-
ket has mid-judged outcomes relative to the underlying re-
ality. We understand polls have been terribly wrong, but the 
market has even misjudged the outcomes of the outcomes. 
For traders focused on making short-term profits, this has 
been an incredibly taxing and difficult year, with unexpect-
ed outcomes happening repeatedly. While the juxtaposition 
of Fillon relative to outgoing President Hollande is less 
dramatic than the Argentinian example, we believe a Fillon 
win for the country would be akin to the assumption of the 
Presidency by Macri from Kirchner in Argentina’s 2015 
elections. While less of a boon for free-market and econom-
ic policy, Brazil’s impeachment of its President and later 
assumption of the office by the Vice President represented 
another positive political step for a country that has been 
running far below economic potential. These two examples 
are actually important because both markets were the worst 
performing global indices in 2015. They both have become 
the top performers of 2016, but the market’s positive re-
turns didn’t wait for the new candidates to assume office, 
as the markets climbed in anticipation of a more favorable 
resolution in both cases. 


Exhibit 4: Market Returns Around Elections & New Gov-
ernments 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
53http://sumzero.com


Data Source: CapitalIQ


Both the Argentine and Brazilian elections and market 
developments give us cautious optimism going into the 
European electoral season. Despite Italians voting against 
Prime Minister Renzi’s proposed electoral reforms, Italy’s 
anti-European party, the 5 Star Movement, has not gained 
popularity in the country in recent months. In fact, most 
Wall Street “strategists,” were simply incorrect in rushing 
to judgement and claiming that the defeat of the reform will 
help 5 Star Movement seize control of government eventu-
ally. The rejection of the electoral reforms has allowed the 
President to request the next Prime Minster find a coali-
tion to support the re-writing of the electoral law, and the 
country’s constitutional court will opine on a controversial 
still-standing super-majority component to the law on 
January 24. The honest truth is that a full-scale adoption of 
Renzi’s ill-conceived (he later admitted this as well) elector-
al reforms would have made a 5 Star government actually 
more likely, not less likely. Even with Italian banking capital 
shortfalls not resolved, the Italian market has staged a slight 
rally in the wake of this result, suggesting market expecta-
tions had become far too pessimistic ahead of the important 
European electoral season. 


The same night, Austrians voted unexpectedly to reject 
the country’s far-right and anti-Euro party in its Presiden-
tial election. This echoes Spanish voters shifting support 
slightly away from the Podemos anti-euro party in elec-
tions during the summer. Despite Marine Le Pen and 5 Star 
Movement grabbing a lot of headlines, their popular sup-
port has had very little momentum in the back half of 2016, 
with 5 Star support actually deteriorating in the polls in the 
last six months. This would come as complete shock to mar-
ket “strategists,” who see the political climate in Europe as 
toxic. We disagree that the European political environment 
has become toxic - merely, some of its minority actors have 
become more and more extreme in their rhetoric as they 
perhaps seek to replicate the success of a certain reality 
celebrity who recently won a major election.  


Francois Fillon has a strikingly similar platform for Presi-
dent than did Donald Trump, with the exception of the pro-
tectionist trade policies - policies which the President Elect 
has already partially backed away from. The combination of 
labor market reform, lower taxes and lower regulation is a 
free-market cocktail that could unlock a significant pent-up 


recovery for France. Even the social policies of the candi-
dates look fairly similar, which would help appease voters 
attracted to Marine Le Pen’s extremist views on nationalism 
and immigration policies. It’s important to note that polls 
have been repeatedly wrong in an age of embarrassing po-
litical choices and an evaporation of traditional communi-
cation methods, and furthermore only two major polls have 
been conducted in France in the wake of Fillon’s winning 
of the Republican primary, but it looks like France may just 
have a Trump card up its sleeve. As Europe climbs its way 
out of an important electoral season, we’d expect this year’s 
worst-performing markets in the world to look quite a bit 
similar to 2015’s worst performing markets in this past year. 


With Berlusconi looking to make a political come back in 
Italy’s next elections, global investors could be looking at 
a sea change of governments away from the 2008-2015 
protectionist, regulation-focused and socialist governments 
in most G20 countries and towards those that emphatical-
ly support fee market principles. The markets that stand 
to regain the most lost ground in this outcome would be 
those economies, like Argentina, that have faced the most 
protectionist and stagnant economies over the past decade, 
coupled with markets whose low valuations rhyme with 
such a miserable situation.


The trouble for many global investors is that navigating 
“peripheral” European markets can be like going into the 
territory that was once marked “Beyond here, there be drag-
ons,” on most explorers’ maps. We believe the key to sound 
investments in these markets correlatives overwhelmingly 
with the quality of the company oversight, particularly 
in France, where we’ve known more than a few boards to 
make decisions based on ulterior motives that sometimes 
leave shareholders scratching their heads. Bolloré is one of 
our favorite Franco-Italian ideas and think it’s particularly a 
well-timed bet heading into 2017 for more than just French 
electoral and market reasons. We think most of its units 
that have faced tough 2016 trading conditions are poised to 
significantly recover in 2017, and the discount to net asset 
value has rarely been wider. 


Ironically Bolloré, both the man and the group, have ties to 
Silvio Berlusconi, a man who invented the modern bombas-
tic and egocentric political career for billionaires that seems 
to be sweeping the rest of the world. Despite all the flaws of 
the man, he managed to govern Italy for just under half of 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
54http://sumzero.com


the last two decades. Some international commentators may 
question how the man has continuously resurrected himself 
out of the political and scandal-ridden ashes, but it can be 
summed up with one simple fact: the country had average 
unemployment of 8.1% during his tenure compared to the 
10.4% average experienced in the non-Silvio years. His ten-
ure also paradoxically includes the financial crisis of 2008-
2010, making the comparison even more dramatic. Heading 
into 2017, as we anticipate unquestioned resolutions to 
French, German and Italian political situations, with voters 
emphatically tired of a moribund economy with stagnant 
wages, we believe the free market politicians will contin-
ue to retake the political mantle from the prior regimes. 
American, Argentinian and Brazilian market valuations al-
ready reflect rising expectations of growth and pro-market 
reforms. French and Italian markets reflect ongoing despair 
and capitulation. We think it’s a great time to be looking 
for treasure amidst the rubble, for by the time spring rolls 
around, the French and Italian political outcomes will be 
very well understood. And as Warren Buffett has wisely 
noted, “if you wait for the robins, spring will be over.” 


Spring is Coming: But What Are We 
Buying?


Since Europe has become an emerging market to global 
investors, why not consider a European-Emerging market 
stock in order to find the deepest areas of despair and pessi-
mistic expectations? Bolloré SA is a holding company con-
trolled by Vincent Bolloré and has one major wholly-owned 
business with key controlling positions in multiple other 
companies where Vincent exercises direct strategic con-
trol through his chairmanships of all of the publicly-listed 
entities. The wholly-owned business is a ports and logistics 
business operating around the world, but primarily in Afri-
ca where its ports, corridors and rail networks have grown 
into a spider web across the continent and the group has ef-
fectively become the toll road on of the last “Great Frontier.” 


Exhibit 5: Major Components of the Bolloré Group


Due to a complicated share structure, which we’ll explain 
herein, the net shares outstanding, after taking into account 
the shares the company owns through its various controlled 
companies, is less than half the reported shares outstand-
ing. While the company’s gross shares outstanding are 2.9 


billion, the actual net shares outstanding, after deducting 
shares owned by companies that are in turn owned and con-
trolled by the group, are only 1.34 billion. Thus, the current 
net asset value of €10.3 billion actually amounts to €7.68 per 
net share outstanding, meaning the company is trading for 
an astounding 60% discount to its NAV. Due to improving 
trading conditions for its key divisions and investments, 
we believe this NAV is poised to double by 2019, giving us a 
highly satisfactory return even if the holding company dis-
count stays at its current historically-wide 60% level. In all 
likelihood, however, Chairman Vincent Bolloré is having a 
hard time sitting still as he approaches his 2022 retirement 
date, and the next few years will carry multiple catalysts 
to help simplify this components of the business, the share 
structure, unlock strategic value at many of his related 
holdings, and perhaps will include further monetizations of 
businesses. In short, we believe Bolloré is a special situa-
tions machine, run by a chairman with a venerable track 
record, having bought Bolloré back from banks that were 
foreclosing on his family’s business for a mere single franc 
in 1981. Not only is the stock trading near all-time wide dis-
counts to its NAV, but we believe 2017 will mark the turn-
around for some of its key segments and investments that 
have faced difficult trading conditions recently.


Exhibit 6: Key Components of NAV and Discount Over 
Time


Given anti-globalization forces that are taking over major 
economies, particularly the United States, why do we thinks 
a logistics company is company? For its footprint around 
most of the world, Bolloré operates an asset-light network 
that can easily adapt to the volumes of goods being trad-
ed. For the most important part of its business, and most 
asset-intensive segment, Africa, we believe the volumes 
of goods and services will be rebounding in 2017 and will 
enjoy perhaps the most positive growth trajectory of any 
region in the world. In some respects, a large portion of the 
value of both Bolloré and Vivendi will be determined by its 
significant investments on the continent. So this is a com-
bination of a French-European and emerging market stock. 
Given positioning of global investors right now, this could 
hardly be more contrarian. It could also hardly be more 
attractive from a historic valuation perspective. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/17/opinion/17buffett.html
55http://sumzero.com


Ports & Logistics: Owning The Last Great 
Frontier 


For a French empire builder, focused on generating re-
spectable long-term returns on capital, it’s unsurprising 
that the emperor would find colonial French-speaking 
Africa a great place to invest, particularly if one is investing 
with time horizons of a decade. Perhaps the crown jewel of 
the company is the one that has been most affected by the 
downturn in oil & gas and mining in French-speaking Afri-
ca. We believe it’s also paradoxically the major reason why 
shares have declined over 35% in the last year and a half. 
Bolloré physically owns a significant network of ports and 
transport infrastructure in most of the African continent. 
What started as port concessions, railways and warehous-
es in French-speaking Africa has expanded to the entire 
continent, and while some international peers own a port or 
two in Africa, there’s no other company or entity which has 
blanketed the continent and become a toll road on any-
thing traveling in, through and out of Africa. Yet because it 
owns the physical infrastructure in much of the area it does 
business here, its African ports and logistics business has far 
greater operating leverage than Bolloré’s non-African and 
asset-light businesses. This is both a blessing a curse. 


The blessing is that much of the African continent cannot 
grow without utilization Bolloré’s extensive infrastruc-
ture in the area, essentially placing a toll on the growth in 
economic potential for perhaps the “last great,” emerging 
market of 1.2 billion people. The curse is that this operat-
ing leverage is more sensitive to weakness in the trade of 
goods and services, which the volumes of which are heavily 
skewed to raw materials like wood, cocoa, cotton, but also 
base metals and oil and gas, and the weakness here has 
generated nearly all of the earnings deterioration in the last 
year in the company’s logistics and transportation divisions. 
Despite top-line decelerations outside of Africa for the 
division, asset-light logistics models are somewhat easier 
to maintain profitability given the thinner margins and the 
low fixed operating cost. Profit margins have improved for 
the company’s non-African business, yet because of the 
18.2% slowdown in trade from 2012-2015 in Bolloré’s most 
exposed countries, the ongoing expansion of its network 
has been unable to completely offset the commodity-driven 
headwinds these operations have faced. 2016 has brought 
further trade erosion in key operating countries, and we be-


lieve the total change in trade is close to matching the peak-
trough decline in African trade from the 1980’s commodity 
bust, which saw continental trade decline 34%. What’s 
even more interesting is that after such dramatic declines 
in trade, typically the recoveries in trade have been more 
V-shaped on the African continent than an OECD-styled 
U-shaped recovery. 


If there were ever a toll road or port to own, both obvious-
ly fixed assets and beholden to the long-term economic 
development of the region where these assets are trapped, 
it would surely be most desirable at this stage of the eco-
nomic development S-curve to locate these investments in 
Africa. And because Bolloré has won so many concessions 
on the continent by agreeing to aggressive development and 
investment plans in the countries in which the company 
is operating, some of the infrastructure it has built out is 
still in a decidedly immature stage, leading to less robust 
margins. Yet if we were to look at the limited universe of 
publicly-traded port operations, we can see more developed 
peers sporting margins in the 45-55% range. 


Exhibit 7: Publicly Traded Peers & Valuation   


*Our own metric, where we adjust ROIC by the Q-ratio 
to come up with our estimated “Return On Our Invested 
Capital”


In the last decade, starting around 2005-2006, Bolloré has 
been significantly expanding its capital spending in its Afri-
can operations, continuing to build out vital infrastructure 
in both ports, rail, road and warehouses. Because the Afri-
can division does quite a bit more than run ports in more 
developed nations (peers in developed markets stick mostly 
to ports), its margins are quite a bit lower than DP World’s 
or COSCO’s, running around 20% over the past few years, 
according to our estimates. Still this is pretty significant, be-
cause the reported margins for the company’s total logistics 
division is only around 9% today. We believe volume scales 
at margins that are quite a bit higher than the 20% reported 
historical margins of the African ports and logistics busi-
ness, as it’s also the only reason for the decline in profit-
ability over the last year, suggesting incremental EBITDA 
margins north of 50%. In all actuality, the more likely 
incremental EBITDA margins for the pronounced expan-
sion of the group’s business in Africa has carried roughly 
35% margins over the past few years, exactly in line with the 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

https://www.gwinvestors.com/focus/

https://www.gwinvestors.com/focus/
56http://sumzero.com


more mature port operations of CK Hutchison Holdings, of 
which we cannot obtain a standalone value because it trades 
within a very diversified holding company. 


Exhibit 8: Estimated Breakout of Logistics Sub-Segment 
Financials 


As noted before, incremental margins at three times the 
current segment average is both a blessing and a curse. 
Lately, as African imports and exports have fallen nearly in 
line with the commodities recession of the early 1980’s, this 
has been a curse. By looking at trade data from the World 
Bank through 2015, trade in Africa has declined nearly 20% 
from the peak, as GDP per Capita has fallen since 2012 by 
over 10%. 2016 brought fresh declines, getting the continent 
closer to the 35% decline (peak-trough) in trade throughout 
the prolonged commodities bear market and recession of 
the 1980s. Bolloré’s expansion on the continent has counter-
acted some of this decline, but 2016 is shaping up to be one 
of its worst periods of decline in perhaps forever, certainly 
as long as reported records would suggest. Prior to com-
modities finding pricing floors, we were bench-marking our 
bear case scenario with an incremental 10% deterioration 
of African trade, in line with the worst part of the 1980s 
trade recession. Now that the demand outlook for base 
metals has decidedly turned more positive, we believe 1980s 
assumptions may prove to be too conservative. We wouldn’t 
pretend to be commodity experts, but the recent signifi-
cant rebound in prices have been matched by upgrades of 
demand coming from both China and the developing world. 
After a couple years of stagnant to negative production 
growth in copper in Zambia and the Democratic Republic of 
Congo, sell-side base metals analysts are projecting 2017 to 
bring resumed growth in production, with accelerations in 
2018 and 2019.


Outside of the commodity trade, we’ve taken an as-
set-weighted survey of the economic statistics in Bollore’s 
infrastructure footprint, and have gathered that, while dis-
persion among countries is still quite high, the average GDP 
per Capita is running just shy of $900 in the areas where 
the company’s footprint is strongest. When India hit this 
same point exactly a decade ago, its global trade (despite 
the financial crisis of 2008-2009 and heavily protectionist 
policies of the pre-Modi government) went on to compound 
at 11.1% a year for the next nine years. When China hit simi-
lar levels, in 1999, the following decade brought astounding 


21.8% compounded growth. 


Acknowledging both that Africa’s trade is more depen-
dent on commodities than its emerging market peers, as 
well a high level of variation in the economies of each 
African country, this ~$900 level is right around the exact 
area where both India and China hit the steepest part of 
the trade acceleration S-curve. This key relationship will 
be closely related to GDP Growth per Capita, which has 
remained suppressed throughout the 2012-2016 commod-
ities recession. Small incremental improvements in GDP 
per Capita on the African continent will turn into both 
disproportionately higher levels of trade, and will also bring 
significantly more profitable business for Bolloré logistics 
in Africa, as incremental business comes at margin levels at 
least three times that of the reported division’s financials. 


Exhibit 9: GDP Per Capita and Trade Correlations in Key 
Emerging Markets 


Data Source: World Bank, GreenWood Estimates


As Bolloré has directed most cash-flow generated by the 
logistics and port business to the African continent, the 
revenue has shifted over to higher-margin ports and infra-
structure-driven logistics activities. This has led to signifi-
cant margin expansion for the Logistics segment away from 
traditional segment-level margins, which used to be in line 
with the company’s European logistics peers, to a much 
more attractive financial profile. Both margins and the re-
turns on invested capital have expanded as the African busi-
ness has become a more pronounced part of the group. Yet, 
we still believe the logistics to be a very valuable business, 
and given the asset-light operating nature of the group, the 
profitability from this unit is far more stable than the Afri-
can business. Because of the significantly lower operating 
leverage, the non-African business is able to weather global 
downturns in trade rather well comparatively speaking.  


Exhibit 10: Historical and Projected Revenue Mix and 
Margin Projection 


Data Source: Company Reports, Competitor Reports and 
GreenWood Estimates 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
57http://sumzero.com


3600+ fundamental models  
at the click of a button 


modernizing eouity research


+	 Verified	historical	financials	and	
operating	data	back	to	FY2009


+	 Interactive	linked-up	forecasts	with	
company-specific	and	macroeconomic	
forward	drivers


+	 Annotations	on	anomalies	such	as	
restatements,	major	financings,	and	
segmentation	changes


+	 Integration	with	all	major	data	platforms	
for	live	pricing	and	consensus	data


canalyst.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://canalyst.com

http://canalyst.com
58http://sumzero.com


Valuations in the space reflect solid business fundamentals 
in the industry, and not only is the industry’s profitability 
less susceptible to downturns in global trade from a profit-
ability perspective, but doesn’t have the same robust future 
growth profile as does trade on the African continent. 
Perhaps because the publicly traded port businesses trade 
in Dubai, Hong Kong and São Paulo, while the freight-for-
warding and logistics peers trade in better regulated and 
more developed markets in Western Europe, the port busi-
nesses have traded at lower multiples than do the straight 
logistics peers. Although the ports businesses carry similar 
top-line characteristics depending on the geography, yet 
sport higher margins with higher operating leverage, the 
asset light businesses of logistics and freight forwarding 
typically carry better returns on capital than do the port 
peers. Thus, growth, however elusive it may be for the in-
dustry, requires less capital deployed typically than having 
to expand port operations. 


Exhibit 11: Logistics Peers & Valuation


*Annualizing the last two quarters post major acquisition in 
order to get a “pro forma,” figure


**Our own metric, where we adjust ROIC by the Q-ratio 
to come up with our estimated “Return On Our Invested 
Capital”


Bolloré has been able to generate significantly better 
returns on capital in its African business than its peers in 
the port businesses have been able to, but this is due to 
the rare near monopolistic nature of its business on the 
emerging continent.  There are only a handful of other ports 
in French-speaking Africa that Bolloré doesn’t own. In 
addition, it’s often able to take shipments from a port to the 
ultimate end user through its comprehensive transportation 
network, providing a much higher-valued-added service 
than a traditional port. We still prefer to have the asset-in-
tensive and higher operating leverage business married to 
a global logistics business that surely has revenue synergies 
with the African business, and whose lower cyclicality and 
asset-light nature complement the African assets. Even if 
the African business was generating returns on capital in 
line with its port peers, we would highly prize the compa-
ny’s ports and logistics in Africa, which is set for a robust 
period of prolonged growth as GDP per capita continues to 
grow from abysmally low levels. 


What’s even more interesting about investing in Bolloré to-
day, is that if we invert the NAV and figure what the market 
is valuing the Bolloré “stub,” at, meaning backing out the 
debt, the publicly-listed investments in Vivendi, Havas, and 
Blue Solutions, the market has rarely paid such low values 
for the residual logistics business in the past, particularly as 
it relates to the profitability of this division. This is partic-
ularly peculiar, and somewhat of a symptom of the glacial 
pace of reporting done by the Bolloré Group, who only 
provide full financials twice a year and with at least a two 
month lag. South Africa, one of the largest important and 
exporting countries on the continent, yet where Bolloré has 
a less pronounced presence, has reported stabilized import-
ing and exporting activity this year, for the first time in a 
while. We think the South Africa trade data is one of the few 
concurrent indicators we have for trade on the continent, 
and things appear to be looking up a bit for a resumption to 
growth in 2017. Paradoxically, the logistics stub has never 
been cheaper in the face of this early stabilization. 


Exhibit 12: Bolloré Logistics & Ports Stub Value Over Time 
(millions of euro) 


The last, and smallest piece of Bolloré’s main segment 
consists of oil logistics and home heating oil distribution. 
It sounds boring, and it is. Except because of the persistent 
volatility in oil prices, this segment’s revenue continuously 
swings between high and terrible stated revenue growth. 
Yet, the top line in this business is irrelevant, as distributors 
reverse-engineer customers bills to back into their own 
profitability. This is more similar to a midstream energy 
company than a logistics business, charging a toll on all oil 
deliveries, even though the business is not as focused on 
pipes - though the business does include some oil pipelines 
in Europe. Local heating oil delivery companies typically 
operate in a monopolistic or oligopolistic footprint, such 
that as long as competition is low or nonexistent, the com-
pany can reliably grow its profitability per customer. 


All over the world, heating oil distribution has gone into 
secular decline. Consumers in Europe and the US are 
switching slowly, but surely, to natural gas derivatives. It’s 
cheaper and cleaner - a no brainer. Yet, similar to copper 
fixed-line telecommunications companies, the incumbent 
companies are able to use their oligopolistic or monopolistic 
local power to slightly raise the tab on all legacy consumers 
in order to arrive at the targeted profitability metric. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
59http://sumzero.com


One may say this is unsustainable, but we’ve met with ex-
ecutives from U.S. heating oil distribution companies who 
actually prefer annual customer losses because it’s prof-
it-maximizing over the whole pool of customers. Because 
the underlying product’s price is incredibly volatile, it’s 
incredibly easy to ignore delivery surcharges as part of the 
customers’ monthly bill, leaving the provider of a “vital,” 
winter resource in a position of decent, though not un-
limited, pricing power. It’s for this reason, we’re not only 
sanguine about the heating oil distribution business, but in 
Europe, where change is a four-letter word, we’re actually 
quite bullish about the profit maximization prospects of this 
business. Still, as exhibit 13 makes clear, the energy distri-
bution business is hardly an investment thesis for the total 
Bolloré group. 


Exhibit 13: Why Logistics? Why Now?


Vivendi - A Latin Time Warner?


Vivendi (VIV FP) is the next most important value compo-
nent of the Bolloré Group, and Vincent himself has directed 
nearly all of his strategic efforts at turning Vivendi into a 
Latin-language media powerhouse. The English-speaking 
world of content creation is certainly the largest media 
market in the world, but it’s also heavily competitive. Com-
petition in these markets is decidedly lower, and Vincent 
undoubtedly sees the near 750 million people in the world 
that speak French, Spanish and Italian as a significant 
addressable market that still has little creative media being 
directed towards it. Vivendi has made important portfo-
lio transitions over the past few years such that it is now 
focused exclusively on television, film and musical content 
with emerging capabilities in video gaming content and 
Italian distribution. Vivendi is relatively straight-forward 
to understand in its two legacy businesses Universal Music 
Group (UMG) and Canal. One must look further afield at 
Vincent’s strategy to make sense of the company’s invest-
ments in Telecom Italia, Mediaset and gaming companies 
Ubisoft and Gameloft. 


UMG is the undisputed jewel of the company, with Canal 
Plus being the asset least liked by the market. We disagree 
with any quick and negative reactions to Canal, and believe 
that much of Vivendi’s recent aggressive activities with 
Mediaset and the gaming companies are geared towards a 


fundamental turnaround of the weakest part of Canal Plus, 
its pay television offering in France. Hidden within the 
weaker results of Canal Plus is a solid African local content 
production team and pay television offering. Much like 
Bolloré’s African ports and logistics business, Canal Africa 
has an incredibly long runway for growing its high-margin 
localized content offering. But the cord-cutting that has 
enveloped Canal Plus in France must be reversed to salvage 
an incredibly undervalued asset here.  


We look at the French Canal problem rather simplistically. 
It doesn’t have the right content package to attract enough 
subscribers to leverage the costs of this content over wide 
enough of a base. In short, its audience is too small relative 
to costs it takes to procure and create this media content. 
This can be solved through two rather simple ways: either 
grow the audience, or reduce the content spend per custom-
er.  That means either right-sizing the content package to 
make it economic at its current size, or expand the content 
package in order to draw a wide enough audience where 
scale more than allows for the increased content spending.  
We believe Vincent Bolloré’s actions as chairman of Vivendi 
are aimed at both increasing the amount of content it’s able 
to offer its subscribers as well as take its current content 
and find more distribution partners, which is another way 
of growing the audience for the content that it’s already 
producing. 


Because the French antitrust regulator voted to not al-
low a partnership between Canal Plus and Qatari-owned 
beIN Sports, part of the expanded content plans have been 
delayed. In the age of cord-cutting, only live sports can 
provide the panacea Canal Plus is looking for. SFR Group 
SA, controlled by Altice’s Patrick Drahi, bid aggressively 
for rights to the English Premier League, paying over €100 
million for the rights vs. Vivendi only bidding €60 million 
a year for the next three years. Canal Plus still has exclu-
sive rights to the French Ligue 1 Championship, which is 
perhaps more important, but the offering has gotten diluted 
in the 2016 football / soccer season. This is no doubt having 
an impact, and subsequent the the regulator’s refusal to let 
Canal Plus strike a partnership with beIN sports, Viven-
di announced deep cost cutting efforts in order to help 
restore the unit to better profitability while it waits to bid 
on exclusive distribution rights to other sports leagues. 
We actually applaud Vivendi’s price consciousness for the 
English Premier League rights, as it’s a peripheral audience 
in France and Mediaset Premium, which we’ll talk about 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
60http://sumzero.com


in just a moment, shows just how nasty over-bidding on 
sports content can be on a business. We’d much prefer the 
cost-cutting route, with incremental but cheaper strategic 
media partnerships and increased content creation as a 
way to dig Canal Plus out of the hole that’s been created by 
the losses of subscribers. And that hole, as we’ve learned in 
2016, has been dug quite deep. 


Exhibit 14: Canal’s Operating Income by Geography


In the wake of no partnership with beIN Sports, manage-
ment announced an aggressive cost cutting plan to restore 
Canal+ in France to breakeven by 2018. It estimated that 
it could remove €300 million in costs, broken up largely 
between content production costs, third party programming 
costs, set top box savings, and broadcasting and technical 
costs. This program was announced in August, and we fig-
ure that while the cost cuts won’t actually be able to restore 
French Canal+ to profitability, it will actually reduce the 
losses enough to allow the African, Polish, Vietnamese and 
international operations of Canal+ to shine with the at-
tractive growth profile and significantly higher margins. So 
although we expect Vivendi to significantly undershoot its 
breakeven target by 2018 for the French Canal+ operations 
with a loss of nearly €200 million, as we’ve assumed the 
cord-cutting is a permanent feature of the French market, 
we think the cost cuts and ongoing growth will be enough 
to restore profitability growth at Canal+. 


Because there are over 200 million French-speaking 
residents in Africa, and the company has only penetrated 
just over 1% of this population through its plans that run 
at roughly €15 monthly plans. As the company achieves 
greater scale, it will be able to continuously lower price in 
order to expand the addressable market. Because African 
Canal+ is able to access both its European content as well as 
produce local content at significantly reduced budgets, Vi-
vendi alone is in a very unique position in French-speaking 
Africa to organically home-grow a suite of local and inter-
national media for consumption among the rapidly expand-
ing population in areas with steady GDP per capita growth. 
Like Bolloré’s ports business, the African growth story is the 
most attractive reason why Canal+ isn’t a zero, as some sell-
side analysts suggest. 


Underling this point that Canal+ isn’t a zero, has been 
recent overtures made by the CEO of Orange, Stephane 


Richard, that the French telecom carrier would be interest-
ed in buying Canal+ and its French operations in order to 
more effectively compete with Altice’s SFR which has both 
fixed-line and mobile telecommunications, as well as its 
own paid TV content and a growing portfolio of exclusive 
content. While Vincent Bolloré has been an active asset 
manager of businesses he’s owned over the years, he also 
only sells when the price is right and not when the opera-
tions are undergoing a deep restructuring program that has 
yes to bear fruit. Thus, while we do believe Vincent is open 
to long-term strategic alternatives for Canal+, we wouldn’t 
be holding out breath in 2017 for a sale or joint venture. 
Yet, the company’s relationship with Orange is clearly a 
constructive one, as Orange has also made overtures that it 
would like to buy Vivendi’s stake in Telecom Italia, and we 
believe Vivendi will almost definitely monetize its stake in 
Telecom Italia, management of Vivendi agrees with us that 
there’s significant near-term upside potential for Telecom 
Italia, of which it owns just shy of 25%. 


We’ve already written 25 pages of research material on 
Telecom Italia, which is one of our other favorite positions 
- particularly for 2017. Vivendi has installed a new CEO in 
2016 at the helm of TI, and he immediately pulled forward 
a 3-year restructuring program by doubling cost-cutting 
efforts and implementing layoffs planned for the out years 
immediately. In the two quarters that have been report-
ed since Cattaneo has taken the helm, the company has 
announced higher EBITDA in both its Italian and Brazilian 
businesses as a result of not just these cost cuts, but also 
revenue expansion. The third quarter was the first time in 
over a decade that Telecom Italia reported revenue growth, 
and it was achieved by both accelerated broadband and LTE 
rollouts in Italy and Brazil as well as price increases that 
began in Q3 2016. Taking a step back, the Italian market 
has undergone one of the worst pricing wars of any nation 
- developed or developing. As a result, profitability of the 
marginal players in the Italian market have converged to 
zero. And although we believe Telecom Italia employs at 
least 30,000 more employees than it would need if it were 
to start from scratch today, the incumbent nature of its 
business model has allowed it to maintain a minimum of a 
10%-point margin advantage to its next closest rival. As a 
result of the squeezed profitability of all the players in the 
market, and because the two weakest players that were the 
price gaugers have both merged their businesses together, 
pricing in the entire ecosystem has been steadily climbing 
this recent year, with the third quarter showing the most 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
61http://sumzero.com


dramatic improvement for Telecom Italia. 


Exhibit 15: Current Subscribers & EBIT Margins of Italian 
Telecom Players  


So on a forward-looking basis, 2017 will bring lower costs, 
higher ARPU and most likely a flat subscriber base in 
Italy and a larger postpaid subscriber base in Brazil. This 
all translates to a revenue and EBITDA inflection, which 
the market has largely been complacent to in the recent 
months. Telecom Italia was one of the most punished com-
panies in the wake of Brexit and the Italian referendum, yet 
it stands poised to actually benefit from Renzi’s departure 
from office. This is because one of the two largest overhangs 
on the shares has been Enel’s plans to build a competing 
wholesale fiber optic network. In a country that still only 
has 59% ADSL penetration, which is in itself lower than 
other developed nations’ penetration of fiber optic connec-
tions, building a duplicate fiber network would generative 
negative returns on capital for Enel even if it were to take 
100% of Telecom Italia’s wholesale broadband business 
away. Thus, the Enel Open Fiber plan must have a twist to 
it, and it does. It has been seen by multiple stakeholders and 
bankers in the industry as a favor to the Renzi government, 
which is trying to cajole both Telecom Italia to increase its 
deployment of Fiber to the Home (speeds >200 MBPS) vs. 
its current wide-scale rollout of Fiber to the Cabinet (~100 
MBPS) as well as get the company to agree to sell its fixed 
line infrastructure to a government-controlled entity. The 
government views fixed line infrastructure as a strategic 
asset of vital importance because it uses automated phone 
tapping to try and eliminate black market transactions and 
activity. We believe that given the high clearing multiples 
for infrastructure assets, that Vincent Bolloré would be a 
willing seller of the infrastructure to a government spon-
sored entity. As with everything else with him, however, he 
would only be willing if the price were right. 


Thus, with an accelerated fiber rollout by Enel increasingly 
less likely, Renzi’s departure is a net positive for Telecom 
Italia, not a net negative. The market has clearly disagreed, 
and we think shares of Telecom Italia represent a unique 
opportunity going into 2017. Because sentiment is still fairly 
negative on it, and consensus is still under-shooting EBIT-
DA growth by a wide margin, small incremental positive 
surprises will lead to outsized equity returns. Telecom Italia 
also happens to be the cheapest European telecom at 5.3x 


EBITDA, yet over 60% of the enterprise value is comprised 
of debt. So small changes in the company’s EBITDA results 
in outsized compounded returns over the next few years 
for both Vivendi and shareholders of TIT. Our base case 
scenario for Telecom Italia doesn’t include any contribution 
from the strategy shift that Vivendi is trying help Telecom 
Italia with. Given penetration of fiber is still very low, but TI 
is aggressively rolling it out and should be done with over 
two thirds of the country in the next couple of quarters, Vi-
vendi wants Telecom Italia to bundle its fiber with a Pay-TV 
package that offers exclusive content. 


Exhibit 16: EBITDA and Enterprise Value Walk in our 
Base Case Scenario 


Over the past six months, market participants have seen 
Vivendi strike a partnership with Mediaset for its Pre-
mium Pay-TV segment. Vivendi wanted to contribute its 
own dubbed content to augment the package, but Media-
set Premium also has paid a very high price for exclusive 
rights to Italian soccer matches. As a result of “sparing no 
expense,” for this crucial live-TV content, the segment is 
deeply in the red, estimated to be burning €200 million a 
year. Because Vivendi claims Mediaset had set improper 
expectations and projections on the company during the 
negotiations, Vivendi has been trying to renegotiate the deal 
with Mediaset. The latter’s stock price collapsed on news of 
such a renegotiation, and Mediaset, controlled by Bolloré’s 
long-time friend Silvio Berlusconi, sued Vivendi seeking 
aggressive compensation for delaying the deal. Telecom Ita-
lia, in the meantime, has introduced an Internet-TV quad-
play program on its own in September, and has been seeing 
significant customer interest and uptake (not factored into 
our base case given the inevitable reduction in subscriber 
churn). 


In a breath-taking shift of events, and not unlike Vincent 
Bolloré’s aggressive style, that’s often been labeled “corpo-
rate raider,” by European financial media, Vivendi started 
aggressively purchasing shares of Mediaset on the open 
market, and has already surpassed 20% ownership of the 
Italian-Spanish media conglomerate. That Bolloré has done 
this in a matter of a few days and with blatant disregard for 
the equally aggressive Berlusconi has been truly entertain-
ing to watch. We think it fits exactly in-line with Vivendi’s 
long-term goal to be a latin-language media powerhouse. 
By having influence over and perhaps eventual control of 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
62http://sumzero.com


Mediaset and its content creation and distribution channels 
in Italy and Spain, the intellectual property of Canal+ and 
Studio Canal suddenly have a significantly enlarged audi-
ence. 


While it will no doubt take a few quarters for this high-
stakes chess match to be resolved and the companies agree 
to cooperate, we find Mediaset attractive as a standalone 
business, but far more attractive as an option for both 
Canal+ and its content, as well as the Mediaset Premium 
exclusive distribution via Telecom Italia’s brand new fiber 
network, which would perhaps help both Mediaset and 
Telecom Italia. Because consumers on a bundled triple or 
quad play often churn at less than 0.5% a month, less than a 
third of where Telecom Italia’s mobile churn stands today, 
it would significantly increase our assumptions on customer 
retention and therefore subscriber base growth. We esti-
mate it could add as much as €0.50 per share of fair value 
on top of our €2.01 per share fair value target for Telecom 
Italia ordinary shares. Better distribution could also help 
Mediaset stem some of its losses in the segment. EI Towers, 
a related entity to Mediaset, which the latter still controls, 
has been keen to buy Telecom Italia’s stake in its cellular 
infrastructure (INWIT) and Bolloré took the stake off the 
market earlier this year in an obvious negotiating tactic. 
That would help Telecom Italia de-leverage quicker than 
normal. 


While cooperation and distribution agreements with Medi-
aset is far away, or so it would seem, and we’re not includ-
ing any potential incremental markets in our estimates for 
Canal+, we think a partnership would undeniably help all 
parties involved and would get Vivendi significantly closer 
to its goal of leveraging its content across a wide array of 
latin-language-speaking geographies, particularly Latin 
America where Telecom Italia participates via TIM Partic-
ipacoes. 


So now one must be thinking, ok, we get it, Africa is in-
teresting but the French red ink doesn’t get us too excited 
for Canal+ without a significant step change in geographic 
reach for its content and a turn in the French market. We’d 
concede the point, while there’s upside for the company 
given a relatively sanguine consensus and sentiment and an 
attractive valuation, the underlying growth of Canal+ leaves 
a lot to be desired. Sure, Telecom Italia may have significant 
upside leverage, but why not just go and buy TIT?


Streaming


In a word, that’s the reason to be excited about Vivendi, and 
in particular for 2017. Universal Music Group and the two 
other players in an oligopolistic music publishing industry 
have been through their own version of technological dis-
ruption with the advent of pirated file sharing online, nearly 
two decades ago. Steve Jobs and the iTunes Store helped 
stem the rapid revenue losses in the industry, but down-
loading never completely offset the secular decline of phys-
ical music sales. That is, until Pandora and Spotify came 
along. Streaming came along and started boosting sales of 
digital music in a more meaningful way starting in 2014 and 
continuing into 2015. It helped boost a stagnating digital 
music segment, which was having difficulty offsetting the 
secular decline of physical sales. Then in late 2015, Apple 
launched its Apple Music streaming service which ignited 
the entire segment in wave of fresh incremental growth. 
We estimate, excluding the cannibalization affect from this 
launch, that it boosted the organic growth of streaming mu-
sic north of 30%. This rapid growth has completely offset 
the secular decline in physical music sales, such that in the 
third quarter of 2016 the Universal Music Group experience 
it’s first quarter of double digits sales growth excluding 
foreign exchange in a very long time. With streaming now 
reaching 38% of recorded music sales, it has finally reached 
a critical mass as a portion of UMGs overall revenue to start 
really moving the needle. Even assuming continued sec-
ular decline of digital download and physical music sales, 
we estimate that growth for the group will be accelerating 
quarter after quarter such that the current operating in-
come of around €750 million this year will grow to just shy 
of €1 billion by 2018.


Exhibit 17: Composition of UMG’s Quarterly Revenue - 
Historical & Projected 


Data Source: Company Reports and GreenWood Estimates


There are two fundamental reasons why streaming is a 
transformation for the music industry. First, it removes 
a purchasing consideration for each incremental song or 
album listened to by the subscriber. This expands the ability 
for the consumer to enjoy an unlimited amount and variety 
of music. It’s almost akin to the advent of the digital cable 
package that lead to decades of secular growth in numbers 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
63http://sumzero.com


of hours of TV watched by the average American. Second, 
because most of the developing world cannot afford a $10-
$15 musical album, it has long been benefiting from online 
pirated file sharing. Accordingly, UMG generated 90% of its 
sales from only 16% of the world’s population that lives in 
the US, Europe, and Japan. Because streaming is significant-
ly harder to consume illegally, the conversion of the music 
format over to the new media will allow UMG to perhaps 
start converting a significant portion of the worlds popu-
lation over to a revenue-generating form of consumption. 
It’s not as if Chinese, Russians and Indians don’t enjoy the 
same global artists, such as Rihanna, Madonna and Drake, 
it’s only as the rest of the world has largely converted to 
monetized methods of consumption. The demand is clearly 
there in emerging markets, and UMG has been busy sign-
ing partnerships with Asian tech partners in order to start 
driving this consumption onto platforms they can properly 
monetize for the artists. The consolidated industry struc-
ture of music publishing is perhaps finally ready to draw 
the line in the sand with YouTube. While we wouldn’t hold 
our breath for a near-term monetization of the other 84% of 
the world’s music consumption, it leaves an additional long 
runway for growth for Vivendi’s UMG.


In a nutshell, we think Vivendi is a solid collection of 
businesses, with one crown jewel being overly penalized 
by both the transition from download to streaming, as well 
as being weighed down by Pay-TV cord cutting in France. 
Thanks to both the resurrecting plan at Canal+, the return 
of high-margin revenue growth to UMG, and potential 
upside from both Telecom Italia and Mediaset, we think 
Vivendi on its own is an attractive investment for 2017 and 
beyond. And you’re getting it completely for free by buying 
Vivendi through Bolloré.


Exhibit 18: Why Vivendi? Why Now?


Havas


Havas (HAV FP) is the next and last major component 
of positive value for the Bolloré Group, and is one of the 
world’s largest marketing and advertising agencies. In-
dustry gorilla WPP plc has long said that the transition of 
media away from traditional print and TV to online and 
mobile distributors, while first viewed as a threat to the 
major marketing agencies, has actually been a boon to the 


ad men that help major global businesses navigate the 
complex web of intermediaries one needs to deal with in 
order to properly create and execute a brand or product 
campaign on the web. Because hours spent and engagement 
is so much higher online and on mobile, with a better ability 
to target potential customers, the trend away from print and 
TV to online and mobile is secular and permanent. It brings 
tailings to ad agencies that excel at both content creation 
and have a global scale. 


As Steve Jobs realized when he was building Apple into 
a global consumer products company, as detailed by Walt 
Isaacson, early in the iPod and iTunes lifecycle, he realized 
that today’s consumers are no longer geographic-specific. 
Products no longer need to be tailored to being an “Amer-
ican,” or “Asian,” product. Jeans and iPhones in Germany 
are the same jeans and iPhones in the United States. Today’s 
brands absolutely need ad agencies with significant global 
scale, able to execute campaigns simultaneously from Indo-
nesia to Indiana. And this is where Havas and Vivendi have 
obvious areas of collaboration. 


Canal’s content creation machine and UMG’s global net-
work of agents would have synergistic areas of cooperation, 
particularly when talking about deep geographic pene-
tration around the world, for Havas and its global clients. 
While we’re unsure if there would be cost synergies, we 
firmly believe the two companies working together have 
capability-expanding areas that would benefit either side 
of the house to have the capabilities in-house. Although 
Sir Martin Sorrell at WPP would hate the term, it would 
expand the ability for Havas to be a global brand concierge 
service. Placing more of UMG artists into ads and in-sourc-
ing Canal’s marketing efforts would yield slight incremental 
benefits, but we believe the cooperation would be most felt 
in areas where each company were able to fill in geographic 
gaps for each other. 


The two companies have already started cooperating, and 
media has been speculating about a merger between Havas 
and Vivendi, though on the recent quarterly call, Vivendi’s 
management team said that while a transaction would make 
sense, the parties are not currently talking about a full-scale 
merger. But we’d be shocked, if the cooperation between the 
two companies proves worth-while that Bolloré wouldn’t 
want to consolidate his interest in the two companies and 
merge the two. In such a scenario, Bolloré’s 21% stake in 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
64http://sumzero.com


Vivendi would likely surpass 26%, depending on the premi-
um given to shares of Havas. While a take-out is less likely 
in 2017, we wouldn’t think it to be impossible, as the chair-
man of both companies has refused to sit still in the grand 
denouement of his career, which he has sworn will end with 
Bolloré’s 200th anniversary on 2022. Until then, the Bolloré 
Group will be a special situations machine of consolidating 
interests, share structure simplifications, asset sales, and 
strategic business combinations, such as the innumerable 
that have happened over the past few years. We believe 
Havas will likely not be a stand-alone entity by the end 
of Bolloré’s career. In the mean time, Havas will remain a 
company with attractive tailwinds and a new global partner 
with which to leverage more capability and expertise on 
behalf of its clients who are in great need of global partners 
capable of executing complex campaigns across a complex 
web of online and mobile platforms. 


Exhibit 19: Why Havas? Why Now?


Energy Storage & Solutions: Chasing 
Windmills 


Before we get to the risks section, we’d like to overview the 
one area of the Bolloré Group that we dislike so much that 
we attribute a deeply negative valuation to in working up 
our hypothetical NAV., and therefore what should be a pos-


itive value for the group, is actually a key risk for investors. 
Blue Salutations and its related entities have been working 
for over a decade on lithium metal polymer batteries, which 
the company believes has proprietary technology that 
allows it to build a more reliable and longer-lasting battery 
than its Asian and soon-to-be American competitors. The 
only problem with this argument is that its batteries are 
woefully expensive, and its captive customers (car sharing 
schemes, bus and tram services, and car charging stations) 
are burning significant amounts of cash. The root cause of 
the problem is a nascent technology, that while it may have 
merits, is only able to get the publicly-traded battery manu-
facturer Blue Solutions (BLUE FP), to breakeven by selling 
battery packs at €1,349 per kWh. If you’re an automotive in-
sider, and follow electrification efforts of the various OEMs 
with any sense of interest, your jaw has just hit the floor. 
We’ll give you a minute to collect yourself.


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full BOL:FP report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
65http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Ex-US


Coca Cola European Partners Plc
Class:  Equity Symbol:  CCE:NA Updated:  12/15/16 Posted:  12/12/16


EXPECTED RETURN


50.0%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


FORMERLY AT:


Pavel Kaganas


Newtyn Management


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years
SITUATION:


Value
MARKET CAP:


14608.7B EUR


Pan-European Cash Flow Staple Amid Forced Selling and a Clearly 


Transitory Structural/Behavioral Valuation Gap


About Pavel Kaganas
Pavel Kaganas was most recently at Newtyn Management, a long/short fund focused 
on value and special situation investing. He completed his MBA at Columbia’s Value 
Investing Program, following multiple years in private equity and investment banking. 
He is currently a generalist, with deeper career expertise in Industrial and Consumer, and 
focuses on both value- and catalyst-driven opportunities.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
66http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  CCE:NA Updated:  12/15/16 Posted:  12/12/16


Coca Cola European Partners Plc


BY:


FORMERLY AT:


Pavel Kaganas


Newtyn Management


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 48%


Pan-European Cash Flow Staple Amid Forced 


Selling and a Clearly Transitory Structural/Behavioral 


Valuation Gap


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Value
TARGET ALLOCATION:


2% - 5%
CATALYSTS:


Management 
Change


TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


50.0%


30.00 EUR


45.00 EUR


LO N G


Investment Idea: CCE shares offer an opportunity to buy 
a European Staple at ~12x 2018 EPS. The merger-caused 
structural issues will dissipate and natural holders cycle in 
to start bridging the 3-5x valuation gap, while the merger’s 
cost-cuts ensure DD EPS growth. Downside is limited in 
this high-quality business due to low market expectations, 
cheap absolute and relative valuation, reduced business 
risk (aligning with toughest counter-party: KO), multi-year 
built-in CF growth, and 15% cheaper recent entry due to 
CEO’s retirement.


U.S. institutions sold out while natural European holders 
wait on sidelines for issues to lapse: changed reporting 
currency, accounting standard, domicile, primary exchange, 
and no indices (US ETFs sold ~$2bn/25%-float on index 
removal.) The mgmt.’s track record amid a weak UK/
France market improves with Germany/Iberia’s growing 
volumes, and may offer sang-bagged cost cut guidance.


Consensus View: The sellside’s 8Buys/6Holds seem pos-
itive, but the benign 15-20% upsides imply plenty of room 
for surprises. They focus on weak CSD trends, but under-
play cost cuts over the last four years of flat/down volumes; 
or that the acquired geographies are growing. They don’t 
mention the forced selling and structural hurdles, and think 
“more levered” explain the value gap (only 1x more at 2% 
cost.) They worry the COO/next-CEO will push for share 
at the cost of margins (risk overblow; BoD and KO push for 
margins.)


Investment Themes


Great Business Got Better: Risks Mitigated, Stakeholders 
Incentives Aligned, FCF Upsides Built-in


Large barriers (10-20yr exclusive country contracts), 
pass-through syrup costs, KO-funded S&M, and low MCpx 
(20%+ tangible ROICs.) Earnings volatility is low and even 


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
67http://sumzero.com


showed defensive volume growth in 2008-09; “healthy” is 
discretionary.


Counterparty risk reduced: KO’s stake and renewed Inci-
dence Pricing (syrup cost tied to ASPs) aligns CCE and KO 
towards higher-margin price/mix moves. From only bottler 
without a KO-stake, CCE became KO’s largest equity-in-
come contributor.


• Mitigates risk from prior decades of KO “bottler cycle” 
crashes: bottlers spin, over-lever the steady CFs, run 
for volume/share while under-invest in pricing, then 
get squeezed as volumes struggle and KO raises syrup 
prices.


• KO’s global focus shift to price/mix works in other mar-
kets: US ASP +3% in 2015/1H16 vs. <1% in 2013/4.


Annual cost cuts guided €310-340mm at <1.5yr payback 
(5% of acquired revenue; 20% of EBITDA base) are an easy 
target: transparent business, 40% of cuts already in pro-
cess, 5% is average for bottling mergers. HSD organic EBIT 
growth rises to mid-teens with cost cuts.


• Germany & Iberia adopt legacy-CCE’s variable cost 
expertise, plus cutting own fixed cost (plants/lines.) All 
three share Iberia’s hotel/rest. Expertise and Germa-
ny’s hard-discounter experience. All three benefit from 
cutting three corp-OH’s to one.


• The guidance seems easily sand-bagged: several bot-
tling deals had 7-8% cuts, and the 5% comes from a 
team that beat consensus margins for years.


A part of Germany’s low margins is structural (more pri-
vate-label, discounters, smaller plants), but large part is op-
portunity. KO spent $1.2bn since 2007 to cut 18% of plants 
and 20% headcount. CCE inherits continued benefits (2 
plants and 6 disti-center cuts announced March 2016) and 
likely implement more (Germany still has 20-40% lower 
cases/plant and 20-35% lower cases/employee.)


Corporate Tax Rate Savings: After cutting from 28% to 
20% in five years, the K. will reduce to 17% by 2020; new 
proposals of <15% since Brexit. Spain lowered from 30% to 
28% in 2015 and again to 25% in 2016. France’s rate decreas-


es in 2017 (extra ~3% surtax ends.)


EUR-reporting lowers reported-earnings volatility: e.g. 2015 
had ~15% FX effect.


Investor Attention: Transitory Structural & Behavioral 
Hurdles Limit Natural Holders: CCE re-domiciled to the 
U.K, changed primary listing to Euronext, currency to €’s, 
and accounting to IFRS. CCE was removed from all US indi-
ces and top ETF funds sold ~$2bn (~25% of float); at least 
€1bn should return with STOXX/FTSE index additions. 
90% of volume still trades on NYSE and shareholdings 
show almost no European owners of other bottlers or cash-
flow/consumer staples. Consolidating PF’s don’t screen well 
or show much comparability: CCIP only formed in 2013 and 
was integrating the roll-up; Germany’s reorg only finally im-
proved margins in 2015, and closed 15%+ of plants in the last 
18 months. None of these hurdles are permanent and will 
fade shortly. Recycling shareholders after spins takes 2-3 
quarters; longer here due to many more hurdles clearing.


Valuation Gap: Irrelevant Valuation 
Benchmark Relieved; Clear to Trade To-
wards Bottlers & Staples


Despite all-European revenue, NYSE-listed Legacy-CCE 
traded tight with SPX (Forward-PE had <0.6x STDEV.) 
Now relieved of this irrelevant benchmark, CCE can start 
bridging the 3-5x valuation discount to KO-Bottlers & 
Staples. EBIT valuation is more even but the higher lever-
age normalizes by YE17 while top-percentile margins are 
permanent.


Mgmt Track Record and Shareholder 
Focus


• Years of 1-2% secular soda declines saw legacy-CCE 
CAGR (-0.5%) volume and flat organic revenue since 
2010. Yet mgmt. created value by cutting costs and 
focusing on shareholders.


• Legacy-CCE formed in 2010 at ~$7bn Mcap: has since 
returned $5.2bn in dividends/repo’s (reduced shares by 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
68http://sumzero.com


30%) and increased TEV another $7bn (right), for 19% 
annual equity TSRs. €EPS CAGR’d 11.5%.


• Bottling is a mature business that passes 30-40% of 
pricing gains to rising syrup cost. Mgmt. consistency 
grew gross profits by cutting mnfg. costs in excess of 
this cost appreciation (right) and despite falling vol-
umes. Similar SG&A moves caused 150bps total EBIT 
margin increase since 2010. CCE often missed topline 
consensus but consistently beat on earnings.


• Now adds growing businesses in Germany (share and 
volume increased last two years) and Spain (volume up 
3% last year and this year.) UK pressure likely lifts as 
Aldi/Lidl market share is plateauing and France/Bel-
gium move past one-time issues (terrorism/tourism.)


• COO (next CEO) was KO’s go-to-guy for turnarounds: 
BoD’s mandate and KO’s margin focus ensure CEO 
will focus on margins. The CFO continues from leg-
acy-CCE. Integration falls to CCIP’s former CEO, who 
combined 8 bottlers into the highest margins among 
European bottlers.


• Compensation was historically tied to operating and 
shareholder results. Long term corporate strategy tar-
gets topline, earnings and returns (ROIC).


Catalysts: Addition to European stock indices (STOXX, 
FTSE, etc) and thus global ETFs. Cost savings larger/ahead 
of plan (reaffirmed after Q3.) More €-PFs filed (3 more 
Q’s for proper YoYs). More M&A: near-term Ireland, Italy, 
Swiss from CCH as KO reshuffles Africa. CCE’s Spanish 
family-owners control ECCBC’s 13 countries in North/West 
Africa. KO restructured segments internally in 2016; com-
bining Africa+Europe and just bought in its South Africa 
bottling JV (to later sell as part of move towards asset light 
model.)


Considerations, Risks & Pre-Mortem:


• Portion of Upside is Tied to Higher Leverage and 
Low Debt Cost: 3-5x PE discount normalizes on xE-
BIT. Mitigated by higher EBIT margins and the per-
manent cheaper capital (2% cost; IG rated.) 1x “More 
levered” does not mean “over-levered.”


• Regulatory/Sugar-tax: UK soda tax goes into effect 
April 2018, and a French proposal to triple its existing 
tax is being debated. Mitigated by long phase-in, KO 
adept at recipe changes, and volume hits from other 
sugar-tax intro’s bounced back after one year.


• Signposts: Weekly Nielsen data and KO reports before 
CCE. Britvic Plc comments for France/UK. Corporate 
tax and sugar tax rulings. Cost cuts being re-invested to 
support topline growth instead of FCF, or implementa-
tion costs tracking >1.5x.


Other Risks: Mostly union labor. More CSD behavioral/PR 
pressures. 90% of volume and valuation ties to NYSE/S&P. 
Rising rates.


Valuation and Payout Structure:


• Risk potential: KO’s large stake greatly diminished 
CCE’s biggest idiosyncratic risk. Secular unknowns re-
main but are too small, slow-moving and well-covered 
to materially punish the shares.


The valuation discount and cost cuts are protection for the 
good business and mgmt, built-in FCF growth and not-over-
levered BS. This is not a value trap because the cause/res-
olution is apparent: recycling/adding holders and settling 
into European markets (indices, €-earnings, etc.)


• Reward: CCE is a €20bn+ well-run trans-Europe-
an cash-flow staple, trading like the odd-duck out. 
Some of the valuation gap is discounting more mature 
topline trends vs. EM-like comps. But as the offsetting 
strengths are bought by natural holders, CCE will be 
bigger that all the other Euro-listed bottlers combined, 
and becomes a top choice for CF-hungry/staples port-
folios.


• Current buyers stand to earn 15-20% returns from 
bridging valuation, plus annual 10-15% from NT 
earnings growth and 3-5% from capital returns.


• Hindsight should show well-run huge earnings pow-
er amid a clearly transitory value gap.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
69http://sumzero.com


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full CCE:NA report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
70http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Ex-US


Novo Nordisk A/S B
Class:  Equity Symbol:  NOVOB:DC Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


EXPECTED RETURN


31.9%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Dan H. Chen


Talguard Investments


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years
SITUATION:


Value
MARKET CAP:


641.7B DKK


Novo is a cash flow king that will continue to grow. Get it at a discount now 


while you still can.


About Dan H. Chen
Dan H. Chen is the Chief Investment Officer of Talguard Investments LLC. Dan offers 
a concentrated approach that seeks out great companies trading at or below their 
intrinsic value by applying the rigorous principles of intelligent investment. Dan has 16 
years of successful investment experience with companies such as Bear Stearns and 
Ares Management. Dan graduated with a BS from UC Berkeley Haas School of Business, 
an SA from Tsinghua University of Beijing, and a MBA from UCLA Anderson School of 
Management. Dan is a vociferous reader with particular attention to companies in the 
investable universe, science, astronomy, and world history. “My goal is to generate long 
term returns and survive the one year that no one else does.” 


About Talguard Investments
The Talguard Value Fund LP is a stock investment vehicle that offers a rigorous application 
of the principles of intelligent investment, together with an analytic approach to business 
value that makes this investment opportunity uniquely compelling. The Talguard name 
comes from the talons of the eagle - when it strikes, it strikes hard - and from Dan’s 
concern to safeguard investment returns, even in the most demanding market conditions. 
Our concentrated approach seeks out great companies trading at or below their intrinsic 
value. Our aim is not to spread our investment, but to concentrate it, in leading companies 
with long term catalysts. We seek companies with long term catalysts that can span 
decades. We seek to safeguard and grow our investors’ capital. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
71http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  NOVOB:DC Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


Novo Nordisk A/S B


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Dan H. Chen


Talguard Investments


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 51%


Novo is a cash flow king that will continue to grow. Get 


it at a discount now while you still can.


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Value
TARGET ALLOCATION:


1.5% - 2%
CATALYSTS:


N/A
TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


31.9%


254.10 DKK


335.00 DKK 


LO N G


Summary


The Market is oversold on concerns on Novo Nordisk’s 
stock while it undervalues 12 catalysts that I highlight in 
regards to this cash flow king.  Novo Nordisk (“Novo” or the 
“Company”) is currently undervalued by more than 35%.  
This thesis is for Novo’s U.S. ADRs Class B common shares.  
Novo has all the qualities I like for a long term investment 
and it provides good value based on current prices.  The 
Company has decades of steadily growing cash flow even 
through the last two recessions.  Novo has tremendous new 
growth opportunities that the Market fails to realize as it is 
focused on the Company’s risks.  The Company has a long 
track record of consistent share repurchases over the past 
20 years.  Management has stepped up repurchases amidst 
the current downturn in prices.  This is exactly the right 
time to strike. 


Novo Nordisk is a dividend blue chip as it has increased 
dividends every year for nearly two decades regardless of 
industry or economic downturns.  Revenues are expected to 
grow 5% instead of 15% but there is real upside.  The key is 
that revenues and EPS will continue to grow.  At the same 
time, the Market values the Company as if it is losing both 
revenues and profitability.  Novo’s businesses have consis-
tent and growing demand through recessions.  Novo gener-
ates over 40% operating margins even after factoring inten-
sified competition and 20% net income margins.  Currency 
fluctuations have negatively affected operating income by 
8%.  This situation will pass as time goes on.  Primary and 
Secondary Research shows that Novo has a sterling reputa-
tion for its branded products and delivery systems.


Why Does This Situation Exist? 


Novo Nordisk’s stock has dropped significantly in the past 
six months due to several specific reasons that I will ad-
dress:


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
72http://sumzero.com


1. Public concern and benefit management pushback over 
drug prices as a whole


2. Increased competitive pressure from biosimilar 
branded and generic drugs


3. Currency fluctuations


4. Company’s announcement of a slow down in growth


Despite the current pressure, the Company is still set to 
grow revenues and profit by mid-single digits.  Read my cat-
alysts below for a clearer picture of the Company’s promise 
based on current valuations.  The Company will have a good 
shot at beating its 5% revenue target.  It has a high chance 
to beat a 5% net income growth target with its current share 
repurchase program that the Company is aggressively uti-
lizing at this time.  There has been no decline or complete 
reversal into negative income territory. 


I Identified 12 Catalysts The Valuation Will Turnaround 
Summarized Here:


1. Tresiba – Longest duration insulin in the market at 40 
hours, 67% longer than Sanofi’s Toujeo. It has a huge 
U.S. market opportunity and early results are encour-
aging.  It is much better than Sanofi’s next gen Toujeo 
which is a new name for its old drug Lantus with no 
improvement.  After a delay by the FDA, Tresiba will 
gain steadily gain significant market share in the U.S. 
much as it did in Japan. 


2. Xultophy Combo Play – This combination of Tresiba 
and Victoza has tested extraordinarily well. In fact it 
has the best test results ever for a combo insulin pack-
age. Expect Xultophy revenue to grow to the same size 
as Tresiba.


3. Company Is Positioned Well For Worldwide Diabe-
tes Growth – Most growth will come from non-west-
ern nations. Novo positioned itself as the leader in 
China and it looks to do the same in other regions.


4. Unmatched Scale and Barriers to Entry - Scale mat-
ters in testing, manufacturing, and marketing insulin 
drugs.


5. All Star Pipeline - Novo’s product pipeline is the best 


in the insulin industry.


6. Huge Share Repurchase Will Be Accretive - This is 
exactly what I want from Companies when their stock 
is cheap.  This will boost EPS. Company’s board recent-
ly authorized a huge difference.


7. Dividend Royalty Rewards You - Company has re-
warded shareholders with a dividend that grew from 
$0.03 in 2001 to $1.41 in 2016 inclusive of a bonus div-
idend. Novo will continue to grow this dividend going 
forward.


8. Wide Economic Moat - Primary and secondary re-
search shows that the Company’s products are trusted 
by the medical community. Novo has highly regarded, 
branded products that are sticky with customers and 
with the medical professionals.  Novo operates in an 
industry that requires scale not just on manufacturing, 
but also marketing, shipping, handling, and storage. 


9. Highly Innovative Company - Company’s products 
are high quality and have experienced less problems 
than competitors.


10. Proactive Approach By Management - The Company 
was the first in the insulin industry to take the lead and 
cap future price increases.


11. Buyout Potential - I never invest hoping for a buyout. 
However, Novo has zero long term leverage and a great 
balance sheet and one of the few pure plays in phar-
maceuticals.  It also has an industry leading position.  
These characteristics make Novo an attractive target for 
a large buyout or merger.


12. Danish Government Support - Denmark is one of 
the most hospitable places for a life science company. 
The Danish Government recently formed committee to 
address industry concerns.  Novo is the crown jewel in 
this industry.


 The Following Are The 12 Catalysts Explained In Detail:



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
73http://sumzero.com


1. Tresiba Growth Opportunity In The U.S.


Tresiba is crushing it in other regions and it will gain a lot 
of market share in the United States as it steps up to cap-
ture enormous market share.  Tresiba is the longest acting 
insulin available with a 40 hour duration.  This has a major 
advantage because it gives consumers a lot more conve-
nience.  Americans love convenience.  Tresiba has shown to 
be effective and safe for long term use in adults and children 
who have Type 1 diabetes. (Source: NewsMax.com, Sep 
2014).  It has shown to improve blood sugar control with 
increasing hypoglycemia risk in children aged one to 18. 
Tresiba has been approved in Europe in 2013 and has had 
a good track record for the past three years.  Tresiba has 
crushed it Japan as it has grown market share to 40% in 
three years.


Tresiba is taken by injection with Novo’s FlexTouch deliv-
ery system.  Tresiba has a molecular structure that connect 
like a string of pearls.  Once in the body, the end pearls 
release and then the next set releases over time giving the 
patient over 24 hours of blood sugar control.


Tresiba was delayed by the U.S. FDA until the first quarter 
of 2016.  It captured an immediate 2% market share in the 
first month of release and it has grown to 12% of the U.S. 
Market by September 2016 (Source: IMS Weekly Data, 
October 2016).  That is just 8 months.  Novo’s Levemir has 
maintained a healthy 19% market share.  Combined, Novo 
now has 31% of the long duration market.  Tresiba’s market 
share is expected to grow in the U.S.  Tresiba has shown a 
powerful long term penetration in other large developed 
markets.  For example, in Japan, Tresiba steadily grew 
market share since its launch in March 2013 to capture 40% 
of that market.  This was against the backdrop a biosimilar 
product that was launched.  (Source: Novo Nordisk Pre-
sentation).  Tresiba has a lower bar to cross versus Novo’s 
previous generation, Levemir, which has a 25% U.S. market 
share.  Novo has a potential 15% upside in the U.S. if Tresiba 
mimics its market share elsewhere.


Much has been said about the increased competition 
against Novo.  Tresiba is a major answer that have com-
petitors worried.  Tresiba will take a lot of market share 
from competitors in the U.S. market.  This equates to a $2.5 
billion opportunity.  Levemir will not be cannibalized com-


pletely.  Tresiba represents a 60% potential increase in rev-
enues versus Levemir in the long run for the U.S. segment.   
Novo’s sales force has gotten Tresiba a wide 75% formulary 
access through a combination of commercial channels and 
Medicare Part D.


2. Xultophy Combo Play


Xultophy is a combination of Tresiba and Novo’s GLP-1 
drug Victoza.  Results for the combo drug Xultophy are 
very promising as they have shown some of the strongest 
late-stage data that Novo has ever seen.  Xultophy revenues 
can be as high as Tresiba.  This is an upside of another $2.5 
billion in the long run.  According to primary and second-
ary research, Novo has a very experienced and professional 
sales force.  Novo in fact has one of the best sales force in 
the business and that will benefit both Tresiba and the Xul-
tophy combination.


3. Company Is Positioned Well For World-
wide Diabetes Growth


Diabetes is on the rise worldwide and Novo is positioning 
itself to have a leading position to serve patients in the areas 
with expected large growth.  It is not just a developed world 
health issue. According to the International Diabetes Foun-
dation (“IBD”), there are currently 415 million people with 
diabetes in the world.  That number is projected to grow 
55% to 642 million by 2040 (Source: International Diabetes 
Foundation, IBD World Atlas 7th Edition, 2015).  Insulin 
demand worldwide should increase with a CAGR of over 
6% in the next five years and that is on the conservative 
side.  Branded insulin is approximately $45 billion and set 
for continued growth.  Novo has a worldwide market share 
of 28% of this segment.  Novo has a market share of approx-
imately 30% of the $30 billion of the insulin therapy market 
portion.


Non-western countries will have the most growth in dia-
betes.  India has approximately 78 million diabetics and 
Eastern Asia including Oceania has 153 million.  That is pro-
jected to grow to 140 million and 215 million by 2040, re-
spectively.   In the Middle East and North Africa, diabetes is 
projected to more than double from 35 million in 2015 to 72 
million in 2040.  In Sub-Saharan Africa, diabetes is project-



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
74http://sumzero.com


ed to grow from 14 million to 34 million (Source: IBD, 2015).  
Novo has made in-roads with its older analogs and modern 
insulin products and delivery systems in these areas.


In China, the Company was the first to lay major ground-
work in 2004.  Novo now has the largest sales force and 
a leading market position.  The Company was the first to 
recognize the Chinese market potential and actually take 
action.  It was the first to build a partnership and sales force 
in China in 2004 and that will be pay big dividends going 
forward.  It is now to looking to do the same in other high 
growth regions. This has translated to revenue growth of 
12% for the First Nine Months of 2016 in China.


4. Unmatched Scale and Barriers To Entry


Novo accounts for approximately 28% of the global market 
for insulin.  Together with its support accessories such as 
its insulin delivery systems, Novo Nordisk is the clear #1 
producer of diabetes treatment and care products in the 
world.  Novo has the most extensive expertise in insulin, 
much more so than any of its competitors.  Insulin is just 
a portion of revenues for its main competitors.  For Novo, 
diabetes care is what the Company was founded on and 
remains its core mission.  Novo is the largest company in 
Denmark.  Denmark is a small country and it values its 


competitive industries.  This gives Novo strong influence 
to ensure it has favorable treatment in its home base.   The 
worldwide market for total health expenditure for diabetes 
care is approximately $81 billion.  That is a staggering 12% 
of the $673 billion spent on global health expenditure in 
2015 (IBD 7th Edition 2015). 


Approximately 24 million consumers worldwide use a Novo 
Product now.  That is projected to grow to 40 million in 
2020.  Novo’s sales force is a seasoned machine and highly 
successful at drug placement once approved. 


5. “All Star” Pipeline


If this is baseball, then Novo has one of the best “farm sys-
tems” of next generation insulin drugs in the league with a 
slew of  “top rated prospects” in the GLP-1 segment.  This 
positions Novo well for high margin products and to expand 
into new markets.  The Company has filed fast acting insu-
lin aspart and Semaglutide.  It has also filed another Hemo-
philia compound N9-GP.  Tresiba and the Xultophy Combo 
Play will be large drivers ahead.


For GLP-1, Novo’s Semaglutide has had fantastic trials and 
has proven to reduce non-fatal heart risk by 26% during 
a 104 week clinical trial versus a placebo with 254 events. 


Diabetes Worldwide Growth


Source: International Diabetes Foundation, IDF Atlas 7th Edition 2015



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
75http://sumzero.com


There is a reduction of 39% for non-fatal stroke versus the 
placebo in the same trial. (Source: FiercePharma, Septem-
ber 2016).


6. Huge Shareholder Repurchase Will 
Boost EPS


The Company is an outstanding steward of capital and 
treats shareholders very well over the long run.  Novo 
repurchases shares on a consistent basis and grows its 
dividends non stop.  In the midst of this downturn, the 
Company has stepped up share repurchases.  On October 
28, 2016, the Company announced a share repurchase pro-
gram of approximately $2.1B (based on a 7.00 Danish Krone 
(“DKK”) to U.S. Dollar conversion as of December 13, 2016).   
The Company has thus far spent $277 million to repurchase 
8.37 million shares.  Since November 28, 2016, the Compa-
ny has repurchased 1.57 million shares.  The Company has 
repurchased shares for 15 straight years and has reduced 
shares by approximately 28%.


7. Dividend Blue Chip


The Company is a dividend king. It has grown dividends 
for 15 straight years with a CAGR of 29%.  The dividend 
enjoys a large cushion to EPS. This is all while continuing 
to make product investment decisions that have grown cash 


flow significantly.  The Company has grown dividends from 
$0.03 per ADR in 2001 to $1.41 in 2016 inclusive of a special 
dividend.  Back out the special dividend and the CAGR is 
still an impressive 26%.  The Company will continue to 
reward shareholders.


8. Strong Economic Moat


The Company has continued to dominate the diabetes 
industry.  The Company has a leading position in branded 
insulin.  Entering the insulin market requires a very sig-
nificant start cost.  Insulin is considered a big molecule 
therapy and it requires very high clinical trials costs and 
manufacturing costs.  Big molecule therapy has more trials 
and machinery needed to not only manufacture but also for 
delivery versus small molecule therapy products. 


Biosimilar products for insulin has been available for years.  
Yet Novo has continued to innovate and market its products 
effectively.  As mentioned in global growth potential, the 
Company was the first to establish a large scale marketing 
and distribution system in China.  It is planning to do so in 
other high growth regions.  Because of this, Novo has an 
established lead in China.  Why did other companies not do 
the same earlier?  It is because Novo’s management thinks 
long term and plans ahead.


Insulin has to be stored in liquid form and it has a very 


NovoNordisk’s Customer Breadth



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
76http://sumzero.com


short shelf life of less than 12 to 26 weeks.  Insulin has a 
high shipping and handling cost because it needs to held in 
heavy glass containers.  Novo Nordisk also has the added 
advantage of a diverse array of well developed delivery 
systems.  Novo has a long history of quality products sold by 
a seasoned, highly trained sales force.  Primary and second-
ary research has shown there is a high degree of trust with 
Novo products.  Novo products are often categorized as 
Group 2 products which means they are the “Preferred” and 
more “effective” branded product in formularies.  Group 1 
are generics and Group 3 are less preferred branded prod-
ucts.   These factors combine to give Novo a strong econom-
ic moat. 


9. Highly Innovative Company


Since its founding over 80 years ago, the Company became a 
leader in innovation and it continues to be with its impres-
sive pipeline.  This commitment to innovation has reduced 
the demand for older, human insulin therapies.  The Com-
pany now has more than 80% of its revenues derived from 
modern insulin analogs.  The Company has products ready 
to go to replace some of their current lineup of NovoLog, 
Levemir, and NovoMix.   


10. Proactive Approach By Management


Novo’s management team has a history of proactive think-
ing.  The foresight to plant seeds and grow its China sales 
force is a championship move.  In September 2016, the 
Company announced it would reduce its workforce by 
1,000  from its current 42,600 staff.  Novo has continued to 
innovate with its large pipeline.  Novo’s management has 
certainly been direct in acknowledging challenges such as 
Roche ACE910.  The same is true about insulin competi-
tion and benefit manager pushback. Novo has proactively 
announced it will cap price increases at 10% for any given 
year.  This gives the Company a good response if challenged 
by lawmakers over drug prices.  Lars Fruergaard Jorgensen, 
50, will take over as CEO on January 1, 2017 following 
the retirement of Lars Rebien Sorensen.  Mr. Sorensen is 
retiring after 16 years at the helm of Novo Nordisk who 
guided the Company to a global company.  Incoming CEO 
Mr. Jorgensen is a seasoned veteran of the Company with 
25 years of experience, currently serving as Executive VP of 
Corporate Development.


11. Buyout Potential


I never invest in a company with the hopes that it will be 
bought out.  However, Novo has attractive qualities as a tar-
get.  The Company is a very large size for sure.  The recent 
drop in stock price has made an acquisition or merger more 
manageable.  The Company has zero long term leverage.  It 
has a fair amount of cash on hand.  Novo has an attractive 
current valuation.  It is a focused company as the #1 compa-
ny by market share for the insulin industry.  It has a highly 
profitable secondary and tertiary businesses.  It is based in 
Denmark which offers the opportunity for a reverse merger 
not just for U.S. Companies but other international compa-
nies.  Denmark has a relatively low corporate tax rate, lower 
than most of the countries in the developed world.  These 
factors make it attractive for an international conglomerate. 


12. Danish Government Support


Novo Nordisk’s home, Denmark, is the ideal place for a life 
science company.  It has the most trials per capita in the 
world.  The Danish government has set up a single point 
of entry for identification and contact for its vast array of 
sophisticated clinical trial facilities in their hospital system.  
The Danish system registers the entire populations from 
“cradle to grave” so there are more than 500 bio banks that 
produce extensive medical records.  Denmark is one of the 
fastest countries to approve clinical trials which has been an 
advantage for Novo to test and retest early stage drugs.


In June 2016, the Danish Government set up a special com-
mittee called the Life Science Growth Team to help support 
the country’s life science industry.  The committee has one 
objective and that is to put forward suggestions to boost the 
Life Science Industry.  The Danish Government is high-
ly supportive of this industry and has every reason to see 
that this industry continues to thrive.  Novo Nordisk is the 
crown jewel of this industry.


Industry and Competition


Novo Company Description


Novo develops insulin, hemophilia, and obesity treatments.  



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
77http://sumzero.com


Novo also produces a wide variety of delivery systems to 
store and administer these treatments.  The Company has a 
global supply chain to manufacture and transport the prod-
ucts.  Novo has a seasoned sales force to get the products on 
to formularies around the world.


Novo Nordisk is the combination of two prominent Dan-
ish companies.  Nordisk was founded in 1923 and Novo 
was founded in 1925.  I enjoy reading about the history of 
leading companies and this one is no different.   This Com-
pany’s longevity is an attribute I seek in investments.  Novo 
Nordisk is the #1 global leader in insulin products.   Novo’s 
revenues are derived from 80% in insulin and 20% from 
hemophilia.


Many argue that insulin is a commodity.  While the man-
ufacture of basic insulin is cheap there is so much more 
to this industry than meets the eye.  You have to consider 
duration, time to act, dosage, and delivery systems.  Novo is 
the clear leader in innovating quality products, with great 
delivery systems, and a strong marketing/sales force that 
the other companies cannot match.


Insulin Industry


According to the International Diabetes Foundation 
(“IDF”), approximately 415 million people in the world have 
diabetes as of 2015 (Source: IDF Diabetes Atlas 7th Edition 
2015).  That is 1 in 11 adults.  Approximately 90% have Type 
2 diabetes and approximately 10% have the Type 1 variety 
(Source: World Health Organization, December 2014).  Dia-
betes has grown from 108 million in 1980 to over 422 million 
at the start of 2015. 


Novo faces competition from branded products and from 
generic manufacturers.  There are three large branded 
competitors.  They are Sanofi, Eli Lilly, and Merck.  Mann-
Kind has a single product in Afreeza purchased from Sanofi.  
There is a private company called Adocia that has three 
products in development.   Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis, 
and AstraZeneca have joint venture collaborations.  Johnson 
& Johnson produces insulin patches and pumps. Takeda 
produces several modern insulins.


For all the talk of increased competition, two major compet-
itors have been nearly eliminated with Novo capturing a lot 


of their market share.  Novo did exceptionally well in Japan 
over the past 10 years.  Takeda global insulin market share 
has dropped from 19% as #2 behind Novo in 2005 down to 
less than 3% in 2015.  GSK has dropped from number #3 
at approximately 15% global insulin market share down to 
near zero. 


Novo has by far the widest array of insulin products in every 
category and delivery devices.  Novo’s Victoza far outper-
formed Sanofi’s Lyxumia.  Victoza cut blood sugar levels 
significantly more with a 1.83% reduction in HbA1c versus 
a 1.21% reduction for Lyxumia, a 51% stronger reduction.  
Victoza helped 74.2% of trial patients reduce HbA1c targets 
to less than 7%, versus a 45.5% rate for Lyxumia (Source: 
FiercePharma.com, September 2015).  Eli Lilly’s Trulic-
ity is a direct competitor to Novo’s Victoza. Trulicity has 
a dosing advantage of once a week administration versus 
Victoza’s daily administration.  Novo’s answer is to launch a 
once-weekly version of Victoza next year.  Teva is coming to 
market with a generic TLP-1 biosimilar for a projected 2017 
launch.   I am not as concerned by this.  Primary research 
has shown that biosimilar analogs have come to market for 
years but the demand for branded products continues to 
grow from the medical community. 


Novo’s Victoza continues to experience strong growth 
despite exclusion from the Express Scripts formulary since 
2014.  There have been other GLP-1 analogs that have grown 
to challenge Victoza.   Sanofi has a GLP-1/insulin dual prod-
uct that should reach the market at approximately the same 
time as Novo’s Xultophy.


Tresiba experienced delays to come to market in the U.S. 
but it has now been approved and marketed on television 
since 1Q16.  Novo has an excellent track record for rolling 
out new drugs.  Tresiba is no different.  Since it launched in 
Japan in 2013, Tresiba has grown every year and has now 
captured a 40% market share.  Japan’s pharmaceutical mar-
ket has many similarities to the United States.  For example, 
the average price per unit is similar to the United States.


Sanofi’s next generation Toujeo product came to market 
first in the U.S. but this is a sub-par product.  It is basically 
a new name for an old drug in Lantus because of patent 
expiration.  Toujeo has no improvements.  Both Lantus and 
Toujeo are 24 hour durations.  In fact, Toujeo has a longer 6 
hour onset of action versus Lantus’ 3-4 hours. Tresiba will 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
78http://sumzero.com


crush this drug with its much longer duration of 40 hours.  
Eli Lilly is planning to launch a product similar to Sanofi’s 
Lantus in the coming months.  This is an inferior product as 
compared with Tresiba. 


Boehringer Ingelheim produces ProZinc as a branded 
product insulin.  It has collaborations with Eli Lilly for 
Basaglar.  Boehringer also produces generic drugs.  Aztra-
Zeneca produces Byetta and Byuderon.  It has also formed 
collaborations in the past such as the one that ended with 
Brystol-Myers Squibb to treat Type-2 diabetes.  Johnson & 
Johnson (“J&J) produces insulin pumps and insulin patches.  
In October 2016, J&J announced that its insulin pump was 
susceptible to hacking. However, J&J will continue to be a 


major manufacturer of patches and pumps for the industry.


In April 2016, MannKind gained full control and marketing 
for Afreeza which is a human insulin.  This is not a major 
competitor to Novo Nordisk.  First of all, Afreeza is not a 
substitute for long form insulin and must be used in con-
junction with a long form insulin for consumers with Type 
1 diabetes.  In other words, consumers may be using a Novo 
Nordisk product in order to maintain their blood sugar even 
when they use Afreeza.  Afreeza is listed as a tier 3 medica-
tion which means it is a branded product that is not the best 
choice for most patients. Furthermore, the use of human 
insulin is on the decline.  Synthetic insulin and next gener-
ation insulin control more than 80% of the market and it is 


Insulin Industry Landscape
Company Novo 


Nordisk
Sanofi Eli Lilly Merck Boeh-


ringer
AstraZen. J&J Novartis Takeda Mann-


Kind


Global 
Share


28% 19% 13% 12% 8% 7% 5% 2% 2% <1%


% Revenue 
from 
Diabetes 
Care


80% 17% 16% 12% 15% 5% 2% 2% 10% 10%


Next 
Generation 
Insulins


Tresiba, 
Ryzodeg, 
Xultophy


Toujeo
LixiLan


Basaglar MK-2640 Basaglar 
(with 
LLY)


Glucagon-
Like 
Peptide 
(GLP-1)


Victoza Lyxumia Trulicity


Glucagon


Modern 
Insulins


NovoRa-
pid


Levemir
NovoMix


Lantus


Apidra


Glimepiride


Humalog


Jardiance


Jentadu-
eto


Januvia


Janumet


ProZinc Byetta


Byuderon


Galvus Actos


Trelagliptin


Human 
Insulin


Insulatard 
Actrapid


Mixtard


Insuman Humulin Afreeza


(from 
Sanofi)


Diabetes 
Delivery 
Devices


Flex-
Touch


FlexPen


NovoPen


InnoLet
NovoFine


NovoT-
wist


GlucaGen


SoloStar


ClikStar


JuniorStar


Huma-
Pen, 
KwikPen


None – 
products 
are oral 
pills.


Patches, 
Pump


Sources: Company Websites, DiabetesLab.org, IMS Health National



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
79http://sumzero.com


Hemophilia Industry


Hemophilia is an illness that prevents blood clotting.  Some 
of the most famous cases afflicted the Russian Czar fami-
lies.  In the U.S. only 20,000 people have this illness but it 
requires treatments that are very high dollar amounts.  Novo 
has a $1.5 billion drug in NovoSeven and will have NovoE-
ight in the future.  Several other companies have treatments 
in this segment.  Roche is coming out with a much-hyped 
hemophilia treatment called ACE910.  It will certainly take 
market share but Roche’s product does have its share of 
problems and it may not come to market in the time frame 
that many observers think.  The FDA is notorious for delay-
ing new drugs at the first sign of trouble in clinical trials and 
ACE910 certainly has an issue that we know of so far.  Read 
it in greater detail in the Risks and Rebuttal section below.


Obesity Industry


Obesity is on the rise worldwide in conjunction with dia-
betes.  Obesity is not treated as a chronic disease but the 
condition has been given a lot more attention by the medical 
community worldwide.   Novo has a tremendous growth 
opportunity with obesity.  The Company’s Saxenda revenue 
grew by 331% to $142 million for the first nine months of 
2016.  This represents approximately 1.2% of Novo sales so it 
is a small segment at this time.  However, it is a highly prof-
itable and growing segment.  Other weight loss medicines 
include Xenical, Alli, Belviq, Over-The-Counter Medicines 
and Vitamins.  Sexanda has now become the third largest 
player in the market with a market share of volume of 10.6% 
(IMS NPA, TRx, Weekly Data, 2015).  Looking forward, 
Novo has 4 obesity drugs in the pipeline.


Growth Hormone Industry


Novo’s Norditropin is the only market prefilled pen-based 
liquid growth hormone product that remains stable at room 
temperature (Source: Technavio.com).  This gives it a strong 
advantage.  Novo currently holds a 32% market share in vol-
ume accounting for $1.1 billion in sales for 2015.  That is on 
pace to grow approximately 5% to $1.2 billion in 2016.  This 
is a highly fragmented market but Novo has done well to not 
just maintain market share but to grow it as well.   Nordit-


ropin has grown from 28% market share in 2013 to 32% in 
2015 (Sources: Technavio.com, Market Realist).


Risks & Rebuttal To Shorts


Competition: 


The Insulin, Hemophilia, and Obesity markets are highly 
competitive.  As discussed in the Industry and Competition 
section, the Company faces several large conglomerates 
such as Sanofi and Eli Lilly.  Novo also faces challenges from 
generic drug manufacturers.  The Company has been highly 
successful with over 80 years at innovating next generation 
products.   Novo also has more scale than any competitor 
for insulin production and delivery systems.  This has kept 
it in front and helped it maintain margins over the long run.  


Roche has a new hemophilia treatment, ACE910, that will 
capture market share when it is released but there is now 
uncertainty on when that will be.  It is a potential game 
changer and Novo management has recognized it as such.  
However, I do not agree with some who claim this product 
will take over the industry.  Far from it.  Bloomberg esti-
mates $681 million in sales by 2021.  This will represent 
approximately 5.2% of the industry based on an estimated 
industry size of $13 billion in 2021.  ACE910 has problems.   
In November 2016, four patients in a clinical trial suffered 
“serious adverse events” due to Roche ACE910.  More 
importantly, they were for two separate problems.  There 
were two thromboembolic events (blood vessel clots) and 
two cases of thrombotic microangiopathy (capillary and 
arteriole blood clots).  This suggests patients still experi-
ence breakthrough bleeds despite receiving ACE910.   Plus 
this product’s potential impact on Novo has already been 
factored into the current valuation of Novo.  


Generic Biosimilars:


Much has been made about generic biosimilars and the 
threat they pose to Novo and branded drugs.  Novo drugs 
will continue to sell well because they have competitive 
advantages.  This will be the case long after Teva launches 
their generic of an old insulin drug.  The Company contin-
ues to innovate to keep that advantage.  For example, Tresi-
ba is the longest acting insulin in the market with duration 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
80http://sumzero.com


of 40 hours.  No one else has this and no one else is close.  
Novo used to dominate Human Insulin and then the patents 
expired.  Guess what?  Novo moved on to synthetic insu-
lin and now is the leader in that field.  Plus Novo was still 
able to retain market share in the declining human insulin 
segment.  


Novo’s drugs are considered top quality and marketing 
counts.  There are many drugs that are generic but that does 
not stop branded versions from dominating.  If you set aside 
for a moment the controversy with Mylan, you will see that 
the drug for EpiPen has been a generic for years.  Even with 
Sanofi having a recall and several generic brands available 
for decades, EpiPen has continued to dominate that world.  
In other words, Novo has a good reputation in the medical 
community and it has a solid sales force.  Plus its marketing 
has been effective and driving trust. 


Teva is launching a generic based on a dying product.  It is 
based on AstraZeneca’s Byetta which saw sales plunge by 
31% in 1Q16.  Byetta is a short term insulin and its generic 
will have low margins.  Furthermore, Teva has been making 
generic biosimilars for many industries but yet branded 
products continue to not only survive but thrive. If generics 
are going to dominate, why did Teva’s revenues decrease 
for several years in a row?  Generic products have almost no 
economic moat.  Customers do not care what the brand is, 
and over the long run branded products will have a much 
more loyal following which makes their products more 
sticky.


Cure For Diabetes: 


Universities, research institutions, and private companies 
are working daily to find cures to many major diseases and 
illness.  A cure can cause major disruption to the diabetes 
industry, especially Novo.  For example, Johnson & Johnson 
announced it was collaborating with private companies to 
find a cure to Type 1 diabetes and that some results were 
promising.  Primary research and other channel checks 
show that a cure is far off at this time.  Novo is also not 
sitting still.  The Company has devoted resources to poten-
tial cures and also to delaying the onset of diabetes.  The 
Company’s obesity drug is doing well.


Pricing Pressure:


The Company faces pricing pressure from three angles.  
Benefit manager pushback, public outrage over drug prices 
in general and competition has reduced Novo’s share price 
by over 40% in recent months.  Novo still projects growth 
of 5% on top line and bottom line.  The step up in share 
repurchase will bump EPS growth higher than 5%.  Novo 
has taken a proactive approach in announcing it will not in-
crease prices by more than 10% in any given year.  I support 
this type of logic.  It is proactive and it shows the Company 
is getting ahead with managing expectations to both regula-
tors and the public.  This will likely result in a better climate 
for the Company in the long run.


Regulation: 


The Company’s products and services are highly regulated. 
Negative public sentiment on pricing has led to hearings 
for a variety of drug companies.  President-elect Donald 
Trump has called out the pharmaceutical industry that drug 
prices are too high.  There is specific concern over the price 
of insulin.  This can have an adverse reaction to pricing.  
As mentioned above, the Company has taken a proactive 
approach to address pricing that provides a ceiling and 
greater transparency over drug prices.  Many investors have 
punished pharmaceutical stocks because of these concerns.  
I would not be overly negative on this industry.  Many con-
cerns have been priced in to Novo Nordisk’s stock price. 


Litigation:


The Company is subject to litigation risk at any time given 
the nature of its products.  This has been the case with 
the entire drug industry since inception.  Novo Nordisk 
has operated successfully in this environment for over 80 
years and there is no reason to speculate this will change at 
this time. Novo’s products have shown better results than 
many of its competitors.  Most litigation cases have been for 
non-product related issues.  Novo has been the gold stan-
dard for product reliability.


Side Effects:


Side effects can occur from insulin therapy, with hypoglyce-
mia the most common.  Novo’s products have an excellent 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
81http://sumzero.com


track record.  For example, Tresiba has a much lower hypo-
glycemia risk than competitor products.


Anti-Globalization Movement:


The elections across a number of countries have resulted 
in votes against globalization.  From Brexit in the UK to the 
election platform of Donald Trump in the United States, 
there is a movement against globalization.  This can have 
negative effects on a global company like Novo Nordisk.


Voting Shares:


The Class B Shares available to the public have less voting 
power.  Class B Shares have 72.5% of the capital and 24.7% 
of votes.  Class A shares are not listed and owned by Novo 
A/S.  Novo A/S is an LLC in Denmark wholly owned by the 
Novo Nordisk Foundation.  This is mitigated by the fact that 
the Company has return billions of capital to shareholders 
over decades.


Currency exchange hurts revenues:


The Company has a significant portion of its revenues out-
side the United States but it reports its financial results in 
U.S. dollars.  This subjects the Company’s results to foreign 
currency fluctuations which can hurt results.  This risk has 
been with the Company since its inception and it can also 
help the Company at times. 


Financial Metrics and Valuation:


Many of the concerns are reflected in the current valuation.  
Revenues and net income are estimated to grow 5% which 
would equate to approximately $17.4B and $5.7 billion, 
respectively, for fiscal 2017.  This accounts for $1.4B for 
Hemophilia revenues in 2017.  SG&A expense is projected 
to decrease approximately 300 basis points from reduction 
in staff and other savings. Based on recent share prices, 
the repurchase program can reduce shares outstanding to 
approximately 2.3B shares.  This generates an EPS of $2.45.  
Valuation based on EPS and historical P/E reflects 38% 
upside.  10 Year ROIC has been an impressive 28.9%.  Divi-
dend yield of over 3%.   Valuation based on current EBITDA 
less capex has 43% upside.  This does not include the 4.1% 
growing dividend on top of the upside valuation catalysts.


The Company grew its business from inception to 2016.  
It has zero long term leverage now which is a huge plus.  
Current ROI and EPS Growth is 24.6%.  ROE is over 50%. 
Company has an attractive EV/EBIT of approximately 8.7x.  
Current and Forward P/E at 16.4x and 15.5x, respectively.  
Forward P/E margin of safety at 20% relative to 10 Year P/E 
average.


Core segments grew in 9M16.  Victoza revenues increased 
12% for 9M16.   New generation insulin revenues grew 182% 
for 9M16. Saxenda sales jumped 331% for 9M16 to $142 
million.  New generation drugs including Tresiba, Xultophy, 
and Ryzodeg sales increased 185% to $400 million.


Company has an outstanding net profit margin of 32.6%.  
Even with compression based on current market concerns, 
the Company will still have net profit margins at over 25%.  
That is far better than most companies on Earth. Dividends 


Region Revenue % YOY Growth % Growth Share


USA 51% +6% 44%


Europe 19% +2% 6%


International 12% +13% 27%


China 10% +11% 16%


Pacific 8% +6% 7%


Total Revenues 100% +6% 100%


Novo Nordisk Revenue By Region – First Nine Months of 2016



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
82http://sumzero.com


have grown every year and it is a dividend with a margin of 
safety.  Share repurchases have occurred every year and it 
has been stepped up during this downturn.  The Compa-
ny has returned billions to shareholders over the decades 
through consistent share repurchases and growing divi-
dends.  These are on top of strong cash flow.


Conclusion


Novo Nordisk offers you the opportunity to invest in a 
quality company with a proven track record of innovation, 
solid products, and creating great returns for shareholders.   
Some concerns are overblown.  The legitimate concerns 
have been priced in to the stock while the catalysts have 
not been fully appreciated.  The upsides of Tresiba, Xulto-


phy, China, India, and worldwide diabetes trends are being 
undervalued.  Its foresight investing in the China market is 
a championship move that will pay off in the coming years.  
More importantly, the Company can replicate this move in 
other target markets such as India, Africa, and the Middle 
East.  Novo Nordisk is a cash cow king that grew cash flow 
and EPS through the last two recessions and it will contin-
ue to reward shareholders will repurchases and increasing 
dividend payouts in the coming years.


Summary 2001 2016 %Change CAGR


EPS $0.11 $2.35 2,036% 22.6%


Dividends $0.03 $1.41 4,600% 29.3%


Shares Outstanding 3,466.8 2,500.0 28% 2.2%


Long Track Record Of Returning Capital To Shareholders


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full NOVOB:DC report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
83http://sumzero.com


4 Small Caps
All ideas within this category must be associ-
ated with companies whose respective mar-
ket capitalizations were less than US$2B at 
the time of submission. Roughly 50% of the 
research on SumZero is small-cap focused.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
84http://sumzero.com


Winner
Best Small Cap


Commercehub Inc Cl C
Class:  Equity Symbol:  CHUBK:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


EXPECTED RETURN


68.9%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Artem Fokin


Caro-Kann Capital


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years
SITUATION:


Event / Spec. Sit
MARKET CAP:


634.2M USD


Buy a dominant SaaS player that will benefit from secular tailwinds for years 


/ decades; network effect is the moat; ~12x EV/EBITDA of its core business; 


10x-15x turn discount to peers


About Artem Fokin
Artem Fokin is the founder and portfolio manager of Caro-Kann Capital LLC, a hedge 
fund based in San Francisco. Prior to founding Caro-Kann, he was a principal at Outrider 
Management LLC. Before entering the investing industry, Artem was an attorney with 
Greenberg Traurig LLP in New York City. Artem earned an MBA from the Stanford GSB 
(Arjay Miller Scholar). Artem earned a Master of Laws degree from NYU School of 
Law (Newman Scholar) and a bachelor of law from the Higher School of Economics 
(Presidential Scholar) in Russia. 


About Caro-Kann Capital
Caro-Kann Capital LLC is the general partner of an investment partnership based on the 
principles of value investing that focuses primarily on special situations and compounders. 
Caro-Kann Capital is named after a chess defense that emphasizes building safety and 
defensible position before contemplating an offensive strategy. The Founder’s substantial 
legal experience brings a greater ability to analyze complex corporate documentation 
accompanying extraordinary corporate events. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
85http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  CHUBK:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


Commercehub Inc Cl C


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Artem Fokin


Caro-Kann Capital


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 74%


Buy a dominant SaaS player that will benefit from 


secular tailwinds for years / decades; network effect is 


the moat; ~12x EV/EBITDA of its core business; 10x-15x 


turn discount to peers


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Event / Special 
Situations


TARGET ALLOCATION:


2% - 5%
CATALYSTS:


Spin Off
TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


68.9%


14.95 USD


25.00 USD


LO N G


Introduction


In CommerceHub (“CHUB”) there is something for every 
investor regardless of their investment style. 


Do you love spin-offs?  Well, we have one here.  Are you a 
fan of John Malone’s business and investment prowess?  Are 
you willing to examine a “Dr. Malone style spin-off” with 
enough complexity and quirks that the rest will just throw 
the S-1 out of the window after reaching page 20?  Well, you 
have this too as John Malone is behind CHUB. 


Do you like “sexy” SaaS businesses and share Marc An-
dreessen’s belief that “software is eating the world”[1]?  
CHUB fits the bill.


However, you are not a fan of a SaaS business which can be 
disrupted by another PhD (and we mean poor, hungry, and 
driven) coder from Silicon Valley (though they can happen 


to have Ph.D. as well) who invents a better mouse trap and 
instead want to focus your research efforts on SaaS busi-
nesses that are building a moat beyond switching costs and 
learning curve?  Well, you are in for a treat.


Are you interested in companies that will experience 
massive secular tailwinds over the next 5 to 10 years (and 
probably beyond)?  CHUB has plenty of these. 


Do you like heavily incentivized CEO-Founders?  CHUB 
has exactly this type of CEO who founded the company in 
1997, left in 2006, and later returned to the CEO position.  
As part of the spin-off he received options that will make 
him a ~5% shareholder.  His options are currently out of the 
money.


Do you request definite, identifiable catalysts in your in-
vestments that would make Mr. Market realize what he is 
missing now?  CHUB has several. 


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
86http://sumzero.com


Monday, May 8, 2017


David Geffen Hall  |  Lincoln Center  |  NYC


The Sohn Conference Foundation spearheads the premier series of 
philanthropic investment conferences across the globe to benefit 


children’s causes and scientific research. Its flagship Sohn Investment 
Conference in New York City raises funds for its signature cause of 


pediatric cancer research and care.  


Sohn Investment 
Conference


22ND ANNUAL


For sponsorship opportunities contact paula@sohnconference.org


REGISTER TODAY
sohnconference.org


Upcoming Sohn Conferences


New York
May 8, 2017


Hong Kong
June 7, 2017


India 
June 2017


Tel Aviv
October 2–3, 2017


Australia
November 2017


London
November 30, 2017


San Francisco
October 4, 2017


Canada
October 18–19, 2017



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sohnconference.org

mailto:paula%40sohnconference.org?subject=Sponsorship%20Opportunities
87http://sumzero.com


Oh, and we haven’t mentioned that CHUB is already gen-
erating substantial free cash flow while growing its top line 
~20%. 


Finally, CHUB trades at a very significant 10x-15x turns of 
EBITDA discount to peers; we will dive into the reasons 
why it is mispriced later.


Enough suspense; let’s introduce CommerceHub and what 
it does.


Since this is a lengthy write up, we created a short execu-
tive summary which will give you enough flavor to decide 
whether you to want to read this entire investment memo-
randum.  We believe you will. 


Executive Summary


CommerceHub is a SaaS company that was spun off from 
Liberty Ventures in July 2016.  Spin off dynamics, confusion 
about the true level of stock-based compensation due to 
arcane accounting conventions, and optically misleading 
financials due to development of a new business which 
lowers revenue growth and significantly dilutes margins are 
major reasons for why this opportunity exists.  No sellside 
analyst covers the stock.


Today one can buy entire CommerceHub core at just ~12x 
2017 EV/EBITDA minus SBC of its highly cash generative 
business, which is a striking contrast to SaaS peers that 
trade at 25x+ EV/EBITDA (before subtracting SBC!). 


CommerceHub is capitalizing on secular tailwinds that 
include growth in e-commerce (12% - 14% a year growth if 
you exclude Amazon which is growing even faster), rapidly 
increasing use of virtual inventory and dropship solutions, 
and advent of new sales channels (marketplaces, search, 
social channels).  


Virtual inventory and dropship present great benefits to 
retailers who can dramatically expand the assortment of 
goods and go from ~100K SKUs in a typical store to 1M+ 
without investing in warehouses.  Virtual inventory also 
reduces working capital, and decreases delivery time.  
Suppliers benefit because it becomes easier for them to get 
“virtual” shelf space at retailers. 


Thus, dropship and virtual inventory create a bit more of 
level playing field between Amazon and other retailers.  Not 
surprisingly virtual inventory has been increasing its pene-
tration within e-commerce over the past few years. 


These secular tailwinds would allow CommerceHub to 
grow its revenue for many years at a high teen rate be-
cause CommerceHub provides retailers and suppliers with 
mission critical software at a reasonable price that allows 
seamless integration and interactions that enable dropship. 


CommerceHub makes money by charging retailers and sup-
pliers a base subscription fee for its core dropship offering 
and usage fees based on the number of transactions / orders 
as opposed to order value.  Combined usage fees paid by 
retailers and suppliers amount to ~0.50% of gross merchan-
dise volume (“GMV”) transacted through CommerceHub’s 
platform.  Combined base subscription fees and usage fees 
constitute ~0.75% of transacted GMV.  Since the retailer’s al-
ternative is not making that sale at all due to a missing SKU 
or longer delivery time, paying ~0.75% of the GMV (together 
with a supplier) is a compelling proposition.


The core moat of CommerceHub is based on the network 
effect.  The software architecture is a true network which 
connects ~50 retailers and ~9,700 suppliers through a hub as 
opposed to a multitude of point-to-point connections which 
is the way how legacy, on-premise software solutions oper-
ate.  The network effect serves as a very significant barrier to 
entry and lowers customer acquisition costs which is demon-
strated by very low sales and marketing expenses that run at 
~10% - 12% of revenue.  This compares favorably to the vast 
majority of SaaS companies that spend 30%+ of revenue 
on sales and marketing.  Another reason for extraordinary 
low sales and marketing expenses is that CommerceHub 
sells its software solutions to retailers who then bring their 
suppliers on the platform.  It is obviously cheaper to sell to 
50 clients as opposed to 9,700.  The fact that only very few 
retailers left CommerceHub platform over the years shows 
how sticky its SaaS offerings are.


CommerceHub is already generating 60% Adjusted EBIT-
DA margin in its core dropship business with another 10% 
of revenue spent on stock-based compensation.  Incremen-
tal margins are even higher and run ~80%+. 


In addition, CommerceHub is in early innings of develop-



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
88http://sumzero.com


ing another business called CommerceHub for Brands 
which is another SaaS solution that enables suppliers to sell 
their products through many more channels (marketplaces, 
search, social channels) than they currently do (retailers 
and their own websites).  In the past suppliers had to fight 
to secure physical shelf space at retailers.  Now that battle 
has shifted online and these days brands need to secure 
shelf space on Pinterests of the world.  CommerceHub 
helps them with this. 


CommerceHub for Brands business is currently ~10% - 12% 
of total revenue and is losing money.  Thus, developing 
CommerceHub for Brands has negative “optical” effects on 
the Company: it lowers growth and dilutes margins.  How-
ever, we expect that CommerceHub for Brands has a great 
potential and would likely become an important contributor 
to CommerceHub’s success. 


CommerceHub is run by CEO Frank Poore who founded 
the company in 1997, left in 2006 and subsequently re-
turned.  As part of the spin off, he received options grants 
that would make him~5% shareholder.  These options are 
currently out of the money. 


The stock has upside of 50% - 80%% in 2 – 3 years based on 
15x – 18x EV/2018 EBITDA of the core dropship business 
after SBC.  However, our true time horizon is 5+ years as 
we think CommerceHub will be compounding its intrin-
sic value for many years at high rates and its shares hold a 
multi-bagger potential. 


The catalysts include (1) clean 2017 financials that will show 
the “true” level of SBC, (2) increasing awareness of optical 
effects of developing CommerceHub for Brands on consoli-
dated financials, and (3) sellside coverage.  


The key risk to our investment thesis is overall financial 
health of retailers.  If Amazon drives many retailers out of 
business, CommerceHub will lose customers and revenue.  


Finally, we prefer Class C (ticker: CHUBK) shares which 
are non-voting and trade a small discount to Class A (1 vote 
per share; ticker: CHUBA).  Given that Dr. Malone has ~33% 
of voting power, we do not think voting rights particularly 
matter.  


Why Does This Opportunity Exist?


There are several reasons why this opportunity exists.


1. CHUB Became Public through a Spin Off


In typical Dr. John Malone fashion, CHUB has become 
public through a spin off from Liberty Ventures.  The spin 
off was completed in July 2016.  Close to 85% - 90% of LVN-
TA’s NAV was attributed to LBRDK/Charter and Expedia.  
Anecdotally, many hedge funds that owned LVNTA held the 
stock because of Charter (and shorted EXPE) or sometimes 
because of both Charter and Expedia.  They probably did 
not care much about CHUB, a company with a market cap 
of ~$600M.  CHUB was less than 10% of LVNTA’s NAV.


2. Messy and Misleading Accounting


What drives most investors nuts about high tech companies 
in general and SaaS companies in particular?  You guessed it 
– massive stock-based compensation (“SBC”).  Yes, we know 
that in order to attract tech talent you need to give them 
options.  Yes, we get that.  Still we share other investors’ 
sentiment about excessive SBC.  It also rubs us the wrong 
way when a tech company quotes high Adjusted EBITDA 
but after subtracting SBC EBITDA becomes almost zero or 
even negative. 


So when one looks at 2015 CHUB’s profitability metrics, this 
is exactly what investors see.  Adjusted EBITDA before SBC 
was ~$43M while SBC was ~$42M which makes EBITDA 
after SBC negligible. 


However, such a cursory look and surface-level analysis 
would lead you to the wrong conclusion.  Until the comple-
tion of the spin off all equity awards that CommerceHub 
granted to its employees were cash-settled rather than 
share-settled.  This difference is critical from a GAAP per-
spective.  In the case of cash-settled awards, GAAP requires 
a company to estimate its share price and recalculate the 
value of previously granted equity-linked awards and record 
any increase in their values as an expense in the current pe-
riod.  So if a company granted equity awards to an employee 
in 2013 that were worth $100 and in 2014 the company esti-
mated that because of its share price appreciation the value 
of that grant is $150 in 2014, the company must recognize 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
89http://sumzero.com


this mark-to-market adjustments of $50 in 2014.  A similar 
exercise will be done in 2015 with potentially more mark-
to-market adjustments in 2015 on the same equity grants 
occurred in 2013.  Does this sound a bit ridiculous?  Well, 
give FASB a call some time. 


CHUB explained this treatment in S-1 and disclosed incre-
mental increases in mark-to-market adjustments of ~$12M 
in 2015 compared to 2014.  However, it did not disclose the 
total mark-to-market adjustments.  Furthermore, we doubt 
that everybody who read the S-1 realized that the S-1 talks 
about incremental as opposed to total mark-to-market 
adjustments.  We had to discuss this with IR to confirm that 
S-1 indeed reports the total mark-to-market adjustments.


Is this complicated and misleading?  Yes, but on the other 
hand – what else would you expect from a Liberty spin off?!


3. Two Different Business: While Integrated, They Have 
Different Profitability Profiles


If the spin off dynamics and complicated SBC accounting 
were not enough, there is another reason why analyzing 
CHUB is complicated. 


CHUB has two businesses: a core dropship business and 
CommerceHub for Brands.  We will explain what each 
business does later.  What is important now is that while 
these businesses are integrated and it makes complete sense 
to have them under one roof, they are at different stages in 
their lifecycles. 


The core dropship business is extremely profitable (~60% 
EBITDA margin before SBC) and still growing revenue 18% 
- 19% y-o-y.  This business comprises approximately 88% of 
total revenue in 2015 and more than 100% of EBITDA. 


CommerceHub for Brands business is still in the early 
innings of its lifecycle.  In 2015 it generated ~$10.5M in rev-
enue and lost money at the EBITDA level (the exact amount 
is not disclosed).  This segment generated ~12% of total 
revenue in 2015.  In 2016 this business still lost money. 


CommerceHub for Brands makes the consolidated com-
pany results look worse than they are.  If one skims the 
financial statements, they will see that revenue growth is 


decelerating and margins are contracting.  However, this 
does not accurately represent the true state of CHUB’s 
financial results. 


What CommerceHub Does: a 40,000 Foot 
View


CommerceHub provides software-as-a-service to compa-
nies in the retail eco-system: retailers and suppliers (we will 
sue three terms suppliers, brands, and vendors interchange-
ably throughout the write up) which allows these players to 
interact and complete transactions with each other seam-
lessly, and to grow online sales by delighting customers and 
reaching consumers through a broad range of channels. 


CommerceHub has three broad solutions: Supply Solutions, 
Demand Solutions, and Delivery Solutions. 


This is how CommerceHub describes Supply Solutions:


“Through our Supply Solutions, retailers and online 
marketplaces gain the ability to sell a broad selection of 
products without the cost of buying, storing and shipping 
inventory from warehouses by leveraging our network of 
approximately 9,500 [9,700 as of 3Q 2016] dropship ca-
pable suppliers and third party marketplace sellers that 
receive orders from demand channels and ship products 
directly to consumers.”  (See S-1). 


In other words, Supply Solutions enable retailer and online 
marketplaces to increase their SKU assortment without 
taking possession of physical inventory.


This is how CommerceHub describes Demand Solutions:


“Our Demand Solutions provide access and management 
capability for the largest and most important ecommerce 
channels in North America.  CommerceHub’s platform 
allows sellers such as consumer brands, distributors and 
manufacturers to sell through major retailers as well as 
leading online marketplaces, such as Amazon, eBay and 
Jet.”  (See S-1).


In this case, a demand solution for a brand / supplier is a 
supply solution for a retailer.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
90http://sumzero.com


Another element of Demand Solutions is direct-to-consum-
er sales by brands / suppliers.  This is how CommerceHub 
describes this segment:


“In addition, companies that sell directly to consumers 
through their own websites can use CommerceHub to 
place advertisements, list products for sale and promote 
awareness of their products on Google Shopping, Yahoo 
Shopping, Pinterest, Facebook, comparison shopping 
engines and other ecommerce marketing channels.”


Finally, this is how CommerceHub describes Delivery Solu-
tions:


“Our Delivery Solutions enable more rapid delivery 
through more efficient use of national, regional, local 
and specialty carriers.” 


“For example, our solution for enhanced delivery experi-
ence allows retailers to automatically and cost effectively 
adjust carrier service levels to meet consumer delivery 
promise dates.” 


“To help reduce delivery times, our network of third party 
logistics partners helps retailers and sellers distribute in-
ventory to locations that are closer to a wider distribution of 
consumers, thus reducing their delivery cost while simul-
taneously enabling consumers to receive their products 
quickly.”


While the Company breaks down its solutions into Supply, 
Demand, and Delivery Solutions, we will be using different 
nomenclature throughout this investment memoran-
dum.  The elements of the various solutions that enable 
and facilitate dropship, we call core dropship solutions 
regardless of whether it is a supplier or a retailer using it.  
When a supplier engages in direct to consumer sales, we 
call it CommerceHub for Brands (which is the term that 
the Company started using after the spin-off was completed 
and, therefore, this term is not used in the S-1).


We will discuss what CommerceHub does and how it elim-
inates substantial pain points for its clients in greater detail 
later.


Multiple E-Commerce Trends Present 
Enormous Tailwinds for CommerceHub


We will discuss the e-commerce trends that are most rele-
vant for CommerceHub and present enormous tailwinds for 
its business. 


These trends are:


• Rapid and continuous growth of e-commerce and its 
increasing penetration in the U.S.


• S. e-commerce is showing similar dynamics even if you 
exclude Amazon.


• Amazon’s Success shows what customers want: cheap 
prices, an extremely large assortment of goods, and the 
ability to deliver these goods quickly.


• AMZN’s wide selection and speed of delivery have 
raised the bar for all other retailers; to stay relevant 
retailers MUST achieve comparable outcomes as Ama-
zon did from a customer perspective through different 
means.


• Advent and continuous emphasis on omnichannel 
approach.


• Increasing role of “virtual” inventory as means for re-
tailers to compete with Amazon.


• Dropship is a logical continuation to virtual inventory.
• Increasing importance of marketplaces.
• Increasing importance of direct sales and direct en-


gagement by vendors / brands.


Let’s address them one by one.


Rapid and Continuous Growth of E-Com-
merce and Its Increasing Penetration in 
the U.S.


U.S. e-commerce has grown every year since 1999.  From 
1998 to 2015, U.S. e-commerce grew from ~$5B million to 
~$343B billion which is an astonishing growth of ~6,800% 
over 17 years.  E-commerce even grew in 2008 and 2009 as 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
91http://sumzero.com


the rest of the global economy melted down. 


In the more recent period (2012 – 2015) U.S. e-commerce 
grew between 13.3% and 14.9% per year.


This should be compared with the U.S. total retail sales 
ex-gas which grew quite modestly over the same period 
of time.  They grew ~79% from 1998 to 2015.  In the more 
recent period (2012 – 2015) total U.S. retail ex-gas grew 
between ~4.3% and 5% per year.


The differences in growth rates have inevitably resulted 
in rapidly increasing e-commerce penetration (ex-gas) 
which went from 0.21% in 1998 to 8.02% in 2015.  The pene-
tration increased in every single year over the period.


Growing e-commerce in the U.S. and its increasing pen-
etration mean that CommerceHub’s total addressable 
market is increasing every single year and would allow 
ComerceHub grow its revenue ~15% - 20% a year for many 
years to come. 


To illustrate trends #1 and #2, CHUB shows this slide.


Source: 2016-11-10 Liberty Investor Day Presentation.


While this slide is impressive, it ignores the 800 pound 
gorilla called Amazon. 


Wait a Second! What About AMZN?  S. E-Com-
merce Excluding AMZN Is Showing Similar 
Dynamics


While Amazon is growing faster than the rest of e-com-
merce and is, therefore, gaining share, the rest of e-com-
merce is still growing well.


Below we present a data set from 1998 to 2015 that, in our 
view, tells a story that is more relevant for CHUB than their 
slide displayed above.  The data below shows e-commerce 
growth and e-commerce penetration with and without 
Amazon.


The most important takeaways are:


• While Amazon is growing faster than the rest of e-com-
merce, the rest of e-commerce still has been growing 
substantially.


• From 1998 to 2015:


1. Amazon sales (excluding AWS revenue) grew ~69x.
2. E-commerce sales ex-Amazon grew ~56x.


• Over 2012 – 2015:


1. Amazon sales were growing between 17.5% and 
25% a year.


2. E-commerce sales ex-Amazon were growing be-
tween 11% and 13.8%.


• E-commerce penetration ex-Amazon increased from 
0.18% in 1998 to 6.70% in 2015. Importantly, the past 
few years demonstrated accelerating growth in pene-
tration.


Thus, while tailwinds behinds CommerceHub may not 
quite as larger as the slide from CHUB’s deck would indi-
cate, they are still massive. 


Amazon’s Success Shows What Customers 
Want: Cheap Prices, Extremely Large Assort-
ment of Goods, and Ability to Deliver These 
Goods Quickly


Amazon has built a compelling value proposition and 
showed what customers want: cheap prices, an extremely 
wide selection of goods, and the ability to deliver quickly.  
Thanks to these three ingredients Amazon was able to capi-
talize on the secular shift of retail online. 


To assemble an extremely large number of SKUs and 
achieve speedy delivery times, AMZN has invested very 
substantial amounts of money in its infrastructure and has 
built massive scale.  Other retailers cannot compete by 
building similar infrastructure for multiple reasons, includ-
ing financial limitations.


The launch of the Amazon marketplace further increased 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
92http://sumzero.com


the number of SKUs that customers can buy on Amazon. 


AMZN Wide Selection and Speed of Delivery 
Have Raised the Bar for All Other Retailers; To 
Stay Relevant Retailers MUST Achieve Compa-
rable Outcomes as Amazon Did From a Cus-
tomer Perspective Through Different Means


Shopping on Amazon.com has made consumers expect 
more from other retailers as well.  This applies both to the 
assortment of SKUs and speed of delivery.  As Commer-
ceHub CEO Frank Poore half-jokingly said at the Liberty 
Investor Day in November 2016, if a retailer shows a partic-
ular SKU on its website and then indicates that the delivery 
would be complete in 14 days, they may very well put a link 
to Amazon.com as the retailer will at least capture a referral 
fee.  In other words, a long delivery time while having the 
SKU is almost as bad as not having that SKU at all.


As pointed out above, traditional retailers cannot achieve 
a comparably wide range of SKUs and speed of delivery by 
doing what AMZN has been doing for years – investing sub-
stantial sums of money into infrastructure.  Thus, to stay 
relevant the retailer must achieve comparable outcomes 
through different means.


Advent and Continuous Emphasis on An 
Omnichannel Approach


Everybody is talking about omnichannel and probably has 
their own ideas about what this means.  Hence, we will 
define how we interpret this term. 


An omnichannel approach gives customer more choices of 
where, when, and how to interact with retailers.  Successful 
implementations of an omnichannel approach also mean 
that the consumer experience is consistent across vari-
ous channels: in-store, online, mobile.  Omnichannel also 
requires the interplay and interaction between channels to 
be extremely fluid.  There are countless examples, so we 
will provide only one hypothetical example: a consumer can 
browse product offerings online, buy online and then return 
what is not necessary in store. 


In effect, omnichannel repurposes physical stores from 
“once great assets / businesses that are generating falling 
sales and rapidly declining in value” to an integral compo-
nent of retailers’ business strategy.  To quote CHUB’s S-1:


“An omnichannel strategy allows a retailer to position its 
physical storefront not as a balance sheet liability, but 
rather as part of a platform to provide consumers with a 
more consistent, convenient and effortless retail experi-
ence, regardless of how they choose to engage the retail-
er.  As a result of its success, we believe that omnichannel 
strategies now represent a more significant component of 
all retailers’ revenue mix.” 


Increasing Role of “Virtual” Inventory 
as Means for Retailers to Compete with 
Amazon


As we pointed out above, traditional retailers building om-
nichannel platforms need to find creative ways (as opposed 
to investing hundreds of millions in their infrastructure) to 
make their SKU selection wider and more comparable to 
Amazon as well as improve delivery speed.


“Virtual” inventory and dropship present exactly that and, 
if executed properly, will create more of a level playing field 
between Amazon and retailers. 


So what is virtual inventory?  Virtual inventory are goods 
that a retailer offers to its customer on its website without 
actually carrying them in its own warehouse.  In effect, a 
traditional retailer acts as a marketplace though with a very 
significant difference.  When customers go to eBay, custom-
ers know they are not buying from eBay and in the case of a 
poor customer experience with a seller, they would proba-
bly not blame eBay.  However, when a retailer uses virtual 
inventory, the goal is for a customer to not realize that the 
retailer does not have the inventory.  This is a part of a well-
built omnichannel. 


What does virtual inventory allow a retailer to achieve?  All 
of a sudden, retailers can expand the number of SKUs carried 
in stores from ~100,000 per store location to millions on their 
website.  Importantly, as we discuss below, such a dramatic 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
93http://sumzero.com


expansion of goods comes with very minimal incremental 
investments as opposed to building massive modern ware-
houses. 


Thus, virtual inventory is addressing the first element of 
value proposition that Amazon provides to customers: an 
incredibly wide selection of SKUs. 


Dropship Is a Logical Continuation to 
Virtual Inventory


So how goods find their way to a customer if a retailer uses 
virtual inventory?  If a supplier / vendor ships goods to a 
retailer and then the retailer ships them to a customer, it 
will take quite some time before the customer gets what he/
she wanted.  It is also obvious that shipping and re-shipping 
are extremely inefficient.  Hence, the dropship solution 
is a logical (and we want to say almost unavoidable) 
extension of virtual inventory.  In a dropship model once 
a customer completes a purchase on a retailer’s website or a 
smartphone app, a supplier ships the purchased items from 
its own warehouse to the customer directly.  Thus, pur-
chased goods never enter the retailer’s warehouse.


Increasing Importance of Marketplaces


Marketplaces have been gaining importance over the years 
and present another channel through which traditional 
retailers and vendors can engage customers and sell their 
goods to them.  Examples include Amazon Marketplace, 
eBay, Jet.com (acquired by Wal-Mart), Wal-Mart Market-
place.


Increasing Importance of Direct Sales 
and Direct Engagement by Brands


Internet and social media have created more opportuni-
ties for vendors / brands to engage and sell directly to end 
consumer and skip retailers as intermediaries.  Google’s buy 
buttons would be a great example of this trend. 


The great thing about CommerceHub is that it 
is capitalizing on all of these trends.


Value Proposition of Virtual Inventory and Dropship


The major attraction of virtual inventory and dropship is 
that they benefit everybody involved. 


1. Retailers Benefit from Wider Assortment of SKUs 
Without Carrying Inventory


As we mentioned before, retailers can radially expand its 
product offering without carrying more inventory which 
means less storage costs and tying up less working capital. 


2. Customers Benefit from Wider Selection


It is quite obvious that retailers are not the only ones bene-
fiting from offering a wider selection of goods.  Consumers 
greatly benefit from this increased choice as well. 


3. Customers Benefit from Getting Their Orders Faster


Since dropship replaces double shipping with only one 
shipment, customers receive their orders faster. 


4. Retailers and Consumer Benefit from Less Shipping 
Costs


Single shipment instead of double shipment also means less 
shipping costs. 


5. Supplier Benefits Because It Becomes Easier to Get 
“Shelf Space”


In a brick and mortar retail stores the shelf space is limited.  
Thus, getting on the shelf can be a challenge for suppliers.  
This dynamic totally changes when retailers and supplier 
deal with virtual inventory which can be almost unlimited.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
94http://sumzero.com


Virtual Inventory and Dropshiping Rede-
fine Traditional Supply Chain


While the benefits outlined above all sound great, imple-
menting virtual inventory and dropship strategy has its own 
substantial challenges.  Execution on the supply chain front 
is not easy.


Increasing acceptance of virtual inventory and dropship 
create supply chain and distribution challenges because the 
traditional supply chain models do not work anymore.  Un-
der the traditional distribution model a retailer orders prod-
ucts from a manufacturer, the manufacturer delivers the 
product to the retailer’s warehouse or distribution center, 
and then the retailer sends goods to its physical stores and 
puts them on the shelves where the goods sit until consum-
ers buy them.


When virtual inventory and dropship are involved, there are 
at least two new challenges. 


First, it is necessary to ensure a prompt, direct shipment by 
supplier to consumer.  This requires a very different logis-
tical back-end to ensure a seamless customer experience.  
Creating such an experience requires substantially more 
collaboration and a higher level of integration between 
retailers and brands than was the case in a traditional dis-
tribution model.  Retailers need to have access to real-time 
inventory of their suppliers and clear visibility into stocking 
levels and confidence of when a supplier can deliver a product 
to a customer because a customer needs to know a promised 
delivery date.  Furthermore, the delivery box should have a 
retailer slip even though it never went through the retailer’s 
warehouse (having retailers’ branding, slip, etc. is necessary 
in order to engage customers and develop their loyalty). 


Second, a retailer needs to have an attractive SKU descrip-
tion, specifications, and pictures on its website and all of 
them are supplied by the supplier. 


Implementing Virtual Inventory and Dropship 
Strategy: Why Legacy Solutions Do Not Work 
Well


We discussed above the execution challenges which virtual 
inventory and dropship present.  How can retailers and 
suppliers solve them?


Historically, these challenges and solutions did not exist.  
The ERP software and systems were on premise and were 
based on point-to-point connections.  In a case of point-
to-point connections, a retailer integrates with each of its 
suppliers.  It means that a retailer who works with 200 
suppliers would have 200 point-to-point connections.  Simi-
larly, a supplier selling to 100 retailers will have 100 point-
to-point connections.  In the age of traditional supply chain 
(“please, ship 10,000 widgets to my warehouse next week”) 
that was sufficient. 


It is easy to see that this model is very cumbersome.  Im-
plementing any changes is time-consuming and inefficient 
because changes will have to be made to each point-to-
point connection. 


This is exactly how legacy software works. 


In addition to all these inconveniences, the legacy software 
was not built to handle dropship particularly well as imple-
menting virtual inventory and a dropship strategy requires 
a very close integration between retailers and suppliers (for 
example, access to real time inventory levels and where 
inventory is located so that precise shipping time can be 
calculated).


What Does CommerceHub Offer that Enables 
Virtual Inventory and Dropship Implementa-
tion?


We have already discussed at a high level what Commerce-
Hub offers.  Here we will provide more details and discuss a 
few features to demonstrate what a great product Commer-
ceHub has. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
95http://sumzero.com


First of all, CommerceHub makes onboarding of suppliers 
incredibly fast and seamless.  Service around on-boarding 
suppliers is as valuable as the platform itself.  On-boarding a 
supplier in-house can take between 2 and 6 months and will 
involve lots of work on retailer’s employee part.  Given that 
a large retailer can be adding between 20 and 40 suppliers a 
year, this creates lots of work.  CommerceHub can on-board 
a new supplier in about two weeks with very little involve-
ment from the retailer. 


CommerceHub has built its own proprietary algorithms 
that know better than retailers where inventory is locat-
ed among the various locations of a particular supplier.  
CommerceHub knows it by quantity and by location.  This 
allows CommerceHub to decide from which location the 
product should be dropshipped to a customer.  At that point 
CommerceHub’s software has all necessary information: 
the location of the end customer, the delivery date that a 
retailer promised to a customer, when a customer made a 
purchase and inventory levels and locations. 


On top of that, CommerceHub’s software can look at car-
riers and determine the right transit times and choose the 
best cost while balancing it with the promised delivery date.


Another great feature is that CommerceHub is partnered 
with third-party logistics companies (3PLs) that are pre-in-
tegrated into CommerceHub.  This feature helps retailers 
and suppliers achieve faster deliveries. 


CommerceHub History: from Startup to 
Standalone Public Company via Spin Off


Now that we have covered industry trends, it is worth brief-
ly reviewing CommerceHub’s history. 


CommerceHub was founded in 1997 by Frank Poore and 
Richard Jones.  In August 2006 QK Holdings Inc. acquired 
CommerceHub.  Liberty acquired CommerceHub in May 
2010. 


Immediately prior to the spin-off of CHUB in July 2016, 
CHUB was attributed to Liberty Ventures (ticker: LVNTA) 
tracking stock. 


The turning point in CommerceHub was in 1999 – 2000 
when a small start-up persuaded QVC to become a cus-
tomer.  Landing QVC as a customer made CommerceHub a 
viable enterprise and established a blueprint of its business 
model (modest subscription fee + usage fees that depend on 
volume).


Reasons for Spin Off


The CommerceHub S-1 lists some boilerplate reasons for its 
spin off but also adds some colorful and potentially instruc-
tive language as to why LVNTA spun off CHUB. 


Here are the reasons for the spin off:


1. Traditional asset-backed security will result in great-
er transparency for investors


“The creation of a more traditional, asset-backed security 
in our common stock is expected to provide greater trans-
parency for investors with respect to our business, resulting 
in more focus and attention by the investment community 
on our business and better highlighting our value.” (See 
CommerceHub S-1).


2. Spin off would provide flexibility and independence to 
management team


“The Spin- Off is expected to provide greater flexibility and 
independence for our management team to make quick 
and decisive commercial decisions that would benefit our 
company, as our company’s management team is currently 
required to gain approval from Liberty for key strategic 
decisions.”


3. Spin off would create a more attractive equity curren-
cy for M&A opportunities


“The Spin-Off is expected to provide our company with 
a more attractive equity currency to use to fund strategic 
acquisitions and opportunities.”


4. Spin off would allow CHUB stock to be more efficient-
ly valued



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
96http://sumzero.com


“We believe that our independent, publicly traded stock 
following the Spin- Off should be more efficiently valued as 
compared to the value the market currently assigns to our 
company as a subsidiary of Liberty.”


5. Spin off would reduce capital structure complexity 
and create a pure play equity currency that would allow 
CommerceHub to make more attractive acquisition 
offers


“Further, we believe that the reduced complexity of our 
capital structure following the Spin-Off, as compared to 
Liberty, as well as our ability to offer a pure play equity cur-
rency, will allow us to make more competitive acquisition 
offers, consisting of consideration that is more attractive to 
target stockholders.”


6. Spin off would allow better incentivize management 
and employees which would also result in less dilution 
for shareholders


“The Spin- Off is expected to enhance the ability of our 
company to more effectively tailor our employee benefit 
plans and retention programs, including by converting our 
cash-settled equity awards into stock-settled equity awards, 
which will allow us to preserve capital to grow our business 
and avoid liquidity issues.”


“In addition, we believe the issuance of our independent, 
publicly traded, and more efficiently priced equity securi-
ties following the Spin-Off will be more attractive to our 
management and employees and less dilutive to our stock-
holders.”


CommerceHub Service Offering in Dropship Space: 
Unit Economics and Revenue Streams


Both Retailers and Suppliers Pay Com-
merceHub


For its core dropship offering CommerceHub has two 
groups of paying customers: retailers and suppliers.


CHUB has ~50 large retailers and ~9,700 suppliers on its 
platform. 


Below we provide available data about how customer count 
has evolved since the end of 2014. 


The Company does not disclose a breakdown between 
retailers and suppliers in each period.  Furthermore, the 
numbers above include ex-Mercent / now CommerceHub 
for Brands customers.


Optically, the customer growth is slowing but one needs to 
keep two things in mind.  First, 2015 vs. 2014 comparison 
benefitted from adding customers of Mercent that was 
acquired in January 2015.  Second, in 2016 CommerceHub 
was churning ex-Mercent customers that were not good fit 
as we discuss this in more detail later. 


Business Model: Three Revenue Streams


The Company derives three revenue streams:


• Base subscription revenue
• Usage revenue
• Set up and professional services revenue
• Subscription revenue (~25% – 27% of revenue)


Subscription revenue consists of flat subscription fees that 
do not depend on transactional activity and volumes.  They 
typically vary between 25% and 27% of the Company’s total 
annual revenue. 


The subscription fee is dependent on the number of “con-
nected” treading partners.  For each additional retailer the 
subscription fee increases. 


Usage revenue (~68% of revenue)


Both retailers and suppliers pay usage fees for each order.  
The usage fees are per shipped order and not dependent on 
the value of the order which naturally incentivizes retailers 
to dropship more expensive items.  Obviously, the benefit of 
not tying substantial working capital and the need to store 
larger, more expensive items also incentivize retailers to 
dropship larger, more expensive items.  At the end of each 
month, retailers receive volume based discounts / rebates 
while suppliers do not receive any discounts of a similar 
nature. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
97http://sumzero.com


Usage revenue typically constitutes ~68% of total revenue 
on the annual basis.


The key question is how expensive it is for retailer and 
suppliers to use CommerceHub services.  We think it is 
very affordable.  CHUB’s usage revenue was only 0.51% of 
transacted GMV in 2014 and 2015.  We would highlight that 
0.51% number includes both usage fee paid by retailers and 
suppliers.  So the combined extra cost is only 50 cents for 
every $100 of GMV. 


If we look at total CHUB revenue (includes base subscrip-
tion revenue) as percent of transacted GMV, then the ratio 
will be ~0.75% or 75 cents for every $100 of GMV. 


The retailer’s alternative to paying ~0.75% of GMV is to 
potentially lose the entire sale to a customer because a 
retailer will not have an SKU in question or its delivery time 
will be too long.


Set up and professional services revenue (5% – 7% of 
total revenue)


Set up and professional services revenues are mostly one-
time in nature and cover revenues from set up, implemen-
tation, and onboarding services when customers get on 
CommerceHub’s platform. 


Usage Revenue Model Aligns CommerceHub’s 
Success with Success of Its Customers


The beauty of CommerceHub’s offering from a custom-
er perspective is that CommerceHub will be successful 
only if its customers are successful.  As its customers 
generate more incremental revenue from goods that are 
dropshipped, CommerceHub will generate more revenue 
as well.  Customers do not need to incur upfront CapEx 
or very expensive commitment fees.  We recognize that 
subscription fees exist but they are quite small. 


Recurring Revenue Model


Similar to other SaaS companies, CommerceHub has a 
recurring revenue model.  Subscription revenue is 100% re-
curring while usage revenue is recurring though it is subject 


to fluctuations in trading volume. 


Revenue Per Customer


Revenue per customer is not the most insightful metric for 
CommerceHub because the Company does not disclose 
revenue from retailers and revenue from suppliers sepa-
rately.  Furthermore, revenue per customer metric is further 
distorted by ex-Mercent customers that CommerceHub is 
intentionally churning.  We will discuss this in more detail 
later.


With these caveats, we provide the following:


We want to emphasize again two important things about 
growth dynamics.  First, 2015 vs. 2014 comparisons are 
affected by the acquisition of Mercent in January 2015.  
Second, the decelerating growth in 2016 is mostly caused 
churning ex-Mercent customers as opposed to issues within 
the core dropship offering.


Growth Drivers for CommerceHub’s Core Dropship 
Offering


Earlier we discussed the enormous tailwinds that Commer-
ceHub will benefit from.  Below we discuss specific growth 
drivers; many of them are linked to secular tailwinds. 


These growth drivers include:


• Total e-commerce growth
• Increasing wallet share (e., increasing penetration of 


virtual inventory and dropship among existing custom-
ers)


• Signing up additional retailers and suppliers


Growth Driver #1: E-Commerce Growth


As we discussed above, e-commerce ex-Amazon has been 
growing in the low teens range (11.8% in 2012, 10.8% in 
2013, 12.8% in 2014 and 13.8% in 2015).  We are excluding 
Amazon because CommerceHub’s core dropship offering 
does not have exposure to Amazon growth.  



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
98http://sumzero.com


We expect that this long-term trend that is secular in nature 
will continue.  CommerceHub should benefit from continu-
ous growth in total e-commerce. 


Growth Driver #2: Increasing wallet share: increasing 
penetration of virtual inventory and dropship among 
existing customers


We expect that existing customers will continue to increase 
adoption of virtual inventory and dropship.  While most re-
cently e-commerce sales ex-Amazon have been growing in 
low teens, CommerceHub revenue was growing high teens 
which is driven by the increasing penetration of virtual 
inventory. 


Qualitative commentary from CommerceHub management 
on this point is interesting.


On the 2Q 2016 Earnings Call CEO Frank Poore shared his 
assessment that CommerceHub is in the early stages of 
retailers expanding SKU assortment and supplier connec-
tions.  As such expansion continues, CommerceHub will 
benefit from rapidly rising usage fees and more modestly 
rising subscription fees. 


On the 3Q 2016 Earnings Call CEO Frank Poore provid-
ed more color on the wallet share / penetration rate.  Not 
surprisingly, long-term customers who were among the first 
ones to recognize the benefit of virtual inventory have high-
er penetration and use CommerceHub capabilities to power 
between 30% and 50% of their online sales. 


During the 2016 Liberty Investor Day (November 2016) 
CEO Frank Poore provided more qualitative color.  Accord-
ing to the CEO, in the past, retailers used to view virtual 
inventory more from a purely operational perspective.  For 
example, it is more efficient to request a supplier to drop-
ship a bulk item such as a mattress to avoid double shipping.  
Recently retailers now consider virtual inventory and drop-
ship “much more of a strategy” and use dropship for more 
and more SKUs that are not necessarily bulky.  Naturally, 
this results in increasing wallet share. 


While longer-term retail customers have a wallet share 
between 30% and 50%, many retailers have virtual invento-
ry and dropship penetration of less than 10%.  Thus, there is 
very substantial room for CommerceHub to increase reve-


nue through increasing wallet share among such customers.


Needless to say, the underlying view at CommerceHub is 
that virtual inventory will increase its share within e-com-
merce.  We agree with this given all the benefits of virtual 
inventory and dropship that we discussed above. 


However, there is an alternative point of view.  SPS Com-
merce, a company in the business of cloud-based supply 
chain management, believes that virtual inventory and 
dropship are unlikely to exceed 25%.  According to SPS 
Commerce management, if a particular SKU sells really well 
(SPS Commerce CEO calls it “demonstrates strong sales ve-
locity”), a retailer would bring this SKU into its warehouse 
to control the customer experience. 


While we want to keep SPSC’s point of view in mind and 
monitor this dynamic in the future, our research findings 
are different.  First, retailers rarely bring well selling SKUs 
back into their own warehouse systems.  It happens but 
rarely as long as dropship is working.  Retailers will still 
not want to tie up their working capital and occupy limit-
ed warehouse space with potentially bulky items even the 
SKU sells really well.  Second, the organizational designs of 
most retailers play in favor of CommerceHub because most 
retailers have separate teams managing in-house items and 
drop-ship items. 


Obviously, both CommerceHub and SPS Commerce talk 
their own book.  CommerceHub focuses on dropshipping 
while SPS Commerce’s core focus is to provide SaaS to 
suppliers that enables them to seamlessly comply with the 
requirements of various retailers. 


Growth Driver #3: Signing Up Additional Retailers and 
Suppliers


CommerceHub still has significant opportunity to sign up 
more retailers as its customers.  Currently, CHUB has ~50 
retail customers.  CommerceHub’s plan is to focus on top 
500 retailers in the U.S. as they represent ~90% of e-com-
merce.  We believe that CommerceHub has already signed 
up most of the largest retailers among the top 500 retail-
ers.  Thus, acquiring additional retailers will have a smaller 
impact because revenue per retailer is likely to be lower.  
However, the growth opportunity is still substantial.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
99http://sumzero.com


This dynamic makes it unlikely that CommerceHub core 
dropship revenue would grow 30%+ as it used to.  However, 
high teens growth that it is currently experiencing should 
be sustainable.


CommerceHub sells its dropship capabilities directly to 
senior level executives at retailers.  As a result, sales and 
marketing expenses of signing up new retailers are fairly 
modest. 


Similarly, CommerceHub will continue signing up new 
suppliers as existing retailers bring new suppliers or new 
retailers bring new suppliers.  Signing up new suppliers is 
extremely inexpensive for CommerceHub as proven by sales 
and marketing expenses of ~10% - 12% as opposed to most 
other SaaS companies that spend 30% to 50% to acquire 
new customers. 


Growth Leads to Very High Incremental Margins


Figuring incremental margins given Mercent acquisition in 
January 2015 is the not the most straightforward. 


However, there are two data points.  First, we can calculate 
incremental Adjusted EBITDA margins in 2012 – 2014:


Second, CommerceHub business seasonality and about 
32% - 34% of revenue comes in 4Q 2016, which is driven by 
usage fees. 


So comparing revenue growth and Adjusted EBITDA 
growth between 3Q 2015 and 4Q 2015 results in ~94% incre-
mental Adjusted EBITDA margins.  This is extraordinary 
high. 


Putting these data points together, we think that the incre-
mental EBITDA margins should be in 80% to 85% range. 


CommerceHub Core Dropship Offering: 
Churn


Retailers are incredibly sticky and rarely leave Commer-
ceHub’s platform. 


As for any SaaS business churn is a critical variable.  In the 
case of CommerceHub churn should be viewed differently 
than in the case of most SaaS companies.


Churn of retailers is important.  The good news is that 
during its entire existence the Company has lost very few 
retailer-clients (less than 5).  CHUB lost Circuit City due to 
bankruptcy.  It also lost Target and Walgreens a few years 
ago (as far as we understand Walgreens decided to shut the 
dropship business altogether).  CHUB also lost a couple of 
smaller retailers over the years. 


Churn among suppliers is higher but this is natural because 
it is the retailers who bring the suppliers onto CHUB’s plat-
form and if retailers stop doing business with them, these 
suppliers will drop off the platform.  Typically, it involves 
supplies that do not generate sufficient order and revenue 
volume for retailers who are dropped.  However, retailers 
will bring new suppliers.  They always do. 


Supplier churn is not a problem and is actually beneficial 
to CommerceHub: seamlessly on-boarding new suppliers 
(with minimal retailer involvement) is CommerceHub’s 
value proposition. 


This is what the S-1 says about churn and customer longev-
ity:


“Because our solutions play a critical role in helping our 
customers manage a complex array of business relation-
ships in a highly competitive retail environment, we have 
benefited from strong loyalty and enduring, long-term 
relationships with our customers.”  (S-1)


“In addition, we believe we are becoming an increasingly 
strategic partner to our overall set of trading partner 
customers as we become increasingly integrated into 
their systems and go to market efforts, as the amount of 
business conducted through our platform increases, and 
as more retailers and suppliers connect centrally into the 
CommerceHub platform.”  (S-1)


Building CommerceHub for Brands Offering Is Another 
Growth Driver



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
100http://sumzero.com


1. What Is CommerceHub for Brands?


In a nutshell, the CommerceHub for Brands is a SaaS solu-
tion that allows brands to engage with customers across 
channels and sell directly to consumers.  In addition to sell-
ing their products through retailers and their own websites, 
CommerceHub for Brands enables brands to sell through 
marketplaces, search, and social channels.


We expect that CommerceHub for Brands offering will 
be another significant growth driver for CHUB. 


2. CommerceHub for Brands: A Brief History


In January 2015 CommerceHub acquired Mercent for 
~$20M.  Mercent was providing a software solution for 
brands that would allow them to create one central product 
catalogue that would be linked to various websites, market-
places, etc. 


What pain point does Mercent solve?  Let’s use an example.  
Without such software solution a brand selling is products 
on Amazon Marketplace, eBay, and Jet.com will need to 
create a separate catalogue for each of them because each 
marketplace has its own unique requirements.  Needless to 
say, creating a separate catalogue for each of these platforms 
consumes significant resources (people, time, money).  
Maintaining product listings would also be time consuming: 
if a product description needs to be updated, it will have to 
be updated for each of these platforms. 


Mercent provides a compelling alternative to this labor 
intensive process by creating one master catalogue that 
seamlessly syncs with Amazon Marketplace, eBay, Jet.com 
and many other marketplaces and other channels.  Hence, 
brands need to update the central catalogue only once and 
they are done. 


Before the acquisition Mercent had its own customer base.  
Some customers were self-service customers (i.e., Mercent 
provides its software solution and brands do everything 
themselves) which makes the business very scalable.  Other 
customers were relying on Mercent’s managed services 
team which would perform tasks on behalf of clients.  Need-
less to say, there is a lot more handholding with the second 
group of customers which limits scalability. 


CommerceHub acquired Mercent for its technology as 
opposed to its customer base.  First, CommerceHub was 
not interested at all in Mercent clients that were relying on 
managed services team.  Second, CommerceHub was not 
interested in smaller clients of Mercent. 


In 2016 CommerceHub started intentionally churning those 
low value customers which has important implications for 
how its income statement looks now.  First, the consoli-
dated revenue growth is weaker because the core dropship 
offering revenue is growing 18% - 19% while ex-Mercent 
revenue is falling (for example, it fell ~$800K in 3Q 2015).  
As a result, the consolidated revenue grew only ~14% in 3Q 
2016 creating a false appearance of decelerating growth.  
Second, as we discussed earlier, revenue per customer met-
ric also shows less favorable dynamics on the consolidated 
basis than it would have if the Company disclosed it for the 
core dropship business alone. 


3. CommerceHub for Brands: Value Proposition and 
Which Pain Points It Solves


CommerceHub management believes that the process of 
brands going direct to consumer is in the early stages.  To 
quote management, it is “in the top of the first inning”.  
Management also drew a parallel with where retailers were 
years ago. 


In the past, CommerceHub did not sell anything to brands 
because brands were effectively requested to become Com-
merceHub’s customers by retailers they were supplying to.  
Now the situation is changing and for the first time Com-
merceHub is going to brands and selling directly to them.  
The beauty of the current situation is that CommerceHub is 
not cold calling; instead, CommerceHub is going to existing 
customers who have been working with CommerceHub for 
years and is offering them a new service.


The value proposition of CommerceHub for Brands is very 
compelling.  CommerceHub for Brands enables brands to 
reach many channels at the same time and not just sell on 
their own websites or through retailers.  Such channels 
include (among others) marketplaces, search (Google, etc.) 
and social channels.  But this is not the end.  Selling direct-
ly to consumer presents brands with a whole new range 
of challenges on the supply chain and online presence 
fronts, an area where CommerceHub has extremely 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
101http://sumzero.com


strong expertise. 


Managing product content, inventory, order integration and 
fulfillment, including the ability to connect to 3PLs and car-
riers, across multiple channels is difficult and is something 
that even major brands do not have expertise and capabili-
ties in.  CommerceHub for Brands empowers them to grow 
online sales without worrying about these issues. 


What do brands gain when they become customers of Com-
merceHub for Brands?  First of all, brands increase their 
outreach and can increase their revenue.  Second, as the 
world becomes more and more digital and Internet depen-
dent, brands must secure digital & virtual shelf space.  It used 
to be the case that brands fought to get the best available 
shelf space at Nordstroms of the world.  Now to stay rele-
vant brands must get “shelf space” on Facebook, Google, and 
Pinterest (to name just a few).  Their customers spend more 
and more time online and brands have no choice but to fol-
low their customers.  If they do not, someone else will. 


To recap, CommerceHub for Brands SaaS offering allows 
brands to maintain one central catalog that brands would 
manage and that would be integrated with every channel 
where brands want to be present and brands will be able to 
accept orders and do fulfillment and logistics.


Despite being a very new offering in its current shape and 
form CommerceHub has disclosed some recent impressive 
wins that include Mattel and “major iconic multinational 
footwear manufacturer”. 


4. Strategic Importance of CommerceHub for Brands 
for the Company


CommerceHub for Brands is of high strategic importance 
for CHUB.  Amazon, the largest online retailer, is not using 
CommerceHub dropship offering.  Given that Amazon is 
growing faster than the rest of e-commerce industry, Com-
merceHub wanted to get some exposure to that growth.  
CommerceHub for Brands allows it to get that exposure 
through Amazon Marketplace.  Our research findings indi-
cate that Mercent has been one of Amazon’s largest partners 
as far as onboarding of suppliers goes.  From this perspec-
tive, acquiring Mercent was a very smart move by Commer-
ceHub. 


On top of that, CommerceHub would benefit from growth 
of other online marketplaces. 


We highlight the risk of Amazon creating its own software 
solution and forcing all suppliers selling through Amazon 
Marketplace to use it. 


Competition and Substitutes 


Based on our research, no single company is providing the 
same range of service offerings as CommerceHub.  How-
ever, each individual solution offered by CommerceHub 
overlaps with other players to some extent.  Let’s address 
them one by one.


CommerceHub Core Dropship Offering


Traditional Legacy On-Premise Solutions


CommerceHub core dropship offering is competing (or 
– a better way to say it –disrupting and replacing) legacy 
on-premise solutions.


On-premise licensed software usually links retailers and 
suppliers through the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) 
protocol that enables the structured electronic transmission 
of data between organizations.


However, legacy on-premise software solutions have sev-
eral drawbacks compared to CommerceHub.


First, on-premise software solutions tend to focus on fulfill-
ment automation within a single facility and among a small 
network of trading partners.


Second, such solutions are not most user friendly as they re-
quire significant time and technical expertise to configure, 
deploy and maintain.


Third, adding new trading partners is a time-consuming 
process that also required technical expertise.


Fourth, the architecture of legacy on-premise software is 
a multitude of point-to-point connections between retail-
ers and suppliers instead of a network of connections that 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
102http://sumzero.com


CommerceHub has built. 


Fifth, because of the reasons listed above, the traditional 
software model is not well-suited for many retailers and 
suppliers, especially when trading relationships include 
suppliers with small IT budgets.  Simply stated, on-premise 
legacy solutions can be prohibitively expensive for small 
suppliers. 


What is the technical disadvantage of point-to-point 
architecture?  These multiple connections are inherently 
error-prone.  They are also difficult to adapt to changing re-
quirements and market circumstances.  This is an example 
that CommerceHub has provided in S-1:


“For instance, if there is a broad trend in the market that 
many members of a retailing segment would like to adopt, a 
supplier would be faced with a series of enhancements, on a 
one-by-one basis, to the collection of connections they have 
with their retailers.”  (See S-1). 


The important strategic implication of the point-to-point 
architecture is that it is significantly easier to disrupt than 
the network architecture.  This is exactly why Commerce-
Hub has had success at disrupting traditional on-premise 
software solutions (it obviously has a great product too). 


Other SaaS Providers


There are other SaaS providers whose offerings have some-
thing in common with CommerceHub’s core dropship solu-
tion.  The largest of them is SPS Commerce that we briefly 
mentioned earlier.  In fact, SPSC is twice as large as CHUB 
when measured by revenue. 


If one reads SPSC filings, they will see that SPCS offers 
dropship solutions and does billions of dollars in GMV that 
is dropshipped. 


So is SPSC a serious direct competitor to CommerceHub?  
And is CommerceHub trying to catch up with SPCS?  The 
answer is “no” because there are numerous differences be-
tween SPCS and CHUB both in terms of the business model 
and product.


CHUB vs. SPSC: Not Director Competitors


Let’s start with the differences in the business model. 


Who is the customer?


As we wrote, CHUB charges both retailers and suppliers 
and both retailers and suppliers use CommerceHub’s soft-
ware. 


CommerceHub’s approach is to partner with retailers and 
provide them with software that stay on top of EDI. 


Only suppliers use SPCS’s software while retailers do not.  
Hence, SPCS charges only suppliers for its SaaS.  SPSC 
helps suppliers to map into EDI. 


Go-to-Market Strategy and Sales and Marketing Ex-
penses


Having different customers results in substantial differences 
in go-to-market strategy.  As we discussed earlier, Commer-
ceHub markets to retailers.  Since it has only ~50 very large 
retailers, its sales and marketing expenses are fairly small 
(10% of revenue or even less).  How does CommerceHub 
get suppliers as paying customers?  Retailers bring them to 
CommerceHub.  A retailer who signs up with Commerce-
Hub says to its supplier whom it wants to do dropship: “Mr. 
Supplier, we will do business with you through the Com-
merceHub platform.  If you want to do business with me, 
you need to become a CommerceHub customer”. 


SPC Commerce sells only to suppliers and, thus, it needs to 
sell to each of them.  SPCS has more than 20,000 suppliers 
as recurring revenue customers.  Not surprisingly, its sales 
and marketing expenses run at ~30% - 35% of revenue. 


Products Are Different and They Are Complementary


CommerceHub and SPS Commerce’s products are differ-
ent.  CommerceHub focuses only on dropshipping.  SPCS’ 
product first and foremost allows suppliers to ship goods 
to a warehouse / distribution center of a retailer.  SPSC’s 
product also enables a supplier to dropship.  However, how 
would a retailer communicate “please dropship this product 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
103http://sumzero.com


to a consumer directly”?  If a retailer uses CommerceHub 
software, then its trading partner (i.e., supplier) will be us-
ing CommerceHub software as well.  Thus, the only situa-
tion where a supplier would rely on SPCS’ product to fulfill 
dropship would be when a retailer is using non-CHUB 
software (for example, an in house solution). 


What does it mean?  It means that SPCS and CHUB are 
actually not direct competitors and their products are comple-
mentary. 


At the Oppenheimer Conference on 08/10/2016 SPCS man-
agement shared with investors that most of SPCS customers 
are “blended” (i.e., they also use CommerceHub offerings). 


SPCS and CHUB: Will They Compete Directly in 
the Future?


The next logical question is whether SPCS and CHUB will 
expand their respective offerings and compete with each 
other head to head. 


We do not think this is likely for two reasons.


First, the respective market that SPCS and CHUB target are 
extremely large and will be growing over the next several 
years (if not decades!).  It is easier to disrupt and replace 
legacy, on-premise software providers than fight against 
another SaaS player.


Second, moving to each other’s market will be a significant 
stretch and departure from the original business model. 


In order for SPSC to compete with CHUB’s dropship solu-
tion, it will need to spend tens of millions of dollars on R&D 
to build a comparable solution.  Then SCPS would need to 
go and persuade 50 large retailers to switch from CHUB to 
SPSC which is very difficult to do. 


In order for CHUB to compete with SPCS in their fulfill-
ment solutions, CHUB will also need to build a similar 
product that will be cheaper than building a dropship 
software solution.  Then CHUB would need to spend sig-
nificant amount of money on sales and marketing this new 
fulfillment solution which will definitely push its sales and 


marketing expenses beyond current 10% of sales. 


Our sense is that neither of two companies wants to do that. 


DIY / In-House Solutions


Based on our research, the biggest competitor and substi-
tute for CommerceHub dropship offerings are in-house 
solutions when retailers decide not to outsource this capa-
bility and build it internally. 


CommerceHub for Brands Offering


CommerceHub for Brands allows brands to sell through 
marketplaces, search, and social channels. 


The most direct competitor in this space is Channel Advisor 
(ticker: ECOM) which does pretty much the same.  ECOM 
is significantly larger than CommerceHub for Brands.  In 
2015 Mercent (at that time) generated ~$10.5 of revenue 
while Channel Advisor generated ~$100M. 


How is CommerceHub planning to compete with ECOM? 


First of all, the market is still very young and the entire 
space is growing rapidly. 


Second, ECOM has to go after new customers with whom 
it has no pre-existing relationship.  As a result, ECOM is 
spending ~50% of its revenue on sales and marketing. 


CHUB’s approach is different.  It has an installed base of 
~9,700 supplier customers who already use CHUB’s solu-
tions for dropship.  CHUB would be working on cross-sell-
ing its CommerceHub for Brands offering to them. 


It is important to emphasize that CHUB is not going after 
ECOM’s existing customers and urging them to switch.  So 
potential customers will have three choices: (1) use nobody 
which will probably hurt them in the mid and long-term; 
(2) deepen their relationship with CommerceHub and use 
its software offerings for both dropship and direct sales; (3) 
use ECOM or one of the smaller competitors. 


We expect that CommerceHub marketing expenses on its 
brand initiative will be lower than any other player (includ-



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
104http://sumzero.com


ing ECOM) because of its preexisting relationships with 
suppliers. 


Network Effect and Switching Costs Create 
a Strong Moat for CHUB Which Gets Stronger 
with Every New Customer


1. How CommerceHub Is Different from a Typical SaaS 
Company


A typical SaaS company has a relatively weak moat that 
relies almost exclusively on switching costs which are not 
always significant.  If another disruptor comes up with a 
better mouse trap, the customer can leave. 


CommerceHub is different from most SaaS companies 
because its moat is built upon its network effect (or demand 
side increasing returns as many academics like calling it). 


2. Network Effect Is the Core Moat


The network effect is key to CommerceHub’s longevity and 
sustainability.  As mentioned above,  CHUB has ~50 large 
retailers and ~9,700 suppliers in its network. 


What’s the beauty of it?  Why would new customers care?  


Why would existing customers not want to leave?  The ma-
jor attraction of this network is that once you are inte-
grated you can do business with any other counterparty 
that is on the network. 


Let’s say you are a retailer and do business with 50 suppli-
ers.  If you leave CHUB and still want to dropship, you need 
to establish 50 point-to-point connections and integrate 
them.  That’s a lot of work. 


Let’s say you are a supplier and just started selling your 
products to a retailer who requested you to join the Com-
merceHub platform.  Once you do it once, you are done.  
When any other retailer who is also the platform starts 
doing business with you, you will not need to do anything.


That’s the power of the network and the network is exact-
ly what legacy on-premise solutions did not have which 
allowed CHUB to replace them in many cases. 


Needless to say, the value of CHUB’s trading partner net-
work continues to growth with each new partner added.  
Thus, the network effect will get only stronger over time. 


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full CHUBK:US report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
105http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Small Cap


Siteone Landscape Supply Inc Com
Class:  Equity Symbol:  SITE:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


EXPECTED RETURN


35.4%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Thatcher Martin


Spree Capital


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years
SITUATION:


GARP
MARKET CAP:


1.5B USD


SITE is an under the radar compounder with 50% near term upside, and 10x 


potential over the long term


About Thatcher Martin
Thatcher is an investor in growth businesses and value with a catalyst situations. He 
executes a research intensive process to identify situations where investors’ fundamental 
beliefs are incongruous with the fact based evidence. His sector coverage includes 
consumer, TMT, as well as energy, industrials, and materials. Previously, Thatcher spent 2 
years at Capstone, a $4 billion multi manager hedge fund, and 7 years at Gracie Capital, a 
$2 billion value with a catalyst oriented long/short hedge fund.


About Spree Capital
Spree Capital is an investment vehicle that employs a long term oriented growth and 
value with a catalyst investment approach. Specifically, this entails identifying what 
fundamental truths investors believe, and conducting intensive research on business 
trends, customers, competitors, management, and earnings quality to identify confirming 
and dis-confirming evidence. In situations where investor perception is not supported by 
factual evidence, investment opportunities are often found.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
106http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  SITE:US Updated:  12/19/16 Posted:  12/16/16


Siteone Landscape Supply Inc Com


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Thatcher Martin


Spree Capital


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 55%


SITE is an under the radar compounder with 50% near 


term upside, and 10x potential over the long term


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Growth at 
Reasonable Price


TARGET ALLOCATION:


5% - 10%
CATALYSTS:


Spin Off
TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


35.4%


33.68 USD


49.50 USD


LO N G


Investing in SiteOne today is like investing in the early 
innings of Pool Corp, Fastenal, Watsco, Tractor Supply and 
Autozone. Over the next 5-10 years, SiteOne will create 
shareholder value by growing sales 4x while expand-
ing margins. Sales growth will come from expanding the 
product offering, growing the store base, enacting pricing 
initiatives, and creating a more efficient supply chain. Mar-
gin growth will come from tapping latent pricing power, 
leveraging increased scale, and moving up the value chain to 
private label products.


I am betting that proven value creator CEO Doug Black, 
can do what he has done before; add value in a fragmented 
industry through strong organic and acquisition led growth 
and superior operating performance. The executive team 
has previously enacted the same initiatives that SITE is cur-
rently enacting. I am betting that a strategy that has created 
an immense amount of shareholder value in the past can be 
implemented by an executive team that has done it before.


At a valuation of 9.9x EBITDA/ 6% FCF Yield (vs peers at 
12-15x and 4%), there are many ways to be right with SITE.


Why is it cheap?


SiteOne has only been public for 6 months. Prior to the 
IPO, SITE was owned by CD&R, and prior to that, was a 
small, non-strategic subsidiary of John Deere. There are no 
publicly traded competitors. Multiple initiatives underway 
create the illusion of complexity. Private equity sellers have 
put supply in a market without an established shareholder 
base. Despite management’s past success, they are relatively 
unknown. As a long term grower, SITE is under followed 
and under owned.


Business


SiteOne is the largest specialty distributor in the highly 
fragmented, $16 billion landscape supply industry. A net-


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
107http://sumzero.com


work of 477 branch locations in 45 US states and 5 Canadian 
provinces sell landscape supplies to contractors.


Product categories include Irrigation Supplies (31% of sales; 
controls, sprinklers, valves, irrigation piping), Fertilizer 
(24% of sales; fertilizer, grass seed), Nursery (16% of sales; 
plants, shrubs and trees), Control Products (12% of sales; 
herb, fungus, rodent, insect control), Landscape Accessories 
(8% of sales; mulch, tools), Hardscapes (5% of sales), Out-
door Lighting (4% of sales).


The business was created in 2001 as John Deere Land-
scapes. In 2013 Deere sold 60% to CD&R. In May 2016 
Deere and CD&R sold 29.6% of the company to public 
shareholders.


Investment positives


(+) Landscape supply distribution is a strong business 
niche


Landscape supply distribution is a good business because 
the customer base’s main profit driver is labor utilization. 
For contractors, having a one stop shop with high touch 
specialized services and product depth is more important 
than pricing. As a distribution market that is capital inten-
sive, technically specified, and requires value-add special-
ty sales and services, internet disintermediation is not a 
concern.


(+) Dominant position in their niche


A 10% market share makes SITE 4x larger than their largest 
competitor, larger than competitors 2-10 combined, and 


gives them #1 market positions in all 7 product categories.


The majority of SITE’s competitors are mom and pop shops 
with only regional presence. The 3 largest competitors lack 
scale:


Ewing (private) has 195 locations in 21 US states. Product 
focus revolves around the irrigation market.


Harrell’s (private) has 17 locations in 12 US states. Product 
focus is on the golf course maintenance market as a distrib-
utor and producer.


Horizon Distributors (POOL subsidiary) has 60 locations in 
11 states. Product focus is on the irrigation market.


Customer intimacy is high due to superior customer ser-
vice, SKU advantage, pricing, technical training and field 
support, trade credit, and job site delivery.


SITE’s position in the value chain enables them to be both 
the low cost provider while attracting customers with high 
willingness to pay.


(+) Buyer group power and supplier group power are 
low


SITE sells over 100,000 SKUs from 2,900 suppliers to over 
180,000 landscaping contractors.


The top 10 customers combined account for only ~5% of 
sales, and no customer accounts for more than 2% of sales.


Supplier power is low; SITE is the largest customer for 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
108http://sumzero.com


many of its suppliers.


(+) Fragmented market with a large pipeline of attrac-
tive acquisition candidates


SITE’s acquisition machine builds long term relation-
ships that enable the company to selectively add desirable 
locations and product lines. Long established relationships 
and the fact that SITE is the only acquirer consolidating 
the space, allow SITE to attract high quality distribution 
partners at fair prices. Organic and tuck in acquisition led 
growth stand to drive 10-15% annual sales growth for the 
foreseeable future. 


(+) End markets are favorable


Maintenance end markets (seed, fertilizer, herbicide, etc) 
account for 49% of sales and provide highly recurring sales 
and consistent visits.


New construction accounts for 33% of sales, and repair & 
upgrade accounts for 18% of sales.


While construction sales are obviously more cyclical, both 
residential and commercial construction are below normal-
ized levels and repair & remodel offsets some of the cycli-
cality.


(+) SITE is led by proven executives who have run this 
playbook before


In an 18 year career at Oldcastle (CRH), Doug Black and 
EVP Pascal Convers executed and integrated over 100 
acquisitions, profitably growing the company from $900 
million to $12.6 billion in sales. The executive team has also 
enacted the same product, pricing, and supply chain initia-
tives in their former roles at companies such as HD Supply, 
Eastman Chemical, Grainger, and Newell. A strategy that 
has worked in the past is likely to be successfully imple-
mented by a team that has done it before.


(+) Management’s Incentives are aligned with share-
holders


Management owns 1.3%. Deere owns 5.9 million shares/15% 
of the equity. CD&R owns 11M shares/28% of the equity. 
CEO Doug Black just (12/6/16) spent $500k to buy 15k 
shares in the open market at $32.80.


Risks


(-) Residential & commercial construction exposure


Industry growth is dependent upon the overall economy. I 
model a conservative 2-2.5% organic growth (vs manage-


Residential 55% 50%  Maintenance on existing homes
20%  Repair and remodel
30%  New Construction


Commercial 30% 40%  Maintenance on offices, hotels, gov
40%  Commercial contractors
20%  Repair and replacements


Recreational 15% 60%  Golf course maintenance
40%  New construction & repair/replace


Customer End Markets



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
109http://sumzero.com


ment’s 5%) to account for this. GDP growth is not necessary 
for SITE to grow on the top and bottom line.


(-) Weather


Weather cycles can impact quarterly earnings. Any weak-
ness of quarterly earnings due to weather offers an opportu-
nity. This is a long term investment.


(-) Software & hub/spoke distribution


An inventory software upgrade and distribution hubs may 
cause some noise over the next 1-3 years. This is worth 
monitoring but any transitory growing pain likely presents 
an opportunity.


(-) Integration


SITE’s repeatable business model of tuck-in acquisitions is 
unlikely to cause much commotion, but is worth monitoring 
for leading indicators of the story coming unhinged.


(-) Horizon Distributors


The POOL subsidiary has made little attempt to consoli-
date the industry in the last 10 years. Should their strategy 
change, it would represent a slight negative, but will not 
change the story materially.


Catalysts


SITE has multiple levers to pull to create shareholder value.


Category management


Initiatives include rationalizing SKUs (over 100k current-
ly), rationalizing vendors (over 2900 currently), optimizing 
procurement, and broadening the end market product set.


Reorganizing brands and product lines towards preferred 
suppliers, along with SITE’s scale in the industry, will help 
improve volume growth discounts and supplier rebates.


SITE has a leading market position in 80% of its current 


geographic footprint, but only has a full product line in 23% 
of locations. A substantial white space opportunity exists 
for product and geographic densification.


Private label


SITE owns LESCO, the #1 maintenance brand for golf 
course and landscape contractors. Products include fertil-
izer, pesticides, specialty chemicals, turf seed, application 
equipment, paint, engine oil, and soil tests. SITE is also 
introducing products under the Basic brand.


Moving up the value chain will help to grow margins and 
customer captivity.


Pricing


In Q1 and Q2 SITE moved from cost plus to list down pric-
ing.


Customers are contractors. Contractors are profitable, and 
their profitability is driven by labor efficiency. Products 
are purchased based on efficiency rather than price. As the 
only national one stop shop, SITE has significant untapped 
pricing power to markup nonprice sensitive items, while 
leveraging their buying power over suppliers.


Salesforce organizational structure


A manufacturer owner (Deere) and a distribution business 
model (SITE) created a situation where the structure did 
not follow the strategy.


SITE is rectifying this by creating an entrepreneurial, in-
centive based sales force.


A decentralized inside/out sales force backed by e-com-
merce and digital marketing will create further value cre-
ation opportunities.


Sales training in technical applications such as irrigation 
installation and fertilizer science will grow customer cap-
tivity.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
110http://sumzero.com


Supply chain


SiteOne is moving to a hub and spoke distribution mod-
el. Lower costs, increased inventory turns, and improved 
fulfillment will all reinforce the value creation flywheel of 
distribution growth that has created so much shareholder 
value in distributors such as Fastenal, Pool Corp, and Wats-
co.


SITE’s first distribution center is set to come online in Q1 
2017. In 2-3 years, a full distribution network will encom-
pass 15 hubs.


Marketing


SITE’s customer loyalty program is immature. The Partners 
Program has only 5% of the 180,000+ customers enrolled. 
An earned points system for selective discounting and spe-
cialized training in installation and landscape design has a 
long runway to enhance customer captivity.


Repeatable business model of tuck-in 
acquisitions


SITE has a repeatable business model where they build 
long term relationships with small regional businesses, and 
selectively acquire in situations where they are the only bid-
der. Acquisitions are aimed to increase SiteOne’s geographic 
footprint, expand the product set, consolidate the market, 
and add specialized talent.


SITE typically acquires bolt on acquisitions for <10x LTM 
EBITDA pre-synergies. Deals are immediately accretive 
as SITE rapidly integrates, allowing businesses to leverage 
SITE’s superior supplier terms, technology, sales training, 
best practices, and cash flows to fund growth investments.


Low capital intensity and high FCF generation translate into 
an annualized ~$70 million of internally generated fire-
power for acquisitions over each of the next 5 years.


The densification opportunity is significant.  Of the 382 
Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs), SiteOne has a 
leadership position in only 176. Only 31 of the 176 offer a 
full product line. The 206 unpenetrated MSAs represent a 


substantial tuck in acquisition opportunity.


SITE has the scale advantages, management resources, and 
access to capital to consolidate the industry. As the only 
consolidator, only national player, and with an established, 
repeatable business model of acquisitions, there is a long 
runway for value creation.


Free Options


Multiple free options exist which are not required for the 
story to work.


Cyclical recovery in housing, construction and repair/
upgrade markets


As the housing market strengthens; the 18% of SITE sales 
exposed to Repair & Upgrade end markets, and the 37% of 
SITE sales exposed to new construction, offer attractive 
optionality.


The rationales for this tailwind are numerous:


• Housing starts are still below the normalized level of 
~1.3 million


• Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs) will drive 
Mortgage Equity Withdrawal (MEW) growth from the 
current level of ~85% below mid-cycle levels (Histor-
ically, 30% of all Mortgage Equity Withdrawal fire-
power is spent on home repair and remodeling…this 
represents a $45 billion tailwind for R&R spend, should 
HELOC/MEW/cash out refis normalize to mid cycle 
levels of $150 billion, not even assuming any pent up 
demand).


• Homeownership rates are near all-time lows of 63% vs 
normalized levels of 67-68%.


Trump


A $1 trillion infrastructure project, and a 25% corporate tax 
rate (current rate of ~40%) are value levers for SITE, and 
neither are priced in.


Demographics



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
111http://sumzero.com


As baby boomers age, more discretionary income is likely to 
go towards investment in the home.


Trends towards “Outdoor Living”


Homeowners and restaurants increasingly desire outdoor 
living space. SITE squarely plays into this secular trend.


Population migration to Sunbelt regions


Increasing maintenance and outdoor living plays into SITE 
end markets.


These are very attractive free options that provide convexity 
to SITE earnings, but none are required for SiteOne to com-
pound value over the short and long term. Nonetheless, one 
could argue that most have a high probability of occurring.


Valuation


At $31.72, SITE is trading at 9.9x EBITDA and a 6% FCF 
yield. At a minimum, SITE should trade at ~$49.50, in line 
with other distributors. In the next 5years, SITE has the 
runway to grow sales over 50%, and double EBITDA. This 
assumes a very conservative 2-2.5% organic growth rate 
(company guidance is 5%) and a high single digit tuck-in 
acquisition growth rate.


Conclusion


SiteOne is a great business with a long runway of earnings 
growth ahead. In the near term, self-help initiatives in sales 
force, pricing, product lines, distribution, and IT offer low 
hanging fruit for margin expansion.


In the long term, an industry leading position and repeat-
able process of tuck in acquisition growth will help drive 
market share from 10% to 40%. 


As SITE grows their market share, the virtuous cycle of 
distribution growth will drive value creation in line with 
the proven path set before it by Pool Corp, Fastenal, Watsco, 
Tractor Supply, and Autozone. There are many ways to be 
right with SITE.


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full SITE:US report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
112http://sumzero.com


your secret weapon  
canalyst.com


modernizing eouity research



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://canalyst.com

http://canalyst.com
113http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Small Cap


Asia Cement China Holdings Corp 
Class:  Equity Symbol:  743:HK Updated:  12/8/16 Posted:  12/5/16


EXPECTED RETURN


73.0%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Dan Rasmussen


Verdad Fund Advisers


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years
SITUATION:


Value
MARKET CAP:


2.9B HKD


Highly leveraged bet on Chinese concrete industry: 7x multiple of money if 


prices stabilize, but bankruptcy if prices fall much further


About Dan Rasmussen
Dan Rasmussen is the founder of Verdad Advisers. Before starting Verdad, Dan worked 
at Bridgewater Associates and Bain Capital Private Equity. He graduated from Harvard 
summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa and received an MBA from the Stanford Graduate 
School of Business. He is the New York Times bestselling author of American Uprising: The 
Untold Story of America’s Largest Slave Revolt, and he has authored academic articles on 
both American history and leveraged finance.


About Verdad Fund Advisers
Verdad is a long-only equity hedge fund focused on achieving private equity returns in 
public equity markets. Private equity has outperformed the S&P500 over the past 20 
years by 5% per year. Verdad’s thesis is that these returns are the result of private equity’s 
use of debt to buy small, cheap companies – and that this can be done cheaply and more 
effectively in the public markets. Verdad uses quantitative tools to identify public equities 
that share the characteristics of the best performing leveraged buyouts: small, cheap, and 
with indebted capital structures.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
114http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  743:HK Updated:  12/8/16 Posted:  12/5/16


Asia Cement China Holdings Corp 


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Dan Rasmussen


Verdad Fund Advisers


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 64%


Highly leveraged bet on Chinese concrete industry: 7x 


multiple of money if prices stabilize, but bankruptcy if 


prices fall much further


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Value
TARGET ALLOCATION:


1% - 1.5%
CATALYSTS:


M&A/Buyout 
Target


TIMEFRAME:


1-2 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


73.0%


1.90 HKD


3.20 HKD


LO N G


• Asia Cement (China) is a dominant regional producer 
of cement, with leading market share in the Sichuan, 
Hubei, and Jiangxi


• The Chinese cement industry is going through a crisis, 
with cement prices having fallen more than 30% since 
2014, leaving over 40% of Chinese cement makers un-
profitable.


• But Asia Cement (China) has stayed cash flow positive 
despite this sharp decline and is currently trading at an 
LTM free cash flow yield of 52% (63% net debt/EV at a 
6.9x EBITDA multiple).


• This is a highly leveraged bet on cement prices – a 
rebound in prices could lead to a 7x multiple of money, 
but if prices drop further, there’s a high probability of 
bankruptcy.


• We believe there is reason for optimism on cement 
prices. The Chinese government has instituted draco-
nian new measures that could reduce concrete supply 
in the country by 20%, and the Company is reporting 


stabilized prices in H2 2016.


• Furthermore, the Chinese government is encouraging 
consolidation, and Asia Cement could be a prime M&A 
target – or a driver of consolidation by purchasing 
smaller players.


• Investors looking for a cheap, highly leveraged bet on 
the Chinese growth story need look no further than 
Asia Cement (China)


Business Overview


Asia Cement (China) is a regional Chinese cement maker 
focused on the Sichuan, Hubei, Jiangxi provinces, which 
account for 85% of total revenue. The Company owns and 
operates 15 production facilities across three of its major 
provinces with a combined capacity of 35 million tonnes.


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
115http://sumzero.com


Though Asia Cement (China) is only the 11th largest pro-
ducer in the country as a whole, controlling only 1.8% of 
China’s cement production, the country is the market leader 
in Chengdu, Wuhan, and Yangzhou.


Figure 1: Map of Asia Cement (China) Regions


Figure 2: Regional Market Share



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
116http://sumzero.com


Industry Overview


China famously used more cement between 2011 and 2013 
(6.6 gigatons) than the U.S. used in all of the 20th Century 
combined (4.5 gigatons). Widespread urbanization and 
subsequent development, a commercial and residential real 
estate boom, and an enormous investment in infrastructure 
by the PRC were the primary drivers of China’s exploding 
usage.


This massive boom drove an over-investment in production, 
and the government was forced to suspend the construc-
tion of all new cement lines in 2009.  Between 2009 and 


2014, the government instituted policies to reduce outdated 
cement capacity, leading to the phasing out of 360 million 
tonnes of old capacity between 2009 and 2014.


But supply was not the only problem.  As Chinese econom-
ic growth slowed, Chinese cement demand fell. In 2015, 
cement demand fell 5.2%, the first decline in 25 years. The 
industry’s overcapacity – 400m tonnes in 2009 – reached 
850m tonnes in 2015.  The utilization rate of Chinese ce-
ment capacity is only 73%. 


This over capacity has led to a collapse in cement pricing.  
Asia Cement reported that industry-wide cement prices fell 
20% from 2014 to 2015 and have continued to fall into 2016.


The Company has provided the concrete for most of the major infrastructure builds in these regions:


Figure 3: Major Asia Cement (China) Projects



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
117http://sumzero.com


These price declines caused a massive contraction in profits.  
Industry-wide gross profit fell 60% in 2015, with more than 
40% of cement enterprises failing to make money in 2015.


Market Rebound


But there are signs of a turnaround in the market.  The PRC 
has intensified efforts to reduce overcapacity. The PRC 
abolished low-quality PC 32.5 and PC32.5R cement grades.  
According to research conducted by Credit Suisse, the stan-
dard upgrade could reduce the industry’s effective capacity 
by more than 20%. Additionally, this could improve nation-
wide industry utilization from 73% to 85% in 2017E. Assum-
ing full implementation in 2017, Credit Suisse estimates a 
utilization of 95% and 96% in eastern and southern regions 
respectively, compared to their 81% and 82% utilization 
without such an abolishment.


Increased utilization, driven by effective government imple-
mentation, is expected to drive average selling prices higher, 
as supply and demand rebalances. Thus far, at least accord-
ing to Asia Cement, the abolition has been “carried out in an 
orderly manner,” and is helping lift prices in 2H16.   After 
being down 15% in the first half of 2016, a third quarter re-
bound has prices down only 9% YoY in the first nine months 
of 2016.


In their 3Q16 announcement, Asia Cement predicted, “The 
quantity and price of cement in the fourth quarter will con-
tinue the upward trend since September and the profits of 
the whole industry will grow substantially when compared 
with that of the first three quarters.”


Industry Consolidation


The Chinese government is also encouraging industry 
consolidation, and Asia Cement (China) could be a prime 
acquisition target.  The state-owned Assets Supervision and 
Administration Commission of the State Council recently 
stipulated that the top 10 players comprise 60% of nation-
wide capacity by 2020. The top 10 players currently account 
for ~54% of 2015 capacity, with the top 4 players controlling 
~40% of that capacity,


Currently, the top 60% of capacity is concentrated in the 14 
largest producers. Any sort of consolidation within these 
top 15 or so producers greatly aids in achieving the afore-
mentioned 60% goal. Because relative size drops off con-
siderably in the teens (the 13th largest producer has 1.6% 
market share while the 18th has a 0.8% share), the more 
mergers & acquisitions the government can stimulate in the 
larger companies, the better. Asia Cement’s position at #11 
makes it ripe for a merger or acquisition with another large 


Figure 4: Cement Prices in Key Regions



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
118http://sumzero.com


SOE.


More specifically, we identified three companies that we 
believe would merge quite well with Asia Cement.


• Anhui Conch (#1): As the largest producer in China, 
who also boasts robust financial performance (even in 
the recent downturn), Anhui Conch is one of the most 
well-equipped companies to make a major acquisition. 
After plans to buy West China Cement fell through this 
past summer, the Company may be looking to put cap-
ital to work in another inorganic growth opportunity. 
With a focus, “alongside the middle-stream and down-
stream areas of Yangtze River and the coastal line,” 
Anhui Conch is perfectly situated geographically to 
merge with Asia Cement. As seen in the figure 2, Anhui 
Conch is Asia Cement’s primary competitor in three of 
the Company’s six major regions (Yangzhou, Nanchang, 
& Jiujiang).


• Huaxin Cement (#13): Huaxin Cement has also 
performed well financially, reducing its prospect as 
an outright acquisition target (as opposed to a merger 
candidate) since the PRC will likely focus on struggling 
companies first. Huaxin Cement also has significant 
geographic overlap with Asia Cement. “Huaxin’s home 
market is the Yangtze river valley with strong holds in 
the central Chinese Hubei province, as well as the prov-
ince of Jiangsu and in Shanghai.” As of 3Q16, Huaxin 
Cement is Asia Cement’s primary competitor in two of 
its six major regions (Wuhan & Xiaogan).


• Jiangxi Wannianqing Cement (#15): Jiangxi Wan-
nianqing Cement is, “the largest [cement producer] in 
the Jiangxi Province,” which is home to two of Asia Ce-
ment’s six major regions (Nanchang & Jiujiang). Jiangxi 
Wannianqing Cement’s financial performance was right 
in line with industry averages in 2015. We believe Ji-
angxi Wannianqing Cement is the least likely candidate 
out of these three but a far more attractive option to 
Asia Cement than other companies in the top 20.


The PRC is especially incentivized to merge struggling firms 
with other SOEs or to find buyers in the private markets be-
cause the prospect of mass lay-offs, Beijing fears, could lead 
to social unrest. The PRC believes that if a stronger enter-
prise can restructure a weaker one, they can potentially find 


ways to redeploy workers. Even if some inevitable layoffs 
ultimately occur, they are not just going to fire everyone 
immediately.


Thus, in addition to a major move by one of the top produc-
ers to acquire or merge with Asia Cement, the Company 
could also benefit from a number of small, attractive tuck-in 
acquisition opportunities in the coming years as some 
market participants struggle to transition with the industry. 
Asia Cement’s IR has confirmed our intuition, stating that 
Asia Cement is actively searching for potential acquisition 
opportunities at attractive valuations.


Financial History


Asia Cement has consistently and conservatively grown its 
business, expanding sales volume each of the past five years 
despite severe and growing overcapacity and, in 2015, con-
tracting industry demand.


Overcapacity and price wars have caused the price of ce-
ment to plummet in China, causing industry-wide profits 
to deteriorate. Asia Cement has performed well financially 
relative to its peers through an increased focus on opera-
tional efficiency and numerous cost-cutting initiatives. For 
instance, in 2015, industry-wide gross profits fell 60% YoY, 
while Asia Cement’s gross profit only declined 52%.


Asia Cement’s gross margin and EBITDA margin both fell 
from five-year highs of 23.3% and 25.8% in 2014 to 17.7% and 
19.0% respectively in the LTM ending September 30, 2016.


Barring an expansion of production line capacity in 2013, 
costing Asia Cement more than one billion CNY, and two 
one-off cash expenses in 2014 (830 million CNY on “trade 
and other payables” vs. its 8.8 million CNY normalized 
five-year average and a 606.8 million CNY cash acquisition), 
as seen in Figure 7, Asia Cement has consistently thrown 
off more than 800 million CNY of (adjusted) free cash flow 
each of the past five years for investors.


Conversations with IR have revealed that the Company ex-
pects minimal organic growth in production capacity in the 
coming years, and thus minimal CFI. Management expects 
CapEx to be relatively close to the 200 – 300 million CNY 
annual maintenance CapEx current production facilities 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
119http://sumzero.com


require. 


Between continued operational efficiencies driving up 
CFO and lower capital expenditures leading to a lower CFI 
expense, Free Cash Flow could likely be well in excess of 
800 million CNY in the coming years – even in the face 
of persisting industry struggles. Figure 8 shows a range of 
potential FCF Yields Asia Cement could generate moving 
forward.


Free Cash Flow Yield


Note: All FCF Yield Market Cap data as of 11/28


Adverse market conditions have lowered the firm’s return 
on invested capital, limiting enterprise expansion in the 
short-term, crushing its share price. Asia Cement has con-
tinued to provide equity shareholders value though through 
reducing its debt load. Robust debt pay-down (particularly 
in highly levered firms) has proved to provide investors with 
higher returns over the long-term when compared to their 
peers. Figure 9 reflects Asia Cement’s deleveraging.


Leverage History


Market factors have a strong influence on selling price, 
and thus margins. Consequently, Asia Cement’s success is 
partially subject to shifts in the broader Chinese cement 


industry. 2015 and 2016 have shown though that even in a 
very low-price environment, Asia Cement can still gener-
ate attractive returns for investors, as the Company is set 
to average more than 1 billion CNY in FCF in each of these 
past two years, producing a FCF Yield in excess of 40% at 
its current market capitalization.


Risks


There are three primary risks to an investment in Asia Ce-
ment (China). At the root of each of these are cement prices. 
Operating in a highly competitive space, Asia Cement has 
little pricing power relative to broader market cement pric-
es, creating a strong dependence on uncontrollable market 
forces within the industry. Initiatives by the government 
to cut overcapacity and smaller unprofitable firms being 
forced to shut down production, cement prices are likely to 
revert to their historical mean in the coming years. Howev-
er, there are three scenarios that we believe could lead to a 
period of continued low cement prices.     


There is a possibility that lower grade cement pro-
duction facilities are converted or upgraded to high-
er-grade production as PC32.5 and PC32.5R are elimi-
nated from the market. We believe this would be difficult 
to accomplish though with the increased government 
intervention and intensified focus on permanently reducing 
excess capacity.  


Free Cash Flow 2011-2016



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
120http://sumzero.com


Demand could also continue to contract if planned 
infrastructure is halted or delayed or China sees a 
dramatic slowdown in the real estate market. The 
PRC’s persistent commitment to infrastructure build-out 
and the enormous backlog (driven in part by the country’s 
recent One Belt, One Road initiative) imply infrastructure 
spend will remain strong in the coming years. Additionally, 
unabating urbanization – which appears will continue at a 
high rate for the foreseeable future – partially mitigates risk 
of an extended period of slowed real estate construction.  


There is also a possibility that the government artifi-
cially supports SOEs through an extended period of 
heavy industry-wide losses. This would put considerable 
pressure on all private cement-producing companies. How-
ever, the PRC seems to be more concerned with smoothly 
transitioning the industry from a state of excess production 
to a state of stable growth than it is with maintaining market 
share for its SOEs. This is driven by its fear of widespread 
job loss and subsequent social unrest – the likely greater of 
two evils when compared to expanding its government debt 
(only 43.9% of GDP in 2015).


Valuation


The Company’s share price has rebounded from less than 


$1.50 this summer to just under $2 as market conditions 
have improved considerably, helping the Company to 
achieve profitability again in the third quarter. Even with 
the recent price appreciation, Asia Cement trades for less 
than 30% of its 2014 high.


Our Monte Carlo simulation of returns reinforces this sen-
timent, with an estimated average IRR of 18% and multiple 
on money invested of 1.6x. Some key assumptions for our 
model include:


Cement volume will remain flat over the next three 
years. Though Asia Cement’s volume has grown at an 
incredible clip over the previous ten years, it slowed to 
a CAGR of 2.3% between 2014 and 2016. Asia Cement’s 
1.3% volume growth in 2015 was largely attributed to the 
Southwestern region’s 13% cement growth and a potentially 
transitory run-up in clinker demand. Volume growth accel-
erated in the last twelve months of as of September 2016 to 
3.4%, but because we do not yet have granularity to know 
where this growth is coming from and how sustainable it is 
(only available in end-of-year reports), we maintained con-
servatism in our model and assumed Asia Cement would 
grow volume in line with Global Cement’s estimates that 
total Chinese cement volume growth will be “relatively flat” 
between 2016 and 2020.


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full 743:HK report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
121http://sumzero.com


5 Mid/Large Caps
All ideas within this category must be associ-
ated with companies whose respective mar-
ket capitalizations were greater than US$2B 
at the time of submission. Roughly 50% of 
the research on SumZero is mid/large-cap 
focused.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
122http://sumzero.com


Winner
Best Mid/Large Cap


Micro Focus International Plc Ord
Class:  Equity Symbol:  MCRO:LN Updated:  12/12/16 Posted:  12/9/16


EXPECTED RETURN


83.6%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Douglas Ott


Andvari Associates


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years
SITUATION:


Event / Spec. Sit
MARKET CAP:


4.9B GBp


This public software company employs a private equity-like model of 


acquiring and managing a portfolio of mature software assets. Shares can 


easily double within 5 years.


About Douglas Ott
Mr. Ott is the owner and founder of Andvari Associates, LLC. He developed an interest for 
business and investing in 2005 with his first paying job after college. The interest became 
a passion in the middle of law school. After graduating from law school in 2009, he joined 
an Atlanta-based investment firm where he worked for over three years as an analyst 
and portfolio manager. Mr. Ott founded Andvari in 2013 to manage his own assets and 
those of other like-minded clients. He received a BA in English Literature and History from 
Washington University in St. Louis.


About Andvari Associates
Andvari means “careful one” in Old Norse, and thus a “careful and concentrated” 
philosophy drives our approach to investing. Our top 6–7 holdings usually make up 
50% of assets under management. We prefer to own high quality companies that can 
compound value for shareholders over many years. However, we also invest in distressed 
bonds, companies in liquidation, risk arbitrage, and other special situations. Market cap 
is currently no constraint as we are invested in micro-cap all the way up to large-cap 
companies.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
123http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  MCRO:LN Updated:  12/12/16 Posted:  12/9/16


Micro Focus International Plc Ord


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Douglas Ott


Andvari Associates


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 84%


This public software company employs a private 


equity-like model of acquiring and managing a 


portfolio of mature software assets. Shares can easily 


double within 5 years.


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Event / Special 
Situations


TARGET ALLOCATION:


5% - 10%
CATALYSTS:


M&A/Buyout 
Target


TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


83.6%


2,120.77 GBp


3,928.00 GBp


LO N G


This software company based in the U.K. thinks and acts like 
a private equity shop tasked with the job of acquiring and 
managing a portfolio of software assets. Management has an 
excellent track record and is properly incentivized to achieve 
15–20% annualized returns over the long-term for sharehold-
ers. Despite the run-up in share price due to the announced 
acquisition of HP Enterprise’s software division, shares 
remain attractively priced. 


The $8.8 billion HPE deal will close in the second half of 
2017 and will nearly triple the size of the company. Con-
sidering the pro forma figures of the enlarged enterprise, 
Micro Focus is still attractive with shares trading at about 
12x EBITDA. If all likely synergies are accounted for imme-
diately, shares trade at <9x EBITDA. We believe the share 
price will double over the next five years.


Andvari loves to think of Micro Focus as the software amal-


gamation of two other public companies: TransDigm (TDG) 
and Enstar Group (ESGR). TransDigm is an aerospace parts 
company with a private equity-like mindset and has cre-
ated enormous value with its strategy of acquiring assets 
with extremely long lives and raising operating margins 
much higher than the previous owners thought possible. 
Micro Focus has done and is doing the exact same thing 
in the world of software. Enstar Group is a company that 
has earned extraordinary returns by purchasing insurance 
portfolios and companies in run-off and operating them far 
more efficiently. Like Enstar, Micro Focus also is an expert 
at acquiring assets that are in decline and running them 
more efficiently. Also like TransDigm, much of Micro Focus 
management’s incentives are tied to shareholder returns 
over multi-year periods. If returns to shareholders aren’t at 
least 15% annualized over a 3-year period, a good portion of 
management’s shares do not vest.


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
124http://sumzero.com


Over the past decade, Micro Focus has grown sales and 
operating profits at 24% and 29% annualized, respective-
ly. They’ve done this by using a highly disciplined and 
private-equity-like operating model. The opportunity to 
acquire infrastructure-like software assets is still significant 
and will only increase over the years. Shares are extremely 
undervalued given the likelihood Micro Focus will accom-
plish its goal of providing 15% annualized returns for share-
holders (doubling over 5 years) over the long-term.


Overview of Micro Focus


Long-Term Financial Results


Micro Focus currently has about $1.4 billion in sales and 
$640 million in EBITDA. The company has two divisions: 
the Micro Focus Product Portfolio and the SUSE Linux 
Product Portfolio. The Micro Focus portfolio accounts for 
80% of sales and has EBITDA margins of 45%. In this port-
folio, Micro Focus manages mature, infrastructure software 
assets that are slowly growing or are in decline. These assets 
are part of the “plumbing” behind mission-critical business 
functions and are nearly impossible to replace. Thus, cus-
tomers are quite sticky with retention rates above 90%.


With the SUSE Linux portfolio, the company provides and 
supports enterprise-grade Linux and Open Source solu-
tions. With sales growth of 18% last year, SUSE Linux is the 
fast-growing component to Micro Focus, but still has very 
high EBITDA margins of 30%. Furthermore, with SUSE 
having an estimated 20–25% market share of enterprise 
Linux versus Red Hat’s 70–80% share, there is an excellent 
opportunity to take share from Red Hat.


As we noted at the beginning of this report, Micro Focus has 
grown sales and profits at an impressive rate over the last 
decade. However, Micro Focus has issued equity in the past 
and is issuing a good deal more for the HPE deal. So, let’s 
look at their historic sales per share and EBITA per share 
figures (EBITA is operating profits excluding amortization 
of software and acquired intangibles).


Even with share dilution, the numbers are impressive. Sales 
per diluted share has grown 22.4% annualized and EBITA 
per share has grown 27.9% annualized.


Business Model


Unlike many software companies focused on growing sales 


Micro Focus: Per Share Results



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
125http://sumzero.com


and customer numbers as fast as possible, Micro Focus is a 
portfolio manager of mature software assets. These assets 
are primarily used in large enterprises where it’s difficult 
or impossible to fully upgrade to the most modern solution. 
With these assets having high switching costs and a captive 
set of customers, Micro Focus revenues are highly recurring 
and predictable.


For example, the primary focus of Micro Focus for many 
decades has been providing software and services to help 
maintain and extend the useful life of COBOL programs and 
systems. COBOL (common business-oriented language) is a 
computer programming language designed in the late 1950s 
by the US Navy. The Department of Defense later required 
computer manufacturers to provide and support COBOL, 
which resulted in its widespread adoption. Despite being 
over five decades old, as of 2013 Micro Focus estimates 
there are over 250 billion lines of COBOL in existence that 
are running 70% of all business programs.[1] In a single year, 
there are 200 times more COBOL transactions than Google 
and YouTube searches put together.


The reason why software programs—COBOL-based or 


otherwise—stick around for a long time is because they are 
highly customized and embedded in the DNA of the busi-
nesses it supports. For example, many financial institutions 
have decades of COBOL code underpinning their back-end 
infrastructure. The IT managers in these institutions will 
not risk their careers by choosing to upgrade something 
that already works and has been refined over the years. Try-
ing to upgrade could result in unforeseen disruptions to the 
business. The disruption cause sales losses and additional 
expenses to fix the problem. A regulatory body might find a 
way to levy fines against the institution. Many IT managers 
will continue to use the supporting software and services 
Micro Focus provides to maintain and extend the useful 
lives of their IT assets. It is this dynamic that allows mature, 
highly embedded software assets to have much longer use-
ful lives than almost everyone expects.


Given Micro Focus’s long history with COBOL, the com-
pany has a much better understanding and higher regard 
for the product life cycle, in general, and as it pertains to 
mature assets, specifically. The bottom chart illustrates the 
company’s view of the four maturity stages of the cycle.


Product Life Cycle



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
126http://sumzero.com


When deciding how to allocate capital, management 
evaluates their options against four characteristics that are 
aligned to each stage of the product life cycle: (1) new prod-
ucts or consumption models; (2) growth drivers; (3) projects 
to protect and extend core products; and (4) projects to 
optimize returns of a product. For example, if a product line 
is at or past the point of maturity, it makes very little sense 
to spend a lot on R&D to add new features.


Micro Focus management describes themselves as portfolio 
managers of software assets with the objective of “gener-
ating moderate growth over the medium-term, delivering 
high levels of profitability and strong cash generation and 
cash conversion ratio with a balanced portfolio approach.” 
Management is highly rational and “will not dispose of de-
clining products unless we can achieve greater than the dis-
counted cash flow they would generate in our ownership.”


[1] These COBOL figures originally come from a widely-cited Gartner 
that estimated there are still 200 billion lines of COBOL in existence 
that are running 80% of all business programs and 5 billion lines 
of COBOL code being written annually. Micro Focus updated these 


figures in 2013.


Private Equity Mindset


Micro Focus was formerly a holding of private equity firm 
Bain Capital, who sold the company to Golden Gate Cap-
ital and others in 2001. Golden Gate did an IPO of Micro 
Focus in 2005 after which it held a 60.5% stake until it fully 
divested its ownership in February 2009. Micro Focus then 
acquired The Attachmate Group from Golden Gate for $2.4 
billion (part in cash and part in newly issued equity) with 
Golden Gate again becoming Micro Focus shareholders 
owning about 40% of the enlarged group. With decades of 
experience with their private equity owners and partners, 
Micro Focus has developed a formidable and unique busi-
ness model that will continue to provide private-equity-like 
returns of 15–20% over the long term.


Management


Kevin Loosemore has been running Micro Focus as Exec-
utive Chairman since 2011 when he was essentially forced 
to take on the additional executive role when the CEO left. 
After a long career in some very large technology-focused 
enterprises, Loosemore joined Micro Focus as Chairman in 


2005 with the goal of rolling up the infrastructure software 
market. Currently 57 years old, Loosemore started his ca-
reer at IBM and eventually became their U.K. chief execu-
tive. Loosemore then went to Motorola to run its European 
division. Next, he was chief operating officer of Cable & 
Wireless (recently acquired by Liberty Global) from ‘03–’05 
before becoming non-executive chairman at Morse plc and 
non-executive chairman at Micro Focus.


Loosemore has a passion for operational improvement. In 
fact, he was specifically hired as COO at Cable & Wireless to 
help turn it around. As chairman at Morse plc, Loosemore 
was again in a restructuring situation. In September 2008, 
Morse plc had net debt of 8.9 million and only 2.5 million 
in cash. Loosemore hired Mike Phillips as CEO to help 
restructure the company. They were successful and Morse 
was acquired in 2010. As Chairman at Micro Focus, Loose-
more hired Mike to be the new CFO at Micro Focus in late 
2010.


In a recent Financial Times article, Loosemore said Micro 
Focus management is focused on operational improvement. 
Loosemore also said he was an admirer of David Brailsford’s 
philosophy of “marginal gains” as a means for exceptional 
improvement. For those who aren’t involved in the world 
of cycling, Brailsford became head of British Cycling in 
2002. At that point, British cycling had only won a single 
gold medal in its 76-year history. Brailford took the job with 
the goal of turning his country into a cycling powerhouse. 
Although he was a former pro cyclist, Brailsford also had 
an MBA and was fascinated with kaizen and other pro-
cess-improvement techniques. Thus, Brailford’s plan for 
British Cycling was to focus on making tiny improvements 
on numerous aspects. With the accumulation of all these 
marginal gains over six years, the British squad won 7 out 
of the 10 gold medals available for track cycling at the 2008 
Olympics in Beijing.


The fact that Loosemore has such high regard for opera-
tional improvement and decades of experience practicing 
it is significant. Micro Focus has benefited greatly from this 
focus on many small, cumulative improvements. This qual-
itative factor embedded in Loosemore and the rest of the 
management team gives them an edge over their competi-
tors and will continue to help drive returns to shareholders.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
127http://sumzero.com


MERGER & ACQUISITION DISCIPLINE


A significant component to the success of Micro Focus 
is their discipline on M&A and how they can operate the 
acquired assets more efficiently than previous owners. Over 
the past five years, the company has executed on several 
small bolt-on acquisitions, one significant transaction, and 
one transformational deal.


A snippet from the PrismTech press release announcing 
the sale of their CORBA assets to Micro Focus explains the 
rationale for the deal (emphasis is Andvari’s):


“December 10, 2013 – PrismTech™, a global leader in 
standards-based, performance-critical middleware, today 
announced that it has sold its OpenFusion™ CORBA® assets 
to Micro Focus International plc…. The sale of OpenFusion 
will allow PrismTech to sharpen its focus on the high-
growth Industrial Internet market opportunity for its 
OpenSplice™ DDS and Spectra™ SDR products….


Over the years PrismTech has built OpenFusion into a lead-
ing brand in the Common Object Request Broker Architec-
ture (CORBA) marketplace with a loyal, happy and well-
served customer base.  The rapid growth in PrismTech’s 
newer OpenSplice DDS and Spectra SDR product lines 
meant that the more mature OpenFusion line was no 
longer a comfortable fit for the company’s high-growth 
strategy.”


Three years later, HPE CEO Meg Whitman voiced a sim-
ilar rationale for divesting HPE’s software business in its 
transaction with Micro Focus (emphasis Andvari’s): “[W]
e are taking another important step in achieving the vision 
of creating a faster-growing, higher-margin, stronger cash 
flow company well positioned for our customers and for the 
future.” If you have a slow-growing or declining software 
business that you think is holding you back, Micro Focus is 
the one to call.


Micro Focus has been extremely disciplined with its acqui-
sitions. They are patient and always talking to the owners 
and managers of potential acquisition targets. The Attach-
mate deal was four years in the making while the Serena 
Software deal was six years in the making. Micro Focus 
has also turned down deals because of lofty asking prices. 
Micro Focus looks to acquire mature software businesses at 


EBITDA multiples between 7x–10x where they can increase 
margins by 50–100%, thereby effectively lowering their 
acquisition multiple to a range of 3.5x–5x EBITDA. In the 
following pages, we’re going to look at the three most recent 
and largest deals to get a sense of the type of software com-
panies Micro Focus acquires and at what price.


Attachmate Group


Micro Focus announced it would acquire the Attachmate 
Group in September 2014 for about $2.35 billion, or 2.5x 
sales and 7.5x EBITDA. The transaction tripled the reve-
nues of Micro Focus and more than doubled EBITDA. At-
tachmate was a group of software companies that had been 
acquired over the years by a consortium of private equity 
groups: Golden Gate Capital, Francisco Partners, Thoma 
Bravo, and Elliot Management. The four primary assets of 
Attachmate Group were SUSE Linux, NetIQ, Attachmate, 
and Novell.


In the year following the acquisition, Micro Focus manage-
ment commented on its integration efforts and the changes 
it was making. Some of the change made perfect sense and 
made you wonder why Attachmate’s former private equity 
owners had never implemented them. For example, if a 
company was interested in SUSE Linux, they had to con-
tract with Novell rather than deal directly with SUSE. Mi-
cro Focus put a stop to this and made it easier to buy SUSE 
separately. This and other changes have borne great fruit: 
the annual sales growth rate at SUSE rose from 9% in 2014 
to 18% for 2016.


• Other examples of changes Micro Focus introduced to 
the Attachmate Group include:


• Stopped sales reps from selling multi-year maintenance 
contracts at a discount;


• Harmonized sales plans across the entire company;
• Replaced 5 customer relationship management systems 


and consolidated them into 1 system;


• 25 office locations closed/consolidated; and
• Started the process of rebranding.


In tandem with the acquisition of Attachmate, the Board 
of Directors at Micro Focus gave the management team 
Additional Share Grants (ASGs) to ensure the deal would 
produce returns for shareholders. The ASGs had very strin-



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
128http://sumzero.com


gent terms attached to them. No ASG will vest if the Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) for Micro Focus is below 50% for 
the three-year after deal completion. Full vesting will only 
occur if TSR over the three-year period is 100% or more. 
Not coincidentally, this incentivizes management to shoot 
for 15–20% annualized returns for shareholders. This type 
of compensation scheme is like the compensation scheme at 
TransDigm, an American aerospace company that also op-
erates with a private-equity-like mindset and has produced 
outstanding returns over its lifetime.


Serena Software


Micro Focus acquired Serena early in 2016 for $540 million. 
Serena is a leading provider of enterprise software focused 
on providing Application Lifecycle Management products 
for both mainframe and distributed systems. Serena also has 
the number two market position in Source Code Change 
Management, behind IBM but ahead of companies like Mic-
rosoft, Perforce, and Dell.


Serena came public back in 1999 a few years before the 
height of the tech bubble. Sales grew rapidly and they were 
profitable, but sales growth petered out after the burst of 
the bubble. In November 2005, agreed Serena agreed to be 
acquired by private equity firm Silver Lake Partners for $1.2 
billion dollars, or about 4.9x sales and 15x EBITDA.[1] Silver 


Lake then proceeded to use Serena as a platform to acquire 
other software companies over the years.


Silver Lake eventually realized it could not make its invest-
ment work out. With sales continuing to decline despite 
acquiring a variety of assets, Silver Lake started an auc-
tion process in late 2013 to sell Serena. Attachmate Group 
(which was eventually sold by its private equity owners to 
Micro Focus) was interested in Serena at the time, but did 
not make the purchase because Silver Lake’s price expec-
tations were too high. Silver Lake eventually sold Serena to 
HGGC and Serena’s founder Doug Troxel in 2014 for $450 
million dollars, or about 2.5x sales and 6.2x EBITDA. A far 
cry from Silver Lake’s original purchase price.


Finally, Micro Focus purchased Serena from HGGC and 
Troxel early this year for $540 million, or about 3.3x sales 
and 6.8x EBITDA. There were two characteristics that Ser-
ena shared with Micro Focus that made this deal sensible. 
First, Serena’s customers are typically highly regulated large 
enterprises in a variety of sectors including banking, insur-
ance, telco, manufacturing, healthcare, and government. 
Second, many of Serena’s assets had high levels of recurring 
maintenance revenues and high EBITDA margins. Sales 
had been slowing down over the previous three years and 
the private equity owners and company founder wanted to 
monetize their investment. 


Attachmate Group Financials (millions)



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
129http://sumzero.com


HP Enterprise Software deal


With this deal, Micro Focus is acquiring HPE’s software 
division for $8.8 billion comprised of $2.5 billion of cash and 
the rest in newly issued Micro Focus shares. Furthermore, 
Micro Focus will be issuing a $400 million special dividend 
to Micro Focus shareholders right before the completion 
of the deal. The purchase multiples for HPE’s software 
division are ~11.4x EBITDA and ~2.75x sales. Micro Focus 
will be going from $1.4 billion in sales and $640 million of 
EBITDA to $4.6 billion in sales and $1.4 billion in EBITDA. 
Although Micro Focus is acquiring these assets at a higher 
multiple relative to prior acquisitions, there is a far greater 
opportunity to expand margins and thus lower the effective 
acquisition multiple.


HPE’s software portfolio consists of products covering IT 
operations management, application delivery management, 
enterprise security, information management and gover-
nance, and big data analytics. What’s especially sweet about 
the HPE deal is that Micro Focus is acquiring all of this for 
$8.8 billion when HP spent $19.4 billion to acquire it all. The 
tables below show the recent financials for HPE Software. 
Sales growth has been negative for the past three years, but 
operating margins have been stable at about 22%.


Serena Software: Sales & EBITDA from Pre-IPO to Present


[1] These are based on Serena’s trailing twelve month figures 
at the time of the Silver Lake announcement.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
130http://sumzero.com


HPE’s software division is exactly the type of asset Micro Focus loves to acquire: mature, infrastructure types of software with 
highly recurring revenues and a large opportunity to expand margins. Below is a chart showing the makeup of recurring and 
non-recurring revenues for Micro Focus, HPE Software, and the pro forma combined company. 


HPE Software: GAAP Figures (millions USD)


HPE Software: Quarterly Adjusted Year over Year Revenue Growth



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
131http://sumzero.com


One final point to note. During HPE’s third quarter confer-
ence call, when an analyst asked why HPE didn’t want to 
extract the margin opportunity for themselves, HPE CEO 
Meg Whitman replied (emphasis Andvari’s)


“[T]he first answer is, this is what Micro Focus does. They 
are a pure play software company who is expert at manag-
ing mature software assets. And as Micro Focus will tell you, 
most people who work in the software business in Silicon 
Valley want to grow assets. And actually some of these 
assets should … be maintained on a stable platform that ex-
tends the value for customers. And it’s actually not what we 
do, it is what they do.”


HPE lacks the ability and desire to run their software divi-
sion properly. With most of HPE’s software assets growing 
slowly (or not at all), Micro Focus can do what it does best: 
devote the right amount of resources towards each asset and 
boost profitability. Micro Focus can double the operating 
margins on 80% of the business it is acquiring from HPE. By 


the third year after the HPE acquisition, Micro Focus will 
have lowered their effective acquisition multiple from 11.4x 
EBITDA to about 7x EBITDA.


Valuation


Micro Focus is an attractive investment on an absolute basis 
as well as relative to other software companies and the 
market in general. Let’s start by looking at the pro forma 
financials of the company. Micro Focus believes it can im-
prove 80% of HPE Software’s revenues to the margin levels 
Micro Focus enjoys. This would mean expanding margins 
from 22% to the Micro Focus range of 44–45%. With $3.195 
billion in sales, 80% of this would be $2.556 billion. An extra 
22 percentage points of margin from that sales figure gives 
us at least $562 million of extra EBITDA.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
132http://sumzero.com


Method One: Relative valuation


The two charts below show 17 software companies and 
how cheap or expensive it is to purchase a certain amount 
of historical sales growth (see Appendix A for the data). 
These are a mix of fast organic growers and some that have 


focused on M&A.


Micro Focus has a 5-year average sales growth rate of 28% 
and, assuming the HPE deal goes through, shares are trad-
ing at 3.6x sales and 8.6x EBITDA (expecting full synergies) 
and 10.2x EBITDA (if you expect no synergies). This is quite 
cheap relative to other software companies in the market.


Method Two: Sum of the Parts Valuation


Looking at the sum of the two main parts of Micro Focus, 
the SUSE Linux and the legacy assets, the company is 
still attractively valued. Looking at SUSE first, Red Hat is 
the only direct public comp. Micro Focus has accelerated 
growth at SUSE and improved EBITDA margins, thus we 
believe it should be valued at a small premium to Red Hat—
let’s say a 5% premium. Furthermore, HPE and Micro Focus 


have recently formed a commercial partnership naming 
SUSE as HPE’s preferred Linux partner.


With Red Hat trading at a 5.8x EV/sales (TTM) and a 31.4x 
EV/EBITDA (TTM) ratio, we assign a 6.1x sales multiple 
and a 32.7x EBITDA multiple to SUSE. Although Micro 
Focus hasn’t yet reported intermediate earnings, we as-
sume SUSE added $20 million in sales over the six months 
since it reported sales of $254 million for its most recent 
full year. We also assume SUSE maintains a 32% EBITDA 


Paying Less for Growth: Micro Focus is Attractive on a Relative Basis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
133http://sumzero.com


margin. Next, let’s look at the legacy asset side of Micro 
Focus. Again, pro-forma for the HPE deal, Micro Focus will 
have about $4.5 billion in sales. Subtracting the $254–$274 
million in sales from SUSE gives us about $4.2 billion in 
sales that is slower growing but with normalized EBITDA 
margins in the low 40% range.


Looking at prior M&A deals of more mature software com-
panies as well as a few publicly traded comps will give us 
an idea of what the non-SUSE part of Micro Focus is worth. 
In the table below I list ten examples of software compa-
nies with mature assets and lower growth profiles. The top 
four are still public while the bottom six were purchased by 
private equity firms.


Comparables: Publicly Traded and PE Buyouts (millions USD)


The EV/EBITDA multiple for all ten ranges from 8.1x–22x 
with an average of 13.2x and a median of 12.4x. The EV/Sales 
multiple for all ten ranges from 2.2x–4.7x with an average of 
3.2x and a median of 3.1x.


Pro forma for the Serena deal and excluding SUSE (but 
before the HPE deal), Micro Focus will earn roughly $536 


million EBITDA. Next, HPE’s software segment recently 
reported full year $749 million of operating income (23.4% 
margin) on top of $3,195 million of sales. Upon completion 
of the HPE deal, the non-SUSE side of Micro Focus will 
have $1,285 million of EBITDA ($536 + $749). In terms of 
revenues, the non-SUSE side of Micro Focus will have about 
$4,348 million in sales.[1]


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full MCRO:LN report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
134http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Mid/Large Cap


Yoox Net A Porter Group Spa Ord
Class:  Equity Symbol:  YNAP:IM Updated:  12/16/16 Posted:  12/13/16


EXPECTED RETURN


42.1%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Shane Sandoval


ShawSpring Partners LLC


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years
SITUATION:


GARP
MARKET CAP:


3.6B EUR


Global eCommerce leader in €225B luxury market with low penetration, 


YNAP is led by a passionate owner-operator and driven by strong brand 


recognition and irreplicable customer relationships


About Shane Sandoval
Shane Sandoval is an intern at ShawSpring Partners, LLC and is focused solely on 
investment research. As a temporary member of the investment team, Shane is tasked 
with obtaining a deep understanding of the underlying economics of high-quality 
businesses within the consumer and technology spaces, as well as modeling and 
valuation. Shane joined ShawSpring in June 2016, after completing dual bachelor’s 
degrees in Economics and Spanish, magna cum laude, from The College of the Holy Cross.


About ShawSpring Partners LLC
ShawSpring Partners is a long-term global investor. Our investment approach is 
opportunistic, bottom-up, and underpinned by deep fundamental research. Our 
competitive advantage stems from our global network of entrepreneurs, distinguished 
investors, and industry experts who provide us with additional insights into our 
investment ideas. We make big, focused investments because we believe concentration 
drives significant outperformance.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
135http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  YNAP:IM Updated:  12/16/16 Posted:  12/13/16


Yoox Net A Porter Group Spa Ord


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


Shane Sandoval


ShawSpring Partners LLC


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 47%


Global eCommerce leader in €225B luxury market with 


low penetration, YNAP is led by a passionate owner-


operator and driven by strong brand recognition and 


irreplicable customer relationships


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Growth at 
Reasonable Price


TARGET ALLOCATION:


10%+
CATALYSTS:


N/A
TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


42.1%


27.17 EUR


39.08 EUR


LO N G


This memo will cover the driving investment thesis for 
the Yoox Net-A-Porter Group (BIT:YNAP), basic company 
overview, as well as the valuation and financials. The Yoox 
Net-A-Porter Group based out of Milan, Italy, is the world’s 
leading luxury ecommerce company.  The Group currently 
operates in 180+ countries throughout the world, providing 
luxury goods at a whole host of price ranges on its first-par-
ty platform across its multi-brand in-season and off-season 
segments. YNAP also runs a mono-brand segment which 
operates the websites and back-end (eg. logistics and fulfill-
ment) for its 40+ luxury brand partners


Based upon a fundamental, bottom-up driven discounted 
cash flow model (DCF), I arrive at a price target of €39.00. 
The last trading price of YNAP was €26.84 providing a 
~45% discount to intrinsic value. I believe that the current 
trading price is a reasonable entry point allowing for a risk/
reward ratio of 3:1. The risk of the investment is based upon 
a downside DCF driven by a loss of market share, declin-
ing profitability, and deteriorating returns on incremental 


invested capital.


YNAP currently trades at €26.84 a share equating to a 
market capitalization of €3.7B and an enterprise value of 
€3.5B due to significantly more cash than long-term debt. 
On a multiples basis, YNAP trades at 48x 2017 EBIT and 
69x 2017 earnings. These multiples, on both an earnings and 
EBIT basis, fall between luxury and ecommerce company 
valuations which I believe is a rational range to trade in.


Recently, the Group has fallen out of favor by the Street due 
to a myopic focus on short-term investments into the core 
business. These investments, although suppressing near-
term results, will allow the Group to grow free cash flow at 
20%+ annually around 2018-2020. YNAP is a high-quality 
international business with enduring brand value, barriers 
to entry, secular tailwinds, and increasingly strong returns 
on capital.


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
136http://sumzero.com


Why This Opportunity Exists? 


I believe that this opportunity to buy a high-quality com-
pany with significant upside potential is possible for the 
various reasons outlined below:


1. First-Mover Advantage – The Yoox Net-A-Porter Group 
is the first luxury ecommerce company of its kind. The 
Company is able to offer the highest quality service and 
retail experience to both ends of its platform including the 
emerging online luxury consumer as well as the historic 
luxury houses and designers such as Givenchy and Gucci. 
These tightknit brand relations have been developed over 
the last 15+ years since the inception of the Yoox Group and 
the Net-A-Porter Group in 2000. 


For over a decade, each respective company has dedicated 
itself to cultivating close partnerships. Consequently, the 
combined company has been able to leverage its Anglo-Ital-
ian roots to draw unparalleled trust and respect from the 
world’s top luxury brands providing them with a robust 
competitive advantage in procurement – both in terms of 
assortment and price.  Having begun interacting in 2000, 
the Group has developed an unparalleled relationship with 
the world’s premier luxury brands built around trust and 
respect. This entrusted relationship has been solidified by 
the Group’s commitment to maintaining its luxury partners’ 
brand value through both presentation and price. 


Running a first-party (1P) model requires building out one’s 
own global logistics and fulfillment infrastructure.  This 
type of infrastructure build-out, to satisfy the demand of 
consumers from 170+ countries, proves increasingly time 
and capital intensive as seen in the case of ecommerce gi-
ants Amazon and JD.com. As of Q2 2016, YNAP has invested 
upwards of €250M+ in its logistics infrastructure, creating 
~233K square meters of highly automated distribution and 
fulfillment centers in seven countries throughout the world.


2. Highly Specialized – Operating as the predominant 
ecommerce solution for the world’s most coveted luxury 
brands requires a level of expertise and experience that 
is the first of its kind in the “internet age”. Given the level 
of quality demanded by both luxury consumers as well as 
brands, the Group must provide a great deal of care, sensi-
tivity, and thoughtfulness in all that it does. This includes a 


degree of localization to satisfy the needs of its diversified 
consumer base.


This “high touch” approach is evident by the time and 
capital that is invested into providing the highest quality, 
bespoke products and services to its consumers and strate-
gic partners. This requisite allows the Group to operate a 
business/in a segment that is ‘Amazon-Proof’ (eg. Crafted 
last-mile delivery to HNW customers). As seen in other 
verticals such as online travel and food delivery, more often 
than not it is the smaller, more specialized business that 
dominates the space.


3. ‘Street Coverage’ / Investment Mode – With only two 
full quarters in the books since the successful merger of the 
two companies in October 2015, the “Street” (US sell-side) 
has provided very little coverage of the Company – especial-
ly from the sell-side desks in the United States. The analysts 
that do cover YNAP are myopically focused on the current 
investments the Group is making into its global platform – 
providing us some controversy on the name and stifled free 
cash flow over the near-term.


4. Secular Tailwinds - At its back, YNAP’s accelerated 
topline growth is being propelled by two predominant sec-
ular tailwinds – increasing mobile penetration throughout 
the world as well as an emerging middle-class and conse-
quentially increasing disposable income per capita.  As the 
population grows both in size and wealth, the total address-
able consumer base is to grow. This growth is further inten-
sified with increasing mobile penetration rates and growing 
adoption of secure ecommerce payment and processing. 


5. Secular Headwinds – Over the last several quarters, the 
market has shown an increasingly soft luxury market - par-
ticularly in the case of high-end jewelry and watches. With 
the largest luxury houses and jewelry maisons across the 
world coming in below Street expectations, YNAP has been 
drawn down due merely to association with the brands.  
Year-to-date (As of 9/27/16) YNAP has traded down ~20% 
despite posting resilient topline acceleration due to various 
macroeconomic reasons including Brexit.


6. Aligned Interests – When analyzing the integrity and 
capital allocation decisions the management team is re-
sponsible for; it is imperative that there is an alignment of 
interests. The cap table for YNAP demonstrates a strong 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
137http://sumzero.com


alignment of interests with four key stakeholders (on a 
diluted basis)– Richemont (46.4%), Federico Marchetti/Ex-
ecutive Management (9.1%), Renzo Ross (3.7%), and Alabbar 
Enterprises (2.5%). These stakeholders allow the Group 
to gain a competitive advantage in its brand relations (eg. 
Richemont & Rosso) as well as entrance into new markets 
(eg. Alabbar).


In addition to well aligned interests from an equity stand-
point, it is also important to note that management’s vari-
able compensation is based upon medium/long-term EBIT 
targets. Any additional stock issued (eg. compensation), 
pursuant to the merger agreement, states that Richemont 
and Federico Marchetti’s additional share capital is locked 
up for three years since the date of inception. Due to this 
significant economic impact, management and stakeholders 
are well incentivized for long-term performance.


7. Unique Characteristics – Unlike the luxury market as 
a whole, during the financial crisis (2008-2010) the Yoox 
Group was able to accelerate topline growth by 110%+ over 
the two-year period. This acceleration is driven by the 
off-season segment whose consumer base demonstrates 
strong inelastic consumer demand for personal luxury 
goods at a lower price point. Naturally, given the roll-up 
with Net-A-Porter, YNAP now includes a full suite of offer-
ings that capitalize on consumer demands and the indus-
try cycle – accelerating through peaks and troughs. The 
Group is able to further exploit luxury upcycles through 
its basic revenue model across the mono-brand segment 
which charges an initial set-up fee plus additional fees for 
value-added services as well as a commission. The variable 
component of this model allows the Group to capture an 
estimated 20-35% of their luxury partner’s online revenue, 
providing a call option for YNAP.


Merger


“The Deal of a Lifetime” – Business of Fashion


 The Group was formed in October 2015 with the merger of 
Yoox Group and The Net-A-Porter Group (NAPG).  Com-
bined, the new company is able to leverage its deeply rooted 
ties to the leading luxury houses/maisons and retail exper-
tise to control over 10% of the total online personal luxury 
goods market.


Yoox Group was founded in 2000 in Milan, Italy by Fed-
erico Marchetti with the original objective of providing 
an effective distribution channel for luxury companies to 
clear end-of-season inventory, a facet of the supply-chain 
that luxury brands did not previously utilize (eg. inventory 
write-offs and brick-and-mortar outlets).  To fill this void, 
the Group launched yoox.com, its first multi-brand off-sea-
son ecommerce platform.  After developing a strong rapport 
with the major luxury companies through its off-season 
offering, the Group expanded its service offerings to the 
mono-brand segment.  In 2006, the Group was employed 
by the luxury house, Marni, to develop, maintain, and fulfill 
its proprietary website.  With continued success, the Group 
went on to launch thecorner.com and shoescribe.com in 
2008 and 2009, respectively.  These multi-brand websites 
expanded the Group’s product assortments to in-season 
fashion – a previously underpenetrated portion of the mar-
ket.  The Group went on to IPO in December 2009 at €4.30.


The Net-A-Porter Group was founded in 2000 in Chelsea, 
England by Natalie Massenet with the strategic goal of pro-
viding the premier online luxury platform (netaporter.com).  
After developing the brand and cultivating strong ties with 
the world’s premier luxury houses, Compagnie Financière 
Richemont, the world’s leading high-end Swiss watch-
maker, increased its equity investment in NAPG to 93% 
after taking a minority stake in 2002.   With this increased 
financial commitment by Richemont, the Net-A-Porter 
Group was able to leverage its respected network to expand 
its product offerings.  MrPorter.com, a menswear luxury 
ecommerce site, and The Net Set, a social shopping applica-
tion (The integration of ecommerce and social media), were 
launched in 2011 and 2015, respectively.


In March 2015, the merger of the two groups was an-
nounced to form the Yoox Net-A-Porter Group with a deal 
valued at €950M.  It is imperative to note that this acqui-
sition brought about a great deal of controversy due to 
its supposed contentious nature.  According to Massenet, 
Richemont had agreed to sell NAPG to Yoox Group, without 
her consent or knowledge, at a ~45% discount to its private 
valuation (An independent arbitrator was commissioned 
- €1.45B valuation).  This reverse takeover was met with a 
counter offer by LVMH, Conde Nast, Kering, and Barney’s 
through a management buy-out valued at €1.3B, or a ~57% 
premium to NAPG’s acquisition price.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
138http://sumzero.com


Monday, May 8, 2017


David Geffen Hall  |  Lincoln Center  |  NYC


The Sohn Conference Foundation spearheads the premier series of 
philanthropic investment conferences across the globe to benefit 


children’s causes and scientific research. Its flagship Sohn Investment 
Conference in New York City raises funds for its signature cause of 


pediatric cancer research and care.  


Sohn Investment 
Conference


22ND ANNUAL


For sponsorship opportunities contact paula@sohnconference.org


REGISTER TODAY
sohnconference.org


Upcoming Sohn Conferences


New York
May 8, 2017


Hong Kong
June 7, 2017


India 
June 2017


Tel Aviv
October 2–3, 2017


Australia
November 2017


London
November 30, 2017


San Francisco
October 4, 2017


Canada
October 18–19, 2017



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sohnconference.org

mailto:paula%40sohnconference.org?subject=Sponsorship%20Opportunities
139http://sumzero.com


On 5 October, 2015, the Group began trading on the Milan 
stock exchange with the ticker “YNAP.” 


Merger Rationale


The two companies are able to offer the entire suite of lux-
ury fashion destinations from in-season to off-season and 
multi-brand (eg. Mr. Porter) to mono-brand (eg. Balenciaga.
com ‘Powered by Yoox’).  Together, these distinct business 
segments and brands are able to operate across ‘one shared 
global platform’ allowing for robust synergies across every 
facet of the business including, retail, operations, corpo-
rate, technology, marketing and content, as well as brand 
relations.  The Group states that annual run-rate synergies 
(EBITDA + Capex Savings) will eclipse €85M as well as 
€95M in cumulative one-off costs (Opex + Capex) through 
2018.


In addition, to being able to leverage the joint expertise in 
luxury retail, content production, and back-end optimiza-
tion, the deal was executed at an attractive price of €950M 
as mentioned earlier. 


Chairman & CEO Federico Marchetti shared his views on 
the merger in the following quote,


“This is a game-changing merger between two pioneering 
companies that have already radically transformed the 
marketplace since 2000 and will now shift the industry 
paradigm once again. Together, we plan to expand on our 
many combined successes and industry breadth to strength-
en partnerships with the world’s leading luxury brands and 
harness a significant untapped growth potential.”


Johann Rupert, Chairman of Compagnie Financière 
Richemont, offered his views as well,


“The merger of the two leaders will further enhance an 
independent, neutral platform for a sophisticated clientele 
looking for luxury brands…”


Management


The Yoox Net-A-Porter Group is led by Chief Executive 
Officer, Federico Marchetti, founder of Yoox.  Prior to 


starting the luxury ecommerce company in 2000, Marchetti 
served as an investment banker at Lehman Brothers and a 
short stint as a consultant at Bain.  When asked about the 
career pivot, Marchetti states that, “The idea behind Yoox 
was pretty simple: That the fashion and luxury world would 
one day converge into the Internet.”  Armed with ambition 
and defined vision, Marchetti was able to raise €1.5M from a 
venture capitalist in Milan in just 40 days.


Beside being a high-quality entrepreneur, it is fair to say 
that Marchetti is a unique character.  He is a very de-
termined, ambitious, yet emotionless businessman who 
emphasizes the fact that he is the sole boss of the Group 
and is responsible for a large part of the decision making.  
Marchetti has been quoted staying, “I think it’s a problem 
– I always think what’s next? I’m never satisfied…” It is this 
type of mentality that has and will continue to drive this 
business into organically growing its market share, luxury 
expertise, as well as shareholder value through ambitious 
and determined plans/targets.  The following are various 
quotes that shed further light on Marchetti’s perspectives,


On Corporate Culture


“We’re different, but it’s not bad. I don’t need love. I need 
results.”


On ecommerce


“I’m a hybrid type of guy…I’m not a fanatic who thinks the 
world will only go online, or that there will be no more fash-
ion shows, or ecommerce will be 100 percent of sales…”


On China


“[We have] the best relationship with luxury goods in the 
world. That’s why in China, we are adopting a long-term 
plan. I still see a lack of competition in selling luxury prod-
ucts at full price in China. Frankly speaking, I haven’t seen 
or heard of any big players succeeding in that.”


“We see China also as an experiment and a school to learn 
something that we can export to the rest of the world, 
because the Chinese are definitely the most advanced and 
sophisticated in terms of mobile ecommerce…”



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
140http://sumzero.com


On His Entrepreneurship


“Starting a company like Yoox in a country like Italy, it’s 
quite a miracle. It was a cultural innovation: internet, ven-
ture capitalist, stock options … It was an American story in 
Italy, so it was quite brave. But, at the same time, I had huge 
advantages: the proximity to the designers, speaking the 
same languages to the brands, understanding their needs.”


As for Chief Financial and Corporate Officer, the Group 
is led by Enrico Cavatorta, a former executive at Luxotti-
ca – the premier optical/eyewear retailer. Cavatorta joined 
Luxottica in 1999 as CFO and went on to serve several ad-
ditional positions including General Manager of Corporate 
Functions in 2011, co-CEO of Corporate Functions in 2014, 
as well as a brief stint as CEO before choosing to join the 
Yoox Net-A-Porter team.


In 2015, Alex Alexander, a long tenured ecommerce exec-
utive, was hired to become the Group’s Chief Investment 
Officer. Prior to joining, Alexander served as a key executive 
for Walmart’s UK subsidiary ASDA where he was in charge 
of the development of its omni-channel innovation.  The 
following are various quotes that shed further light on Alex-
ander’s perspectives on innovation and development,


On Innovation


“One of the first lessons I learned was the first-mover ad-
vantage... If you come second, you fail. If you’re slow, you 
fail. So I learned you’ve really got to be a fast decision-mak-
er, bringing products to the market very quickly and also 
being close to the customer.”


On Brand Differentiation


“What is key is differentiation and maintaining each brand’s 
DNA… Although the backbone of a feature can be built and 
exist once, the way that it is available to different brands will 
be different in terms of how it appears because the custom-
ers are different.”


On Omni-Channel


“We are building omni-channel capabilities to provide that 
instant visibility and fulfilment of the stock, but it starts 


with inspiration, and that comes through a focus on content 
and personalization from the data we have on the custom-
er.”


Business Segments


Multi-Brand - The Group operates three business seg-
ments including two first-party (1P) platforms across multi-
brand in-season and multi-brand off-season as well as a 
mono-brand segment. 


Within the multi-brand in-season segment, which accounts 
for ~55% of total revenue and ~58% of total gross profit, the 
Group operates an in-season menswear as well as women’s 
fashion platform through Net-A-Porter (NetAPorter.com) 
and Mr. Porter (MrPorter.com), respectively.  Mr. Porter 
was launched in 2011 and has quickly established itself as 
the global leader in online menswear.  Each month the site 
attracts 1.5M+ unique visitors (~96% male) from its unparal-
leled curation and craftsmanship.  On the women’s fashion 
front, Net-A-Porter is renowned as the global leader of 
online luxury fashion offering unparalleled luxury brand 
products as well as editorial content.  The success of its 
“shoppable” content (eg. launch of Mr. Porter on Apple TV) 
has attracted 6M+ monthly unique visitors across 170 coun-
tries – of which ~97% are female.


Due to this level of product quality and depth, as of YE 2015, 
the in-season business had an average order value of €600+ 
with an implied order volume of ~1.5M[2].  These underly-
ing economics have resulted in the Group controlling ~16% 
of the multi-brand in-season online personal luxury goods 
market valued at €5.7B, or ~34% of the online PLG market. 
By 2020, I believe the Group will be able to grow market 
share to 18.5%+ driven by increasing active customers and 
annual spend.


Within the multi-brand off-season segment, which accounts 
for ~36% of total revenue and ~33% of total gross profit, the 
Group offers two separate ecommerce stores with Yoox 
(Yoox.com) and The Outnet (TheOutnet.com).  To avoid 
cannibalization of each other, the sites target two distinct 
customer types and brand/product offerings. The Outnet 
targets a predominant female demographic, between 35 and 
45 years old, who is ‘style-conscious’.  This demand is met 
by The Outnet’s curation of ~35k SKUs from high-fashion 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://yoox.com

http://theoutnet.com
141http://sumzero.com


houses focusing on higher average selling prices (ASPs) due 
to relevance with current fashion trends.  Yoox, on the other 
hand, has a significantly lower ASP with off-season premi-
um brand offerings across ~600k SKUs.  This distinct brand 
and offering targets men and women alike (33%and 66%, re-
spectively) across the globe between the ages of 20 and 40.


Due to its wider assortment, increased active customer base, 
and lower ASPs, as of YE 2015, the off-season segment had 
an implied average order value of €110+ with an implied or-
der volume of 5.5M+[3].  These underlying economics have 
resulted in the Group controlling ~10% of the multi-brand 
online off-season personal luxury goods market valued at 
€5.9B, or ~35% of the online PLG market. By 2020, I believe 
the Group will be able to increase its market share by 150-
200 bps; however, it is integral to note this is a conservative 
estimate, as any period of economic turmoil will cause the 
off-season to gain greater momentum.


In 2015, the Group recorded an average order value, or AOV, 
(ex-VAT) of €352 with an order volume of 7M+ packages 
across its two multi-brand platforms.


Across the multi-brand portfolio, there are multiple cata-
lysts that will allow YNAP to increase profitability and free 
cash flow generation over the long-term including gross 
margin expansion, operating leverage on sales & marketing 
(S&M) and fulfillment/logistics. As explained in greater 
depth in subsequent sections, YNAP will be able to gain 
around 100-150 bps of leverage on gross profit from three 
primary sources – an efficient omni-stock program (inven-
tory management), a significant procurement advantage, 
and an increasing mix of private label offerings. On the pro-
curement front, management has emphasized their compet-
itive advantage in procuring inventory from luxury brands 
at the Italian wholesale price which is a direct result of their 
Anglo-Italian roots and more than 15 years of relationship 
development. Coupled with the omni-stock program, YNAP 
will be able to more effectively procure and sell-through 
its inventory at a higher price – reducing markdowns and 
hence gross margin erosion. To put it into perspective, 
Nordstrom’s (NYSE:JWN) latest reported gross margin was 
36.5% compared to YNAP at ~39.5% - which is set to expand 
further by 100 bps over the next two to three years. I deduce 
that the primary factor for this 300-400+ bps gross margin 
delta is the lack of a competitive advantage in procurement 
and inventory management. In addition to gross margin 


expansion, the multi-brand platform will gain material 
leverage from its own fulfillment and logistics infrastruc-
ture. The following chart shows the forecasted leverage on 
fulfillment from 2016 to 2012, 


Management has emphasized that other operating expen-
ditures (eg. S&M) will maintain a flat percentage of net 
revenue; however, the expenditures will be focused on 
increasing ROI. The merger will allow this to occur as cus-
tomer demographics across the multi-brand platforms are 
similar in nature allowing for more focused and impactful 
acquisition and retention campaigns (see customer segment 
for further details).


Mono-Brand - Within the mono-brand segment, which 
accounts for ~10% of total revenue and ~9% of total gross 
profit, the Group offers a range of ecommerce solutions for 
its strategic partners, from turnkey to fully-integrated om-
ni-channel solutions.  Strategic brands have the luxury to 
decide the level to which the Group develops and optimizes 
its back-end, user interface, and fulfillment & logistics net-
work.  As of YE 2015, the mono-brand segment was respon-
sible for the development and optimization of 40 online 
flagship stores (including 8 in a joint venture with Kering) 
with world renowned brands such as Valentino, Moncler, 
and Balenciaga.


As of YE 2015, the Group controlled ~4% of the mono-brand 
online personal luxury goods market valued at €4.7B, or 
28% of the online PLG market. By 2020, I believe the Group 
will grow market share by ~100 bps to around 5% driven pri-
marily by the ‘call option’ embedded in their revenue model.


Mono-brand monetization is comprised of three primary 
components: (1) revenue-based commission, (2) set-up & 
maintenance fees, and (3) value-added services. Together 
these three buckets allow for an effective yield of around 
25-30%. Although often deemed a “take-rate”, this revenue 
yield is a direct substitute for various operating expenses 
that would otherwise be done in-house (e.g. web devel-
opment, logistics, and fulfillment). On a recent call with 
management, when asked about the long-term viability/sus-
tainability of this yield, they note that all of the brands who 
do not use YNAP, but rather do it “in-house”, are realisti-
cally leveraging a whole host of third-party providers and 
services oppose to a cheaper turnkey solution.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
142http://sumzero.com


Pricing Structure


Given the inherent price sensitivity for luxury brands, it 
is important to further elaborate on YNAP’s pricing struc-
ture across the multi-brand, 1P platform. For the in-sea-
son segment, YNAP is a price-taker in which the brands’ 
recommended retail prices are applied. Management has 
noted that although the decision to discount in this channel 
is effectively under their control, preserving the long-term 
relationship with the luxury houses is paramount to further 
developing its competitive advantage.


However, on the off-season front, YNAP is a price-maker 
where inventory is procured at the Italian wholesale price 
and then typically sold at a 40-50% discount to the retail 
value. Due to the Group’s unique structure, unsold inventory 
from the in-season segment is rolled-over to the off-season 
in order to maintain the integrity of the in-season platform. 
According to management <10% of the off-season inventory 
is procured from the in-season segment where they are then 
able to apply further discounts over a 10 to 12-month cycle.


• More specifically, the following is the Group’s buying 
and pricing strategy:


• YNAP defines the targeted customer base for the up-
coming season based upon retention of existing custom-
ers and conversion of new active customers


• Leverage a proprietary algorithm which analyzes three 
clusters of data to create the ideal buying list based 
upon the predicted customers, luxury brands, and ven-
dors


• Buyers then go to market and procure the inventory 
determined by the algorithm as well as other discretion-
ary items that resonate with their “sense of style” and 
knowledge of fashion trends


• The procured items are then inputs for the algorithm 
which creates the optimal pricing strategy


Value Proposition


At the core of any business it is essential that the company 
provide a well-defined value proposition/customer promise 
which will allow the platform and brand to grow gang-
busters.


To the luxury consumer (ultra high net worth individu-
als but to a growing number of the affluent middle-class), 
each of the Group’s sites provide the highest quality luxury 
retail experience.  Across all of its brands/site, the Group 
offers exclusive, bespoke services to its customers further 
enhancing the value of the traditional, physical transaction. 
These tailored services range from personalized shopping/
content pushes to more tailored experiences such as the 
Butler Service in China, where an employee delivers your 
order and waits up to one hour so that the customer may 
try the item(s) on and return it and/or exchange it if need 
be.  Additionally, the brands offer an unparalleled assort-
ment (‘breadth and depth’) of products through entrenched 
relationships with premium and high-end luxury fashion 
houses.  Due to these robust brand relations, the Group 
receives private collections/capsules from the world’s most 
coveted designers providing their customers with the most 
sought-after products across a range of price points.  On 
its multi-brand platforms, consumers are provided with 
pricing transparency across all products and brands which 
erodes the traditional, geography-based pricing differentials 
that luxury brands relied on.


To the luxury brand, the Group offers several value propo-
sitions centered around trust – thoughtful presentation and 
enhancement of brand’s image/vision, selling through the 
entire spectrum of distribution channels, increased brand 
control and data across all touch points, as well as a full 
suite of value-added services.  From a brand image perspec-
tive, the Group is unparalleled in its thoughtful presentation 
of each brand including its values, inspirations, and history 
through bespoke content and editorial staging.  Unlike tra-
ditional ecommerce destinations which provide merely the 
SKU and price, this thoughtful representation of the brand 
and products fosters a deeper relationship and experience.  
The enrichment of its partners’ brand value has allowed 
the Group to establish a much stronger relationship where 
the luxury brands are compelled to leverage the Group for 
its retail (mono-brand segment), wholesale (multi-brand 
in-season), and outlet (multi-brand off-season) channels. 


The luxury partners are inclined to tap into all of the chan-
nels as they know the Group is committed to conducting 
business in a manner that is conducive to supporting their 
best interest. For instance, during YNAP’s September Road-
show in New York, the CFO noted that the Group willingly 
suffered a short-term impairment to revenue in H1 2016 as 
they were not willing to succumb to the deepest and longest 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
143http://sumzero.com


retail discounting cycle in the United States.  Along with the 
attentive presentation of the brands, the Group provides a 
range of additional value-added services including provi-
sioning its large consumer database to provide a ‘single view 
of the consumer’ while also tightening entrusted relation-
ships so that they may capitalize on synergies.


Competition


Within the luxury ecommerce space there are no directly 
competitive business models to the one developed by YNAP. 
Many companies have attempted to penetrate the market, 
but have failed despite having the financial backing and op-
erational support of the world’s top luxury investors (eg. L 
Catterton, a consumer-focused PE firm backed by LVMH’s 
Bernard Arnault).


A prime example of this is Gilt Groupe, a high-end flash 
sale site, which offered the core proposition of being able 
to liquidate unsold inventory quickly and efficiently. As a 
first-mover in the flash sale space, Gilt was able to source 
and procure inventory advantageously compared to big box 
retailers and brick-and-mortar boutiques. Unfortunately, as 
this profit pool grew, an increasing amount of competition 
was drawn in eroding any sort of first-mover advantage as 
the site was not able to establish any advantage in terms 
of brand relations. In the words of Mark Walker, CEO of 
JackThreads, “What makes you win today? You can have 
a conversation about shipping, site experience, and price. 
But the reality is you need to belling something you can’t 
get anywhere else.” As previously mentioned, YNAP checks 
the box on all of the aforementioned criteria. However, the 
driving factor of continued success is their ability to lever-
age their incomparable rapport to obtain exclusive SKUs at 
competitive prices.


Another notable example of failed competition is LVMH-
backed, Boo.com, a startup born in the Tech Bubble which 
was aimed at becoming the world’s first online global sports 
retail site – leveraging a B2C model. After only a year and a 
half of operations, the newly formed company was forced 
to liquidate due to poor performance and having exhausted 
every channel to raise capital. This liquidation was driven 
by a number of compounding forces including ineffective 
marketing tactics, poor inventory management, as well as 
excessive discounting.


Despite a number of failures to even enter the luxury ecom-
merce market, a company known as FarFetch has gained 
momentum recently. FarFetch is a third-party (3P) based 
ecommerce model where a two-sided marketplace services 
and connects suppliers and consumers.  In this particular 
model, the supply side is comprised of 400+ retail boutiques 
from around the world which sell their inventory through 
the FarFetch platform. This limited network of retail bou-
tiques is forced to succumb to a commission-based model 
with an estimated take rate of ~30%. Given the limited size 
and scale of these retail boutiques, it is safe to say that they 
are not able to sustain a margin erosion of ~30 pts over the 
long-term.  Intuitively, it is also important to note that a 
possible impetus for these brick-and-mortar boutiques join-
ing this particular platform is due to the distressed physical 
retail environment – losing share to the fast-growing ecom-
merce segment.


Most importantly, I feel it is prudent to address the ele-
phant in the room – Amazon.  When studying ecommerce, 
or an array of other verticals, it is intellectually honest to 
assess the viability of being competed away by the likes of 
the ecommerce giant due to scale and available capital. The 
following is a quote from Federico Marchetti on why he 
doesn’t not see Amazon as a viable threat,


“I don’t see them as competitors, at all. They are not the 
guys that I watch every day and I don’t look at what they do 
and try to benchmark myself with them. I really don’t fol-
low them. I really think that they are not competitors. The 
fashion and luxury industry is a vertical industry. You need 
to be a specialist and customize and meet the needs of these 
guys and sometimes their needs maybe don’t make sense. 
You need to be super flexible and the only way to be flexible 
is if you are vertical. It is impossible to be flexible if you are 
horizontal and it is impossible to succeed in luxury or fash-
ion. In apparel, they are already doing an amazing job, they 
are super successful, but the overlap with the luxury brands 
we carry is very small.”


As previously mentioned, Marchetti reiterates the fact that 
the Group’s adeptness throughout the entire vertical and 
luxury supply chain allows them to have a wide moat. For 
the luxury brands, 3P ecommerce retail channels are much 
more than a transaction channel, however, they are based 
upon a close working partnership with clearly aligned 
interests.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
144http://sumzero.com


As with many other verticals it has tried to enter, Amazon 
has sought to acquire well-established or budding business-
es such as Zappos, Shopbop, and East Dane.  Although these 
endeavors have not proven to be a direct threat to YNAP’s 
business it is important to stay on top of any changes/activi-
ty within the space.


Basic Financial Targets


Due to the lack of data points following the merger in Octo-
ber of 2015, YNAP decided to outline managements basic


plans over the next five years. These basic plans, I believe, 
are conservative estimates of what the business can do given 
the growth in the online luxury segment. For this reason, I 
utilize YNAP’s basic financial targets as benchmarks for my 
base case discounted cash flow valuation to assess what the 
business’ intrinsic value would be given the outlined level 
of execution.  The following is a chart which outlines the 
current numbers, 5-year targets, as well as their alignment 
with my financial model:


In addition to these explicit targets, YNAP has stated several 
supplementary objectives – the multi-brand in-season 
segment will remain its largest contributor, the multi-brand 
off-season will outperform in a turbulent economic environ-
ment, the mono-brand segment will come down as a per-
centage of its mix, and that North America (mainly the US) 
will remain its top market.  Moving forward I expect the 
mix, by geography, to change due to low penetration rates in 
several large markets such as the Middle East and APAC.


Market


The total addressable market and growth opportunity for 
the Group is based off of a report by Bain & Company titled, 
“Luxury Goods Worldwide Market Study” – the standard 
across the entire luxury industry. Over the past 20 years, the 
personal luxury goods (eg. Apparel, Jewelry, Accessories) 
market has compounded at an annual growth rate of ~8.5% 
resulting in €227B market in 2015. Within the PLG market, 
the online segment has just recently begun to accelerate 
at high-teen annual growth rates – driven by changes in 
customer demand and associated secular tailwinds. As of 
YE 2015, the online PLG market accounted for 7.5% of the 


total luxury PLG market, a €17B market.  According to 2015 
pro-forma results, YNAP maintained 10% market share in 
online PLG, which is forecasted to grow to CAGR at ~15% 
through 2020. As mentioned within the 5-year financial 
targets section, YNAP believes it can gain 200 bps of market 
share by 2020 raising its stake to ~12% (Or, €3.35B in net 
revenue)[5].


To gain better insight into the break down of these revenues 
and market shares it is important to analyze the sub-seg-
ments within the online PLG market. Similar to YNAP’s 
operational structure, the online PLG market is divided into 
three main sub-segments:


1. Multi-Brand (In-Season) – As of YE 2015, multi-brand 
(in-season) accounted for ~34% of the online PLG 
market and ~2.5% of the total PLG market resulting in 
revenue of €5.7B.


2. Mono-Brand – As of YE 2015, mono-brand accounted 
for ~28% of the online PLG market and ~2.1% of the 
total PLG market resulting in revenue of €4.7B.


3. Off-Price – As of YE 2015, off-price accounted for ~35% 
of the online PLG market and ~2.6% of the total PLG 
market resulting in revenue of €5.9B.


Based upon the financial targets provided and comments 
made by management over the last several quarters the fol-
lowing chart shows projected luxury market growth as well 
as YNAP’s respective market share: 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
145http://sumzero.com


Segment (Euro Billions) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020


Global PLG Market € 227.00 € 232.68 € 238.49 € 244.45 € 250.57 € 256.83


Online PLG Market 16.80 19.32 22.22 25.55 29.38 33.79


% of Total PLG Market 7.4% 8.3% 9.3% 10.5% 11.7% 13.2%


Implied YNAP Online PLG 1.70 2.01 2.39 2.83 3.35 3.97


Implied YNAP Market Share 10% 10% 11% 11% 11% 12%


Multi-Brand Online PLG Market 5.70 6.56 7.54 8.67 9.97 11.46


% of Total PLG Market 2.5% 2.8% 3.2% 3.5% 4.0% 4.5%


% of Online PLG Market 33.9% 33.9% 33.9% 33.9% 33.9% 33.9%


Implied YNAP Multi-Brand Online 
PLG


0.91 1.08 1.28 1.52 1.80 2.13


Implied YNAP Market Share 16.0% 16.5% 17.0% 17.5% 18.0% 18.6%


Mono-Brand Online PLG Market 4.70 5.41 6.22 7.15 8.22 9.45


% of Total PLG Market 2.1% 2.3% 2.6% 2.9% 3.3% 3.7%


% of Online PLG Market 28.0% 28.0% 28.0% 28.0% 28.0% 28.0%


Implied YNAP Mono-Brand Online 
PLG


0.19 0.22 0.26 0.31 0.37 0.44


Implied YNAP Market Share 4.0% 4.1% 4.2% 4.4% 4.5% 4.6%


Off-Price PLG Market 25.90 27.97 30.21 32.63 35.24 38.06


% of Total PLG Market 11.4% 12.0% 12.7% 13.3% 14.1% 14.8%


Online Off-Price PLG Market 5.90 6.79 7.80 8.97 10.32 11.87


% of Total PLG Market 2.6% 2.9% 3.3% 3.7% 4.1% 4.6%


% of Online PLG Market 35.1% 35.1% 35.1% 35.1% 35.1% 35.1%


% of Off-Price PLG Market 22.8% 24.3% 25.8% 27.5% 29.3% 31.2%


Implied YNAP Off-Price Online 
PLG


0.59 0.70 0.83 0.98 1.16 1.38


Implied YNAP Market Share 10.0% 10.3% 10.6% 10.9% 11.3% 11.6%



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
146http://sumzero.com


It is prudent to note that these are conservative measures 
of online penetration in the luxury market due primarily to 
the resilience of the brands, houses, and maisons. YNAP’s 
strategic partners have come to the realization that the tra-
ditional clientele is changing and that the way they interact 
and convey the brand’s message to its customer is changing 
due to an array of factors including the rise of the Millennial 
consumer and the increasing reliance on digital and mobile 
devices. For this reason, it is reasonable to assume that the 
online luxury segment could capture a greater share of the 
€250B+ market opportunity.


Customers


In order to better understand the drivers of the business, 
it is important to analyze the two main consumer groups 
with different unit economics – high net worth individuals 
(HNWIs) / Extremely Important Persons (EIPs) and the 
‘average’ consumer. According to its September Roadshow, 
YNAP’s customer base accurately reflects the global econ-
omy in the sense that its EIP cohort accounts for only ~2% 
of its active customer base, but accounts for 40% of net 
revenues. This concentration of revenue is driven by the 


fact that EIPs on average have 3x AOVs, 12x order frequen-
cies, and 95%+ retention compared to its non-EIPs. From 
this analysis, based upon conservative estimates, it is clear 
that on a going forward basis, EIPs will continue to drive 
topline growth through increased engagement and loyalty 
resulting in contributable revenue growth of 5%+ annually. 
I believe that there remains ample white space in furthering 
EIP penetration across all market. Primarily, this increased 
penetration will be driven by EIP acquisition, engagement, 
and retention through direct engagement and bespoke ex-
periences - facilitated through YNAP’s Client Relations and 
Personal Shoppers. According to YNAP, its Personal Shop-
pers are responsible for 1.5x higher growth in sales as well 
as 40%+ increase in EIP annual spend.


Not only has the EIP segment been growing more valu-
able, but the new consumer base as a whole post-merger 
has shown signs of increased valued. For the basis of this 
analysis, I compare the 2013 Yoox Group customer cohort 
with the 2016E Yoox Net-A-Porter Group cohort in terms of 
individual customer LTV (based on 6-year life cycle), entire 
cohort LTV, and the IRR based on the present value of its 
acquisition, retention, and order fulfillment costs.


2016E 2017E 2018E 2019E 2020E


EIP Customers (‘000s) 57.94 66.63 76.62 88.11 101.33


Revenue per EIP € 12,935.58 € 13,548.78 € 14,217.77 € 15,012.52 € 15,877.80


Avg. Customers (‘000s) 2,838.91 3,264.75 3,754.46 4,317.63 4,965.28


Revenue per Avg. Customer € 395.99 € 414.76 € 435.24 € 459.57 € 486.06


EIP versus ‘Average’ Customer Analysis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
147http://sumzero.com


The following charts compare the retention cost trends for 
customers of the Yoox Group in 2013-2014 versus customers 
of the Yoox Net-A-Porter Group in 2015-2016. As you will 
see, for the off-price segment it was becoming increasingly 
expensive to retain their customers while post-merger data 


It is prudent to note that even though the 2016 cohort is 
2.5x more valuable compared to prior years, that this anal-
ysis is based off merely a 6-year customer lifetime. Given 
the nature of luxury consumption, where the top designers 
and luxury houses define the trends, it is very well possible 
that this could extend over a longer period of time, further 
increasing the Group’s intrinsic value.


YNAP was able to service 2.5M+ customers throughout 
the world in 2015 which I believe will compound annually 
at 15% (Conservatively, based upon historical trends) to 
reach 5M+ by 2020. Although this number may not seem as 
attractive as the customer statistics for some of the world’s 
ecommerce giants such as Amazon or JD.com, it is neces-
sary to note the total addressable number of consumers able 
to participate is mounting as YNAP’s size and scale continue 
to grow. Due to inconsistent data points across the globe, I 
deemed it most appropriate to focus upon the top two mar-


shows that the combined Group has been able to better 
leverage their resources and expertise to create more mean-
ingful, value accretive services, marketing campaigns, and 
the highest quality customer experience.


kets as a proxy for future growth in developing economies 
-  the US and China.


The American Luxury Consumer - Despite common asso-
ciation between the top 1% and the luxury goods market, 
90%+ of domestic luxury purchases are completed by 
household incomes <US$250K. Although the lower so-
cio-economic tranches account for a majority of luxury pur-
chases, a higher percentage of the top tranche participate in 
the luxury market. If class structure & per capita spending 
(eg. % of population classified as middle-class) were to 
remain constant, there would be 3.1M+ additional American 
luxury consumers with an increased addressable market of 
15.7M+ over the next 10 years – reaching 217.8M consumers.


The Chinese Luxury Consumer – As in many developing 
economies, China is giving rise to strong middle-class 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
148http://sumzero.com


growth supported by the rising Generations X, Y, & Z. 
According to McKinsey, by 2030, 46% of Chinese urban 
households will move out of the mass middle-class to upper 
middle-class and affluent categories.  In addition to a rising 
middle-class, younger generation (<35) consumption is set 
to rise to 8% by 2020.  According to expectations, the num-
ber of upper middle-class and affluent households will grow 
2x to 100 million by 2020.


McKinsey estimates that the current addressable market 
for luxury companies, defined as Chinese within the upper 
middle-class and affluent classes, is 136M which is set to 
grow to 663.5M+ (Given conservative estimates of urban 
population growth and rise of middle-class).  In addition to 
growing the consumer base by 4.9x, consumption growth is 
expected to CAGR at 22.4% and 19.6% respectively through 
2022.


In addition to the growth of the middle-class in North 
America, Europe and APAC, future growth is expected to 
also be largely impacted by EM growth.  In 2015, Africa and 
Australia posted the highest growth among the EM econo-
mies with 12% and 11% YoY cFX respectively.  Analysts are 
forecasting luxury spend in Middle East & Africa to grow at 
a CAGR of 13% through 2020.


It is evident that over the longer-term as technology and 
changing consumer demands disintermediate traditional 
luxury brick-and-mortar, YNAP will have the potential to 


touch 50x additional customers.


Personal Shoppers & Client Relations


As previously mentioned with regard to the EIP customer 
base, providing a best-in-class/tailored customer experi-
ence is an integral component of YNAP’s value proposition. 
The Personal Shoppers are responsible for working directly 
with the EIPs whether it be advising on current fashion 
trends, hand-delivering important items, or hosting special 
EIP events. Currently, the Personal Shopper network is 
comprised of 50 people (20 in New York, 25 in London, and 
5 in Asia) who collectively speak 89 languages. The diversi-
ty of this personal shopper network is imperative to pro-
viding a truly localized, personal experience. On the other 
hand, the Client Relations team is responsible for leveraging 
the current EIP’s networks to further expand its high net 
worth segment.


It is important to note that both of these business units’ 
incentives are based upon sales, conversion, and retention 
which are key to driving the unit economics of the business.


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full YNAP:IM report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
149http://sumzero.com


Runner Up
Best Mid/Large Cap


Fannie Mae
Class:  Equity Symbol:  FNMA:US Updated:  12/12/16 Posted:  12/9/16


EXPECTED RETURN


333.7%


COMMUNITY RATING


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


John Pangere


Windy City Capital


L O N G
ATTACHMENTS: TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years
SITUATION:


Event / Spec. Sit
MARKET CAP:


22.5B USD


Fannie Mae: Return of the Jedi


About John Pangere
Prior to founding WCC, John worked in an investment banking capacity with a focus on 
technology, consumer goods/products, alternative energy and real estate/construction. 
In addition, John spent several years trading foreign currencies and futures. Prior to 
entering the financial industry, John received his degree in Construction Engineering and 
Management from Purdue University and spent several years as a Project Manager with 
his family’s construction business.


About Windy City Capital
Windy City Capital (WCC) is a long/short equity fund managed by John R. Pangere, CFA. 
The fund is sector agnostic, seeks investments with a value-based approach and/or with 
catalysts offering a higher return/risk ratio.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
150http://sumzero.com


Class:  Equity Symbol:  FNMA:US Updated:  12/12/16 Posted:  12/9/16


Fannie Mae


BY:


CURRENTLY AT:


John Pangere


Windy City Capital


COMMUNITY RATING: PERCENTILE: 40%


Fannie Mae: Return of the Jedi


ASSET CLASS:


Equity
SITUATION:


Event / Special 
Situations


TARGET ALLOCATION:


5% - 10%
CATALYSTS:


Regulatory 
Change


TIMEFRAME:


2-5 Years


Pricing & Return Details


EXPECTED RETURN


INITIAL PRICE


TARGET PRICE


333.7%


4.20 USD


17.00 USD


LO N G


Federal National Mortgage Association provides liquidity 
and stability support services for the mortgage market in 
the United States. It securitizes mortgage loans originated 
by lenders into Fannie Mae mortgage-backed securities 
(Fannie Mae MBS). The company’s Single-Family Credit 
Guaranty segment securitizes and purchases single-fam-
ily fixed-rate or adjustable-rate, first-lien mortgage loans, 
or mortgage-related securities backed by these loans; and 
loans that are insured by Federal Housing Administration, 
loans guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs 
and Rural Development Housing and Community Facilities 
Program of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, manufac-
tured housing loans, and other mortgage-related securities. 
This segment also provides single-family mortgage servic-
ing, REO management, and lender repurchase evaluation 
services. Its Multifamily segment securitizes multifamily 
mortgage loans into Fannie Mae MBS; purchases multifam-
ily mortgage loans; and provides credit enhancement for 
bonds issued by state and local housing finance authorities 
to finance multifamily housing. This segment also offers 
delegated underwriting and servicing, and multifamily 
mortgage servicing services. The company’s Capital Mar-
kets segment manages its mortgage-related assets and other 


interest-earning non-mortgage investments. This segment 
provides funds to the mortgage market through short-term 
financing and investing activities that include whole loan 
conduit, early funding, real estate mortgage investment 
conduit and other structured securitization, and mort-
gage-backed securities trading transactions. The company 
serves mortgage banking companies, savings and loan as-
sociations, savings banks, commercial banks, credit unions, 
community banks, specialty servicers, insurance compa-
nies, and state and local housing finance agencies. Federal 
National Mortgage Association was founded in 1938 and is 
based in Washington, the District of Columbia.


Investment Thesis
*Note: Windy City Capital has had a position in both Fannie Mae 
(OTC: FNMA) and Freddie Mac (OTC: FMCC) since May of 2016, 
with an average entry price for Fannie Mae at $2.015 per share and 


for Freddie Mac at $1.835 per share.


Graft. Corruption. Lies and more lies. It’s just another day 
at the office of the U.S. Treasury, especially when it comes to 


Investment Thesis



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
151http://sumzero.com


two companies in particular: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
It’s no secret that in the past, Fannie and Freddie have had a 
rough go of things. Both companies have been in the middle 
of multiple government scuffles in the past, including the 
most recent in which they had to be bailed out in the market 
crash of 2008 to the tune of $187 billion combined.


Back in 2008, both companies stood on extremely shaky 
ground, but you wouldn’t have known it based on comments 
by former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson, who testi-
fied before Congress that the companies were “adequately 
capitalized.”[1] Not long after those comments, the market 


Before getting into the crux of the thesis for a long position 
in Fannie Mae, it’s important to understand what the make-
up of the bailout given by the Treasury was. In essence, 
in exchange for the bailout ($116 billion to Fannie Mae), 
the Treasury took on a conservatorship role and received 
the right to 79.9% of Fannie Mae’s equity in the form of 
preferred equity and warrants that convert into common 
shares, as well as a 10% preferred dividend.


Now, the 79.9% number is not insignificant by accounting 
rules either: if the Treasury bought more than that percent-
age, the government would have been forced to consolidate 
the balance sheets of both companies – including all $5 tril-
lion in debt – with the Treasury’s balance sheet. (I can only 
guess that this would have likely caused a political firestorm 
the likes of which has rarely been seen in American poli-
tics.)


collapsed and Fannie and Freddie were on the brink of 
disaster. The problem is they are an immensely important 
part of the U.S. economy.


With trillions in guaranteed mortgages, their collapse 
meant potentially immense damage to the U.S. economy and 
property market as a whole. Fannie and Freddie are sort of 
a hidden cog in the wheel that is the US economy; they help 
to determine the price and availability of mortgage debt and 
together, are the largest financial institution in the world. In 
fact, both companies account for over 45% of all mortgages 
in the US, as seen in the chart below:


After Fannie Mae went into conservatorship under the Fed-
eral Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) – a government entity 
created in the wake of the financial crisis – it had to refocus 
in order to reduce the risk that it would need additional 
capital post bailout. As such, the company began to move 
away from the subprime debt and leverage that caused the 
problems in the first place by reducing exposure from risky 
loans. For instance, Fannie Mae reduced this exposure from 
10% of its overall loan book down to the current rate of 
approximately 5%.


Additionally, Fannie Mae increased its fees on guaranteed 
mortgages by a factor of 3, helping to raise the revenue of its 
core business. All of these changes, coupled with ever lower 
short-term interest rates, started paying off for Fannie Mae 
around 2012. In the past 5 years, the company has produced 
pre-tax profits of approximately $104 billion. Additionally, 
the company has been dutifully paying the required divi-


Source: Federal Reserve; Inside Mortgage Finance



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
152http://sumzero.com


dend every year and has since remitted about $154 billion 
to the Treasury (including anticipated payments for Q4 of 
2016.) In fact, according to the Heritage Foundation, the 
government was able to underreport federal spending by 
$178 billion over 2013 and 2014[2] due to the payments by 
Fannie and Freddie. (This also is not an insignificant statis-
tic as I will discuss below about the intricacies of the bailout 
terms.) 


Where things get interesting is when the government added 
the controversial third amendment to the bailout pack-
age in August of 2012. This provision revised the previous 
dividend formula with a requirement that the Government 
Sponsored Entities (GSEs) pay a dividend each quarter in 
the amount that their net worth for the quarter exceeds a 
capital buffer of $3 billion. The capital buffer then declines 
by $600 million per year until it is eliminated in 2018.[3] 
This amendment is the so-called “net worth sweep.” 


In essence, this means that the government is forcing both 
companies to reduce their emergency funds to zero by 2018 
and effectively pay out all earnings to the Treasury over 
and above the current level of that emergency fund, until it 
dissipates in 2018. While the government has stated its role 
as conservator is to help Fannie and Freddie emerge from fi-
nancial peril, this third amendment seems to say otherwise. 
Rather than being financially independent, the companies 
are basically designed to collapse in order to rely on govern-
ment backing even further; it’s akin to a forced liquidation 
and reduces each company to essentially becoming nation-
alized. 


It is this third amendment that I believe the government 
has overstepped its bounds by committing outright theft of 
what rightfully belongs to shareholders. This amendment 
is in clear violation of the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. 
Constitution, more specifically, the takings clause, which 
is supposed to guard and protect against seizure of private 
property without just compensation. 


In its role as a conservator, the FHFA is supposed to act as 
a guardian or trustee. But in this case, I believe it is acting 
more in a receivership capacity, in which the receiver takes 
control of the entity, including its assets and any future 
profits. I believe that, because of this distinction, there are 
numerous lawsuits outstanding against the Treasury. 


But that’s just part of the story. While there were initial 
setbacks by the plaintiffs in proving their case that the third 
amendment violates shareholder rights, things have recent-
ly taken a turn in favor of the shareholders and against the 
government. In a recent ruling by Court of Federal Claims 
judge Margaret Sweeney, the U.S. Treasury Department 
was ordered to turn over 11,000 documents related to these 
cases.[4] Up to this point, the Treasury used every possible 
action it could muster to protect these documents, includ-
ing getting the White House to invoke executive privilege 
claiming the documents were necessary to protect the 
national security of financial markets. That begged the 
question: What is the government trying to hide? 


It didn’t take us long to find out. Right before the Treasury 
issued the third amendment, they had knowledge that the 
companies were on the cusp of returning to massive profit-
ability, as documented in an exchange between Mary Miller 
from the Treasury and Susan McFarland, former CFO of 
Fannie Mae, in August of 2012.[5] The release of these doc-
uments contradicts the Treasury’s claim that they were act-
ing in the best interests of Fannie and Freddie, fearing that 
the companies could soon fall back into a financial crisis. 


Below follows what I see as both risks and catalysts in a 
position in Fannie Mae. (The same could be said for Freddie 
Mac as well.)


Investment Risks


Declining Capital Buffer


According to the third amendment and company filings, 
the Treasury has forced the company into a compromising 
situation. As stated in the company’s most recent quarterly 
report: 


“We expect to retain only a limited amount of any future net 
worth because we are required by the dividend provisions 
of the senior preferred stock and quarterly directives from 
our conservator to pay Treasury each quarter any dividends 
declared consisting of the amount, if any, by which our net 
worth as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal 
quarter exceeds an applicable capital reserve amount. This 
capital reserve amount is $1.2 billion for each quarter of 
2016, will decline to $600 million in 2017 and will decrease 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
153http://sumzero.com


to zero in 2018.” 


This “net worth sweep” effectively renders the company 
to not only pay all profits to the Treasury, but also forces 
the company to have zero safety net should the mark-to-
market swings on the company’s derivatives prove to be 
too volatile. Effectively, the conservator that was created to 
ensure that Fannie Mae return to sound fiscal footing is now 
forcing the company to reduce its emergency funds to zero, 
in contradiction with its stated role. 


Should that happen, Fannie Mae will be at risk of requiring 
additional funds from the Treasury. In fact, according to the 
company’s filings, it seems that’s exactly what the Treasury 
has in mind: 


“While we had a positive net worth as of September 30th, 
2016 and have not received funds from Treasury under the 
agreement since the first quarter of 2012, we will be re-
quired to obtain additional funding from Treasury pursuant 


According to the company, these percentages should con-
tinue to decline as the mortgages from the 2005-2008 time 
period – which were the cause of the company’s woes due 
to more risky borrower profiles – are essentially flushed out 
and as the company continues to move away from lower 
credit quality borrowers to higher credit quality borrowers. 
However, should another event promulgate a sharp increase 
in these delinquencies, future profitability could be put in 
serious jeopardy. 


to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement if we have 
a net worth deficit in future periods.” 


Legal


With numerous cases pending and still in the court sys-
tem, it could take months or years before those cases are 
resolved. Regardless, should the shareholder lawsuits be 
dismissed outright in favor of the defendants, shares could 
tumble and revert to previous lows while the company 
could be in perilous danger of being forced to abide by new 
rules imposed in 2012 as part of the bailout package. (See 
below in Catalysts - Legal for a more detailed discussion.) 


Increased Delinquencies


Fannie Mae has done a great job of reducing risk as can be 
seen by the large reduction of the percentage in delinquen-
cies since hitting an apex in 2009:


Lower Net Interest Yield 


Another benefit that Fannie Mae has seen over the course 
of the last five years has been fairly consistent net interest 
yields, which has allowed the company to rapidly turn loss-
es into profits. Over the past 5 years, the net interest yields 
that the company has been able to earn are as follows:



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
154http://sumzero.com


Should the net interest yield vary significantly from the 
above, it would negatively impact the company’s ability 
to generate steady profits. However, as the company has 
moved away from its previous practices and increased fees 
charged, and as delinquency rates continue to further de-
cline and/or stabilize, the impact from lower net yields may 
be mitigated somewhat.


Catalysts 


Privatization


 While the company has been under conservatorship for 
some time and there is no end in sight to that situation as 
of right now, recent developments may prove that privat-
ization is closer than it has been in the last five years. In an 
interview with Fox Business on November 30th, Treasury 
Secretary nominee Steven Mnuchin stated: 


“We’ve got to get Fannie and Freddie out of government 
ownership. It makes no sense that these are owned by the 
government and have been controlled by the government 
for as long as they have.”[6] 


These comments caused the shares of the company to spike 
over 45% that same day. Should President-elect Trump’s 
administration pursue pro-business policies – including 
privatization of entities such as Fannie Mae, which every in-
dication is that they will – that could prove to be a boon for 
investors as the company would be allowed to retain profits, 
pay dividends, be able to access the capital markets (which 
it is prohibited from doing under the rules of its conserva-
torship) and provide capital returns to shareholders. 


Legal 


Ever since the first lawsuit against the Treasury was filed, 
things looked dire for shareholders as a number of cases 
were initially ruled in favor of the Treasury. However, the 
tide seems to be turning as previously mentioned above. 
While the privatization route – with the Treasury volun-
tarily ceding control and returning the company back to the 
private market – would be the ideal catalyst and situation, 
the numerous legal battles outstanding could prove to be 
fruitful for existing shareholders. For instance, two legal 
cases I have reviewed and am currently most focused on 
are: 


• Fairholme Funds Inc. et al. v. United States, which chal-
lenges the net worth sweep of the third amendment.[7]


• Perry Capital LLC v. Jacob Lew, et al, which asserts that 
the FHFA breached its duty as a conservator of Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac by not upholding its fiduciary 
responsibilities to preserve and conserve assets.[8] 


The crux of these cases is essentially the same: sharehold-
er rights were violated by the FHFA and the U.S. Treasury 
upon the enactment of the third amendment to the bailout. 
Rather than returning capital rightfully to shareholders, the 
Treasury has viewed Fannie Mae as the proverbial golden 
goose. 


In any case, a positive outcome in either of these lawsuits, 
or the numerous others still pending, could prove very fruit-
ful for current shareholders. Is it necessary for there to be a 
positive outcome in order to resolve the issue of conserva-
torship? Not entirely, but I believe it will certainly prove to 
be very accretive to shareholders should that happen. 


However, although Warren Buffet has remarked “Time is 
the friend of the wonderful company,” these legal cases 
could drag on for far longer than is currently foreseeable. 
Time may be the friend of the wonderful company, but mar-
kets can stay irrational for far longer than I can stay solvent. 
In any case, I will continue to monitor these cases, among 
the numerous others, as they progress through the court 
system. 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
155http://sumzero.com


Recommendation


When initially reviewing the information surrounding the 
saga that has transpired among Fannie Mae, the FHFA, 
the U.S. Treasury and shareholders, the story that began to 
unfold reminded me somewhat of  the epic Star Wars saga. 
In 2012, as the company began to show signs of life, I anal-
ogized that it was akin to Episode IV: A New Hope. Upon 
the enactment of the third amendment, I began to think of 
it as The Empire Strikes Back. And now, the company’s fate 
seems to rest in the hands of a small group of rebels vying 
for its independence from the “Evil Empire,” just as in Re-
turn of the Jedi. 


However, as a shareholder, I can only make decisions based 
on the facts that are presented to me and not on blind hope 
and great sounding stories. Based on the information that 
I’ve had the chance to review – from company filings to 
legal documents – the facts say that, while there may be a 
greater degree of risk than normal, the reward potential far 
outweighs the risk involved. (But if the facts change, I won’t 
hesitate to change my mind.) 


This is where I believe the opportunity in Fannie Mae pres-
ents itself. Since the company has been reeling in substantial 
profits, shareholders who bought shares in the aftermath 
of the financial crisis should have seen a meteoric rise in 
the value of their shares, similar to that in other financial 
companies post the 2008 market crash, but that has yet to 
happen. In my estimation, Fannie Mae is extremely under-
valued due in large part to the overhang of the government’s 
questionable and downright scandalous conservatorship 
role, in my opinion. 


For instance, while I have said it before, it seems to me that 
the actions of the FHFA and the U.S. Treasury are at best 
unethical. Another example of this can be gleaned from the 
Q3 2016 filing: 


“A portion of the $116.1 billion we received from Treasury 
was drawn to pay dividends to Treasury, because, prior to 
2013, our dividend payments on the senior preferred stock 
accrued at an annual rate of 10% and we were directed by 
our conservator to pay these dividends to Treasury each 
quarter even when we did not have sufficient income to pay 
the dividend.” 


I admit, I read and re-read that statement multiple times 
trying to discern whether I read it correctly, which lead to 
a flurry of questions. Fannie Mae was instructed to draw 
down funds from its lender in order to pay a dividend 
to that same lender? Further, that dividend does not net 
against the funds drawn? If the FHFA and the U.S. Treasury 
were private organizations, in what world would they be 
able to act in such a manner by effectively lording over a 
troubled company without any consequences?  Since when 
is it acceptable for a lender to require a company to take out 
a loan in order to pay that same lender a dividend? Simply 
incredible. 


Despite the third amendment and the questionable conser-
vatorship role played by the FHFA, we know that Fannie 
Mae is a highly profitable enterprise that has moved away 
from the practices that caused it to require a bailout in 
the first place. As far as the legality of its conservatorship, 
one has to question how it was that the FHFA – which as 
conservator, has a fiscal duty to ensure the company can be 
returned to shareholders and be able to stand on its own 
merits – decided to allow the enactment of the vaunted 
third amendment without interference from the Treasury. 
If the Treasury at all interfered with the FHFAs conservator 
role – which it appears to have done, based on the evidence 
I have reviewed – then the FHFA did indeed violate its du-
ties and shareholders of record should be returned capital 
that is rightfully theirs. 


As previously discussed above, the opportunity in Fannie 
Mae rests on one of two catalysts: that the U.S. judicial 
system will prevail in the end and the findings by the U.S. 
Court of Federal Claims will be in favor of shareholders, or 
the FHFA and the Treasury voluntarily return the company 
back to shareholders. If either of these catalysts comes to 
pass, I believe shares will soar from current levels. After 
reviewing all of the facts, the company’s filings and the doc-
uments of some of the current cases pending, I believe it is 
only a matter of time until one of the above catalysts comes 
to fruition. 


Looking at the opportunity, I believe shares should be 
worth closer to at least $17-21/share based on the compa-
ny’s profits in its two lines of business: mortgage insurance 
and capital markets. When adding the two profit centers 
together and applying what I believe to be a reasonable 
and conservative multiple of 12x earnings (as shown in the 



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
156http://sumzero.com


Appendix in formatted write-up), the true value of the com-
pany – in my opinion – is closer to a $120 billion market cap, 
rather than the current $22 billion.


[1] http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/10/business/worldbusi-
ness/10iht-econ.4.14403586.html


[2] http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2014/03/revealing-
fannie-maes-and-freddie-macs-budget-costs-a-step-toward-gse-
elimination


[3] https://www.treasury.gov/press-center/press-releases/Docu-
ments/Fannie.Mae.Amendement.pdf


[4] http://fortune.com/2016/10/04/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-rul-
ing-government/


[5] http://ritholtz.com/2016/05/former-white-house-officials-in-
volved-in-gse-scandal/


[6] http://fortune.com/2016/12/01/donald-trump-steven-
mnuchin-freddie-mac-fannie-mae/


[7] https://dockets.justia.com/docket/circuit-courts/cadc/14-5254


[8] https://dockets.justia.com/docket/circuit-courts/cadc/14-5243


Sign up for SumZero to for access to hundreds of quality ideas from buyside 
analysts including the full FNMA:US report. 


SumZero Membership includes access to:


• Thousands of actionable, peer-reviewed, transparent, long-form research ideas from SumZero’s 


100% transparent community of buyside members.


• Monthy rankings of the top-performing Analysts on SumZero and their research


• The SumZero Cap Intro Platform, enabling analysts to put all their fund’s essential information 


in one place and get it easily in front of qualified institutional allocators.


Visit sumzero.com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/10/business/worldbusiness/10iht-econ.4.14403586.html

http://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/10/business/worldbusiness/10iht-econ.4.14403586.html

http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2014/03/revealing-fannie-maes-and-freddie-macs-budget-costs

http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2014/03/revealing-fannie-maes-and-freddie-macs-budget-costs

http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2014/03/revealing-fannie-maes-and-freddie-macs-budget-costs

https://www.treasury.gov/press-center/press-releases/Documents/Fannie.Mae.Amendement.pdf

https://www.treasury.gov/press-center/press-releases/Documents/Fannie.Mae.Amendement.pdf

http://fortune.com/2016/10/04/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-ruling-government/

http://fortune.com/2016/10/04/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-ruling-government/

http://ritholtz.com/2016/05/former-white-house-officials-involved-in-gse-scandal/

http://ritholtz.com/2016/05/former-white-house-officials-involved-in-gse-scandal/

http://fortune.com/2016/12/01/donald-trump-steven-mnuchin-freddie-mac-fannie-mae/

http://fortune.com/2016/12/01/donald-trump-steven-mnuchin-freddie-mac-fannie-mae/

https://dockets.justia.com/docket/circuit-courts/cadc/14-5254

https://dockets.justia.com/docket/circuit-courts/cadc/14-5243

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
157http://sumzero.com


Research By the Buyside. For the Buyside.


SumZero Buyside’s research is published exclusively 
by professional investors. No day traders, no sell-side 
analysts, 100% quality, peer-reviewed research from 
professionals at legitimate Buyside funds.


Access to Thousands of Buyside Ideas 
SumZero’s research database is 100% comprised 
of actionable, peer-reviewed, long-form research 
from members of the hedge fund, mutual fund, and 
private equity fund analyst community. Research 
is 100% transparent, including analyst name, fund 
name, and disclosure status.


In-Depth Analysis on Actionable Ideas 
Research reports in SumZero are forward-looking 
with defined price targets, expected timeframes, val-
uation discussion, risk analysis, and catalyst review.


Either Post or Pay For Access 
Unable to post firm research? Switch to a read-on-
ly license to access the research database and skip 
the posting requirement. A popular option for large 
funds and asset allocators.


SumZero is the world’s largest community exclusively for 
professional investors http : // . s u mzero . com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
158http://sumzero.com


Find Exactly What You Need


No noise. SumZero brings unprecedented clarity to 
the research discovery process with powerful, robust, 
and comprehensive filtering.


Custom Filters and Searches 
Find the research that matters to you. Identify ideas 
with an extensive range of metrics including Market 
Cap, P/E, EV/EBITDA, as well as filters for catalysts, 
region, sector, and situation.


Email Alerts and Saved Searches 
Save a search and let new research that matches 
your criteria be delivered directly to your email the 
moment it’s published.


SumZero is the world’s largest community exclusively for 
professional investors http : // . s u mzero . com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
159http://sumzero.com


Discover the Fund Industry’s Top Alpha 
Generators


SumZero offers the world’s only buyside analyst 
performance rankings system. Our proprietary Rank-
ings algorithm examines the returns of individual 
investment recommendations made by thousands 
of fund analysts/PMs since 2008, and then identifies 
the individuals that have most consistently beat the 
market.


Objective, Skill-Based Methodology 
Rankings brings recognition to the most consistent 
alpha generators on the buyside using a methodol-
ogy that is agnostic to pedigree, AUM, or seniority. 
Consistent benchmark out-performance on multiple 
recommendations is what you need to climb the 
Rankings ladder.


Open Eligibility/Visibility 
All SumZero Buyside members are eligible to get 
ranked on SumZero after submitting a minimum 
number of research ideas. Rankings lists are updated 
each month. All Buyside and Allocator members can 
access Rankings for free.


Multiple Best-in-Class Categories 
SumZero Rankings cover a variety of standard and 
proprietary categories, including: Long/Short, All-
Time, LTM, Strategy, and many more.


SumZero Analyst Rankings
htt p : // . s u mzero . com


* Example of rankings page. Names and Funds in this 
example image are not intended to be real.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
160http://sumzero.com


Exclusive Buyside Job Opportunities


SumZero is the next step in buyside networking. 
Research you contribute on SumZero is tracked on a 
performance basis and allows you to build an inde-
pendent track record.


When you’re ready to go after a new position, 
SumZero has a dedicated full-time recruiting staff 
ready to leverage the performance of your work on 
the site.


Hundreds of Buyside Jobs 
More meaningful than just a resume and cover letter 
– SumZero gives you the added benefit of sending 
your top-performing research reports on the site 
along with your application directly to hiring manag-
ers at top global firms.


Dedicated Full-Time Recruiting Staff 
Not your average recruiters. Our experienced staff 
works with hundreds of hiring managers and knows 
how to leverage your expertise to get results. What-
ever your career goals, SumZero can help you reach 
them.


SumZero Job Vault
h tt p : // . s u mzero . com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
161http://sumzero.com


Know What You’re Worth...for Free


Are you making as much as your peers in the indus-
try? Learn what fund professionals of all types earn 
with our 100% anonymous Compensation database, 
free to all members.


See What Your Peers Are Earning 
Rankings brings recognition to the most consistent 
alpha generators on the buyside using a methodol-
ogy that is agnostic to pedigree, AUM, or seniority. 
Consistent benchmark out-performance on multiple 
recommendations is what you need to climb the 
Rankings ladder.


100% Anonymous 
All SumZero Buyside members are eligible to get 
ranked on SumZero after submitting a minimum 
number of research ideas. Rankings lists are updated 
each month. All Buyside and Allocator members can 
access Rankings for free.


SumZero Compensation Database
htt p : // . s u mzero . com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
162http://sumzero.com


A Better Way To Raise Capital


Tired of constantly explaining and re-explaining the 
details of your fund to disinterested or unqualified 
investors? SumZero’s Cap Intro program puts the es-
sential information of your fund in front of hundreds 
of pre-qualified institutional allocators in a passively 
managed, reverse-solicitation format. From returns 
to firm references to investor letters to your propri-
etary research on SumZero, all your materials are 
neatly contained in one protected page.


Pitch Your Fund Efficiently 
Show allocators why your fund is different. Remove 
barriers to your documents and data, and present 
the full picture of your expertise, process, perfor-
mance, and infrastructure.


Get Introduced 
Experience broad exposure to a high-quality group 
of investors that are actively allocating to funds 
and can radically change the future of yours. Get 
matched with capital allocators who reach out to you 
based on the quality of your fund’s page.


SumZero Cap Intro
h tt p : // . s u mzero . com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
163http://sumzero.com


For Allocators: No More Bad First Dates


Finding a good fund is work...phone calls with fund 
managers can be exhausting and your inbox is often 
flooded with spam. SumZero Allocator was cus-
tom-built to address the needs of institutions looking 
to find unique funds which match the particulars 
of all investment mandates without adding to the 
problem.


Filter by Funds that Matter to You 
Browse and view hundreds of funds on the SumZero 
Cap Intro platform. Remove friction from the due dil-
igence process with unrestricted access to all docu-
ments. Passively track, filter, and create email alerts 
for funds of all types.


Privacy Matters 
You are guarded from spam. Your name and contact 
information are never displayed on the site, and nev-
er made available to members without your explicit 
permission. SumZero Cap Intro is a reverse-solicita-
tion database.


SumZero Allocator
htt p : // . s u mzero . com



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
164http://sumzero.com


Disclaimer:


SumZero is not a registered investment advisor or broker-dealer, and is not licensed nor quali-


fied to provide investment advice. There is no requirement that any of our Information Providers 


be registered investment advisors or broker-dealers. Nothing published or made available by or 


through SumZero should be considered personalized investment advice, investment services or a 


solicitation to BUY, SELL, or HOLD any securities or other investments mentioned by SumZero or 


the Information Providers. Never invest based purely on our publication or information, which is 


provided on an “as is” basis without representations. Past performance is not indicative of future 


results. YOU SHOULD VERIFY ALL CLAIMS, DO YOUR OWN DUE DILIGENCE AND/OR SEEK YOUR 


OWN PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR AND CONSIDER THE INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES AND RISKS 


AND YOUR OWN NEEDS AND GOALS BEFORE INVESTING IN ANY SECURITIES MENTIONED. IN-


VESTMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE A POSITIVE RETURN AS STOCKS ARE SUBJECT TO MARKET 


RISKS, INCLUDING THE POTENTIAL LOSS OF PRINCIPAL. You further acknowledge that SumZero, 


the Information Providers or their respective affiliates, employers, employees, officers, members, 


managers and directors, may or may not hold positions in one or more of the securities in the 


Information and may trade at any time, without notification to you, based on the information they 


are providing and will not necessarily disclose this information to subscribers, nor the time the po-


sitions in the securities were acquired. You confirm that you have read and understand, and agree 


to, our full disclaimer and terms of use, a copy of which can be accessed by clicking here and that 


neither SumZero nor any of its Information Providers is in any way responsible for any investment 


losses you may incur under any circumstances. 


All content and material within in this document is the exclusive intellectual property of 


SumZero, Inc., and may not be reproduced without the prior written permission of SumZero, Inc.



http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com

http://sumzero.com
