1 
 





This research report expresses soley our opinions.  Use Soapbox Research opinions at your own risk.  In no event should Soapbox Research be 


liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information contained in this report.  We have a short interest in H&R Block 


stock and therefore stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock declines.  Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the 


last page of this report.  





Benjamin Franklin wrote, “In this world nothing can be said to be certain, except  


death and taxes.” While the certainty of taxes might have been a sound  


justification for H&R Block’s (“HRB” or “the Company”) existence back when it  


initially IPO’d in 1962, more recent structural trends are leading to the  


company’s demise.  H&R Block has attempted to hide its coming death by  


employing a number of shenanigans to embellish its financials.  However,  


HRB’s death is certain as the stock stands to lose over 48% of its value. We  


initiate on HRB with a $13.72 price target.  


H&R Block is a melting ice cube as volumes in its main business line have been  


declining.  To mask its grim future from the financial community, the Company 


has introduced new offerings.  As  we discovered, one of these offerings, HRB’s  


Tax Identity Shield, a product that, ironically, is meant to prevent identity theft  


is the subject of data breaches due to its association with Equifax (EFX).   Once  


this is exposed, not only will all Tax Identity Shield revenue be wiped out, but  


the Company will experience customer losses across all products as potential  


clients will be hesitant to trust H&R Block with their taxes.   


In addition to the now obsolete Tax Identity Shield product, HRB’s other   


offerings have proven to be fairly insignificant to H&R Block’s business.   


However, these products and their associated accounting shenanigans have  


been used to produce the illusion of topline growth, overstate earnings, and  


understate risk at H&R Block.   In this report, we will show: 


1. H&R Block’s main source of revenue is declining as structural trends have 


led  to precipitous declines in HRB assisted return volumes.  HRB’s DIY 


offering is losing market share to its competitors. 


2. HRB’s Tax Identity Shield (“TIS”), a product that is meant to prevent 


identity theft has exposed HRB customer data to the Equifax data breach. 


Not only does this render TIS obsolete, but it will likely lead to customer 


attrition in all areas of HRB’s business.    


3. HRB overstated earnings by underprovisioning for its EA program.  


4. HRB underprovisioned for its Refund Advance Loans which could result in 


significant charges down the line.  


5. HRB’s Emerald Prepaid Mastercard revenues are at risk of a 50% reduction 


due to new CFPB rules going into effect in 2018.  


Summary 








Company: H&R 


Block 


Ticker: HRB 


Industry: 


Consumer 


Discretionary 


Stock Price as of 


10/3/2017: 


$26.59 


Market 


Cap:$5.56bn 


Daily Volume: 


2,939,904 (3 


month avg.) 


Price Target: 


$13.72
2 
 





Assisted income tax preparation, H&R Block’s main source of revenue, has been precipitously declining 


for a number of years despite an increase in the number of federal returns filed
1 


per the graph below: 





As can be seen from the following graph
2
  total assisted returns filed with the IRS have declined at the 


expense of DIY filings which have seen a steady increase.  





Additionally, HRB has not kept pace with the increase in DIY filers despite having their own DIY software 


solution.  As can be seen from the above graph, total DIY as a percentage of filings increased four 


percent from 2012 to 2016 while HRB’s share only went up by 29 basis points over that same time 


period.  


Even if HRB improved its DIY business, which is unlikely given Intuit Turbo Tax’s  stronghold on the 


space, the general trend away from assisted returns is especially troubling for HRB.  This is because HRB 


generates in excess of seven and a half times more revenue on an assisted tax return than one filed 


                                                           
1
 US federal taxes filed: based on cumulative Forms 1040 processed by the IRS on or before week 21 of the calendar year. Source: www.irs.gov 


2
 Wells Fargo Intuit research report dated 9/21/2017, HRB filings 


H&R Block’s Main Source of Revenue is Declining 



http://www.irs.gov/
3 
 


using its DIY software. [NB: According to its 2017 10-K, HRB charged on average $237.29 for assisted 


return preparation in its company-owned locations versus the $31.34 it charged for DIY product]. 


In response to declining assisted return volumes, HRB has attempted to slow the associated revenue 


deterioration by simply increasing the price that it charges for assisted tax preparation.  However, given 


the increasing competition in the space, as well as the potential for a more simplified tax return process 


due to tax reform, continued price increases are not sustainable.  HRB witnessed this in FY 2016 in its 


DIY product when it raised prices and saw a decrease is DIY volumes, forcing it to drop prices by nearly 


10% in the subsequent year to stem DIY volume losses.    


Given the dim prospects in its core product, HRB has introduced a variety of ancillary offerings to its tax 


preparation clients to offset weakness in the assisted return business. However, as we will demonstrate, 


many of these offerings are either becoming obsolete or are improperly accounted for resulting in 


overstated earnings and understated risk.   





As we just demonstrated, HRB is already having a difficult time retaining and acquiring clients.  However, 


we think that this problem will be greatly exacerbated as the Company’s association with Equifax (EFX) 


will lead to massive customer losses and revenue declines across all of its product categories.  


H&R Block customers are exposed to the EFX breach through HRB’s Tax Identity Shield (“TIS”) product. 


Ironically, TIS was introduced in FY 2015 to “offer protection against tax identity fraud” to HRB clients 


for an additional fee.   


In an attempt to learn more about the TIS product, we found that H&R Block proudly partners with 


Equifax on this offering.  Although HRB has been silent on this fact since the massive Equifax data breach 


in September, evidence of this partnership can be widely found, as evidenced below
3
:  


                                                           
3
 Source: https://www.hrblock.com/tax-center/newsroom/irs/tax-fraud/tax-identity-shield-unveiled-to-protect-consumers/ 


Tax Identity Shield Product is Exposed to Equifax
4 
 





A simple Google search confirmed that the relationship between HRB’s TIS and EFX is quite strong:
5 
 


As a result of HRB’s Equifax partnership in the Tax identity Shield offering, clients who payed extra to 


have their identity protected  actually may have ending up exposing themselves to identity fraud.  


According to HRB franchisees , HRB’s corporate office has failed to notify clients about this potential 


breach.   


Considering TIS’ association with Equifax, we think it is safe to assume that no competent person, and 


especially an HRB client who was already so concerned with identity fraud that they elected to pay extra 


for HRB’s Tax Identity Shield, will pay for this service in the future. We believe that 100% of the revenues 


associated with this product will go away.   


According to an excerpt from HRB’s 2017 10K, reproduced below, approximately $9.6mm of revenue 


can be attributed to the TIS product. 





 
 
Assuming that 100% of TIS revenue flows through to margin, based on 2017 numbers, the elimination of 
this revenue stream would have a $0.03 impact on EPS as shown below: 


 
In addition, we believe that after this breach, many HRB clients will think twice about trusting H&R Block 
with their taxes which contain numerous personal data. As such, we belive that HRB will experience 
increased customer churn across all areas of its business as a result of its EQX exposure.  
 








In addition to extracting money from customers to protect (or in HRB’s case, disseminate) their personal 


data, HRB also offers other products such as Emerald Advance loans (“EA”) to its tax clients.  EAs are 


unsecured lines of credit that HRB offers through BOFI.  While the EAs are originated by BOFI, BOFI only 


retains 10% of the Emerald Advance and sells the remaining 90% to HRB. According to HRB’s 10K, EA 


balances require an annual paydown on February 15th, and any amounts unpaid are placed on non-


accrual status as of March 1st
4
.  Based on an excerpt from HRB’s 2017 10-K, reproduced below, nearly 


90% of HRB’s EAs were impaired! 





                                                           
4
 2017 HRB 10-K, page 41 


HRB’s Earnings are Overstated Due to Underprovisioning for the Emerald Advance Program
6 
 


 
 
Not only is it troublesome that HRB continues to offer EA loans to its clients despite the company’s 


seeming inability to collect on them, but what is even more shocking is how HRB provisions for these 


loans. If we look at the Company’s financials, we will see that HRB’s allowance for doubtful accounts for 


EA as a percentage of EA Receivables has precipitously dropped off in FY 2017:  








HRB’s allowance for doubtful accounts flows through to the income statement as “provision for bad 


debt” as demonstrated below. As such, underprovisioning leads HRB to overstate its earnings.
7 
 





Had HRB provisioned for EA bad debt in a manner consistent with prior years, 2017 EPS would have 


been lower by $0.06 as demonstrated below:  








In addition to underprovisioning for its EA program, HRB has also taken a very aggressive stance when 


provisioning for its Refund Advance Loan program.  HRB started offering interest-free Refund Advance 


(“RA”) Loans to its assisted-tax clients to bridge the gap between the time clients file their return and 


receive their refund. According to HRB’s CFO, “even though [RA] is not directly attributable from a 


revenue perspective, it brings clients into the door” (HRB Q12018 earnings call).  In addition, “the launch 


of Refund Advance also helped [HRB] drive an increase in the number of Emerald Cards issued this year, 


resulting in a 140 basis-point increase in [their] card attach rate” (HRB Q42017 earnings call).  





According to HRB’s Q4 2017 Earnings call, approximately $700mm of loans was funded through the RA 


program for FY 2017.  Funding for the loans was provided by Metabank and BOFI. Block Financial, a 


subsidiary of HRB, provided Metabank and BOFI with limited guaranties up to $73mm which would 


cover loan losses. All of this seems fine until we take a closer look at how HRB provisioned for the RA 


Gross Under Provisioning For Refund Advance Loans Understates Obligations
8 
 


Loans in its financials, detailed below: 





HRB’s partners in the RA program (Metabank and BOFI) demanded that HRB guarantee in excess of 10% 


of the total loans to cover loan losses.  Given that client eligibility for the RA loans was determined by 


Metabank, it can be assumed that $73mm represented a somewhat accurate estimate of expected loan 


losses when taking into consideration the nature of the loans and the borrower pool. In spite of this, in 


its own financials, HRB only thought it necessary to provision an estimated liability equal to 0.10% of the 


total RA loans, significantly understating potential losses of this program.  We find this mismatch quite 


puzzeling. Had HRB accounted for this provision consistently, its near term total contractual cash 


obligations would have increased by 22 percent!  


Unlike the EA provision, HRB’s provision guaranty does not flow through to the income statement.  


However, if it turns out that the $720,000 that HRB provisioned for $700mm of RA loans is too low, we 


may see a substantial charge in subsequent years.   





The Emerald Prepaid Mastercard is another ancillary product upon which HRB relies to mask its 


deteriorating core business. This card allows HRB clients to receive their tax refunds from the IRS 


directly on a prepaid debit card.  This card can also be used to make everyday purchases, pay bills and 


make ATM withdrawals.  


However, according to feedback from HRB’s customers, the Emerald Prepaid Mastercard comes with a 


number of drawbacks that are not clearly communicated or maybe intentionally left out when 


customers elect to receive their refund on this card.  H&R Block charges customers a fee every time they 


use this card to withdraw funds or check their balance at any ATM.  If the card is declined, the customer 


will also be charged.  If the customer wants to pay a bill online using the Emerald Mastercard, a fee will 


also be applied.  If the customer gets tired of paying fees and lets the card lie dormant in their wallet for 


a few months, HRB will charge them a monthly inactivity fee.  These exorbitant charges associated with 


the Emerald card have led HRB to realize over $95mm of revenue in 2017.   


Fortunately for consumers, and unfortunately for HRB, the CFPB has taken notice of the predatory 


practices associated with prepaid cards. Starting on April 1, 2018, new rules imposed by the CFPB on 


prepaid cards will eliminate many of the Emerald Prepaid Mastercard’s revenue streams by prohibiting 


HRB from charging consumers for a number of the aforementioned services that customers currently 


New CFPB Rules Put Emerald Prepaid Mastercard Revenues at Risk
9 
 


must pay for
5
. In addition, the CFPB will require that institutions provide standard, easy-to-understand 


and upfront information regarding the prepaid cards.  Once consumers are well informed about the 


many drawbacks of the Emerald Prepaid Masterscard, they are likely to abstain from using the card for 


activities that will require them to pay fees.  The more likely scenario however is that HRB customers 


will elect a different method to receive their tax refund altogether since there are a number of other 


free and easy alternatives.  Consequently, we conservatively estimate that at least 50% of revenues 


associated with the Emerald Card are likely to go away.  


Looking at the revenue disclosure around the Emerald Card from HRB’s 10K reproduced below, we see 


that the $95.2mm of revenue recognized is net of related charges:   





Assuming the net revenue amount is straight margin, a 50% reduction in Emerald Card revenues, 


translates to a $0.15 reduction in EPS based on 2017 numbers. 





 
We value HRB by first forecasting revenues for each of its business segments.  Forecasts are based on 


arguments presented in our report, with corresponding page numbers. 





Then, we get to net income by applying a pro-forma net income margin.  We derive the 10% net income 


margin by first figuring out what the net income margin would have been in 2017 (12.02%) if HRB did 


                                                           
5
 Source: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-finalizes-strong-federal-protections-prepaid-account-consumers/ 


Putting It All Together: HRB Stock has 48% Downside Risk
10 
 


not inflate results through various offerings and underprovisioning.  We then consider the effect of 


declining volumes and inability to raise prices on margins which gets us to a 10% pro-forma net income 


margin from which we forecast a 2018FY net income. 





We use a 10x P/E multiple to account for the Company’s increased risk due to underprovisioning for its 


ancillary products which until now has not been recognized by the street.  In addition, we believe that  


this multiple is warranted by shrinking top line growth due to structural changes and lack of traction in 


many of the Company’s additional offerings.
11 
 


Disclaimer: 


You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of H&R Block declines. 


This report and all statements contained herein are the opinion of Soapbox Research, and are not statements of 


fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we set 


out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public 


information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly 


access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our 


report and do your own homework before making any investment decisions.  


As of the publication date of this report, Soapbox Research along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or 


indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize 


gains in the event that the price of H&R Block’s stock declines. Use Soapbox Research at your own risk. You should 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to the securities 


covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be construed as 


investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we 


may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a 


solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 


jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our 


ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public 


sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock 


covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident 


by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure 


that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and 


completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such 


information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Soapbox Research 


materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value 


trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or 


international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  


This report should only be considered in its entirety. Each section should be read in the context of the entire 


report, and no section, paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its author to stand alone or to be 


interpreted in isolation without reference to the rest of the report. The section headings contained in this report 


are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in reference to the detailed statements of opinions in 


their respective sections.  


Soapbox Research makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 


any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Soapbox Research does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this 


report or any of the information contained herein.
