Technology
United States


© 2018 J Capital Research Limited. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J Capital. Use of this publication by authorized users is subject to the J Capital 
Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Use of this publication by non-authorized individuals is subject to the J 
Capital Non-Authorized User Content Agreement available here.


May 24, 2018
Company Update


Anne Stevenson-Yang
anne@jcapitalresearch.com


+1 860 391 6094


Remark Holdings, Inc. (MARK US)


What’s Not Artificial: the 
Losses


Share Price $4.63


Price Target $2.23


Difference -52%


Market cap (mln) $151.10 


S/I as % of float 16.3%


Remark Holdings, Inc. (MARK US)


Remark Holdings, Inc. (MARK US)
last share price in USD (left, blue) and 
volume in mln shares (right, green)


Source: Bloomberg


 ‣ Huh? 
Our work in China continues to show that absolutely no one in 
the AI world has ever heard of KanKan, and the company’s claims 
appear to be highly exaggerated, if not fabricated.


 ‣ Just not worth it. 
CFO Doug Osrow has abruptly left Remark. We suspect that 
is because there is just not enough to gain from share sales 
anymore. 


0


2


4


6


8


10


12


14


$0


$2


$4


$6


$8


$10


$12


$14


$16


May-17 Nov-17 May-18


Remark Holdings’ Q1 report was dismal. The company missed its 
revenue target by 14%--which is a lot, considering that revenue was 
less than $17 mln—and lost -$0.43 instead of the promised -$0.35. But 
CEO Kai-Shing Tao powered shamelessly through the call, reciting 
promises for new products that suggest he’s been watching Minority 
Report on Netflix rather than talking to his staff in China. 


The promise of a blossoming market in credit analysis, which is sup-
posed to sustain $50 mln in revenue this year for KanKan AI, was 
downplayed. Instead, the company said that “our credit risk analysis 
product helped several large institutions successfully issue over four 
million credit cards.” (Seeking Alpha transcript) This, despite the fact 
that we have never found a bank that has heard of Kankan AI or uses 
an external credit solution to issue credit cards. Furthermore, the 5% 
fee on loan amounts that KanKan was to collect now vanishes under 
the credit card idea—banks don’t pay fees on credit card loans, do 
they? 


Likewise downplayed was the restaurant “security” solution that was 
so promising in the last quarter. Here is what Tao said on the Q4 2017 
call:



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/files/0/f/3236012520/1/f_27196548308
2


May 24, 2018


Remark Holdings, Inc. (MARK US)


Anne Stevenson-Yang                                  anne@jcapitalresearch.com      +1 860 391 6094
See final page for disclaimers. 


We are currently in the process of rolling out our AI systems to 
2,000 restaurants in Shanghai. Technically, we charge between 
$3,000 to $5,000 per AI box. Each restaurant will order between 
three to five boxes depending on size. While we are initially imple-
menting this product to 2,000 restaurants, as previously mentioned, 
there are 200,000 restaurants throughout Shanghai and approxi-
mately eight million restaurants in China. This is our immediate 
target market. (Seeking Alpha transcript)


If KanKan had rolled out this service to, say, 1,000 of the 2,000 restaurants 
the company said it had signed up, at the prices Tao indicated, that would 
have been $12 mln in revenue in the quarter (1,000 x $4,000 per box x 3 
boxes). Instead, KanKan reported $1.18 mln in revenue in the quarter. And 
restaurants seem no longer to be the key priority. “At the close of the year, 
based on current agreement with local government agencies, we expect 
our intelligent food safety products will be utilized in over 10,000 restau-
rant locations,” Tao said.


Instead, the AI offering is now all about detecting retail preferences:


Our intelligent retail solutions are designed to embed with each of 
our clients' franchises and deliver the most relevant data that will 
allow them to drive a more personalized experience and engage 
in the one-on-one relationships with each of the customers. This 
approach is relevant because the on-site retail model has largely 
moved to a one-to-many environment where brick and mortar busi-
nesses has become increasingly personalized and the quest to pur-
sue cost savings in the face of intent competition from ecommerce 
and mobile shopping. (Seeking Alpha transcript)


We would like to verify some of these KanKan offerings, but the products 
and customers are described in such vague terms that it is impossible 
to prove or disprove. For the record, the products described, the custom-
ers, and the prices are all so extremely unlikely that we admire Remark’s 
chutzpah in detailing these supposed agreements. But we can always be 
wrong.


Unable to check on any specific contracts, we decided to call companies 
and associations engaged in Artificial Intelligence in China to see what 
they thought of Remark and Kankan.


We spoke by telephone with managers or sales directors at nine top compa-
nies offering AI products and at the Chinese Association of Artificial Intel-


The quarterly 
calls are 


sounding more 
like Minority 


report and less 
like a business 


that actually 
exists.
3


May 24, 2018


Remark Holdings, Inc. (MARK US)


Anne Stevenson-Yang                                  anne@jcapitalresearch.com      +1 860 391 6094
See final page for disclaimers. 


ligence in Beijing. We also previously inquired with a leader at China’s new 
training institute for AI, established by the Ministry of Finance, Peking 
University, and the AI-focused private equity fund Sinovation Ventures.


Not a single person we spoke with had heard of Kankan AI. We specifically 
went through KanKan AI, Remark China, and affiliates Chengdu Remark 
and Hangzhou Shufeng. One person, the chief engineer of a Chongqing-
based company engaged in artificial intelligence, had heard of Chengdu 
Remark but not of KanKan. That engineer did not know what Chengdu Re-
mark did. No one else had heard any of the names. None of the interview-
ees had heard of the AI offerings described in Remark’s Q1 call.


The other event in May that pushed down MARK’s share price was the 
sudden departure of longtime CFO Doug Osrow on May 14. Osrow has 
been a key member of the team since November 2013. No replacement has 
been named, and the announcement of his departure was terse, without 
the customary thanks for valuable service.


Filings indicate that Osrow took home $260,000 from share sales in the 
first quarter and $235,000 in December. But we estimate that his average 
strike price on options is $4.96. With the stock now trading at under $5, 
employment with MARK is no longer looking attractive.


Valuation
We believe that Remark’s sinking share price validates our dim view of the 
“artificial intelligence” offering. We would be fleeing this stock as fast as 
possible.
4


May 24, 2018


Remark Holdings, Inc. (MARK US)


Anne Stevenson-Yang                                  anne@jcapitalresearch.com      +1 860 391 6094


Disclaimer
This publication is prepared by J Capital Research USA LLC (“J Capital”), a US registered company. J Capital is 
registered as an investment adviser with the U.S. SEC (CRD# 290086). This publication is distributed solely to 
authorized recipients and clients of J Capital for their general use in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
a Services Agreement and the J Capital Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Unauthorized copying 
or distribution is prohibited. If you are reading this publication without having entered into a Services Agreement 
with J Capital, or having received written authorization to do so, you hereby agree to be bound by the J Capital Non-
Authorized User Content Agreement that can be viewed here. J Capital does not do business with companies covered 
in its publications, and nothing in this publication should be construed as a solicitation to buy or sell any security 
or product. In preparing this document, J Capital did not take into account the investment objectives, financial 
situation and particular needs of the reader. This publication is intended by J Capital only to be used by investment 
professionals. Before making an investment decision, the reader needs to consider, with or without the assistance 
of an adviser, whether the contents are appropriate in light of their particular investment needs, objectives and 
financial circumstances. J Capital accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect, consequential or other loss 
arising from any use of this publication and/or further communication in relation to this document. 


May 24, 2018



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/ksnvgifdr3zw776joxn6ivfy30xtfg8v
