Terms of Service


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service. You agree that use of J 
Capital Research USA LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold J Capital Research USA LLC or any affiliated 
party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own 
research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. You represent to J 
Capital Research USA LLC that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and 
opinion on this site. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person unless 
that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive the contents of this report as 
an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. You should assume that as of 
the publication date of our reports and research, J Capital Research USA LLC may benefit from short positions a client has in 
all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands 
to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer 
to buy any security, nor shall J Capital Research offer, sell or buy any security to or from any person through this site or reports 
on this site. J Capital Research USA LLC is registered as an investment advisor with the SEC. If you are in the United Kingdom, 
you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within 
Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth 
entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally 
available information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best 
of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources 
we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may 
otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without 
warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. J Capital Research USA LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as 
to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 
Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to 
change without notice, and J Capital Research USA LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the 
information, analysis and opinion contained in them. You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you 
therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to 
these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: https://www.jcapitalresearch.com/. If you have obtained 
the research of J Capital Research USA LLC in any manner other than by downloading from that link, you may not read such 
research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your 
use of this report and / or the J Capital Research USA LLC website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws 
of the State of New York, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to 
the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of New York and waive your right to any 
other jurisdiction or applicable law. The failure of J Capital Research USA LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of 
these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found 
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect 
to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full 
force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law 
to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed 
within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.


November 14, 2018


Special Edition
China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://www.jcapitalresearch.com/
© 2018 J Capital Research Limited. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J Capital. Use of this publication by authorized users is subject to the J Capital 
Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Use of this publication by non-authorized individuals is subject to the J 
Capital Non-Authorized User Content Agreement available here.


November 14, 2018


Special Edition
China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Calling CCRC
Where’s Our Money?
 ‣ Bad bid: We think the recent $16 take-private bid was an 


attempt to prop up share value. Our interviews in China and 
the company’s own Nasdaq prospectus suggest that Guang-
zhou Cornerstone, the company that says it will raise the 
money for the bid, has little capability to come up with the 
funding required.


 ‣ Low profits: We think this call center operator is improperly 
inflating profits by diverting costs into undisclosed related 
parties. This could drive up optical results while leaving the 
shareholders’ cupboard bare. CCRC reports 26% gross mar-
gins to U.S. investors and just 12% to its Chinese regulators. 
The company also reports lower revenue in China than it does 
in its SEC filings. Net profit reported in China in 2017 was just 
one-third of that reported in the U.S.


 ‣ Shockingly bold: Company managers have established 
an undisclosed set of companies that transact with CCRC 
and may tap into shareholder assets. Without disclosing 
their stake, individual managers own the parent company of 
CCRC’s VIE, giving them effective control. Unsurprisingly, cash 
flows in only one direction in this company: from U.S. share-
holders into the Chinese entities. 


 ‣ Making capital disappear: Capital appears to have been 
diverted into other companies owned by management. That 
would allow the undisclosed companies to absorb losses that 
otherwise would show up in CCRC. CCRC management has 
even established an offshore subsidiary of the VIE that could 
potentially pull capital out of the China business into the 
hands of management. 


 ‣ CCRC has lied to Chinese regulators. In 2016, the com-
pany was sanctioned for making false reports to the local 


Anne Stevenson-Yang 
anne@jcapitalresearch.com


 +1-860-391-6094


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/files/0/f/3236012520/1/f_27196548308
November 14, 2018


Special Edition
China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


government, probably about the company’s financial situation, 
though the records do not specify what was hidden.


 ‣ Listing just for show. Chinese tax records indicate that 
CCRC’s shareholder-owned entity is an empty vessel, with no 
revenue and only a small portion of the cash CCRC reports 
holding. This is very different from the big U.S.-listed Chinese 
internet companies; the legitimate ones use their VIEs as 
pass-throughs. For CCRC, all the revenue sits in a complex, 
opaque VIE company. We believe shareholders will not see a 
penny.


 ‣ Low-end underwriting team: Investors shouldn’t be 
surprised that a company of this nature would choose to list 
with some of the weakest underwriters and auditors on the 
street. In our opinion, ViewTrade Securities and MaloneBailey 
LLP are about as barrel-scraping as they come. ViewTrade is 
a stock promoter that has brought nine Chinese companies to 
market since 2015. With very dubious businesses, all but two 
of these companies are trading far below their IPO prices. As 
for MaloneBailey, the PCAOB cited this company as auditor of 
the most Chinese reverse mergers, a record which speaks for 
itself. And CCRC has its own expert in questionable financial 
statements. The company’s “senior accounting consultant” in 
charge of financial reporting for CCRC was formerly the CFO 
of Tianli Agritech (OINK), a Chinese reverse merger widely 
suspected of fraud.


 ‣ Tall tales: We found the recent first-half report, show-
ing 90% revenue growth, laughable despite the big bump it 
achieved for the share price. It’s easy to book revenue if the 
clients don’t actually pay.


 ‣ 76% over-valued. We are short CCRC and value the com-
pany at $2.87 per share, a 76% discount to the company’s 
current traded value. We assign the company a 15x multiple 
of 2017 profit reported in China, which is about $3.5 mln, as 
opposed to profit reported to U.S. investors. We consider the 
multiple very fair: we do not believe shareholders will ever 
retrieve the assets this company claims to have.


Share Price $ 11.88


Market Cap (mln) $ 217.8


P/E (TTM) 14x


J Cap's Valuation $ 2.87


Average Volume 58,000 shares


Difference 76%


China Customer Relations 
Centers, Inc. (CCRC US)


China Customer Relations Centers, 
Inc. (CCRC US) last share price in 
USD (blue, left) and volume (green, 
right, mln shares)


Source: Bloomberg November 13, 2018


0


0.2


0.4


0.6


0.8


1


1.2


1.4


1.6


0


5


10


15


20


25


30


35


40


Nov-17 May-18 Nov-18


Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 3


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimers. 


4


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Table of Contents


4


Hiding in Plain Sight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5


Not going private. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5


Now you see it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5


The shadows. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7


Empty hands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8


Diverting cash. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10


The capital budget . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15


False statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17


Underwriters and auditor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18


SEC comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20


Booking phantom revenue?. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21


The threat of delisting. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21


Run, don’t walk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


5


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Hiding in Plain Sight
Not going private
We find the “go-private” deal announced earlier this week by CCRC highly implau-
sible. The listed financier for the deal, Guangzhou Cornerstone, which is trying to 
list on Nasdaq, does not actually hold and manage investor cash and would need 16 
months at its current rate of fundraising to finance the deal. The single buyout deal 
Cornerstone reports attempting, of a Chinese firm trading on Shenzhen’s ChiNext 
exchange, has languished for more than a year without completing. 


Cornerstone is one of a plethora of Chinese companies that have emerged since 
the 2009 stimulus to sell wealth-management products to Chinese investors with 
spare cash. Cornerstone pays commissions to retail vendors of financial products 
like JD Finance, Fanhua Inc., and Hang Teng Wealth, as well as selling on web-
sites like HowBuy. The company was founded only in 2015. Its management team 
has no experience in international banks and is not well known within the private 
equity community in China; we asked two current partners and a former partner at 
three large Chinese PE institutions, and none had heard of them. 


Of greatest concern is the fact that Cornerstone does not have the money to finance 
the deal. According to Cornerstone’s own disclosure, in the four months from July 
through October this year, Cornerstone was able raise $59 mln. The company 
raised just $16 mln in the three months ended June 30, 2018. The CCRC deal would 
require more than $256 mln. Given that Cornerstone must raise money for each 
contemplated deal, at the current rate, it would need 16 months to raise enough to 
take CCRC private.


Finally, Cornerstone can access hard currency only through Chinese brokerages 
that rent their quota allocations for a fee, and the $256 mln nut would represent 
about 15% of the total quota of the three institutions that lend quota to Corner-
stone. We doubt they would be willing to part with that much hard currency, when 
they have so many partners seeking their quota, even if Cornerstone managed to 
find retail buyers.


Given our diligence on Guangzhou Cornerstone, and our negative view of CCRC, we 
think the “go-private bid” very likely represents an attempt to put a floor under the 
share price. 


Now you see it
In our view, there isn’t much to buy in CCRC. This call center services provider has 
a structure we have never seen before and find quite shocking: its Variable Interest 
Entity (VIE) agreements are with a subsidiary of a management-owned company, 


If Guangzhou 
Cornerstone is 
financing this 
“go-private” 
deal, it is very 
unlikely to 
happen.


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1731899/000119312518312430/d451527df1a.htm

https://www.howbuy.com

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1731899/000119312518312430/d451527df1a.htm
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


6


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


not with the parent. The parent owns companies that are not disclosed in CCRC 
public filings but that, according our interviews and supported by Chinese tax fil-
ings, appear to assume costs for the VIE companies. Sitting on top of the VIE, the 
parent company can divert VIE resources into its other, non-VIE branch.


CCRC manages a confusing array of undisclosed shadow companies. These could 
divert costs from CCRC’s VIE and could also act as private piggy banks for man-
agement. If there are other reasons for these companies, we cannot think what 
they are. 


The convoluted corporate structure masks the low profitability of CCRC’s business. 
Higher apparent profitability would pump up share value. Public investors need to 
take care not to be there when the “dump” comes along.


We have sought clarification from CCRC investor relations about the allegations in 
this report, including that China-reported revenues are lower than revenues re-
ported in the United States and seeking clarification on the ownership of the VIE’s 
parent company. CCRC did not respond in the 36 hours prior to publication.


China Customer Relations 
Centers Inc. [BVI]


China BPO  
Holdings Limited 


[Hong Kong]


Global Telecare Services 
Limited [Hong Kong]


Shandong 
Juncheng [WFOE]


Taian Juncheng


Beijing Taiying Anrui 
Holdings


Shandong Taiying 
Technology [VIE]


China


19 disclosed VIE 
subsidiaries


Hong Kong company 
owned by CCRC manage-
ment, not by shareholders


At least 5  
undisclosed 
companies 
owned by  


management 
or invested by 
the VIE outside 
the corporate 


structure.


Beijing Shenggu 
(“Sound Valley”) 


Education Invest-
ment Co. Ltd.


11 subsidiaries owned & con-
trolled by CCRC management


Chongqing  
Shenggu  


Construction Co. 
Ltd.


Chongqing  
Shenggu  


Investment Co. 
Ltd.


su
bs


id
ia


ry
 re


la
tio


ns
hi


p


Company privately 
owned by management, 
shareholding undisclosed


not visible to shareholders


Chart 1. CCRC Organization


Shareholder capital is injected into Beijing Taiying Anrui, which can then put the capital into subsidiaries that are not part of the VIE.
Source: company SEC filings and State Administration of Industry and Commerce


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


7


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


In addition to these hidden companies in the corporate tree, we have identified at 
least three undisclosed companies privately owned by management that seem to 
be pulling money out of the company, plus two more undisclosed investments by 
CCRC’s VIE company.1


The shadows
CCRC lists 19 subsidiaries of its VIE in its reports to U.S. investors. It does not re-
port 11 sister companies that are owned by CCRC management but not part of the 
VIE company. Readers of Chinese may access State Administration of Industry and 
Commerce reports on 29 of the subsidiaries here. This shadow company absorbs 
costs and capital. It is owned by the same parent as the VIE but is not part of the 
VIE. But the fact that the VIE and the shadow companies are owned by the same 
Chinese corporate parent is an important detail, because that makes it easy for 
CCRC management to access capital from shareholders and divert it into compa-
nies only management owns and controls and that shareholders do not even know 
about. Having the same parent would enable inter-company loans, for example.


The sister companies that CCRC has not reported to shareholders all contain some 
variation of the name “Sound Valley,” sometimes translated into English as “Voice 
Valley” or “Shenggu.” These companies absorb call center costs and rack up losses, 
Chinese public records and our interviews indicate. The companies cancel out those 
losses with capital that could come from CCRC shareholders—in total, $23 mln has 
been committed to the subsidiaries, though much less appears to have been inject-
ed to date.


According to employees we interviewed, CCRC sets up Sound Valley shell compa-
nies next door to VIE subsidiaries so that the shell companies can use the same 
premises and same staff. The shell companies, our interviewees said, absorb costs 
from the disclosed subsidiaries by paying for things like social insurance. For 
example, one of these shadow companies, Jiangsu Sound Valley Human Resource 
Management, in 2017 had just three employees and yet was paying social security 
benefits to 63 people, according to Chinese government records. This shell com-
pany, therefore, was absorbing costs of another company, and we expect that would 
be the CCRC VIE. If so, that would buck up margins in the disclosed companies for 
the benefit of auditors. Our translation of the income statement submitted to tax 
authorities by Shandong Taiying, the CCRC VIE company, can be downloaded here. 
The statements show gross, net, and operating margins significantly lower than 
those reported to the SEC.


1 The Chinese-language names of the three undisclosed companies owned by management are 淮安安瑞企业管理
公司（有限合伙）, 烟台北方声谷呼叫中心培训学校 , 泰安泰盈财富股权投资管理有限公司 . The undisclosed VIE 
investments are 北京灵伴未来科技有限公司 and 北京灵伴即时智能科技有限公司 .


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://jcapitalresearch.box.com/shared/static/bhxrepkix0k9p98es576foy70hucuemt.zip

https://jcapitalresearch.box.com/shared/static/bhxrepkix0k9p98es576foy70hucuemt.zip
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


8


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Even among 
famously 
sketchy 
Chinese 
reverse 
mergers, 
we have 
never seen 
a structure 
as brazenly 
diversionary 
as CCRC’s. 
It obscures 
cash flows 
and ownership 
lines and 
disadvantages 
public 
shareholders.


CRCC’s corporate structure is so complex it would make Alibaba’s Jack Ma blush. 
We believe the complexity could aid the transfer of capital away from investors. 
CCRC CEO Gary Wang is owner or director of 33 companies in Mainland China and 
at least four overseas. We accessed Chinese government records showing company 
ownership. 


CCRC disclosures make it clear that the only company that NASDAQ investors ac-
tually own is the wholly foreign-owned enterprise (WFOE) subsidiary called Shan-
dong Juncheng. Unlike the VIE, this company is very simple. It has one subsidiary, 
called Taian Juncheng, and neither company has any revenue or other activity. We 
have translated 2016-17 tax statements for the two companies, obtained from an 
attorney. They may be downloaded here.


Empty hands
CCRC stands out from other listed companies operating in China that use the VIE 
structure. For most, VIEs are a pass-through for revenue from businesses restricted 
to foreign ownership. The VIE company typically moves money into wholly owned 
operating companies as quickly as possible. The means by which listed compa-
nies work through the VIE structure is by writing contracts under which the VIE 


China


Typical VIE Structures


 ✓ VIE pays contractual fees to 
WFOE to move revenue


 ✓ VIE remains asset-light
 ✓ Keep registered capital low, be-


cause registered capital cannot 
be moved out of the VIE 


 
CCRC Structure


 ⚠ No contractual fees from the 
VIE to the WFOE


 ⚠ Lots of assets kept in the VIE
 ⚠ High registered capital


Offshore entity owned 
by shareholders


Management control


China onshore wholly 
foreign-owned entity 


[WFOE]


Variable Interest  
Entity [VIE]


Revenue from restricted 
sector goes into VIE


Commonly Used VIE structure


Chart 2. CCRC vs. Common VIE Structures


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://jcapitalresearch.box.com/shared/static/bhxrepkix0k9p98es576foy70hucuemt.zip
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


9


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


nets out costs to minimize taxes then pays the balance of its revenue to the listed 
company’s WFOE. That WFOE, then, can make dividend payments to the overseas 
parent company. 


VIEs generally move their revenue or profit to a WFOE under contracts that oblige 
them to pay the WFOEs for management services. Baidu, for example, whose VIE 
is called Baidu Netcom, provides “technical services” to its VIEs: “Baidu Netcom 
agrees to pay service fees to Baidu Online and Baidu Online has the right to adjust 
the service fees at its sole discretion without the consent of Baidu Netcom.” Ne-
tease has a similar agreement under which it provides “technical consulting and 
related services” to its VIEs. 


CCRC’s VIE, by contrast, gives nothing to public shareholders; CCRC puts capital 
into the VIE in terms of registered capital. There are no cash flows back from the 
VIE to the WFOE, whether as revenue or as profit remittances under VIE contract. 
We know this because the WFOE accounts obtained from Chinese tax authorities 
show no revenue or other activity for 2016 or 2017.


BIDU


 ✓ 15% of company assets
 ✓ 6% of company cash
 ✓ 34% of company revenue
 ✓ Baidu provides “technical services” 


to its VIEs: “Baidu Netcom agrees 
to pay service fees to Baidu Online 
and Baidu Online has the right to 
adjust the service fees at its sole 
discretion without the consent of 
Baidu Netcom.” 


NTES


 ✓ 14% of company assets
 ✓ Cash undisclosed
 ✓ 75% of company revenue
 ✓ Netease provides the VIEs with 


“technical consulting and related 
services” for which the VIEs pay 
their revenue over to the wholly 
owned entity. 





CCRC


 ⚠ 89% of company assets
 ⚠ 68% of company cash
 ⚠ Revenue undisclosed
 ⚠ No disclosed services agreement 


that would convey revenue from 
the VIEs to the WFOE.


Chart 2. CCRC vs. Common VIE Structures


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/file/349318094147
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


10


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Diverting cash
CRCC in many ways resembles the “China Hustle” frauds: the Chinese operating 
companies appear to have much lower profitability than CCRC claims. For 2017, 
reports to China’s State Administration of Industry and Commerce and tax bureau 
show profit of just $3.5 mln, compared with $10.9 mln that CCRC reported to inves-
tors. 


To quantify CCRC revenue and profit, we obtained financial statements for Shan-
dong Taiying, the VIE company, and for the 14 disclosed subsidiaries that have 
reported revenue. We also reviewed the financial statements of 12 undisclosed 
companies that belong to the same corporate parent as the VIE company. 


The VIE company statements appear to be consolidated. Balance sheet values more 
or less match those reported to U.S. investors


We have visited four locations where CCRC has established phantom companies 
right next door to real operating companies. The phantom companies are owned 
by management and undisclosed to shareholders. They contain no staff and have 
no premises; they are simply paper companies with registration addresses. These 
companies are able to siphon revenue by providing “services” to the disclosed com-
panies. We interviewed a source from CCRC in Beijing. The source said:


“In a few of the important locations for Taiying Technology [the VIE com-
pany] within China, such as Shandong, Beijing, Chongqing, and Jiangsu, we 
have registered two or even more companies at the same location. Among 
them, Taiying Technology is the principal entity for outsourcing services, 
and the other companies provide services to it. These services might include 
issuing tax receipts, hiring, training, and so on.”


We verified the comments through four site visits and interviews with government 
and current and former CCRC staff. We visited CCRC companies in Yantai, Taian, 
and Zaozhuang in Shandong as well as in Beijing. We spoke with 15 employees in 
person and six by phone, six government officials in charge of the office parks at 
the Shandong sites, and a building manager in Beijing. We also conducted exten-
sive documentary review. Here are some examples of shadow transactions:


Zaozhuang, Shandong
In a small tech park in Zaozhuang, Shandong, CCRC established a disclosed VIE 
subsidiary called Zaozhuang Shenggu E-commerce Co. Ltd. (ZSEC). A government 
official at the park told us that CCRC employed 800 people at this company. Right 
next door to that company is another company, owned by CCRC CEO Gary Wang 
and not part of the VIE. It is called Zaozhuang Shenggu Customer Creation Man-
agement and Service Co. Ltd. “Shenggu” is a transliteration of the term that is 


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


11


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


sometimes translated as Sound Valley.


A local official told us that this shadow company “does not have any actual busi-
ness,” but it does have ¥10 mln in registered capital. That money could have come 
from CCRC shareholders. 


Photo of the CCRC company in Zaozhuang, Shandong. The address of this company is No. 1 Dongshun 
Road Outsourcing Park. Next door, at No. 2, is an undisclosed shell company with almost the same name 
owned by CCRC’s CEO Gary Wang. Photo by J Capital August 2018


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


12


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Yantai, Shandong
Yantai is another city in Shandong, which is CCRC’s home. At the same address at 
9 Jinhua Road in Yantai, CCRC has four operating companies, only two of which are 
disclosed and part of the VIE. 


An interviewee working at CCRC in the office park told us that the company pro-
vides services to CCRC's VIE company but did not know what type of services. 


Above: “North Sound Valley” is an independent entity (government records say it is not a formal 
company with an equity structure) that is controlled by CEO Gary Wang. It operates out of the same 
office as the company’s VIE.  Photos by J Capital August 2018.


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


13


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Beijing
CCRC operates three companies from the same address in the Grand Pacific (Heqiao) 
Building in Beijing’s Chaoyang business district. One of them, called “Voice Valley 
Education” (the same Chinese characters as “Sound Valley” and “Shenggu”), is part 
of the shadow complex owned by the VIE’s parent company. It has ¥10 mln ($1.4 
mln) in paid-in capital investment and seven subsidiaries. The companies oper-
ate at the offices of their parent company, Beijing Taiying Anrui Holding Co. Ltd., 
which is also the parent of the CCRC VIE.


Sign for Yantai North Sound Valley Call Center Training Center, controlled by Gary Wang. 
Photos by J Capital August 2018.


The set of related companies of which “Voice Valley” is a member are sometimes called Sound Valley and 
sometimes Shenggu in CCRC’s disclosures; the Chinese characters are the same for all three renditions. 
Photos by J Capital August 2018.


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


14


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Other strategies for extracting money from CCRC shareholders could include the 
following:


 ‣ Related party transactions: CCRC is a subcontractor to Shandong Luk, a call 
center company owned by CEO Gary Wang’s brother, and, according to the 
20-F, forgave Shandong Luk an account receivable of $353,513. It pays com-
missions to a related party called Beijing Jiate for “referring customers.” The 
principal shareholder of Jiate owns equity in a VIE operating company and 
used to own a VIE branch in Hebei Province, which is now closed. In 2013, 
CCRC extended a $1.13 mln interest-free loan to a company in which CFO 
David Wang is invested. The loan has still not been repaid. The table of loans 
to related parties runs to 17 individuals and companies and peaked in 2013 
at $4.2 mln outstanding. By 2017, outstanding loans to related parties were 
about $1.4 mln.


 ‣ Undisclosed investments: CCRC is putting VIE money into undisclosed in-
vestments. Two such companies are called Beijing Lingban Future Technol-
ogy and Beijing Lingban Timely Smart Technology. These tech companies 
have taken in investment from CCRC’s VIE but are undisclosed. 


 ‣ Overseas company: CCRC management disclose that they have set up a 


Merry Christmas! We found CCRC’s disclosed office in the same complex. CCRC rents two offices next 
door to each other. But there was no one in the office to speak with.
Photos by J Capital August 2018.


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


15


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Hong Kong subsidiary of the Chinese VIE company. As an offshore company, 
there is no earthly reason why this company should not be owned by CCRC 
shareholders rather than by management. Its existence would allow manage-
ment to pull money out of China without disclosing it to investors, through 
inter-company loans and other strategies. One legal means by which that 
could be done would be through a technical services contract between the 
offshore company and its VIE parent.


 ‣ Undisclosed related-party companies and possible transactions: CEO Gary 
Wang owns an undisclosed company called Yantai Northern Sound Valley 
Call Center Training School that has no physical address but has ¥500,000 
in capital. He is also part owner of a company called Huaian Anrui Corporate 
Management Co. CEO Gary Wang’s brother Wang Hengli owns a company 
called Zaozhuang Sound Valley that is co-located with a CCRC company but 
has no operations. We visited the office park where the companies operate 
and spoke with park management, who confirmed that Zaozhuang Sound 
Valley is a shell company. Company Vice Chairman and CFO David Wang is 
legal representative of a company called Taian Taifu Wealth Share Invest-
ment Co. in which Taiying, the CCRC VIE, has invested ¥2 mln. We visited 
this company’s registered address and found no company there. Next door, 
however, is Taiying. It is all too possible that money credited to these co-
located companies could have come from CCRC.


The capital budget
Having a VIE parent company that is not related to CCRC could allow management 
to deal CCRC capital investment to itself by injecting it into the parent company, 
which then would portion out the capital to its two subsidiary branches, one a VIE 
and the other in no way obligated to CCRC. 


Beijing Taiying Anrui Holding. This is the VIE parent company, owned by CCRC 
management. This company owns the set of “Sound Valley” shadow companies. 


Beijing Shenggu Education. This is the parent company’s principal subsidiary, 
which owns other subs. Beijing Shanggu has no activity, revenue, website, or men-
tion on China’s internet. Total capital investment committed to its subsidiaries is 
$6.4 mln; documents do not indicate whether the capital has been paid in.


Jiangsu Central Information Service Co., Ltd. was established in 2013 and appar-
ently hollowed out in 2017. The company reports 0 revenue but has $1.5 mn (¥10 
mln) in registered capital investment from CCRC. In 2016, the company reported 
having 72 employees, and in 2017 it had 0 employees. Its financial statements are 
not available. What happened to the capital?


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


16


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Lingban Technology. Many of the undisclosed affiliates are shell companies with 
no activity. Our interviews with employees, as well as financial statements of the 
shell companies, indicate that these shell companies take on expenses for the call 


Registration records for Jiangsu Central Information Service Co. Ltd. sourced from the Chinese 
Administration of Industry and Commerce


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


17


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


centers. The undisclosed companies uniformly show losses. But Lingban, a tech-
nology company in which Shandong Taiying is a minority investor, seems to have 
broad ambitions. The company has six subsidiaries, some of which have their own 
subsidiaries, and is developing speech and language recognition technologies and 
artificial intelligence. CCRC is listed on the website as a “strategic partner.”


CCRC reports that its VIE has net $6.1 mln in property plant and equipment. But 
the VIE company’s books report net PPE of just $1.4 mln. 


We interviewed three chiefs of call center operations for Chinese telcos. They esti-
mated total capital costs for a call center at $120,000 per 500 seats. But they also 
said that localities give big subsidies to call center operators, who can generally 
get a facility and utilities free in year 1, with significant discounts in the following 
four years. So, for CCRC’s 11,850 full- and part-time employees, we estimate top-
end capital required to be $2.8 mln. The $1.4 mln reported by the VIE is a reason-
able number. What happened to the remaining $4.7 mln in PPE?


False statements
CCRC is one of the very few times we have seen the Chinese government sanction 
a company for “making false statements.” The WFOE company, directly owned by 
CCRC, was entered into a government list of dishonest companies in 2016. In 2017, 
management applied to have it removed from the list.


The business
CCRC has picked a pretty unattractive operating business. China’s call center busi-
ness suffers from an excess of capacity. According to a call center manager we 
interviewed, China’s three telecom State companies own about 120,000 call center 


Registration record for Shandong Juncheng Information Technology Co. Ltd., one of CCRC’s two wholly 
owned subsidiaries in China.


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



http://www.lingban.cn/about.html

http://www.lingban.cn/about.html
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


18


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


seats and contract for another roughly 60,000. Private call-center operators include 
HL95 (jointly owned by Citic Guoan and Alibaba Health) and CCRC. The telcos keep 
for themselves the higher-value business and use private companies for the calls 
that are paid out at ¥1-2 per call.


Given that the telcos have so much capacity, so much cash, and overwhelming mar-
ket power, they can pick and choose work to farm out to private companies begging 
at their table. So, it did not surprise us to see that no agreements with China Tele-
com or China Mobile—which in 2013 represented 88% and now provide 48% of 
revenue--were filed with the prospectus. After a request from the SEC, CCRC filed 
an agreement with China Telecom Chongqing. The agreement appears to describe 
an arrangement whereby CCRC is renting seats belonging to China Telecom. 


The company also filed an incomplete agreement with China Mobile that is called 
the “System and Information Administration and Control Requirement for Beijing 
Mobile Service Outsourcing Program” (see S-1A filed January 5, 2015). This ap-
pears to consist merely of guidelines for call center services but not a contract. Be-
cause the telcos have such overwhelming market power, capital, and government 
support, we doubt that they agree to binding contracts with call center service pro-
viders, and the agreements filed by CCRC do not contain terms that bind the telcos 
to a given term at a given rate. 2


Underwriters and auditor
When CCRC went to list in the U.S., the company sought help from a set of highly 
dubious advisors: ViewTrade Securities as underwriter, MaloneBailey LLP, as audi-
tor, and the Kaitong Law Firm.


MaloneBailey was heavily criticized by the PCAOB, which named MaloneBailey 
the top auditor of Chinese reverse mergers. In the most recent PCAOB inspection 
report, significant deficiencies were cited. For example, MaloneBailey blessed the 
accounts of an audit client when it promised to purchase a company that made 
advances to its customers. It allowed another audit client to assign an unsupported 
“fair value” to a shell company and issue stock to acquire it.


A lawsuit in Ontario Superior Court over the demise of the Chinese fraud SinoFor-
est alleges that CCRC’s Chinese law firm, Guangdong-based Kaitong Law Firm, 
issued a report that verified false claims by SinoForest. An independent commis-
sion in Canada verified that the Kaitong report supporting SinoForest claims was 
“unverifiable.”


Kaitong has also advised problematic Chinese small and micro caps like China 


2 See Form S-1/A filed January 5, 2015, Exhibit 10.14


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://pcaobus.org//Inspections/Reports/Documents/2009_Malone_and_Bailey.pdf

https://www.valuewalk.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/SFC-Litigation-Trust-v.-Chen-Claim.pdf
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


19


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Customer Relations (CCRC), ReTo Eco-Solutions (RETO), TDH Holdings Inc. (PETZ), 
and Anpulo Food. 


As for microcap brokerage Viewtrade Securities, investors are probably best off 
drawing their own conclusions by reviewing the track record of the companies 
Viewtrade has raised capital for, companies like China Commercial Credit (GLG), 
trading at $0.55 after hitting $7.20 shortly after its debut; TDH Holdings, now at 
$2.80, down from $25.48 in October; Senmiao Technologies (AIHS), also trading 
well below IPO price and down nearly 50% from its May peak, and many more. A 
more recent client, Yulong Eco-Materials, recently jettisoned its China manufactur-
ing business and instead bought—a sapphire. FINRA counts 14 regulatory events 
for ViewTrade.


CCRC itself has assigned as its senior accounting member responsible for preparing 
financial statements the former CFO of Tianli Agritech (OINK). This company was 
a reverse-merger that has changed its name and ticker and now trades for a total 
market cap of $17 mln as ABAC. CCRC provided this affiliation only following filing 
of the prospectus, in correspondence with the SEC. The exchange is as follows:


Barbara C. Jacobs, Assistant Director, Division of Corporate Finance, SEC:


We note your response to prior comment 16 that the senior accounting 
member who is responsible for preparing and supervising the preparation 
of your financial statements was the CFO of a NASDAQ-traded, China-based 
company. Please tell us the name of this company and explain further this 
individual’s role in the preparation of this company’s financial statements.


Bradley A. Haneberg, Esq. for CCRC:


The Issuer acknowledges this comment and advises the Staff the name of 
the company was Tianli Agritech. This individual, along with other man-
agement at Tianli Agritch was responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal control over the financial reporting for the company. The 
adequate internal control procedures were implemented to provide reason-
able assurance regarding the reliability of the company’s financial reporting 
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accor-
dance with U.S. GAAP. (SEC correspondence June 1, 2015)


The company had tried, and failed, to IPO earlier, using another unsavory group 
of advisors. The business attempted to IPO under the name Tai Shan Communica-
tions in 2010-2011, a period when a number of Chinese frauds came to market. 


The underwriter for that effort was a company called Anderson & Strudwick, a 


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://files.brokercheck.finra.org/firm/firm_46987.pdf
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


20


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


brokerage whose other clients included famously troubled penny stocks such as 
e-Future Information Technology (EFUT), Sino-Global (SINO), and Tibet Pharma-
ceuticals (TBET). Anderson & Strudwick was to receive 200,000 warrants from Tai 
Shan if the IPO went through.


It didn’t. In 2011, Anderson & Strudwick was forced into bankruptcy by debts in a 
class-action lawsuit by investors in the TBET IPO. Anderson had helped TBET raise 
$16.5 mln from U.S. investors by dramatically overstating sales and understating 
debt. Tibet Pharma misappropriated the IPO proceeds and, according to reporting 
at the time, was suspected of having deposited the money into Anderson & Strud-
wick’s brokerage account.


SEC comments
SEC comments and requests for clarification on CCRC’s prospectus could fill a book. 


First off, they caught out CCRC on unused capacity:


“You disclose in the second sentence that you have 5,000 seats in your call 
centers. If you are unable to fully utilize your capacity, you should revise to 
so indicate in your disclosure here. In this regard, we note that you had 4,400 
employees as of December 31, 2013.”


Capacity remains underutilized. In 2017, CCRC reported 15,260 seats but 8,545 
full-time employees and 3,305 part-timers, so a utilization rate of no more than 
78%. Actual utilization should be much lower, since CCRC call centers operate two 
or three shifts.


The SEC also noted discrepancies in reports about company subsidiaries. When 
the SEC asked CCRC to file background reports by named consultancies to sup-
port market assertions, instead, they removed the names of the consultancies. SEC 
responded:


Regarding your revisions in response to prior comment 6, we note that you 
removed the names of SNL Financial, KPMG, Euromonitor International, 
CNNIC, and iResearch but retained their data in your disclosure. It is un-
clear how referring to the source of the data as “private research” allows 
a prospective investor to assess the validity of such data. Please advise, or 
revise to name the third-party data providers.


Last February, the SEC notified CCRC that its count of public shareholders had fall-
en below the threshold required to maintain a publicly traded company. CCRC said 
it had 45 days to submit a plan to come into compliance and 180 days to rectify the 
issue. The 180 days were up on August 20 but nothing more has been announced.


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://richmondbizsense.com/2015/04/27/years-later-lawsuits-and-debt-still-haunt-investment-firm-deal/

https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2017/01/09/904424/0/en/The-Rosen-Law-Firm-P-A-Announces-Proposed-Class-Action-Settlement-on-Behalf-of-Purchasers-of-Common-Stock-of-Tibet-Pharmaceuticals-Inc-TBET.html
Anne Stevenson-Yang               anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +1-860-391-6094
See page one for disclaimer. 


21


November 14, 2018


China Customer Relations Centers, Inc.  (CCRC US)


Booking phantom revenue?
On October 12, CCRC filed its report for the first half of 2018, showing 90% rev-
enue growth. The share price enjoyed a brief surge. But we were unimpressed. 
While revenue grew by $11 mln, accounts receivable rose by $9.4 mln. Operating 
cash flow was negative, and the company spent an additional $1.5 mln on PPE. 
We will not believe there is a sales improvement until CCRC actually collects the 
money it says it has contracted for.


The threat of delisting
On February 22, 2018, CCRC reported that it had received a warning from Nasdaq 
that the company was in danger of being delisted because its share roster had per-
sistently fallen below the minimum required 300 public shareholders. The notice 
can be downloaded here. CCRC said it had 45 days to remediated and 180 days to 
rectify the situation. There was been no further notice from the company or the 
exchange.


Run, don’t walk
Whether or not there is a profitable business to be done in running call centers in 
China—and we doubt there is—we conclude that CCRC will not be giving inves-
tors any of the profit. This company has been designed to be a sieve for investor 
cash.


There’s another Chinese idiom, 漏洞百出 (lou dong bai chu), meaning “full of 
holes.” It refers to a liar who is trying to present a credible story but keeps slip-
ping up by offering incompatible details. We consider CCRC a lou dong bai chu 
confection, one that will take investors’ money and make it disappear.


Prepared for Anne Stevenson-Yang of J Capital Research



https://jcapitalresearch.box.com/shared/static/bhxrepkix0k9p98es576foy70hucuemt.zip
