Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Response to statement by NEPI Rockcastle 
November 28, 2018 – Viceroy published its report on NEPI Rockcastle on November 28, 2018. NEPI Rockcastle 


have subsequently issued a preliminary response to our report. 


We note that our data was sourced directly from NEPI’s filings, government records, and court records. Where 


we have conducted calculations, our analysis and workings have been show in full. Investors have the ability to 


determine the veracity of our analysis and conduct their own due diligence. 


We are not of the opinion that NEPI has consistently proven transparency towards shareholders, the latest 


example of which is the outright refusal to engage an independent party to investigate potential trading of 


associated companies, suspicious capital raising activity and property transactions, at the request of 10 of South 


Africa’s largest financial institutions1 (including Government fund managers). 


In stark contrast to any “reasons” NEPI provides for accounting discrepancies, investors should also note with 


extreme caution that the Company failed to provide details of outgoings, arrears, management matters, 


negotiations, rent reviews, to its valuers, Cushman & Wakefield. This was not an issue for all its other 


geographies. 


 
Figure 1 Extract – NEPI Independent Valuers Summary Valuation Report - 20162 


Further to this, analysis of NEPI’s Romanian portfolio accounts show the company has, on average, 80 days of 


accounts receivable. This is indicative of substantial rent arrears, and fails the company’s claim of a 99.9% 


collection rate. These issues are independent of where earnings have been recognized, if this should indeed be 


NEPI’s response, and would not account for discrepancies in taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions. 


We look forward to NEPI’s comprehensive response to our report.  


                                                                 
1 https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/property/2018-10-02-nepi-rockcastle-rejects--call-by-10-of-sas-largest-
financial-institutions-for-probe/  
2 http://www.nepinvest.com/view_file.php?file_id=4000  



https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/property/2018-10-02-nepi-rockcastle-rejects--call-by-10-of-sas-largest-financial-institutions-for-probe/

https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/property/2018-10-02-nepi-rockcastle-rejects--call-by-10-of-sas-largest-financial-institutions-for-probe/

http://www.nepinvest.com/view_file.php?file_id=4000
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within [insert company] or any other entity to file 


a report with the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroyresearch@gmail.com.  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 





 



mailto:viceroyresearch@gmail.com
