NEWSLETTER: CIMIC GROUP (CIM AU) 
Engineering profits 
30 April 2019 


We estimate that Australia's largest construction company CIMIC has inflated 
profits by around 100% in the last two years through aggressive revenue 
recognition, acquisition accounting and avoidance of JV losses. A lack of 
supporting cash flow has been obscured by the increased sale of receivables 
and reverse factoring of payables. While reported net cash was 69% of equity 
at YE18, we estimate adjusted net debt-to-equity of 74%. CIMIC’s refusal to 
provide substantive answers to our questions suggests it has something to 
hide. 


Dominant shareholder 
CIMIC came to our attention owing to a large restatement of its shareholders’ equity. It 
is controlled by ACS (ACS SM) the Spanish construction giant, via its German 
subsidiary Hochtief (HOT GR), and is a major value contributor for both companies. 
CIMIC’s board is dominated by an Executive Chairman who is also CEO of ACS and 
Hochtief. Unsurprisingly, management has been generously incentivised to maximise 
the share price, and grow profits and operating cash flow. These incentives may have 
led to the profit inflation we have found. 


Inflated profits 
CIMIC has reported robust earnings growth in recent years, with net profits growing 
50% since 2015. However, this growth is an illusion. We estimate CIMIC has inflated 
reported pre-tax profit by roughly 100% over the past two years, or A$1bn in total, 
through a combination of aggressive revenue recognition, acquisition accounting and 
avoiding losses from its Middle Eastern JV. Key warning signs include the build-up of 
unbilled revenue and the low level of cash tax paid. Indeed, CIMIC has paid just 
A$161m in tax over the last three years on profits of A$2.8bn, implying a cash tax rate 
of less than 6%. It suggests profits declared to the tax authorities are much lower than 
reported earnings. 


1. Aggressive revenue recognition 
Aggressive revenue recognition is the main technique CIMIC has used to inflate profits. 
We estimate this has boosted pre-tax profits by A$300-400m in both of the last two 
years, based on increases in unbilled revenue and deferred tax liabilities. 


The use of percentage-of-completion accounting gives CIMIC’s management 
considerable discretion over when and, indeed, how much revenue and profits to 
recognise. Revenue can be booked even before the customer has been billed or the 
amount agreed. Aggressive revenue recognition is reflected in the high level of 
unbilled revenue on CIMIC’s balance sheet, included as contract assets within “contract 
debtors”. At over 9% of revenue at the end of 2018 on an adjusted basis1, CIMIC has 
the highest level of net contract assets in its peer group, as Figure 1 shows. 


                                                      
1 After adding back an A$675m provision CIMIC took against contract debtors in 2014 which remains unused 


Author: 
Nigel Stevenson 
nigel@gmtresearch.com 


We estimate CIMIC has 
inflated reported pre-
tax profit by roughly 
100% over the past 
two years, or A$1bn in 
total 



mailto:nigel@gmtresearch.com
2019 GMT Research Limited Page 2 of 7 





Figure 1: Net contract assets as a percentage of revenue: latest period 


 
Source: company financial reports, GMT Research, Bloomberg 


New accounting rules on revenue recognition2 will enable CIMIC to book large 
amounts of revenue and profits twice over. The new rules which came into force in 
2018 resulted in an A$0.7bn reversal in previously booked revenue and profits that are 
no longer deemed “highly probable”, and a 28% reduction in shareholders’ equity. 
Such a large adjustment is itself an indication of CIMIC’s aggressive revenue 
recognition, particularly as most of its peers have reported no or minimal impact from 
the change. Crucially, CIMIC can recognise this reversed revenue and profits a second 
time. 


The reversal in previously booked revenue shows up as a big reduction in CIMIC’s net 
contract debtors (primarily unbilled revenue) which halved on the restatement, as 
Figure 2 shows. However, contract debtors have rapidly risen back to their previous 
level, although CIMIC refused to say how much is due to recognising revenue a second 
time. We estimate the extent of CIMIC’s aggressive revenue recognition at A$300-
400m in the past two years based on the A$0.4bn increase in net contract debtors in 
2018, which was equal to 35% of CIMIC’s pre-tax profit, and the significant growth in 
deferred tax liabilities (taxes payable in future years resulting from temporary 
differences) relating to “contract profit differential”, corroborated by the low cash tax 
paid. 


Figure 2: CIMIC net contract debtors: 1Q16-1Q19 


 
Source: CIMIC 


                                                      
2 AASB 15, which is the Australian equivalent of IFRS 15 


9.3


6.3
5.0 4.7


3.5
2.6 2.5


-1.4 -1.4 -1.9


-4.6 -5.4


-8.2


-12.7


(%)


1,776
1,872


1,659


1,325


1,495


1,239 1,241
1,384


718 


884 
988 


1,080 1,099 


1,374 


1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 1Q18 2Q18 3Q18 4Q18 1Q19


(A$m)
Net contract debtors pre IFRS 15 Post IFRS 15


New accounting rules 
on revenue recognition 
will enable CIMIC to 
book large amounts of 
revenue and profits 
twice over
2019 GMT Research Limited Page 3 of 7 





2. Acquisition accounting 
The second method CIMIC appears to have used to inflate profits is acquisition 
accounting with the purchase of UGL in 2016. Suspicions are raised by the large 
reduction in UGL’s net assets on acquisition and the immediate jump in profits 
afterwards. 


An acquiror can boost future profits by writing down the value of the target’s assets, 
such as inventory and fixed assets, or creating additional provisions or other liabilities, 
which can be utilised or reversed in future periods. At its last balance sheet date prior 
to its acquisition in June 2016, UGL had net assets of A$331m. However, this had 
become net liabilities of A$484m when CIMIC consolidated it just a few months later. 
This is a massive reduction for which CIMIC provides no explanation. The total 
difference excluding intangibles of A$559m is roughly the amount by which CIMIC has 
written down UGL’s assets and increased its liabilities. CIMIC would not disclose the 
adjustments made, although it appears mainly due to a big increase in payables. 


Following the acquisition, there was an immediate jump in UGL’s profits; it recorded 
EBIT of A$166m in 2017, its first year under CIMIC’s ownership, compared with just 
A$63m excluding provisions in its final year as an independent company. By 
recognising additional liabilities and probably writing down assets, we think CIMIC 
primed UGL for a rapid increase in profits. We estimate this has boosted CIMIC’s pre-
tax earnings by around A$100m in the last two years. Furthermore, the size of the 
reduction in net assets suggests that CIMIC will be able to boost UGL’s profits for 
several more years. 


3. Minimising losses from Middle Eastern joint venture 
Finally, CIMIC appears to have stopped recognising losses from its 45%-owned Middle 
Eastern JV, BICC (previously HLG Contracting), after its carrying value was reduced to 
zero with the introduction of the new accounting rules on revenue recognition. 
Unfortunately, CIMIC refused to tell us whether it has stopped recognising BICC’s 
losses. BICC contributed a loss of A$93m in 2017 but no details are provided for 2018. 
Its exclusion could explain the big swing in the contribution from joint ventures and 
associates in the income statement from a loss of A$50m in 2017 to a profit of A$59m 
in 2018. In addition, CIMIC has continued to book interest income on loans it has made 
to BICC even though it is not being paid. We estimate that these have boosted CIMIC’s 
profits by around A$50m in each of the last two years, although without more 
information this is largely guesswork.  


Flattering cash flow 
CIMIC has hidden the poor underlying quality of its earnings through increased 
factoring of receivables and reverse factoring of payables, inflows from which are 
treated as operating activities. We estimate total operating cash flow of A$3.1bn in 
the past two years may have been inflated by A$1.4bn, or over 80%. Our estimate is 
supported by the widening gap between average and year-end debt numbers, and 
ballooning non-interest finance costs. 


1. Factoring receivables 
CIMIC explicitly disclosed for the first time in its 2018 annual report its factoring of 
receivables. Increased factoring can create the illusion of operating cash inflows. CIMIC 
refuses to disclose the amounts factored but it is clear that they are large and have 
grown substantially in the last couple of years. An idea of the extent is given by the 
increase in restricted cash relating to the sale of receivables; the year-end balance has 
risen more than threefold from A$167m in 2016 to A$580m in 2018. Assuming a 2:1 
ratio of receivables to restricted cash implies A$1.2bn of receivables had been factored 
at the end of 2018, and indicates an increase of more than A$0.8bn in just the last two 
years. However, CIMIC would not confirm whether this is a reasonable estimate. 


By recognising 
additional liabilities 
and probably writing 
down assets, we think 
CIMIC primed UGL for 
a rapid increase in 
profits 


We estimate total 
operating cash flow of 
A$3.1bn in the past two 
years may have been 
inflated by A$1.4bn, or 
over 80%
2019 GMT Research Limited Page 4 of 7 





2. Reverse factoring of payables 
As well as factoring receivables, CIMIC also revealed its use of “supply chain 
factoring”, commonly known as reverse factoring. As with the sale of receivables, the 
reverse factoring of payables can create the illusion of operating cash inflows by 
extending payment terms. Increased reverse factoring may have boosted operating 
cash flow by around A$0.6bn in the last couple of years. 


Reverse factoring typically involves a company setting up a facility with a bank which 
allows suppliers to present approved invoices for early payment in return for a small 
discount. The company repays the bank on the invoices’ original due date. The facility 
is normally presented as a benefit to suppliers, by giving them the option to be paid 
early. However, its introduction is frequently accompanied by a lengthening of the 
payment period. The amounts owed by the company to the bank remain on its 
balance sheet and, as with CIMIC, continue to be classified as payables rather than 
debt. CIMIC provides no information on the amounts outstanding under its reverse 
factoring facilities, which is not required under current accounting rules. Indeed, one of 
the controversial aspects of the recent insolvency of Carillion, which had been among 
the UK’s largest construction companies, was its failure to disclose the substantial 
amounts due under its reverse factoring facilities.  


A rough estimate of the amounts outstanding can be calculated based on the increase 
in payables. CIMIC’s total payables increased by nearly A$1bn in 2018 alone. Based on 
the increase in payables days over the last few years, we estimate up to A$1.1bn is 
outstanding under reverse factoring facilities, and it has boosted CIMIC’s operating 
cash flow by around A$0.6bn in the last two years. 


High average debt 
Another reason to question the underlying strength of CIMIC’s cash flow is the 
widening gap between period-end gross debt figures and period averages, which 
CIMIC discloses in its average cost of debt calculations. Thus, while CIMIC’s gross debt 
fell to just A$0.5bn at the end of 2018, the average over the year was A$1.9bn, as 
Figure 3 shows, a difference of A$1.4bn, up from close to zero in 2016. We suspect this 
is due to increased factoring/reverse factoring by CIMIC towards period-ends, aimed 
at flattering both its balance sheet and cash flow statement. The size of the gap 
between the two figures also broadly supports our view that CIMIC has boosted 
operating cash flow by around A$1.4bn in the past two years. 


Figure 3: CIMIC average vs year-end gross debt: FY16-FY18 


 
Source: CIMIC, GMT Research 


Increasing non-interest finance costs 
CIMIC has seen a big rise in non-interest finance costs, which have more than doubled 
over the last couple of years, as Figure 4 shows. We suspect the increase is primarily 


1,167


903


523


1,224


1,959 1,939


2016 2017 2018


(A$m) Year end Year average
2019 GMT Research Limited Page 5 of 7 





due to costs incurred in relation to the factoring of receivables. This provides further 
evidence that the company is window-dressing its cash flow statement.  


Figure 4: CIMIC finance costs (excluding lease finance costs): 1Q17-1Q19 


 
Source: CIMIC, GMT Research 


Weak balance sheet 
At first sight, CIMIC appears to have a robust balance sheet with reported net cash of 
A$1.6bn at the end of 2018. However, closer examination suggests a far weaker 
position. Based on the average debt figure, and including leases and guarantees on 
BICC’s debt, we estimate CIMIC has adjusted net debt of around A$1.7bn and a net 
debt-to-equity ratio of 74%. However, CIMIC’s refusal to disclose the extent of its 
factoring and reverse factoring makes it impossible to get a clear picture of its true 
indebtedness. Furthermore, CIMIC’s small tangible equity base is vulnerable to 
external shocks and could easily be wiped out, particularly if it is forced to write down 
the value of unpaid receivables and amounts lent to BICC. 


Unanswered questions 
As part of our research, we sent CIMIC a series of questions. Unfortunately, the 
company failed to provide substantive answers to any of them. Some of the most 
important unanswered questions include: 


1. How much revenue has CIMIC re-recognised since the introduction of the new 
accounting rules on revenue recognition (AASB 15) at the start of 2018? 


2. What fair value adjustments were made on the acquisition of UGL in 2016? 


3. Has CIMIC ceased recognising losses from BICC, its Middle Eastern joint venture? 


4. What was the level of receivables factored at the end of 2017 and 2018? 


5. How much was outstanding under reverse factoring facilities at the end of 2017 
and 2018? 


19 21 20
22


18 17
19 20


14


8 7 8


12


10 13
13


14
19


1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 1Q18 2Q18 3Q18 4Q18 1Q19


(A$m) Debt interest Non-interest finance costs


A far weaker balance 
sheet than reported
2019 GMT Research Limited Page 6 of 7 





Watch our video on CIMIC 







https://www.gmtresearch.com/?p=14783
9th Fl., 30 Hollywood Road, Central, Hong Kong.  
Tel: +852 3707 3140 www.gmtresearch.com 








THE ACCOUNTING PEOPLE 
 


What we do 
GMT Research provides independent insight into markets, sectors and companies throughout Asia. Our 
unique method of mining a comprehensive collection of corporate financial statements for key data allows 
us to evaluate the financial health of a company, sectors and the market at large. We also investigate the 
application of accounting standards by companies and sectors, shedding light on the quality of reported 
profits. Armed with this information, we help investment professionals navigate the financial landscape. 
 





Gillem Tulloch has been a financial analyst since 1994 and has been based in Asia since 
1995, with spells in Singapore, Thailand, Korea and most recently Hong Kong. Over his 
career, Gillem has covered sectors ranging from telecoms to printing to electronics. He 
has achieved top industry rankings in regional polls like Asiamoney and Institutional 
Investor, and has appeared on Bloomberg and Business Week. Gillem has worked in 
research and strategy for several large sell-side institutions, including Cazenove, 
Nomura and CLSA, and founded the independent research company Forensic Asia 
before moving on to establish GMT Research. 





Nigel Stevenson worked for eight years in investment banking at Dresdner Kleinwort 
Wasserstein in London, primarily advising on equity offerings and M&A transactions, 
both in the UK and internationally. He subsequently spent seven years as an equity 
research analyst at Veritas Asset Management, where he was a member of the global 
equities team, primarily focusing on the industrials sector. Nigel is a graduate of 
Cambridge University and a qualified barrister. He has a Masters in Finance from 
London Business School, awarded with distinction, and is a CFA charterholder. 





Mark Webb is a research analyst and chartered accountant. He has been based in Asia 
for 21 years, writing research on transport, logistic and industrial conglomerate 
companies since 1997. Mark has worked for HSBC in equity research in Hong Kong and 
Singapore, and at PricewaterhouseCoopers in London and Hong Kong. 


 
DISCLAIMER 
This document is published and distributed solely for information purposes only and does not serve as investment advice or recommendation of 
any security, strategy or investment product. It is not an advertisement for investment, trading or financial services, nor is it a solicitation to offer for 
the purchase or sale of investment, trading or financial instruments. GMT Research Limited (hereafter GMT Research) is not an affiliate or partner of 
an entity that sells or promotes, securities or other financial and/or investment instruments. GMT Research makes no warranty or guarantee, either 
express or implied, with respect to accuracy, timeliness, completeness or reliability of the information contained in this document. GMT Research, its 
directors, employees, agents and representatives disclaim any and all liability for losses, including but not limited to investment losses, errors or 
damages arising from use of the opinions, comments and information contained in GMT Research’s documents. Readers and subscribers of GMT 
Research’s documents must exercise their own due diligence and seek advice from financial or legal representatives in their relevant jurisdiction in 
making their own judgment. GMT Research is under no obligation to update news information or developments that are in its documents.   
This document is intended for private circulation to GMT Research’s subscribers. GMT Research prohibits the redistribution or circulation of this 
document in whole or in part without its prior written permission. GMT Research shall not be liable for the actions and any resulting damages of any 
third party’s unauthorized circulation or distribution of GMT Research’s documents.
