1
2


Full Legal Disclaimer


This research presentation expresses our research opinions.  You should assume that as of the publication date of any presentation, report or letter, Spruce Point Capital 
Management LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our subscribers and clients has a short 
position in all stocks (and are long/short combinations of puts and calls on the stock) covered herein, including without limitation Kornit Digital Ltd. (“KRNT”), and therefore 
stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any presentation, report or letter, we intend to continue 
transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  All expressions of 
opinion are subject to change without notice, and Spruce Point Capital Management does not undertake to update this report or any information contained herein.  Spruce 
Point Capital Management, subscribers and/or consultants shall have no obligation to inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future 
trading activities.


This research presentation expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon interpretation of certain facts and observations, all of which are based upon 
publicly available information, and all of which are set out in this research presentation.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital. Any 
forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in this report 
may include forward looking statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections. You should assume these types of statements, expectations, pro 
forma analyses, estimates, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s control. This is not investment or 
accounting advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s research is at your own risk. You should do your own research and due 
diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. All figures 
assumed to be in US Dollars, unless specified otherwise.


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state material facts necessary to 
make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that 
was breached by the transmission of information to Spruce Point Capital Management LLC. However, Spruce Point Capital Management LLC recognizes that there may be 
non-public information in the possession of KRNT or other insiders of KRNT that has not been publicly disclosed by KRNT. Therefore, such information contained herein is 
presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as 
to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 


This report’s estimated fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or 
implied as, assessments of the quality of a security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. This is not an offer to sell or a 
solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the 
securities laws of such jurisdiction. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC is not registered as an investment advisor, broker/dealer, or accounting firm.


All rights reserved. This document may not be reproduced or disseminated in whole or in part without the prior written consent of Spruce Point Capital Management 
LLC.
3


Q1 Results Validate Spruce Point’s 
Concerns About Kornit Digital (KRNT)


Concern What Spruce Point Said What Kornit Said
What The 


Evidence Suggests


Sustainability of Amazon Challenges with the Amazon 
relationship


“a global customer contributed 6.7% of our overall 
revenues in the first quarter compared to 7.3% in the 


previous year.”


Revenue growth at Amazon has contracted three quarters in 
a row, and is slowing YoY substantially


Ability To Grow In Japan 
(With Amazon)


Limited presence there with two 
channel partners. Poorly positioned to 


win Amazon’s business there given 
three Japanese competitors in the 


marketplace


“Japan of course is the second biggest market for us in 
Asia Pacific. We have two channel partners that we are 


working very, very closely. We have a small team 
within Japan supporting the channel partner and 
supporting our customers on a daily basis. We see 


Japan is a potential growth engine for Asia Pacific and 
for overall Kornit and we are taking this market very 


seriously”


Evidence still points to Amazon 
preparing entry into Japan


Rebates and Cash Flow
Rebates would compress cash flow in 


2019. Kornit should discuss and disclose 
the impact


No comment on rebates


Cash flow contracted 75% YoY from $1.8m to $0.4m. 
Warrants outstanding to Amazon did not increase in the 


quarter, suggesting that no material gross payments 
aggregating >$5m were made from Amazon 


Ability To Hit 
Revenue Goals


$500m revenue goal is ambitious and 
should be viewed skeptically given it 
was issued with a new CEO, and its 
largest shareholder sold all its stock 


thereafter


“We are on track to reach the goal of $500 million run 
rate of business in 2023”


Kornit’s quarterly revenue guidance keeps getting wider, 
reflecting greater uncertainty. If it is confident in its goal, 


why not issue annual guidance?


Difficulty Evaluating 
Material Customers


Kornit has not been clear about who its 
major customers are


This year: “major customer contributed 16.7%”
Last year: “and a major customer contributed 11.4% of 
our overall revenue in the first quarter compared to 1% 


in the previous year”


Not clear that Kornit has retained its top customer from a 
year ago. Kornit should clarify did it lose a big customer? 


Caution With Distributor 
Acquisition / Revenue 
Recognition Concerns


Distributor acquisitions are generally 
red flags and should be viewed 


skeptically


“Our main U.S. distributor [in previous years] 
contributed 0.2% to our overall revenues compared to 


18.3% in the prior year”


1) Revenue control issues: In Q1’2018 the year prior, Kornit 
said “our main U.S. distributor contributed 19.1% of our 
overall revenue”
2) Evidence that a touted customer is now selling a Hirsch 
promoted product
3) Gross margins collapsed despite acquiring the distributor 
and removing the middleman. What gives?


Kornit’s Q1 2019 results bolster our view that it will be challenged to hit is targets, and should not give investors added 
confidence in management. Earnings came in at $0.03c vs. $0.06c expected. Gross margins missed estimates by 
460bps, and cash flow declined 75% YoY. Spruce Point reiterates its “Strong Sell” view and believes that Kornit’s 


shares price is worth $4.50 - $9.30 per share.
4


Amazon Revenues Slowing


$ in mm Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Q1 2019


Amazon Gross Revenues
YoY Growth


$2.3
N/A


$10.1
26%


$9.1
243%


$7.3
114%


$3.5
53%


As Spruce Point warned, revenues from Amazon have been slowing. Kornit could not give additional clarity 
as to why revenues are slowing. In addition, it did not comment on growth plans with Amazon in Japan. 


Source: Kornit
5


Cash Flow Already Contracting: Down 75% YoY


We warned about the sustainability of Kornit’s cash flow. While investors seem fixated on Kornit’s 22.6% top-
line revenue growth, cash flow continues to be anemic: quarterly conversion of just 1.1% of sales.
6


No More Warrants Issued To Amazon = 
Cash Payments Drying Up


Disclosed Yesterday 
as of 3/31/19


Disclosed in 20-F as 
of 12/31/18


With no more warrants issued in Q1’2019, we can deduce that no more payments from Amazon to Kornit have 
been made. This supports our view that cash flow is likely to decrease.
7


What Does This Guy Know?


Spruce Point finds it highly suspicious that an anonymous Twitter profile with just one tweet was created 
shortly after Kornit’s largest backer sold stock in on December 7, 2018.1 Kornit’s management has not 


answered the basic question: Can it grow to Asia with Amazon?


Source: Twitter


1) Kornit stock sales, SEC.gov



https://twitter.com/GuruPrinter

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1625791/000121390018017016/f424b5120418_kornitdig.htm
8


We Warned About Revenue Recognition 
Concerns At Kornit


A careful review of Kornit’s statements about customer concentration in Q1’19 vs. last year Q2’18 show 
inconsistencies with respect to Hirsch, its related-party distributor just acquired. In addition, Kornit is still not 


being transparent about who is its “Major customer”. 


“Our main US distributor in previous years contributed 0.2% to our overall revenues 
compared to 18.3% in the prior year, and major customer contributed 16.7% and a 
global customer contributed 6.7% of our overall revenues in the first quarter compared to 
7.3% in the previous year.”


“Moving to customer concentration, our main U.S. distributor contributed 19.1% of 
our overall revenue compared to 12% in the prior year, and a major customer 
contributed 11.4% of our overall revenue in the first quarter compared to 1% in the 
previous year.”


Amazon(1)


Q1 2019 
Customer 


Concentration 


Q1 2018 
Customer 


Concentration 


1) When question about Amazon revenues, the CFO referenced “global customer” (transcript)


Who is the “Major 
Customer” and is it 


the same one in 
both years?



https://seekingalpha.com/article/4263706-kornit-digital-ltd-krnt-ceo-ronen-samuel-q1-2019-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
9


Distributor Challenge Very Evident


The termination of the Hirsch distributor deal should be viewed as defensive. There is already evidence that 
Kornit customers are becoming competitors. For example, Dream Junction was promoted as a client 


testimonial. However, now it is clear from its website, that Dream Junction is promoting Hirsch’s OvalJet.


A Kornit Customer 
Touted Under 
Testimonials


Now Selling 
Hirsch’s OvalJet


Source: Kornit website


Source: Dream Junction website


Source: Hirsch OvalJet



https://www.kornit.com/case-study/the-dream-junction/

https://www.thedreamjunction.com/

https://www.hsi.us/Products/Detail/prodid/190/brand/OvalJet/item/OvalJet
10


Gross Margins Contracted Even By Removing 
The Middleman??


Most distributor acquisitions are completed to remove the middleman and boost margins. However, we 
observe the exact opposite at Kornit. Margins significantly contracted, well below analyst estimates.  


Non-GAAP Margins 
(with adjustments) 
Reported at 44.9% 
Down 501bps YoY


Analysts Expected 
49.5% Gross Margins –


460bps Miss


Source: Bloomberg
11


Less Revenue Visibility Speaks Against 
Long-Term Confidence


Next Quarter Sales Guidance Range


$ in mm Low High Delta


Q1 2019 $44.0 $48.0 $4.0 


Q4 2018 $36.5 $39.5 $3.0 


Q3 2018 $37.0 $39.0 $2.0 


Kornit claims it can hit an ambitious revenue target of $500m in 2023. Yet, it cannot offer annual guidance. 
Furthermore, it’s quarterly revenue guidance keeps getting wider, reflective in our view, of increased 


uncertainty and confidence in its outlook.


Source: Kornit
12


Top Unanswered Questions For Management


Why Is Kornit Not Expanding Faster In Japan, When Evidence Shows That 
Amazon Is Expanding Its Merch Program There Next?


Why Does Kornit Always Promote Its Revenue Opportunities, And Why Has 
Kornit Failed To Generate Meaningful Cash Flow?


Why Did Kornit Offer Price Discounts, Warrants and Rebates To Amazon As 
Incentives To Work Together? How Material Are The Rebates And Why Does 
Kornit Claim Hardship In Estimating Them?


How Does Kornit Plan To Solve Its Vinegar-Smelling Production Problem, And 
Does This Jeopardize Its Relationships With Amazon And Other Customers?


Why Is Deferred Revenue Not Growing If Kornit Received More In Payments 
From Amazon, Than Revenues Booked From Amazon In 2018?


?
?


?


?
?


?


? Why Did Kornit Restate Hirsch’s Revenues, And Why Did Gross Margins Go Down Post The Acquisition? 


Who Is Kornit’s “Major Customer” And Is It The Same Customer In 
Q1 2018 and Q1 2019?
