We are short shares of CareDx, a $1.7bn diagnostics company whose share price has 
increased by 30x over just the last two years and now trades at over 18x sales. The meteoric 
rise and generous valuation have come in the wake of excitement over the commercialization of 
AlloSure, a blood test intended to identify organ rejection in kidney transplant recipients. 
Transplant nephrologists have long used measures of kidney function to assess the probability 
of rejection, with a tissue biopsy providing a definitive diagnosis. To hear CareDx tell it, AlloSure 
is the long sought-after silver bullet for rejection diagnosis, with the potential to “revolutionize the 
treatment of kidney transplant patients.” It can help physicians “detect rejection of a donated 
organ earlier and more accurately” than traditional blood-based measures of kidney function 
and “reduce the use of invasive biopsies.” [emphasis added] 


But alas, as hard as CareDx has tried to finesse the numbers into telling a good story, it’s 
difficult to escape the simple fact that AlloSure is mostly useless, and potentially dangerous if 
used improperly. It should be obvious that a diagnostic test for transplant rejection that misses 
about 40% of rejections compared to the current standard of care has little place in clinical 
practice. But the stars have fortuitously aligned for CareDx: under the financial cover of broad 
(but provisional) Medicare coverage, the company has enlisted dozens of influential transplant 
researchers in the country’s largest clinics to conduct numerous large-scale studies evaluating 
AlloSure. The hope is to conclusively proclaim its status as a diagnostic panacea. 


The data coming out of those studies, though, is exceptionally poor, even as AlloSure revenues 
are overwhelmingly comprised of utilization in those studies. That leaves CareDx in a precarious 
position, particularly as physicians wise up to the futility of AlloSure. We calculate that CareDx 
has faced a quarterly attrition rate on AlloSure’s surveillance patient population of 20-30%. 
That’s staggering for a diagnostic test with a captive patient population, particularly one that’s 
paid for almost entirely by Medicare. It’s perhaps less surprising when viewed in the context of 
the continuous trickle of papers and data revealing AlloSure’s futility in identifying the most 
common types of kidney rejection.  


That data will present an even bigger obstacle for CareDx when Medicare reconsiders its 
coverage parameters, which are conditional on the results of a large clinical trial under way. It’s 
already clear, in our view, that AlloSure won’t be able to serve as a diagnostic tool in the way it 
was originally envisioned, which would jeopardize Medicare coverage. It’s therefore 
unsurprising to see that, in an attempt to stay relevant, recent AlloSure research sponsored by 
CareDx has been pivoting hard, aiming to prove AlloSure’s worth in a subset of the overall 
kidney transplant market. The problem, as we shall see, is that the subset being targeted is a 
fraction of the $2 billion that CareDx has declared its addressable market.  


To make matters worse, several competing rejection diagnostic tests are slated to hit the market 
in the next few months, fresh off their own provisional Medicare coverage approvals. Some 
have similar mechanisms of action as AlloSure but promise to be more accurate and potentially 
cheaper. Others have novel mechanisms based on genomic markers and are backed by 
impressive clinical evidence. They will now get the chance to vie for their own place in clinical 
studies, and we expect them to hasten the unraveling of AlloSure that’s already under way. 
CareDx, reliant on a single ineffective test, will soon confront its own terminal diagnosis. 


    
July 2019 


CareDx, Inc. (CDNA) 
Pivotal Kidney Transplant Test Headed for Rejection 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in and own option interests on the stock of CareDX, Inc. 
(the “Company”). Kerrisdale stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. 
Following publication, Kerrisdale may transact in the securities of the Company. All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Kerrisdale does not undertake to update this report or any 
information herein. Please read our full legal disclaimer at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 2 








Table of Contents 
I. INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS .......................................................................................................... 3 


II. COMPANY OVERVIEW ..................................................................................................................... 8 


III. CLINICAL DATA SHOW THAT ALLOSURE IS INSENSITIVE IN DISCRIMINATING 
KIDNEY REJECTION, WITH AN UNACCEPTABLE MISS RATE ............................................ 12 


AlloSure is fundamentally incapable of identifying the most common type of kidney rejection ...................... 14 
Recent clinical literature paints a uniformly negative picture of AlloSure’s clinical utility ................................. 16 


IV. ALLOSURE REVENUES OVERWHELMINGLY COME FROM PROTOCOL USAGE IN 
CLINICAL TESTING, WHICH IS SUFFERING 20-30% QUARTERLY ATTRITION .............. 20 


V. ALLOSURE IS VULNERABLE TO BOTH INCREASING COMPETITION AND MEDICARE 
RISK ..................................................................................................................................................... 23 


AlloSure faces significant competition in the near term and almost certain obsolescence over time .............. 23 
The TAM for AlloSure is a fraction of CareDX’s claims and Medicare coverage will be scaled back 
accordingly .................................................................................................................................................................... 25 


VI. VALUATION AND CONCLUSION ................................................................................................. 27 


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ...................................................................................................................... 28
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





I. Investment Highlights 
 
AlloSure is ineffective in identifying kidney rejection. The gold standard of kidney rejection 
diagnosis for transplant recipients is a biopsy. Kidney transplant recipients are subject to 
ongoing monitoring post-transplant, during which they undergo routine screening to assess 
kidney function.  Abnormal serum creatinine or, less frequently, high urine protein levels are 
typically the first sign(s) of decreased kidney function. If they lead to suspicion of rejection, a 
biopsy is performed and examined in order to determine whether the kidney is suffering from 
rejection. 
 
But creatinine is an admittedly flawed marker: 
• False Positive Rate. Creatinine levels are an indicator of kidney function, and rejection is 


just one of several reasons they may be elevated. As a marker of kidney rejection, the false 
positive rate is high, as only about a third of biopsies that are performed due to elevated 
creatinine are diagnosed as rejection.  


• False Negative Rate. Rejection can occur with no short-term loss of kidney function, and 
creatinine measurements are incapable of picking up rejection in such cases. This 
phenomenon, called “subclinical” rejection, is estimated to occur in 15-35% of transplant 
recipients that have normal creatinine measurements. 


 
The field of nephrology has long pursued a noninvasive biomarker of kidney rejection that would 
a) eliminate the false positive problem, thereby reducing unnecessary biopsies and b) detect 
subclinical kidney rejection. AlloSure – the diagnostic test responsible for most of CareDx’s 
market capitalization – is the first attempt (but certainly not the last) to commercialize such a 
biomarker. In CareDx’s telling, AlloSure provides “precise, actionable results” and is “more 
accurate than serum creatinine in diagnosis of active rejection.” It also provides a “sensitive, 
accurate, and precise measure of organ health.” We believe that the underlying message – that 
AlloSure is a precise method that can be used to establish the presence or absence of kidney 
rejection – couldn’t be further from the truth. 
 
Every single clinical paper and study of AlloSure leads, in our view, to one inescapable 
conclusion: AlloSure is an utter failure as a comprehensive biomarker of rejection. In fact, 
based on the flagship paper1 used by CareDx to demonstrate the test’s clinical utility, doctors 
using AlloSure to rule out rejection, as per the company’s marketing materials, would miss 
about 40% of rejection episodes that would otherwise be detected using the current standard of 
care. In the course of our diligence we found that in some clinics doctors have begun using 
AlloSure to diagnose rejection, and we believe this puts a significant number of kidney 
transplant recipients at unnecessary risk. Abnormal creatinine levels may overdiagnose 


                                                 
1 Bloom RD., Bromberg JS, Poggio ED, et al. Cell-Free DNA and Active Rejection in Kidney Allografts. J Am Soc 
Nephrol 2017; 28:2221 



http://www.allosure.com/

http://www.allosure.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/LK-10403-AlloSure-Core-Sales-Aid-Brochure_Rev3_SPREAD.pdf

https://jasn.asnjournals.org/content/28/7/2221
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 4 





rejection (high false positive rate), but AlloSure presents the much more severe problem of 
underdiagnosing rejection (high false negative rate).2 
 
What about subclinical rejection, which goes undetected by creatinine measurement? In 
CareDx’s DART clinical trial, only 3.9% of a reference cohort of patients who exhibited no signs 
of impaired kidney function tested positive for kidney rejection using AlloSure.3 But studies 
documenting the results of surveillance biopsies reveal that the subclinical rejection rate ranges 
from 15-35%. In other words, AlloSure misses the overwhelming majority of subclinical 
rejection episodes, and that’s ignoring the false positives in that 3.9% number.  
 
More recent studies confirm the problems with AlloSure implicit in the DART trial and cast 
further doubt on the accuracy of the test, strongly suggesting that AlloSure is structurally 
incapable of identifying T-Cell-Mediated Rejection (TCMR), by far the most common type of 
acute rejection. The consistent weakness of AlloSure across multiple studies is that, in statistical 
parlance, its sensitivity – the probability that the test result will be positive given the occurrence 
of rejection – is so low as to make the results unreliable at best, and dangerous if misused. 
 
AlloSure’s commercial success is unsustainably built on collapsing clinical-study usage 
and conditional Medicare coverage. If AlloSure is such a poor biomarker, how did it reach a 
~$45 million annual revenue run rate in less than 18 months? As a Laboratory Developed Test 
(LDT), the only barrier to commercialization was payor coverage, and over 90% of kidney 
transplant procedures qualify for Medicare coverage, which includes all medical care for 3 years 
post-transplant. So the only third party payor that really matters for AlloSure (for now) is 
Medicare, which is fortunate because LDTs can obtain broad Medicare coverage just by 
competently navigating the MolDX program.  
 
MolDX, short for Molecular Diagnostic Services, is a program run by Palmetto GBA, a Medicare 
Administrative Contractor (MAC) in the Southeast, and set up in 2011 in order to manage the 
growing number of genetic and molecular diagnostic LDTs. Most of the MACs have outsourced 
their LDT coverage decisions to MolDX, so the program is effectively a gateway to national 
coverage and reimbursement for any LDT. To get a Local Coverage Determination (LCD) from 
MolDX, a test must pass a technical assessment, which involves subject matter experts 
determining whether it has demonstrated “analytical validity, clinical validity, and clinical utility.”  
 
MolDX will normally grant an LCD even with limited evidence of clinical utility, conditional upon 
further research that is expected to prove clinical utility. The LCD for AlloSure states that MolDX 
“recognizes that the evidence of clinical utility for the use of AlloSure in its intended use 
population is promising at the current time. However, this contractor believes that forthcoming 


                                                 
2 CareDx can technically claim that AlloSure is “more accurate” than serum creatinine measurement because it has a 
lower rate of false positives. But accuracy is not the goal of rejection testing, rather, detecting rejection is. 
3 Bromberg JS, Brennan DC, Poggio E, et al. Biological Variation of Donor-Derived Cell-Free DNA in Renal 
Transplant Recipients: Clinical Implications. J Appl Lab Med 2017; 2:309 



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/record/NCT02424227

https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/vitro-diagnostics/laboratory-developed-tests

https://www.palmettogba.com/palmetto/MolDX.nsf

https://www.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/details/lcd-details.aspx?LCDId=37266

http://jalm.aaccjnls.org/content/early/2017/04/04/jalm.2016.022731

http://jalm.aaccjnls.org/content/early/2017/04/04/jalm.2016.022731
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





prospective clinical studies will demonstrate improved patient outcomes. Continued coverage 
for AlloSure testing is dependent on annual review by this contractor of such data and 
publications.” [emphasis added] For now, though, AlloSure is covered and reimbursable for any 
kidney transplant recipient covered by Medicare. 
 
That LCD went into effect on October 2, 2017, which partly explains the AlloSure revenue ramp 
that started in the fourth quarter of 2017. But it’s also worth putting AlloSure into the more 
general context of organ rejection research. The transplant community has always dreamed of a 
noninvasive “silver bullet” to detect organ rejection, and the genomic revolution has brought with 
it hope that such a test could be developed. AlloSure measures the quantity of donor-derived 
cell-free DNA (dd-cfDNA) in the patient’s blood stream, and the hypothesis that cfDNA might 
signal organ rejection was first advanced as far back as 1998. Research on the matter started 
gaining momentum in 2011 and, since then, small studies of cfDNA as a rejection marker in 
heart, lung, and kidney transplants showed promise but were inconclusive. Even the March 
2017 flagship paper that arose out of CareDx’s DART study was small (102 patients, only 27 of 
whom were diagnosed with rejection) and while “promising” (in the words of MolDX), it was far 
from conclusive.  
 
The LCD from MolDX in late 2017 essentially subsidized further studies of cfDNA by providing 
reimbursement for AlloSure, which flung open the door for large-scale studies to take place. 
cfDNA, which had been the subject of intense speculation and curiosity for a decade, could now 
be studied as a noninvasive rejection biomarker in large numbers and at negligible cost. On top 
of the latent demand for studying cfDNA, CareDx shrewdly provided financial support and 
funding to renowned transplant nephrologists in over two dozen of the largest clinics nationwide, 
ensuring a steady stream of multi-year studies that would provide “recurring” demand for 
AlloSure tests. The company also immediately began enrollment on a massive 1000-patient 
clinical trial (KOAR), which, in the company’s own words, would “include approximately 10,000 
reimbursed AlloSure tests over the next 3 years, thus representing incremental AlloSure volume 
as well as another revenue driver going forward.”4  
 
As with the routine screening of transplant recipients (see below), AlloSure usage is being 
studied on a protocol basis, with CareDx routinely disclosing on earnings calls the number of 
patients on an AlloSure surveillance protocol. Recently, the company has disclosed a quarterly 
attrition rate of 10% for these surveillance patients. While that still implies an incredible 35% 
annual drop-out rate, we believe that the real attrition rate is much higher. Given the historical 
disclosure of quarterly surveillance patients, and recent disclosures regarding the total number 
of patients who have ever been provided AlloSure results, we calculate an attrition rate for 
surveillance patients of approximately 20-30% per quarter, or a staggering 70% annually. 
Consider that CareDx has provided results to “over 8,000 patients” in the span of 6 quarters, 
and yet only about 3600 patients are currently on an AlloSure surveillance protocol. 


                                                 
4 11/9/2017 – CareDx Fiscal 2017 Third Quarter Earnings Call 



https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673605790553

https://jasn.asnjournals.org/content/28/7/2221

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03326076
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





 
The disclosures also suggest that over 90% of AlloSure revenue comes from these surveillance 
patients. Ironically, AlloSure’s revenue comes almost entirely from transplant clinics studying it 
as a routine screening tool, but finding it so inadequate that they rapidly drop it. We expect the 
patient recruitment treadmill will soon become impossible to outrun. 
 


National Kidney Foundation Routine Screening Guidelines for Clinicians 
 





Source: National Kidney Foundation: Managing Kidney Transplant Recipients  
 


 
Poor clinical results leave CareDx open to significant regulatory and competitive risks. In 
addition to massive patient attrition, CareDx faces the risk of Medicare scaling back coverage. 
For AlloSure to secure broad permanent MolDX coverage, it will need to show that it can 
“[identify] renal transplant recipients who may use AlloSure testing in the first year post 
transplant to safely avoid unnecessary procedures and/or interventions.” In other words, it 
needs to obviate a biopsy by conclusively ruling out rejection in transplant patients. As 
mentioned above and detailed below, the data unambiguously show that’s implausible. But in 
patients with biopsy-diagnosed antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) – a small subset of total 
transplant recipients – AlloSure might effectively monitor the progress of treatment over time. 
That’s a very niche market compared to CareDx’s preferred regiment of testing all transplant 
recipients several times annually for years. CareDx sizes its market at $2 billion, while the 
ABMR-monitoring market size is closer to ~$100 million. We expect that after evaluation of the 
KOAR data (in 2022), Medicare coverage will thus be significantly scaled back. 
 



https://www.kidney.org/sites/default/files/02-50-4080_ABB_ManagingTransRecipBk_Neph.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





At the same time, the same structural processes that helped AlloSure (at least temporarily) are 
allowing competitors to validate other diagnostic rejection tests, and at least two have already 
received a preliminary LCD from MolDX granting Medicare coverage. One of these is a dd-
cfDNA test from Natera, a company that has a long history of using cfDNA in prenatal 
applications. We are skeptical about the ability of cfDNA to significantly impact kidney transplant 
diagnostics, but Natera may be able to measure cfDNA more accurately, and has a cost 
structure low enough to significantly undercut AlloSure on price. There are also other cfDNA 
assays that could be commercialized rapidly, as well as new genomic tests that are aimed at 
precision diagnosis of specific kinds of organ rejection. 
 
CareDx scored reimbursement support for a test whose mechanism of action has been a 
curiosity for decades. But commercialization is a double edged sword: the rigorous testing it has 
catalyzed is coming up empty, driving rapid patient attrition and putting the company at risk of 
both losing Medicare coverage and being run over by competition.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





II. Company Overview 
 


CareDx: Capitalization and Financial Results 
 





Source: company filings, Kerrisdale analysis  
 


 
CareDx considers itself “an international transplant diagnostics company with product offerings 
along the pre- and post-transplant continuum.” In that (somewhat hyperbolic) vein, the company 
mainly provides two diagnostic test services, AlloMap and AlloSure, as well as HLA-typing 
products used by transplant clinics to match donor organs with recipients. AlloMap is a gene 
expression test used in routine screening of heart transplant recipients in order to rule out acute 
cellular rejection. The test was first commercialized in 2006 and has been moderately 
successful, though bound by the relatively small number of heart transplants performed in the 
US each year (~2,000). On its own, AlloMap was never more than marginally profitable, and we 
think its stand-alone value is negligible. The same can broadly be said for the company’s HLA-
typing business. 
 
AlloSure, the primary subject of this report, targets the much larger kidney transplant market 
(21,167 transplant procedures were performed in the US in 2018).5 By measuring the levels of 
donor-derived cell-free DNA (dd-cfDNA) in the transplant recipient’s blood, AlloSure aims to be 
an accurate biomarker of kidney rejection, helping physicians “detect rejection of a donated 
organ earlier and more accurately” than the current standard of care, and “reduce the use of 
invasive biopsies,”6 which are currently the only way to accurately assess whether a patient is 
suffering rejection. 
 
Rejection, though, is a loaded term. In the general sense, it describes the phenomenon of the 
transplant recipient’s immune system attacking and damaging the implanted kidney. But there 
are a few different kinds of rejection:7 


                                                 
5 According to the United Network for Organ Sharing 
6 CareDx 2018 10-K, Item 1, Company Overview  
7 This discussion keeps the descriptions of the various types of rejection relatively simple. For detailed descriptions of 
the histopathology of various types of kidney rejection, see the review of the Banff 2017 conference here. 


Capitalization Financial Results
Share price ($) 37.40$  2016 2017 2018 TTM
Fully diluted shares (mm): Revenue 41$       48$       77$       88$       


Shares outstanding 41.9      EBITDA (13)        (13)        (10)        (11)        
Dilutive impact of options/RSUs 3.1        EBITDA Margin -31% -27% -13% -12%


Total 45.0      


Fully diluted market cap (mm) 1,685$  AlloSure Rev. (est) -$      0.4$      21.1$    30.9$    
Less: cash 57         


Enterprise value 1,627$  
EV/revenue (trailing) 18.4x



https://unos.org/data/transplant-trends/

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1217234/000156459019006533/cdna-10k_20181231.htm#ITEM_1_BUSINESS

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/ajt.14625
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





• T-Cell-Mediated Rejection (TCMR/CMR) – also called cellular rejection, is generally marked 
by inflammation of kidney tubules and interstitial matter. In more severe cases, the inner 
arterial wall of the kidney becomes inflamed. In less severe cases, where the 
tubule/interstitial inflammation is minimal, cellular rejection can be labeled “borderline”. 


• Acute Antibody-Mediated Rejection (AMR/ABMR) – is marked by 1) inflammation of the 
vasculature of the kidney and 2) antibody-caused injury8 to the renal endothelium (the 
interior walls of the blood vessels running through the kidney). True to its name, AMR is 
almost always accompanied by donor-specific antibodies (DSA, or antibodies that 
specifically target the unique cellular receptors associated with the donated kidney). 


• Chronic AMR – is similar to acute AMR, but is labeled “chronic” if, based on the examination 
of the biopsy tissue, the damage is so severe that it’s clear that the immune system attack 
has been ongoing for a while. 


 
Diagnosing Rejection 
 
The precise parameters of a kidney rejection episode – i.e., the type of rejection (AMR vs. 
CMR), the immune processes responsible, the parts of the kidney that are being damaged, etc. 
– are only discoverable via biopsy. But kidney biopsies are not normally a routine monitoring 
mechanism because performing them regularly on every single transplant recipient is seen as 
overkill. While some transplant clinics do perform such “protocol biopsies,”9 most clinics monitor 
kidney function through routine measurement of serum creatinine and, to a lesser extent, 
albumin in the urine, both of which are cheaply and accurately obtainable. Healthy kidneys filter 
creatinine from the blood while allowing protein to remain in the blood stream, so elevated 
serum creatinine levels or protein in urine (proteinuria) signal impaired kidney function.  
 
After consideration of patient-specific factors and ruling out other potential causes of abnormal 
creatinine or proteinuria, if kidney rejection is suspected, a biopsy is performed. The biopsy 
examination of the kidney tissue by a pathologist is the ultimate arbiter of whether the patient is 
suffering from transplant rejection. 
 
But relying on kidney function as the first sign that a transplant might be rejecting is less than 
ideal. First of all, it’s not very “specific,” which means that decreased kidney function could be a 
sign of rejection, but it could also be a sign of other problems such as dehydration, infection, or 
other kidney injuries. Biopsies performed due to elevated creatinine/proteinuria therefore come 
back negative for rejection over half the time. 
 
Kidney function is also not a very “sensitive” indicator of kidney rejection, which means that 
there’s a lot of rejection taking place that doesn’t get picked up by serum creatinine 
measurement. Transplant clinics that perform protocol biopsies have published studies on the 


                                                 
8 Generally indicated on a biopsy by a phenomenon called C4d staining 
9 Protocol biopsies are biopsies performed routinely for screening purposes, generally in the year after the transplant 
surgery. By contrast, biopsies performed due to suspicion of rejection or other kidney injury are called “indication 
biopsies.” Protocol biopsies mostly come back negative, are expensive, carry a small risk of severe bleeding, and 
would be a logistical impossibility for most transplant clinics to perform. 



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3771104/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 10 





frequency of rejection diagnoses that result from these biopsies, and it’s clear that plenty of 
rejection episodes happen with no falloff in kidney function. The simplest explanation for this is 
that a loss of kidney function is often the end-result of rejection, but the actual immune system 
attack begins earlier and only manifests itself in impaired kidney function after a sustained 
period of activity. It’s also possible for immune activity to be temporarily heightened, leading to a 
case of temporary rejection that never advances to the point of declining kidney function.  
 
Kidney rejection in the absence of reduced kidney function is called “subclinical rejection” 
because of its ability to evade detection. It is generally believed that enough time spent in a 
state of subclinical rejection eventually results in chronic AMR or severe TCMR.10 Over the last 
decade, multiple studies of protocol biopsy data have estimated the incidence of subclinical 
rejection to be anywhere in the range of 10-30% of biopsy samples.11 That means much, maybe 
most, of kidney rejection goes undetected and untreated, potentially with negative 
consequences for long term graft survival. 
 
Another problem with diagnosing “rejection” is that each type of rejection – TCMR vs. AMR vs. 
Chronic AMR – is treated differently. Even if there were a test that could perfectly discriminate 
“rejection,” a biopsy would still be necessary for a more granular diagnosis that would inform the 
subsequent treatment. 
 
Cell-Free DNA 
 
The limitations of kidney function markers like creatinine and proteinuria have been understood 
for decades. But no noninvasive diagnostic test or screening protocol has been shown to 
improve the means of detecting rejection, either through avoiding unnecessary biopsies 
(increased specificity) or by identifying subclinical rejection (increased sensitivity). AlloSure is 
really the first attempt at improving upon the long-standing status quo to be studied on a large 
scale. 
 
AlloSure is CareDx’s brand name for a test that measures the proportional quantity of donor-
derived cell-free DNA (dd-cfDNA) in a transplant recipient’s bloodstream. cfDNA is freely 
circulating DNA that’s released from the cell nucleus upon cell death and ends up in the 
bloodstream. There’s always some amount of cfDNA in a person’s blood stream, a natural result 
of the perfectly normal process of apoptosis. Over the past decade, fetal cfDNA in the blood of 
expectant mothers has been tested in order to detect potential genetic disorders in the fetus. 
Tumor cfDNA has also been used more recently as a “liquid biopsy” in a variety of oncologic 
applications, including as a potential marker of residual disease after tumor resection and as a 
trove of potentially useful genomic information pertaining to the cancer.  
 


                                                 
10 Mehta R, Sood P, Hariharan S. Subclinical Rejection in Renal Transplantation: Reappraised. Transplantation. 
2016;100(8):1610‐1618. 
11 Ibid. See also Friedewald, JJ, Kurian, SM, Heilman, RL, et al. Development and clinical validity of a novel blood‐
based molecular biomarker for sub‐clinical acute rejection following kidney transplant. Am J Transplant. 2019; 19: 98‐ 
109. 



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apoptosis

https://journals.lww.com/transplantjournal/FullText/2016/08000/Subclinical_Rejection_in_Renal_Transplantation__.13.aspx

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajt.15011

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajt.15011
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 11 





In the transplant setting, the goal of a dd-cfDNA test is to quantify the proportion of cfDNA in the 
transplant recipient’s bloodstream that’s coming directly from the donated kidney. The logic is 
that the DNA of kidney cells, which are quite literally from another person, is different than the 
DNA of the transplant recipient. If the proportion of the donor cfDNA relative to native cfDNA is 
abnormally high in the blood, that would indicate some sort of injury to the kidney that’s resulting 
in an elevated rate of kidney cell death. In theory, the only kind of injury that would cause that 
sort of event cascade is kidney rejection.  
 
The idea of quantifying the proportion of dd-cfDNA as a marker of kidney injury was first 
hypothesized in the late 1990’s by Dennis Lo and his team at the Chinese University of Hong 
Kong. As the costs of genetic amplification and sequencing technologies declined, the study of 
cfDNA in transplant recipients gained momentum. Stephen Quake, who would found 
ImmuMetrix to commercialize this technology (and then sell it to CareDx in 2014), published the 
first of many papers on cfDNA and transplants in early 2011 with the hopeful title, “Universal 
noninvasive detection of solid organ transplant rejection.”12  
 
In the almost-decade since then, hundreds of articles have been written about small-scale 
experiments in the use of dd-cfDNA to detect organ rejection. These papers can generally be 
described as hopeful, but inconclusive: they almost all find some positive correlation between 
levels of dd-cfDNA and transplant rejection, but the statistical relationship is rarely good enough 
to justify clinical usage (especially at scale). Nevertheless, there’s almost always hope that with 
a bit of improvement and some large scale testing, the concept could work. Thus, in 2015, a 
review of cfDNA studies in the American Journal of Transplantation noted that 
 


Although dd-cfDNA is an interesting and promising marker of solid transplant organ 
health, much work still needs to be done before clinical implementation…In conclusion, 
whereas observational studies published so far point to dd-cfDNA as a promising marker 
in the transplantation field, randomized control studies are mandatory comparing a dd-
cfDNA-based monitoring strategy with the standard post-transplantation monitoring in 
terms of graft and patient survival.13 


 
With the achievement of Medicare coverage and reimbursement in mid-2017, large scale 
subsidized studies of dd-cfDNA became possible. The results don’t bode well for AlloSure. 
 
 


                                                 
12 Snyder TM, et al. Universal noninvasive detection of solid organ transplant rejection. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 
2011;108(15):6229–6234. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1013924108. 
13 Gielis EM, et al. Cell-Free DNA: An Upcoming Biomarker in Transplantation. Am J Transplant 2015;15:2541–2551. 



https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673605790553

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3076856/

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/ajt.13387
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 12 





III. Clinical Data Show that AlloSure is Insensitive in 
Discriminating Kidney Rejection, with an Unacceptable 
Miss Rate 


 
Screening tests have to be really cheap, and in kidney, serum creatinine and proteinuria 
are very good tests. They’re actually excellent tests. And you’re going to have to do very 
well to beat serum creatinine and proteinuria by enough to justify a thousand dollar test if 
you’re doing screening. [emphasis in the original] 


Dr. Philip Halloran, Inventor of the Molecular Microscope14 
 


CareDx clearly positions AlloSure as a kidney rejection test that makes up for the weaknesses 
of serum creatinine, as the latter is “nonspecific as to cause and not sensitive, as serum 
creatinine may only be detected after significant and irreversible renal function loss has 
occurred.” AlloSure is meant to be incorporated into the routine screening protocols used by 
transplant centers: “The AlloSure recommended testing protocol,” according to CareDx, 
“includes 7 tests during the first year [post-transplant] followed by quarterly testing in the second 
year and beyond.”15 
 
To assess whether AlloSure is really an improvement over the current standard of care (SOC), 
which relies on creatinine and proteinuria measurement, two questions must be answered: 
• Can AlloSure safely be used to avoid unnecessary biopsies? Over half of the biopsies 


triggered by impaired kidney function come back negative for rejection. Biopsies are 
invasive and carry some small risk of bleeding, so avoiding unnecessary biopsies, without 
concomitantly avoiding the necessary ones, would be a genuine improvement on the status 
quo. In statistical terminology: can AlloSure reduce the rate of false positives without 
introducing new false negatives? 


• Can AlloSure be used to detect subclinical rejection, i.e., rejection that’s currently missed by 
just testing for creatinine and proteinuria? 


 
Based on our wide-ranging conversations with transplant physicians, as well as an exhaustive 
review of the clinical literature, the answer to both of the above questions is clearly, No. Let’s 
start with the seminal AlloSure paper by Bloom et al., which is used by CareDx as the basis for 
their marketing materials and “results interpretation” guide, both meant for physicians. The study 
focuses on 102 of the 384 patients in CareDx’s DART clinical trial, which was conducted in 
order to validate AlloSure as an accurate measure of dd-cfDNA.16 The 102 patients represent all 
the patients in the DART trial that had undergone an indication-biopsy (i.e., due to elevated 


                                                 
14 Halloran is a world renowned transplant pathologist and the founding editor of the American Journal of 
Transplantation. Halloran’s comments were made in a speech he gave to the Henry Ford Transplant Institute in June, 
2017. 
15 Comments by CEO Peter Maag on 11/9/2017 during the 2017 Q3 Earnings Call 
16 The DART trial was not meant to evaluate the accuracy of AlloSure in detecting rejection. For that, CareDx is 
conducting the KOAR trial, the failure of which we argue can now be predicted with a high degree of confidence. 



https://www.molecular-microscope.com/

https://jasn.asnjournals.org/content/jnephrol/28/7/2221.full.pdf

http://www.allosure.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/LK-10403-AlloSure-Core-Sales-Aid-Brochure_Rev3_SPREAD.pdf

http://www.allosure.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/LT-10057-AlloSure-Test-Results-Interpretation-Guide-Rev3.pdf

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/record/NCT02424227

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IDO8FzhgJuk&list=PL9pTsWY7rgXYwSt8EyVsMk8HBnCILPzSw

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03326076
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 13 





creatinine/proteinuria) and also had an AlloSure test taken before the biopsy. In all, there were 
107 paired AlloSure/biopsy results, all with a positive creatinine/proteinuria test.  
 
Even with a biased sample (every sample was from a patient with some sort of kidney 
dysfunction as measured by creatinine/proteinuria), the data is damning. “Sensitivity” is a 
diagnostic test’s ability to correctly detect patients who have the condition being tested for. 
Using 1% as the diagnostic threshold,17 dd-cfDNA had a sensitivity of 59%. In other words, in 
the biopsies diagnosed as rejection, AlloSure would have detected only 59% of them, and 
would have missed 41% of rejection episodes. Can AlloSure be used to avoid unnecessary 
biopsies? Maybe, but apparently at the cost of missing 40% of the necessary biopsies.  
 
This goes directly to the heart of CareDx’s major claims about AlloSure, namely that: 
• It’s more accurate than creatinine in discriminating rejection.  
• It can therefore be used to rule out rejection if creatinine is positive but AlloSure is negative.  
 
It’s technically true that, in this particular study, AlloSure was more accurate than creatinine. But 
“accuracy” is a statistical term, an artifact of the number of false positives and false negatives. 
Accuracy doesn’t account for the severity of the false result. In the case of kidney rejection, a 
false negative can result in organ failure, while a false positive means a relatively low-risk, but 
unnecessary biopsy. You’d rather over-diagnose than under-diagnose given the consequences. 
Creatinine indeed chalked up lots of false positives in the study (75%), while AlloSure had a 
lower rate of false positives (39%) and a seemingly low rate of false negatives (16%). CareDx 
touts the low false negative rate to show that AlloSure can be used to rule out rejection. But 
that’s incredibly misleading: it’s true that of 77 AlloSure tests that came back negative, “only” 12 
tested positive for rejection on biopsy (16%). But missing 12 cases of rejection out of 27 is an 
unmitigated failure, and reveals the inability – and risk – of using AlloSure to rule out rejection. 
 
We note that the numbers from the study actually overstate AlloSure’s sensitivity because they 
don’t account for cases of borderline rejection, a phenomenon that’s frequently treated by 
nephrologists as low-grade rejection. Had borderline rejection been considered, AlloSure’s miss 
rate would have been just over 60%. 
 
In our discussions with transplant physicians, all but one – a co-author on the Bloom paper and 
a consultant to CareDx – maintained that a negative AlloSure couldn’t reassure them in the 
presence of impaired kidney function; a biopsy would be essential in such a circumstance. Even 
physicians with financial ties to CareDx agreed that AlloSure can’t be used as a rule-out method 
in the way that CareDx is marketing it, and that it would be dangerous to do so. 
 
Because the Bloom study’s patient population all tested positive for impaired kidney function, 
the study can’t say much about subclinical rejection. But other studies of the DART data can: 
                                                 
17 The 1% threshold is defined in terms of the proportion of cfDNA in the blood that can be identified as donor-
derived. An AlloSure >1% comes back positive, and <1% it comes back negative. This is another significant bias of 
the study as the threshold was chosen by the authors on an ex-post basis, and conveniently optimizes for statistical 
accuracy.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 14 





• In a paper published in the Journal of Applied Laboratory Medicine, Bromberg and co-
authors looked at a different subset of the DART population: the 93 of 384 patients who 
demonstrated stable kidney function throughout the trial with no infections or other clinical 
events. All patients in the sample had 3 or more AlloSure tests, for a total of 380 AlloSure 
results, 3.7% of which were positive for rejection (i.e., expressed dd-cfDNA levels >1%).  


• In a poster presented at the 2018 American Transplant Congress, Narayanan and 
colleagues examined yet another subset of the DART trial population: 202 of the 384 
patients who were not diagnosed with rejection throughout the trial. This subset was more 
than double the size of that referenced in the previous bullet point, and included patients 
who at times tested positive for impaired kidney function, as well as patients who were 
biopsied for cause or suffered from graft infections. This group had a total of 1152 AlloSure 
results, 5.5% of which were positive for rejection. 


 
The 3.7% and 5.5% positive rates in the aforementioned studies are indicative of a failure to 
detect subclinical rejection. Even assuming every single positive AlloSure result in these groups 
was accurate,18 subclinical rejection rates are on the order of 10-35%, which means AlloSure is 
missing almost all it.19  
 


AlloSure is fundamentally incapable of identifying the most common 
type of kidney rejection 
 
The study published by Bloom et al. raises the possibility that AlloSure can more accurately 
identify Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) than T-Cell-Mediated Rejection (TCMR). While 
AlloSure identified only 59% of all rejection episodes in patients with impaired kidney function, it 
identified 81% of rejection episodes classified as AMR. The authors tersely note that the 
divergence of AlloSure accuracy “has potential to provide additional information…in the 
diagnosis, management, and treatment of AMR.” We believe that the divergence – which has 
been substantially confirmed in recent clinical literature – amounts to an indictment of AlloSure’s 
clinical utility as well as CareDx’s entire business model.  
 
The CareDx-sponsored study conveniently shows AlloSure’s accuracy in discriminating AMR, 
but omits the obvious implication: AlloSure is incapable of detecting TCMR, with a hit rate of 
only 40%. The data from recent studies, as we will show, is even worse. The evidence suggests 
that AlloSure has a structural blind spot in detecting TCMR. Roy Bloom, the lead author on the 
study, recently hypothesized that the blind spot may be the result of structural differences 
between TCMR and AMR: AMR affects the microvasculature of the kidney, so the proximity of 
the damaged cells to the circulatory system allows for the emitted cfDNA to be picked up in a 
blood test. TCMR, though, is usually marked by tubular or interstitial inflammation, farther away 


                                                 
18 Bloom et al. found a ~40% false positive rate in patients with impaired kidney function. Recent studies, discussed 
below, suggest AlloSure demonstrates higher rates of false positives in patients with stable kidney function. 
19 See Friedewald, et al., referenced in note 10, and the references therein 



http://jalm.aaccjnls.org/content/early/2017/04/04/jalm.2016.022731

http://www.allosure.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/Clinically-Relevant-Variation-of-Donor-Derived-Cell-Free-DNA-During-Longitudinal-Surveillance-of-Renal-Allografts-FINAL.pdf

https://www.myast.org/sites/default/files/ceot19/Thursday_1640_Salon%20EF_Roy%20Bloom_The%20Force%20is%20in%20the%20cf%20DNA%20v2.pdf

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajt.15011
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 15 





from the major circulatory highways. The emitted cfDNA in TCMR will have substantially 
degraded by the time it might reach the blood stream that’s sampled in the blood test. 
 
Whatever the reason, the problem with the increasingly acknowledged futility of AlloSure in 
TCMR is that distinguishing AMR from TCMR can only be done after a biopsy sample has been 
examined. The AlloSure test may tell you something about AMR, but it says nothing about 
TCMR, which means that in the case of impaired kidney function, a biopsy will still have to be 
performed. To simplify matters, consider the decision tree from the standpoint of a clinician: 
 


Clinician Decision Tree in the Context of Impaired Kidney Function and AlloSure Testing 
 





Source: Kerrisdale analysis  
 


 
If a clinician is faced with elevated serum creatinine or proteinuria, the AlloSure test results are 
thoroughly irrelevant: they will have to conduct a biopsy if they want to know what’s going on. 
There’s almost no conceivable scenario in which AlloSure would be able to “reduce the use of 
invasive biopsies,” as CareDx claims.  
 
The inability to detect TCMR also undermines AlloSure’s business model. The only way CareDx 
can claim a $2 billion market for AlloSure is if it’s used as a screening test in the context of the 
company’s recommended testing protocol. But the vast majority of rejection – especially in the 
immediate aftermath of the transplant procedure when the heaviest use of AlloSure is 
recommended – is TCMR, not AMR. AlloSure is therefore useless as a screening test, 
particularly in light of the $2,840 cost per test – ~300 times the cost of creatinine and proteinuria 
testing (combined), and 4 times the cost of a biopsy (including the pathology report).
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 16 





There are only two possible use cases that AlloSure’s accuracy in AMR might justify: The first is 
monitoring the effectiveness of treatment after AMR has already been diagnosed via biopsy. 
The problem is that the market for AMR monitoring is about 5% of the overall kidney transplant 
population annually. Even at CareDx’s inflated $2,840 per test (which, as we discuss below, we 
expect will come down dramatically), that leaves a total market size of ~$100 million.  
 
The other potential use of AlloSure is as a screening test for subclinical AMR in sensitized 
patients who are at higher risk of AMR in the first place.20 This market is a bit larger than the 
population of patients already diagnosed with AMR and could potentially reach about $400 
million. The question is: can AlloSure detect subclinical AMR? Recently published studies 
suggest not. 


Recent clinical literature paints a uniformly negative picture of 
AlloSure’s clinical utility 
 
As we discussed previously, Medicare coverage of AlloSure has spurred many transplant clinics 
around the country to conduct their own studies of AlloSure clinical utility. Three of these have, 
to varying extents, published their findings: 
 
• This past March, Ed Huang and his colleagues published some of their findings from about 


13 months of protocol AlloSure testing at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. The 
center conducted an AlloSure test on 352 transplant patients in the 13 month period, but 
only 63 patients were included in the study – those who were biopsied specifically as a 
result of impaired kidney function or elevated levels of donor-specific antibodies (DSA) in 
their blood.21 The group found that “the distribution of dd-cfDNA was similar between 
Patients with isolated CMR [TCMR] and no rejection.” In fact, the median dd-cfDNA in 
patients with TCMR was lower than the median in patients with no rejection at all, and 28% 
of the patients with no rejection tested positive with AlloSure, a fairly high rate of false 
positives. 
 


                                                 
20 Sensitized patients are those who, before the transplant, are known to have donor-specific antibodies (DSA), or 
antibodies that will attack the transplanted tissue in the absence of appropriate immunosuppression. 
21 DSA is frequently, though not always, tested in sensitized patients at risk of AMR because of the strong association 
(~50%) between the presence of DSA and AMR. 



https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/ajt.15289
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 17 





Distribution of Donor-Derived Cell-Free DNA Percentage 
by Biopsy Diagnosis 








Source: Huang et al. 
 


 
On TCMR, the paper concluded that: 
 


dd-cfDNA was not able to discriminate TCMR from no rejection…The relatively low 
sensitivities observed in both studies [i.e., this and the Bloom study referenced above] 
indicate that the dd-cfDNA test is susceptible to false negative results, particularly 
among cases of CMR… levels of dd-cfDNA are not consistent across rejection 
types and levels observed in cases of isolated CMR can be indistinguishable from 
those without rejection. [Emphasis added] 


 
On AMR, the paper concluded that “dd-cfDNA more reliably discriminated AMR and we 
consider that its greatest applicability will likely be for discerning the presence of AMR…” 
How might it do so? The implication is that it could help confirm the rare cases of AMR that 
are found in the presence of impaired kidney function but in the absence of DSA. A niche 
population indeed. Finally, on the topic of subclinical rejection, the paper admits that: 
 


dd-cfDNA was primarily assessed on a “for-cause” basis, where dd-cfDNA was 
assessed in the setting of suspected allograft rejection. It is not yet known whether the 
prediction characteristics for dd-cfDNA will be similar when used to predict subclinical 
rejection when graft function is stable. This is currently being assessed in a large, 
multicenter observational study using dd-cfDNA as part of routine surveillance for 
allograft rejection in kidney transplant recipients. [Emphasis and link added] 


 
Curiously, though, the physicians at Cedars-Sinai did not publish any data on the other 289 
patients with AlloSure results. Having spoken with physicians there, we understand that 
positive AlloSure results in the absence of impaired kidney function were also followed up 



https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/ajt.15289

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03326076
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 18 





with a biopsy. This is data that could help with assessing the utility of AlloSure in subclinical 
rejection. We suspect that the lack of published data is indicative of AlloSure’s 
ineffectiveness in subclinical rejection. 
 


• In a poster presented at the American Transplant Conference earlier this month,22 
Moinuddin and his colleagues compared the results of AlloSure with the diagnosis of the 
Molecular Microscope, a method that analyzes the mRNA in a biopsy sample to arrive at a 
rejection diagnosis. The study used 50 “for-cause” biopsy samples taken in the context of 
impaired kidney function. Interestingly, the sample of patients in this study included an 
abnormally high number of AMR cases (20) and only 2 cases of TCMR. Even so, AlloSure’s 
sensitivity here was only 59%, unacceptably missing 9 of the 22 rejection cases. If anything, 
this small scale study might cast some doubt on AlloSure’s utility even in niche cases of 
AMR diagnoses. 
 


• The University of Colorado (CU) is in the midst of conducting a study on 150 transplant 
patients in which the recommended AlloSure testing protocol was used. The study began in 
January of 2018, and Stites and his colleagues presented interim data (from 1/1/2018 
through 8/31/2018) at the American Society of Transplantation Summit in February of this 
year. The study is particularly interesting because CU has a protocol biopsy routine in which 
it performs a biopsy on all patients 3 months post-transplant, allowing for some assessment 
of AlloSure in subclinical rejection. 
 
Of 19 indication-biopsies with a paired AlloSure result, 4 were diagnosed as rejection by the 
biopsy, but only 2 of these tested positive with AlloSure. Of 91 protocol biopsies with a 
paired AlloSure result, 3 AlloSure results were positive, but all 3 were false positives. 
Meanwhile, 1 of the 91 biopsies was diagnosed as subclinical rejection, but AlloSure tested 
negative in that one. In other words, in the population of protocol biopsies at CU, AlloSure 
had a 0% hit rate. Finally, 4 patients were biopsied for a positive AlloSure test in the context 
of normal kidney function, but only one of those biopsies resulted in a rejection diagnosis. 
The results are summarized in the table below: 
 


                                                 
22 The abstract can be found here. 



https://www.myast.org/sites/default/files/ceot19/AST-19-CEoT%20Program%20Guide%202.6.19.pdf

https://atcmeetingabstracts.com/abstract/correlation-of-donor-derived-cell-free-dna-with-histology-and-molecular-diagnoses-of-kidney-transplant-biopsies/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 19 





Distribution of Donor-Derived Cell-Free DNA Percentage by Biopsy Diagnosis 
 





Source: AST Transplantation Summit Program Guide, Abstract #40 
 


 
Imagine spending $1.4 million on AlloSure tests in the span of 8 months and finding only 
one incremental case of rejection that’s potentially just statistical randomness (in cfDNA 
sampling). In total, 502 dd-cfDNA samples were collected from the 150 patients, with 5% of 
the samples (25) having dd-cfDNA values >1%, i.e., testing AlloSure-positive for rejection. 
Once again, that 5% number suggests that there’s subclinical rejection (past the 3-month 
mark) that’s not being picked up by AlloSure. 
 
In a more recent presentation by the group at the University of Colorado at the American 
Transplant Congress, a different set of results was presented. The sample set in this study 
was composed of 70 biopsies performed on patients whose blood tests came back positive 
for DSA, indicating risk of AMR. Of these, 39 biopsies were diagnosed as AMR. Not all the 
DSA tests were paired with an AlloSure test, but in those that were, AlloSure correctly 
identified only 43% of rejection cases. Which begs the question – why perform a $2800 
AlloSure test when it will miss over half the cases identified by a $755 DSA blood test? 


 
To summarize: AlloSure is anatomically incapable of detecting the most common form of kidney 
rejection, TCMR, even in the presence of impaired kidney function. In the case of AMR, it’s 
impossible for AlloSure to be used as a rule-out mechanism in the presence of impaired kidney 
function or a positive DSA test, so a $2 billion market opportunity built on mass AlloSure 
screening is, at best, a delusion. Finally, it’s almost certain that AlloSure cannot identify 
subclinical AMR in any systematic way, though it’s worth noting that the market for AMR 
screening is comprised of highly sensitized transplant recipients, which represent – at most – 
about 15% of the total kidney transplant population.23 
 


                                                 
23 Based on the granular data reported by the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network 


Reason for Biopsy Sample Size
Biopsy-Diagnosed 


Rejections
Positive 


AlloSure Tests
AlloSure Hit 


Rate


Impaired Kidney Function 19 4 2 50%


Protocol Biopsy 91 0 3 0%


Protocol Biopsy 91 1 0 0%
Positive AlloSure 
w/Normal Kidney Function 4 1 4 25%



https://www.myast.org/sites/default/files/ceot19/AST-19-CEoT%20Program%20Guide%202.6.19.pdf

https://atcmeetingabstracts.com/abstract/subclinical-antibody-mediation-rejection-in-stable-kidney-recipients-with-de-novo-donor-specific-antibodies-and-correlation-with-donor-derived-cell-free-dna-testing/

https://optn.transplant.hrsa.gov/data/view-data-reports/build-advanced/

https://optn.transplant.hrsa.gov/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 20 





IV. AlloSure Revenues Overwhelmingly Come From 
Protocol Usage in Clinical Testing, Which is Suffering 
20-30% Quarterly Attrition 


 
Despite its fatal flaws, CareDx has been able to generate a lot of buzz regarding AlloSure, 
successfully steering the test to ~$45 million in annualized revenues as of the most recent fiscal 
quarter. But the foundation of AlloSure’s success is surveillance usage in clinical studies like the 
ones taking place at Cedars-Sinai and the University of Colorado. CareDx likes to boast that 
surveillance usage “helps build the recurring revenue effect of AlloSure” but we think that it’s 
helped build an AlloSure house of cards. 
 
To put AlloSure’s success in context, recall that cfDNA has been the subject of intense study 
and speculation in the transplant community for over 20 years. The Quake lab at Stanford lent 
cfDNA a Silicon Valley halo by publishing a small study of its potential in the heart transplant 
setting in early 2011, and hundreds of small scale studies followed over the years. Strangely, 
Quake and Snyder started a company called ImmuMetrix to commercialize cfDNA testing in 
transplants but sold it to CareDx in 2014 for $17 million in (then-privately-held) stock, apparently 
judging the opportunity not sufficiently exciting. A year after acquiring ImmuMetrix, CareDx 
began its DART clinical trial with a target enrollment of 200 patients, the (then) largest ever 
study of cfDNA in transplants.  
 
While much of the cfDNA research to that point had been in heart and lung transplants, CareDx 
focused the DART trial on kidneys because only kidney transplants offered the potential 
volumes that would make for a lucrative business. Kidneys are also unique in that medical care 
for 3 years post-transplant is entirely covered by Medicare, so broad payor coverage for a 
rejection test would essentially require only Medicare to assent.  
 
CareDx was also aided by the unique status of diagnostic tests with regulatory bodies. As a 
Laboratory Developed Test (LDT), AlloSure didn’t need FDA approval; and to obtain payor 
coverage, CareDx went through MolDX. The MolDX (Molecular Diagnostic Services) program 
was set up in 2011 to manage the growing number of genetic and molecular diagnostic LDTs 
and is run under the auspices of Palmetto GBA, a Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) in 
the Southeast. Most other MACs in the country have outsourced LDT coverage decisions to 
MolDX, so the program is effectively a gateway to national coverage and reimbursement for 
LDTs. To get a Local Coverage Determination (LCD) from MolDX, a test must pass a technical 
assessment and demonstrate “analytical validity, clinical validity, and clinical utility.”  
 
MolDX will typically grant an LCD even with limited evidence of clinical utility, conditional upon 
further research that’s expected to prove clinical utility. That’s precisely the case with the LCD 
for AlloSure, finalized on October 2, 2017, which states that MolDX 
 


recognizes that the evidence of clinical utility for the use of AlloSure in its intended use 
population is promising at the current time. However, this contractor believes that 



https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/vitro-diagnostics/laboratory-developed-tests

https://www.palmettogba.com/palmetto/MolDX.nsf

https://www.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/details/lcd-details.aspx?LCDId=37266
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 21 





forthcoming prospective clinical studies will demonstrate improved patient outcomes. 
Continued coverage for AlloSure testing is dependent on annual review by this 
contractor of such data and publications. [emphasis added]  


 
For the time being, though, AlloSure is covered and reimbursable for almost any kidney 
transplant recipient within 3 years of the transplant procedure. 
 
With a decade’s worth of curiosity on cfDNA and comprehensive Medicare coverage, the ideal 
conditions were in place for CareDx to market AlloSure to transplant physicians. This was the 
first time that a “promising” noninvasive biomarker for rejection could be studied at scale, and at 
no cost to the provider. In fact, the more widely studied, the more revenue the provider would be 
generating, as every test would be reimbursed by Medicare at a rate of $2,840. CareDx would 
effectively be profiting from studies being undertaken to determine whether it actually works. 
 
The company immediately began enrollment on a massive 1000-patient clinical trial, which it 
expected to “include approximately 10,000 reimbursed AlloSure tests over the next 3 years, 
thus representing incremental AlloSure volume as well as another revenue driver going 
forward.”24 Besides CareDx’s official clinical trial, AlloSure reimbursement allowed any 
transplant center interested in cfDNA research to conduct its own single-center study. Given a 
deep-rooted culture of such protocol studies in the transplant space, it’s not surprising that many 
transplant centers have launched AlloSure studies outside the confines of CareDx’s clinical trial. 
 
Of course, CareDx had already further stacked the odds in its favor by establishing research 
and consulting relationships with influential academic transplant physicians at many of the 
largest transplant clinics in the country. By our latest count, CareDx has financial relationships – 
research funding, consulting agreements, honoraria, and/or speaker fees – with transplant 
physicians in clinics comprising 23% of the total kidney transplant volume in the US. There’s 
nothing necessarily nefarious about this, but it certainly helps when you consider that CareDx’s 
business model is built on populating patient registries in order to study AlloSure as a 
surveillance mechanism. By CareDx’s admission (see the table below), over 90% of AlloSure 
revenue consistently comes from patients on an AlloSure surveillance protocol, and these are 
overwhelmingly within the framework of AlloSure studies. 
 
In medicine, commercialization is usually preceded by evidence that the product actually works. 
CareDx figured out a way to turn that on its head, commercializing the product first, and then 
generating revenue by studying whether it works. Natera’s Chief Commercial Officer, in a 
conference call announcing a competing cfDNA test last year, declared that “we think the 
coverage-with-evidence-development process is very favorable because in fact you get paid 
while you're completing your clinical utility work.” Ironically, the results of the clinical utility work, 
as previously discussed, are not very good. We’re not the only ones to notice: based on 
management disclosures of patient counts since AlloSure testing began, we estimate the 
attrition rate of patients on an AlloSure surveillance regiment has been approximately 25% per 


                                                 
24 11/9/2017 – CareDx Fiscal 2017 Third Quarter Earnings Call 



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03326076
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 22 





quarter.25 Consistent with the “evidence-development,” doctors are apparently not finding 
AlloSure to be useful in treating patients. 
 


Historical AlloSure Patient Data (Quarterly) 
 





Source: CareDx filings, Management quarterly commentary, Kerrisdale estimates and analysis 
 





                                                 
25 To illustrate: As of the end of the 2018 Q4, management stated that “Since launching AlloSure in October 2017, we 
have provided results to over 6,000 patients which equates to approximately 3% of the total number of living kidney 
transplant patients.” Just a quarter later, management stated that “Since launching AlloSure in October 2017, we 
have provided results to over 8,000 patients, which equates to approximately 4% of the total number of living kidney 
transplant patients.” 
In other words, the incremental cumulative patient count increased over the quarter by 2,000 (see the “Total 
Cumulative Patients” estimate in the table), yet the number of surveillance patients (explicitly disclosed) increased by 
454. After accounting for the non-surveillance tests, the implication is that about 1,000 patients dropped out of the 
surveillance pool over the quarter. 
Similarly, at the end of 2018 Q3, management stated “In the last 12 months, we have provided 2% of kidney 
transplant patients in the U.S. with an AlloSure result.” By the end of Q4, the cumulative proportion was 4%, double 
the percentage 6 months prior, even as the surveillance patient population only increased by about a third.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 23 





It’s only a matter of time before it becomes impossible for AlloSure to keep up with such a 
staggering rate of attrition. Already, as the table above shows, the cracks in the foundation are 
beginning to show: the number of clinics using AlloSure has been flat for the last 6 months and 
net new surveillance patients have fallen off dramatically since peaking in the third quarter of 
2018. CareDx has also been stretching to make its numbers by pushing for more non-protocol 
testing (as demonstrated by the jump in non-surveillance patients in the most recent quarter), 
but that’s ad-hoc usage that’s unlikely to recur and potentially eats into their surveillance market.  
 
Finally, it’s worth noting here that CareDx’s recommended testing protocol is very front-end 
loaded: 5 tests in the first 6 months post-transplant, and quarterly afterwards. Considering new 
surveillance patients peaked in the third quarter of 2018, we should begin to see a decline in 
tests-per-surveillance-patient in the second or third quarter of this year, which will make the 
revenue treadmill harder to outpace. Already we calculate that sequential growth in the absolute 
number of surveillance tests in the most recent quarter was the lowest since AlloSure was 
introduced, and the sequential growth rate has decelerated dramatically. As we describe below 
we expect that competition will exacerbate the situation. 
 


V. AlloSure is Vulnerable to Both Increasing Competition 
and Medicare Risk 


AlloSure faces significant competition in the near term and almost 
certain obsolescence over time 
 
The most immediate competitive threat faced by AlloSure is from Prospera, a dd-cfDNA assay 
marketed by Natera, a company with a long history of cfDNA testing in prenatal and oncologic 
settings. Natera published a validation study of Prospera in February of this year, and received 
a draft LCD from MolDX in late March. The company had previously published a study detailing 
the test’s ability to discriminate kidney rejection, in which the authors purported to show that 
Prospera can accurately identify all kinds of kidney rejection, including TCMR and subclinical 
rejection.  
 
Based on our reading of the study and discussions with several well-respected transplant 
researchers, we’re skeptical of Prospera’s ability to detect rejection as well as the study 
indicates.26 Nevertheless, it’s likely that Prospera is just as good as AlloSure given that both 
tests are measuring the same thing, and Prospera is based on the same technology and 
process that Natera has long successfully used in its prenatal testing. Prospera also targets 
13,392 SNPs while AlloSure makes do with only 266, and while that’s not nearly as significant 


                                                 
26 Several valid objections to the study appear in CareDx’s lawsuit against Natera, though ironically, many of the 
objections CareDx raises are just as easily applicable to Bloom’s AlloSure study and CareDx’s marketing practices. 
Still, it’s obvious that the study is methodologically weaker than Bloom et al. 



https://journals.lww.com/transplantjournal/Abstract/onlinefirst/Analytical_Validation_of_a_Single_Nucleotide.96213.aspx#pdf-link

https://www.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/details/lcd-details.aspx?LCDId=38130

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6352163/pdf/jcm-08-00019.pdf

https://images.law.com/contrib/content/uploads/documents/395/4412/CareDx-Lanham-Complaint.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 24 





as it sounds, it’s possible that Prospera will turn out to be more accurate than AlloSure in 
measuring dd-cfDNA.27 
 
We expect the proposed LCD will be approved by the end of the summer and take effect by the 
end of the third quarter, at which point Prospera will be covered and reimbursed by Medicare. 
Natera has deftly prepared for that milestone by partnering with Thermo Fisher’s One Lambda 
to co-distribute Prospera. One Lambda is the dominant testing and equipment vendor to 
transplant clinics, providing an array of organ matching tests as well as antibody detection 
products. Given the role of antibody detection in diagnosing AMR, and One Lambda’s leading 
market position in rejection prevention and monitoring, we expect Prospera will find a receptive 
audience, especially among physicians unimpressed with AlloSure, but still holding out hope for 
cfDNA. We don’t think they’ll find Prospera to be any more helpful, but it will be enough to make 
a dent in AlloSure. 
 
Natera also has a much lower cost structure for Prospera than CareDx has for AlloSure. We 
estimate that the unit-level cost of an AlloSure test is in the range of $500-600, while Natera 
expects to leverage its expertise in fetal cfDNA to reach a Prospera “COGS below $200 per 
[blood] sample”.28 Natera has already stated that it expects Prospera to initially be reimbursed 
at the same rate as AlloSure, but we expect that price competition will gradually emerge. As 
discussed previously, if cfDNA has any utility in transplant patients, it will be in patients with 
AMR, which overwhelmingly occurs after Medicare coverage of transplant patients ceases 3 
years post-transplant. In pursuit of coverage and reimbursement from commercial payors, price 
will undoubtedly play a role in the competition between tests that evaluate the same exact thing 
and Natera’s large fetal cfDNA business gives it economies of scale that CareDx lacks.  
 
Because of PAMA rules, Medicare diagnostic reimbursement rates are tethered to commercial 
reinsurance rates, and any price competition motivated by commercial coverage considerations 
will, by definition, translate into large declines in Medicare reimbursement for both AlloSure and 
Prospera.29 Consider that Natera’s current tests for aneuploidy and microdeletion, which use the 
same underlying methods as a dd-cfDNA test but with greater precision, are currently 
reimbursed at a rate of about $800 by Medicare. We would expect reimbursement of a dd-
cfDNA test to end up in around the same range if it does indeed turn out that it’s useful for 
monitoring patients with AMR. 
 
Even then, though, the utility of dd-cfDNA is likely to be short-lived. After all, a dd-cfDNA 
measurement simply detects the existence of donor-derived DNA fragments in a patient’s blood 
stream, on the theory that abnormally large quantities are indicative of transplant injury. But the 
test does nothing to interrogate, or even describe, the genetic material in ways that could 


                                                 
27 SNPs are Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms – the several million single nucleotide locations that are known to vary 
among humans. 266 SNPs clearly measure dd-cfDNA accurately enough, but it’s possible that 13,392 are somewhat 
more accurate. The only way to ever really know would be a head-to-head prospective trial, which is not currently 
planned. 
28 Natera commentary on the 6/27/2018 Investor Call aimed at discussing the transplant opportunity. 
29 “Effective January 1, 2018, the payment amount for most tests equals the weighted median of private payor rates.” 



https://www.natera.com/press-releases/natera-announces-agreement-one-lambda-co-distribute-its-kidney-transplant-rejection

https://www.cms.gov/medicare/medicare-fee-for-service-payment/clinicallabfeesched/pama-regulations.html
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 25 





illuminate the condition of the organ. In recent years, researchers have begun to search for 
blood-based gene expression profiles (GEPs) that could be used as markers of different kinds 
of organ injury. On the same day as the proposed LCD for Prospera was released, the first such 
blood-based genomic test – TruGraf – was also the subject of a proposed LCD. TruGraf was 
developed, and rigorously validated, specifically as a test for subclinical kidney rejection. The 
test also performed well in a prospective clinical trial, as well as in two prospective follow-up 
studies. The company that developed TruGraf, Transplant Genomics, is also in the process of 
developing a similar GEP test to detect and monitor acute clinical rejection. 
 
In theory, the promise of genomic tests like TruGraf lies in their power to more specifically 
identify a particular kind of injury or illness because they can decipher relevant gene 
expressions with granularity. The catch has been in the definition of “relevant” as it’s not always 
clear which genes are worth sequencing, but TruGraf is a good indication that it can be done 
rigorously and that the technology is rapidly improving. AlloSure, by comparison, can’t say 
anything about genetic expression because cfDNA fragments are too short to interpret given 
their already degraded form. dd-cfDNA is simply too blunt an instrument to be widely used as an 
expensive LDT. 
 


The TAM for AlloSure is a fraction of CareDx’s claims and Medicare 
coverage will be scaled back accordingly 
 
CareDx claims that the total addressable market (TAM) for AlloSure is over $2 billion. It gets to 
that number by multiplying the estimated number of people in the US living with a kidney 
transplant (~190,000) by the “recommended” number of annual AlloSure tests (5 in the 6 
months post-transplant, once per quarter thereafter), and using the current Medicare 
reimbursement rate of $2,841 per test. But consider that total annual healthcare expenditures 
on transplant patients in the US are approximately $7 billion.30 A TAM that would comprise 25% 
of the entire kidney transplantation market is laughable. After all, even if AlloSure worked as 
advertised, it’s just a screening test that might inform the course of treatment. 
 
On a per-patient basis, the TAM assumptions are even more absurd. The annual cost of 
medical care post-transplant is about $25 thousand dollars on average.31 But that includes the 
elevated expenditures in the immediate aftermath of the transplant, which have been estimated 
to reach $50-75 thousand in the 6 months after the procedure. Thereafter, the annual cost of 
care is in the $10-15 thousand range. At $2,841 per test, and four tests per year, CareDx 
implicitly expects investors to believe that doubling the annual cost of care for transplant 


                                                 
30 Total Medicare expenditures are ~$3.5 billion while Medicare accounts for about 55% of total expenditures on 
transplant patients.  
31 Data is from UCSF. Medicare expenditures per transplant patients are about $35 thousand per year, but that 
includes expenditures on the actual transplant procedure. Adjusting for that, the average Medicare expenditure per 
transplant patient approximates the UCSF estimate of $25 thousand, which includes both patients treated 
immediately post-transplant and patients treated in the years that follow. 



https://www.usrds.org/2018/view/v2_09.aspx

https://pharm.ucsf.edu/kidney/need/statistics

https://pharm.ucsf.edu/kidney/need/statistics
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 26 





recipients by administering AlloSure tests is a legitimate possibility. Even in the absence of poor 
trial results and massive attrition, that proposition seems ridiculous.  
 
But those trial results are important in quantifying the realistic TAM for AlloSure because they 
clarify the potential use cases for dd-cfDNA. It’s pretty clear that AlloSure can’t be used to 
detect or rule out rejection when used as a screening test, so estimating a TAM based upon its 
use in that capacity – as CareDx does – is fanciful. Given the potential utility of cfDNA in the 
context of AMR, the two use cases discussed previously – AMR monitoring and, much more 
speculatively, AMR screening – amount to a TAM of ~$500 million in the best case. Even that – 
at 25% of CareDx’s estimate – is doubtful: AMR screening is likely to wind up the domain of 
genomic tests like TruGraf that – unlike AlloSure – are sensitive to subclinical AMR, and the 
price tag on dd-cfDNA is almost certain to decline.  
 
The trial results will also have regulatory implications. As the MolDX LCD implies, the use case 
boundaries defined by the KOAR trial results will determine the eventual Medicare coverage of 
AlloSure. In our view, the total failure of AlloSure in the context of TCMR makes CareDx’s 
recommended testing protocol a non-starter for Medicare, particularly considering that it would 
increase Medicare expenditures on transplant patients by 25% if implemented broadly. The 
entire point of broad MolDX coverage was to allow for the testing of clinical utility, and when that 
testing definitively comes up empty, the coverage will be rapidly scaled back. We expect that 
Medicare will eventually cover dd-cfDNA in cases of AMR or suspected AMR. That would be the 
death knell for AlloSure, but it looks like attrition and competition will get there first.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 27 





VI. Valuation and Conclusion 
CareDx’s valuation, at 18.4x trailing revenues, makes little sense. Over half of CareDx’s 
revenue in its most recent quarter came from its non-AlloSure businesses, which have 
negligible value. Consider that before AlloSure’s Medicare approval, the company’s enterprise 
value languished in the $50-100 million range for about three years after the company’s IPO. 
Even if we add the $50 million of Allenex enterprise value acquired in 2016, the goodwill of 
which has been written-off given the business’s lack of profitability, the total value of CareDx’s 
non-AlloSure operations, plus cash, is not much more than $3.50/share. The valuation of 
AlloSure, then, is closer to 48x trailing revenues and over 30x the most recent quarter’s 
annualized revenue run-rate. 
 


CareDx and AlloSure Current Valuation  Valuing CareDx like Natera 
 





Source: Kerrisdale estimates and analysis 








Source: Kerrisdale estimates and analysis 
 
The relatively recent success of cfDNA in prenatal and cancer applications has allowed for 
anticipation about applications in transplant diagnostics to go almost totally unchecked. But 
there are critical distinctions between kidney rejection screening, on the one hand, and prenatal 
and cancer screening on the other. In prenatal screening, Natera’s cfDNA tests boast sensitivity 
and specificity percentages in the high 90’s. In cancer screening, cfDNA represents a 
substantial improvement over imaging because cfDNA is used when the cancer is simply 
undetectable using imaging, which is the incumbent standard of care. Crucially, in the transplant 
setting, cfDNA demonstrates poor sensitivity, particularly as compared to the exponentially 
cheaper current standard of care.  
 
The expectations implied in CareDx’s valuation are completely unmoored from reality. At best, 
AlloSure may be used in the niche application of AMR treatment monitoring, a market no larger 
than $100 million at current AlloSure pricing, and probably less than half that size once pricing 
inevitably compresses. More likely, AlloSure will be a historical footnote in the trajectory of 
transplant diagnostics – a “promising” biomarker with a solid rationale that was just not good 
enough to be useful. With CareDx’s fate inextricably linked to AlloSure’s, the prognosis for the 
stock price is dim.  


(in mm, except for per-share figures)


Value of AlloMap and legacy HLA
Matching 100$         
Value of Allenex 50             
Net Cash 57             


Value Ex-AlloSure 207$         


Market Capitalization 1,685$      
Implied AlloSure Value 1,477        


TTM AlloSure Revenue 31             
Revenue Multiple (TTM) 47.7x


Q1 AlloSure Revenue Annualized 44             
Revenue Multiple (Q1 Annualized) 33.3x


(in mm, except for per-share figures)
dd-cfDNA Total Addressable Market 200$       
TAM Penetration at Maturity 75%
CareDX Market Share 60%
AlloSure Revenues at Market Maturity 120$       


EV/Revenue Multiple 4.0x
AlloSure Value 480$       
Years to Market Maturity 5
Implied AlloSure Value 298$       
Implied CareDX Value 505         


Per Share: 11.22$    
Downside: -70%
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 28 





Full Legal Disclaimer  
 
As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively "Kerrisdale") have short positions in and own put option interests on the stock of 
CareDx, Inc. (“CDNA”). In addition, others that contributed research to this report and others 
that we have shared our research with (collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise may 
have short positions in the stock of CDNA. The Authors stand to realize gains in the event that 
the price of the stock decreases. Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in 
the securities of the company covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of 
Kerrisdale. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be 
accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any 
kind – whether express or implied. The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as 
to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the 
results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, 
and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any information 
contained herein. This report is not a recommendation to short the shares of any company, 
including CDNA, and is only a discussion of why Kerrisdale is short CDNA. 
 
This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 
confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted 
as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 
included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing 
conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change. 
The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded 
as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 
 
Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, 
inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated 
fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation 
of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a 
security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 
 
This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the 
Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to 
buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the 
securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their 
affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed 
in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors 
should assume that the Authors are short shares of CDNA and stand to potentially realize gains 
in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the 
original publication date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to 
inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 29 





activities. In addition, the Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other 
companies, securities, or commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this 
report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the 
Authors’ operations and their affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is 
generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment 
ideas and the performance of recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a 
potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents. 
 
The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-
looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical 
fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions 
or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can 
be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other 
factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent 
due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all 
securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone 
judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
