September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 


Citron Reports on Enphase and Solaredge… Generac 
has just Crashed Your Honeymoon.   


ENPH to Trade Down to $7 and SEDG to $52. 
Shorting shares of ENPH and SEDG gives investors the asymmetric 


advantage in this disruption 





What you will read in this Citron Report that investors knew was inevitable: 


• Solaredge Technologies (SEDG) and Enphase Energy (ENPH), manufacturers 
of solar inverters for photovoltaic arrays, are trading at we believe 
significantly inflated multiples on peak earnings even as a very credible 
competitive threat is about to enter the solar inverter market. 


• Citron will prove that ENPH and SEDG have been overearning after changes 
to the electrical code and trade war escalation that has left a temporary 
competitive vacuum in the US residential solar inverter market. 


• Generac (GNRC) has taken #1 market share in every market it enters.  The 
company is a major new competitive entrant that has the resources and 
track record to make a huge dent in both SEDG and ENPH’s market shares, 
but given that the company is followed by zero solar analysts, GNRC’s 
commercial launch that was announced last week has gone completely 
unnoticed.  


• Assuming multiple normalization and growth rate pressure as competition 
enters the market, we believe SEDG is worth $51-52 (-33-34% from 
current) and ENPH is worth $6-7 (-70-75% from current) over the next 6 to 
18 months.  Long term downside for SEDG is 55%+ and 80%+ for ENPH. 


Background 


Following a 2017 change in the National Electrical Code (NEC 2017), most of the 
solar inverter companies in the US residential market became noncompliant with 
the new rules and lost market share to the benefit of SEDG and ENPH, who had 
compliant solutions.  As competitors were forced to reformulate their
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 


technologies, the US residential market has essentially become a two-player 
market, split between SEDG and ENPH (with 86% market share combined). 


 
Figure I: NEC 2017 forced many competitors from the US residential inverter 
market 





Source: Wood Mackenzie as of 1Q19 


 
Figure II: SEDG and ENPH now combine for 86% of US solar inverter watts sold 


 
Source: Wood Mackenzie as of 1Q19; ENPH shown pro forma for SunPower acquisition 


The stocks of the two companies were catapulted in 2019 when Chinese 
diversified tech giant Huawei product.  At the eleventh hour, amongst rising trade 
tensions between the US and Chinese governments left Huawei caught in the 
crossfire, and sales of Huawei’s products were banned from the US.  The relief felt 



https://www.reuters.com/article/us-huawei-tech-solar-electronics/u-s-tariffs-cast-a-cloud-over-huaweis-solar-electronics-launch-idUSKCN1L609Y

https://www.greentechmedia.com/articles/read/senators-propose-ban-on-huawei-solar-inverters-citing-national-security-thr#gs.1jrvgw

https://www.greentechmedia.com/articles/read/senators-propose-ban-on-huawei-solar-inverters-citing-national-security-thr#gs.1jrvgw

https://www.greentechmedia.com/articles/read/huawei-shuts-down-u-s-inverter-sales-per-roth-capital-partners-report#gs.1js68v
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 


by investors has since buoyed SEDG shares by 131% and ENPH shares by an 
astounding 440%! 


Let the party begin 


Without strong competitors in the marketplace, ENPH adjusted gross margins 
have expanded by 1,580bps to 34%, while SEDG has taken North America price 
per watt up by 13% Y-o-Y, in an industry where pricing has fallen consistently for 
years.  While the companies were able to blame rising tariffs on Chinese 
components as the justification for pricing increases, the new product that will be 
introduced from Generac discussed below is manufactured in Vietnam, forcing the 
industry to return to the annual pricing declines as a credible third player enters 
the market. 


Figure IV: without much competition, ENPH margins have expanded dramatically 
 


 
Figure V: without much competition, SEDG pricing is up in North America for the first time in 
years 


 
Source: Company financials as of 2Q19, conference call transcript
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 


 
With SEDG now trading at 2.5x and ENPH at 4.7x consensus NTM revenue 
numbers that already embed significant optimism about market growth vs. long-
term average levels of 1.5x and 1.1x, respectively, expectations could not be 
higher heading into 2020.  
 


Honeymoon is Over… Enter Generac 


In an unsuspecting turn of events, just last week gone unnoticed by Wall Street’s 
solar analysts, an even more credible threat than Huawei with a major product 
launch planned for September 23 will upset the two-player US residential inverter 
market.  Citron will now show the largely unnoticed product from Generec’s 
investor day and how they will be able to disrupt the marketplace.. 





Generac is a $5bn market cap company best known for almost single-handedly 
creating the billion-dollar home standby backup generator market in the US.  They 
operate an omnichannel commercial strategy with presence in retailers like the 
Home Depot and Lowe’s, third party wholesale distribution and a network of 
6,100 independent dealers, installers and electricians across the US.  


The company shared at its recent investor day that they have had productive 
discussions with the largest residential solar installers in the country, Sunrun and 
Vivint, and are already in discussions with the largest solar distributor in the 
country, CED Greentech, to distribute their product (CED Greentech is a 19.4% 
customer in SEDG 2018 10-K and could be the unidentified 19% customer in the 
ENPH 2018 10-K, which would make CED both companies’ largest customer). 


The company operates a flywheel sales model using media campaigns for lead 
generation, in-home consultations, and a database of open leads, which Generac 
revisits after power outages or other demand catalysts.  This sales model has led 
to >75% market share of the core home standby generator market, and more 
recent forays into adjacent offerings in the US have netted Generac 25-30% share 



http://www.generac.com/about-us
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 


of portable generators, 30-35% share of heavy motor-powered “chore” 
appliances, 50% share of telecom backup generators and 35% share of mobile 
rentals (all market share data from Generac’s 2019 investor day).  


The company knows how to create markets and has #1-#2 share 
positions across its portfolio. 


In March and April of 2019, Generac made two acquisitions: Neurio, which sells 
home energy management software and hardware, and Pika Energy, which has 
developed an integrated inverter, optimizer and storage solution.  The acquired 
technology:  


• Allows fewer optimizers per panel than SEDG (which results in significantly 
lower cost to customers) 


• Is fully compliant with NEC 2017 


• Offers integrated battery storage that can go off-grid, ahead of ENPH’s long-
promoted (and often delayed) IQ 8 launch, which may not enter the market 
until the second half of 2020 or later 


• Has smart energy management capabilities that allow the system to 
maximize value to the homeowner (can decide whether to store power for 
peak consumption, sell produced power back to the grid, or charge up 
ahead of potential outages)  


• Will become extremely cost competitive as Generac moves manufacturing 
from Massachusetts to Vietnam for the next iteration of the technology 
(4Q19) 







https://www.neur.io/about-us/

https://www.pika-energy.com/about-pika-energy/
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 


Figure VIII: Generac launching 4Q19 





Source: Generac 2019 investor day presentation 


 
Figure IX: Fully integrated, includes inverters, optimizer, home energy 
management and storage 





Source: Generac 2019 investor day presentation 


In addition to the clear advantages provided by Generac’s extensive channel 
partnerships, marketing and sales model, and superior buying scale/supply chain, 
they are headquartered in Wisconsin and would not be subject to the trade 
barriers that have kept Huawei from establishing a beachhead in the US.
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 





NOW… 


Generac will launch the new project at the major industry conference 
Solar Power International (SPI) beginning September 23, 2019, after 
which we believe investors will realize the extent of the coming 
competitive challenge 





The days of aggressive ENPH and SEDG pricing are over.  Here are some snippets 
from Generac investor day that cannot go unnoticed. 


Generac 2019 investor day excerpts: 


• “In 2020, we're planning on growing the [Generac Clean Energy] business 
exponentially from '19 to '20. We're not launching until late '19. But 
regardless, on a full year run rate, it's just going to grow exponentially a lot.”  


• “We're going to kick off our lead generation in late 2019, as I said, with the 
new TV show and stuff. But we're going to ramp it up pretty heavy into '20.”  


• “We've been plugging this furiously into our supply chain, particularly 
Vietnam to get around all tariff concerns, so the balance or the most of the 
system will be coming out of Vietnam anytime between, say, late 
September, and it will be all the way through to full maturity and probably 
the end of Q2 '20 will be fully low-cost country here and fully plugged into 
Generac supply chain.”  


• “Our distribution is hungry for another product to add on here. And so it's a 
great fit for what we've got going on with our dealers and the relationships 
we have with electrical wholesale houses. We've got meetings coming up, 
then I'm going to meet with Home Depot. They're interested in putting it in 
stores, you name it our distribution is a really, really good fit for this. 
[Generac CEO] mentioned Sunrun and Vivint and some of the big solar 
installers in the country. Literally, the day we announced these acquisitions. 
We get phone calls from their teams. [Generac CEO] and I have met with 
the management teams from all the big solar installers.”
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 


Citron Analyzes Potential Impact 


On conservative assumptions, ENPH and SEDG will disappoint materially if 
Generac gains traction in the US residential solar market, resulting in an 
estimated 33-34% downside to SEDG and 70-75% downside to ENPH current 
share price in 6-18 months. 


• Assuming Generac gains 10% market share by 2021 
• Underlying market growth of 15% with historical level of price declines of -


8% 
• Using average revenue multiples SEDG goes right back to $51-52 and ENPH 


to $6-7 
 





2018 2019 2020 2021
INDUSTRY MODEL
SEDG US resi market share 51.6% 40.7% 37.7% 36.7%
ENPH US resi market share 30.3% 49.0% 45.3% 44.2%
Assumed Generac market share -- 0.3% 7.5% 10.0%
All others 18.1% 10.0% 9.5% 9.1%


Total US resi MW shipped 2,410 3,061 3,520 4,048
MW chg Y-o-Y 27.0% 15.0% 15.0%
Pricing chg Y-o-Y 5.0% (8.0%) (8.0%)


SOLAREDGE TECHNOLOGIES VALUATION
SEDG US resi revenues $300 $316 $311 $324
SEDG other revenues 637 1,083 1,104 1,126
SEDG total revenues $937 $1,399 $1,416 $1,450
Revenue chg Y-o-Y 49.3% 1.2% 2.5%


(x) SEDG avg revenue multiple 1.5x 1.5x 1.5x 1.5x
= SEDG TEV $1,442 $2,152 $2,178 $2,231
(+) net cash 372 372 372 372
Shares 48 50 50 50
Equity value per share $37.8 $50.5 $51.0 $52.1
Current $80.7 $80.7 $80.7 $80.7


Upside/downside (36.8%) (35.5%)


ENPHASE ENERGY VALUATION
ENPH US resi revenues $220 $462 $455 $473
ENPH other revenues 97 130 179 245
ENPH total revenues $316 $593 $633 $718
Revenue chg Y-o-Y 87.4% 6.9% 13.4%


(x) ENPH avg revenue multiple 1.1x 1.1x 1.1x 1.1x
= ENPH TEV $335 $628 $671 $761
(+) net cash 89 89 89 89
Shares 120 122 122 122
Equity value per share $3.5 $5.9 $6.2 $7.0
Current $26.5 $26.5 $26.5 $26.5


Upside/downside (76.5%) (73.7%)
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 





*Longer term, we think our 10% market share assumption for Generac is too 
conservative, and we believe this technology will go on to take 30-50% market 
share in the future, within not only US residential, but also international, 
commercial & industrial, and utility-scale solar inverters over time.  If ENPH and 
SEDG simply re-traced back to its share prices at the beginning of this year, then 
there would be 80%+ downside for ENPH and 55%+ downside for SEDG. 


*Also, it must be considered that legacy inverter suppliers such as SMA Solar and 
Fronius have their own plans to regain lost market share.   


Citron will be proven right – NEXT WEEK 


September 23 is the Solar Power International Conference in Salt Lake City. 


https://www.solarpowerinternational.com/attend/housing/ 


Look who was JUST ADEED to the list for Bank of America hosted meetings… 
Generac Chairman and CEO Aaron Jadgfeld! 


 



https://www.solarpowerinternational.com/attend/housing/
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 





Conclusion 


Citron could have easily written a story talking about potential trade war tensions 
easing or the widely known fact of pull forward of product to take advantage of a 
short-term tax credit… but all of that is minimal when the space gets disrupted by 
a player like Generac.   


We know how this movie ends… the solar industry has seen it over and over in 
every cycle.  Pricing goes lower as competition gets more intense and 
shareholders who blindly chase stock price suffer. 


This one is too obvious. 


 
Cautious Investing to All 
 
 
These reports have been prepared by either Citron Research (“Citron Research”) or Citron Capital, LLC (“Citron 
Capital”). Citron Research and Citron Capital are referred to collectively as “Citron” and each individually as a 
“Citron Entity.” Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that report. All reports are for informational 
purposes only and presented “as is” with no warranty of any kind, express or implied. Under no circumstances 
should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments. 
 
Citron Research produces research reports on publicly traded securities, and Citron Capital is an exempt reporting 
adviser filed with the California Department of Business Oversight. The reports are the property of the applicable 
Citron Entity that published that report. The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely 
attributable to the applicable Citron Entity and are not attributable to any Citron Related Person (defined below) 
(other than the Citron Entity that published the report).  
 
By downloading, accessing, or viewing any research report, you agree to the following Terms of Use. You agree 
that use of the research presented in any report is at your own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) 
agree to hold harmless Citron Research, Citron Capital and each of their affiliates and related parties, including, 
but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents 
(collectively, the “Citron Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) attributable 
to any information in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making 
any investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any 
other financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You 
represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion 
presented in any Citron report. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other 
materials made available by Citron to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these Terms of 
Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports or other materials on your own behalf, you 
agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports 
or other materials as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Use. 
 
As of the publication date of a Citron report, Citron Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, 
partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants), Citron Related Persons clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors have a position (long or short) in one or more of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or 
options, swaps, and other derivatives related to one or more of these securities), and therefore may realize 
significant gains in the event that the prices of a Covered Issuer’s securities decline or appreciate. Citron Research,
September 12, 2019 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 


Citron Capital and/or the Citron Related Persons may continue to transact in Covered Issuers’ securities for an 
indefinite period after an initial report on a Covered Issuer, and such position(s) may be long, short, or neutral at 
any time hereafter regardless of their initial position(s) and views as stated in the Citron research. Neither Citron 
Research nor Citron Capital will update any report or information to reflect changes in positions that may be held 
by a Citron Related Person. 
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither Citron Research nor any Citron 
Related Person (including Citron Capital) are offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through 
any Citron research reports. Citron Research is affiliated with Citron Capital. Citron Capital is an exempt reporting 
adviser filed with the California Department of Business Oversight and is not registered as investment adviser in 
any other jurisdiction. Citron Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment 
adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Citron Capital 
does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving 
investment advice requires knowledge of your financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and 
Citron Capital has no such knowledge about you. 
 
The research and reports made available by Citron reflect express the opinion of the applicable Citron Entity as of 
the time of the report only. Reports are based on generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through the applicable Citron Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the applicable 
Citron Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, is not material non-
public information, and has been obtained from public sources that the applicable Citron Entity believe to be 
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or who may otherwise 
owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. With 
respect to their respective research reports, Citron Research and Citron Capital makes no representation, express 
or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any research report contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Citron does not undertake to update or supplement 
any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
In no event shall Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, 
costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential 
damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any information presented in any Citron report. This 
limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Citron Research, Citron Capital or 
any Citron Related Persons. You accept all risks in relying on the information presented in any report. 
 
You agree that the information in any Citron research report is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to 
distribute this information in any manner without the express prior written consent of the applicable Citron Entity. If 
you have obtained Citron research reports in any manner other than as provided by Citron, you may not read such 
research without agreeing to these Terms of Use. You further agree that any dispute between you and Citron and 
their affiliates arising from or related to this report or viewing the material presented herein shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. The failure of Citron Research 
or Citron Capital to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of 
this right or provision. You agree that each Citron Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these Terms of 
Use. If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties 
nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the 
provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any 
claim or cause of action arising out of or related to Citron report or related material must be filed within one (1) 
year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or such claim or cause 
of action be forever barred.
