Title


Price Target


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
1


Structural Change Without 
Legacy Customers Has 
(LOPE) Falling off a Cliff


Price Target of $30
Citron Research has successfully analyzed for-profit education over the past 10 years despite being contrary to Wall St consensus, namely Citron 
correctly predicted the 90% crash in the stock price of then Wall Street darling  Apollo Group.  More recently,  Citron was ahead of the curve in 
our analysis of TWOU which is currently trading down 85% from its high and 60% from our coverage.


Introducing Grand Canyon Education


Citron believes that management of Grand Canyon has been both incompetent and deceitful in its ability to transform the school to adapt to the 
rapidly changing for profit education space. LOPE management spent many years focused on building a local Arizona campus that offers an 
“affordable Christian education” along with continuing a legacy online school.


However, last year Grand Canyon University became Grand Canyon Education with a promise of transforming the business model….and that is 
where it stopped.


Management has failed to deliver on any of the promises of innovation to Wall Street and it has finally caught up to them


Last month, online education powerhouse TWOU discussed the surprisingly rapid adoption and mainstreaming of online education from which 
there is no escape, and which will send LOPE stock down 70% in the next 18 months.


The reason the share price is continue to fall is once the business turns, and it probably has, LOPE does not have a durable revenue base to 
depend on .  Even their happiest of customers leave them  every 2.5 years. 


GCE is surrounded with no way out 


Background


2
© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
OPM, online program managers, are companies that provide technology 
and other solutions to help educational institutions create and operate 
online programs.  Over the past five years, OPM’s have taken almost all 
of the nation’s universities online in return for a percent of revenue.  The 
most well known of these OPM’s is TWOU (2U) whose stock was a Wall 
Street darling since its IPO.  The role and saturation of the OPM is best 
defined in Aug 2019’s The Atlantic.


In becoming corporate move from Grand Canyon Univ. to Grand Canyon 
Education, LOPE CEO Brian Mueller has told Wall Street for the past three 
years that GCE was positioned to be a leader in OPM and educational 
servies that go beyond their 1 client of themselves.  


On almost every conference call for three years, CEO Mueller continued 
his promotional commentary while selling enough stock to make him 
the highest paid university president in the country… more than every 
Ivy League president combined. 


The Move to OPM


3


Q2’17:  “We've had some pretty high-profile interest - high profile 
institutions expressing interest.”


Q2’18:  “GCE as a provider that has been able to support over 90,000 GCU 
students, and is therefore, well positioned to support additional partners in 
the future.”


Q3’18:  "We continue to work at the process of adding new GCE clients. In 
the next 30 days, we will meet with 5 universities to discuss the possibility of 
a future partnership.“


Q4’18:  “GCE will continue to work to gain additional university partners.”


Q1’19:  “GCU will continue to work to gain additional university partners.”


Q2’19:  “We are working hard. We have been on the road for 2 months now, 
and we're going back on the road next week for additional meetings with 3 
potential partners, which will be -- we're down the road with all 3.”


The next 2 slides compare the customer wins of 2U VS 
Grand Canyon Education


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com



https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2019/08/online-graduate-programs-recruitment/596077/
2U Partnerships


4
© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
LOPE - Partnerships


5


THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 


Despite All CEO Mueller’s Promises, 


LOPE Has Yet To Win Even One Outside Client.


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
The Door Has Now Closed on LOPE


6


On July 31, TWOU’s stock was down 65% sending it 
down 90% from its 52-week high, despite its incredible 
growth and diversified partnerships.


For such a drastic move in a stock, one would think that 
either fraud, restatements, or loss of a key customer 
had occurred. 


“There are now many more offerings and 


more competition to enroll students.. This 
mainstreaming of online education means 


increasingly regional competition. While 


brands still won, they win in smaller circles 
of dominance. Regional bias impacts 


enrollment decisions”  


2U CEO - Christopher Paucek


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


None of that happened. Instead the TWOU CEO spoke 
about the future of online education which has now 
become mainstreamed, saturated, and regionalized and 
growth and enrollments per school will be forever 
changed.
What We Learned From 2U Conference Call


7


The passive investment community that owns stock in Grand Canyon Education obviously has not read the two takeaways that 
discuss structural change that is about to send LOPE stock down 70%....that is the nature of passive


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


And more importantly we learn..


1.  Dreams of Grand Canyon Education’s plans on becoming an OPM powerhouse or 
let alone getting an OPM client of scale are gone. Before LOPE was even able to get 
1 outside client, TWOU has just warned us that the market for university partners 
has become saturated and commoditized and schools are starting to bring more 
programs in-house while restructuring profit sharing  agreements for flat fees -
away from the traditional revenue sharing OPM model.


2.  Grand Canyon’s legacy business and cash flows will be if not already under 
serious strain as students will choose online offerings from their regional 
universities and colleges over Grand Canyon University.   This will be explained in 
the next 2 case studies.  Case study 2 refers to LOPE’s Orbis acquisition dependence 
on growth in the online nursing sector.


2U Inc. Q2 2018 Results Earnings Call Transcript



https://seekingalpha.com/article/4279286-2u-inc-twou-ceo-christopher-paucek-q2-2019-results-earnings-call-transcript
Bluto Goes Back To College


8


• In 2014, Bluto from Kalamazoo wants an online education after his 
stint at Faber College didn’t go so well. (After all fat drunk and 
stupid is no way to go through life)


• His choices are University of Phoenix, Grand Canyon, Bridgepoint, 
and a host of other niche players in the distance learning space.  He 
searches Google, does some research and makes a decision.


• In 2019 and forever going forward, Bluto from Kalamazoo can 
choose between any of these familiar legacy and branded regional 
schools to attend:


• Western Michigan (local bias)


• Eastern Michigan


• Central Michigan 


• University of Michigan


• Michigan State University



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mkoPq5AOCOA&app=desktop
Bluto Wants to Be a Nurse


9


Bluto from Kalamazoo wants to become a registered nurse through online 
education 


5 years ago Bluto might have used Grand Canyon University or one of the 
many other online schools. But through the OPM model online nursing has 
become MAINSTREAM AND REGIONAZLIED.


In the past 2 years Bluto can now choose to get an nursing degree from local 
institution which his patients might find to be more recognizable.  Look how 
the landscape has changed in just 2 years.


2017 Western Michigan launches online nursing
2017 Eastern Michigan Launches online Nursing 
2018 Central Michigan launches online nursing 


The above is a sample and the list continues to grow for regional online 
nursing programs. Journal of Nursing Regulation stated From 2007-2016, there 
was a five-fold increase in the total number of for-profit nursing programs


More headwinds for GCU


It is obvious that Grand Canyon University will have to work hard to 
survive let alone grow.  


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com



https://wmich.edu/extended/academics/nursing

https://online.emich.edu/articles/rnbsn/affordable-online-rn-bsn-program-michigan.aspx

https://www.cmich.edu/news/article/pages/trustees-approve-undergrad-nursing-degree.aspx
Arizona State has become what GCU promised- The Sun Devil Wins. 


10


While LOPE CEO Brian Mueller was selling stock and building his low cost non -profit Christian University, across town Arizona State president 


Michael Crow was acting like a Fortune 500 CEO by adjusting to the new realities of for profit education.


2019 US News and World Report ranked ASU as one of the top online universities and #2 in the country for bachelor's 
degrees  


Note that GCU does not even appear on the list and would not even participate in US News Survey. But beyond the college 
rankings, the recent developments at ASU highlight how Grand Canyon is becoming a dinosaur in distance learning.


In 2019 ASU formed a partnership with former Laureate Education CEO Douglas Becker in the formation of Cintana Education, 
a global education company that serves as an OPM at foreign universities.  Just read the news from last month


This for-profit initiative is in addition to the partnership that ASU signed earlier this year with private equity powerhouse TPG to 
create InStride.  This for-profit initiative connects employers with universities in workforce education


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


The two key takeaways are looking at the success of the business of Arizona State are:


1.  50%  of LOPE online/offline enrollment is from Arizona and surrounding states.  What is Good for ASU is bad for GCU.  


2.  There IS a business in the evolution of online education even beyond OPM and LOPE is not in any of it.  While ASU 


finds new revenue streams,  LOPE is babysitting its dinasour.



https://www.usnews.com/education/online-education/bachelors/rankings

https://www.educationdive.com/news/ex-laureate-ceo-and-arizona-state-launch-global-education-company/561878/

https://www.educationdive.com/news/arizona-state-and-partner-launch-instride-workforce-education-platform/550891/
The Sun Devil Wins – continued…


11


The ASU case study is important not only because of their regional competition for same students but more important, but more it shows what a 
real CEO should have done for GCE.  In his conflicting Mueller has proven that is a a better small Christian college president than corporate CEO 
https://president.asu.edu


“ASU has engaged in many bold 
partnerships, including with industry, and 
in the process has become a research 
powerhouse. These breakthroughs could 
only have been accomplished through 
the visionary leadership of the institution 
and the quality and support of the ASU 
faculty.”


CEO – Douglas Becker


Cintana Education



https://president.asu.edu/
LOPE Might be Dead Already… SEC Should Investigate Immediately!


12


Moving costs to an off-balance sheet subsidiary is the oldest trick in the book.  
In a highly unusual move, GCU paid $875 million for the GCU campus and its 
assets through the issuance of a 7 year senior secured note.  


Lope is not in the banking business kept the note to avoid tapping the public 
markets to help structure this deal as it would require increased disclosure. 


What is GCE hiding?  Citron believes GCE is stuffing GCU with expenses to 
inflate its own profitability and as a result bankrupting GCU.  After thoroughly 


reviewing LOPE’s filings, we discovered a MAJOR RED FLAG.  


In LOPE’s 10-K filing, the company notes that:  “Funding expectations for future 


capital expenditures for GCU are $100 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2019.”


However, LOPE’s latest 10-Q filing reveals that funding to GCU for CapEx is 


$170 million in just the first 6 months of 2019.


Is GCE taking its own OpEx and booking it as CapEx for GCU?


If there is not a perfect explanation for these accounting shenanigans, LOPE is going to ZERO!
A Culture of Conflict.


13


But what shareholders should be MOST concerned about goes beyond potential for conflict for manipulation of financials but rather the dual role of Mueller as 
CEO of both entities.


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


The corporate structure between Grand Canyon Education and Grand Canyon University is one that the SEC should investigate.  GCE’s revenues are almost 
entirely from Grand Canyon University.  Having a captive customer that is 90% of revenues with the same CEO and no “Chinese wall” does not pass the smell test.


In considering these statements, keep in mind that GCU has never paid a dividend to its shareholders. Second, GCU has invested more into its campus infrastructure 
and technology – $1 billion over a 10-year period – than it has made in after-tax profits during that time. Third, GCU has not raised tuition on its ground campus in 
nine years, which is unheard of in higher education.”  Link to article


How is that line going to sound in the securities class action?


Is it discriminatory to care about your shareholders???  Also, LOPE shareholders DO NOT own this campus.  This conflicting and power-hungry CEO wants to embrace 
small-town Christian values while being a greedy  and deceitful CEO.


In defending his role as President of GCU he has stated


“ASU’s president has previously made inappropriate comments that GCU has a different value system and cares more about its investors than 
it does its students. Our track record since 2008 clearly refutes that discriminatory stereotype.” 


As noted by former deputy undersecretary in the Obama administration’s Department of Education, Robert Shireman, 


“No other university in the country has its CEO working for its contractor and for itself.”  


Example - Last year 2U spent $85 mil on R&D. LOPE spent $0. Who took that expense charge?   



https://news.gcu.edu/2017/08/letter-brian-mueller-regarding-disparaging-comments-asu-president/

https://www.phoenixnewtimes.com/news/nonprofit-grand-canyon-university-gcu-arizona-christian-10580235
2U CEO Preemptive Rebuttal (08/19 Earnings Conference Call)


14


Grand Canyon Education Rebuttal to Citron Argument is beyond proof that LOPE stock is headed to $30


CEO Brian Mueller made it his first order of business to discuss the TWOU blowup on the conference call.   As we show in our commentary, CEO Mueller’s 
responses are deceitful and designed to fool passive investors and a complicit analyst base who has shown a history of “not analyzing”.


I want to begin by addressing the issues regarding 2U. They have been leaders in 
the OPM space, and we wish them nothing but the best going forward. However, I 
want to be clear about how the GCE strategy is different and why we believe we 
will be successful. Number one, the Grand Canyon University online strategy is the 
strategy being replicated throughout the country. 


Whoa, your strategy is different, yet it is 
being replicated throughout the country 
without GCE earning a single dollar from 
replication. That is called a commodity 
that you are not even producing.


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


Although this space is very competitive, Grand Canyon Education has some 
significant advantages. Number one, it has the world's largest and most 
comprehensive platform to deliver both academic and operational services to 
GCU and other partners going forward. For the same or very similar revenue 
arrangements, GCE will offer over twice as many services………


How can you have significant advantages and the 
most comprehensive platform, yet you have yet 
to sign a single outside client after 3 years of 
promises?  Obviously, potential customer either 
do not like your offerings or worse do not like 
your brand ….regardless of offering.


Number two, GCE is already the biggest player in this space with 2,600 very 
experienced staff members serving over 80,000 students on a $200 million 
platform producing very favorable outcomes. 


This line is completely intellectually dishonest.  
You are your only client.  “biggest player”  cmon.
Rebuttal – Cont…


15
© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


The next point is very important. GCE is not looking for many new partners with a lot of 
very small programs. We are looking for 3 or 4 partners that want to scale to approximately 
5,000 students over a 5- to 7-year period. We want to make sure that our partners are 
differentiated based on either brand, geography or program mix.


You have been saying that for 4 
years now (as chronicled in the 
Citron report)


Grand Canyon Education is providing services to Grand Canyon University's 
traditional ground campus, which has become a very unique asset. The GCU 
traditional campus is going to grow to over 30,000 students in the next 5 years. 
This growth is happening at very low tuition rates.  This competitive advantage 
GCU ground enjoys is unique and transformative in higher education. $1.5 
billion has been invested into the campus in the last 8 years.


Congrats, your $5 bil company is going to get 60% of 
7k new students at a low tuition rate over the next 5 
years. As a University president he should be proud, 
as publicly traded educational services CEO he should 
be embarrassed.  BTW…shareholders don't own the 
campus so please don't rub it in their face


We agree there is a need for healthcare professionals, and we 
hope LOPE is successful.  If Orbis hits all of management  
targets it can become is 10% of  corporate revenue- a tic tac.


More importantly, analysis of the Orbis acquisition is as good as 
proof as you can get that LOPE is on its way to $30 and the 
change is happening NOW.


For that we will bring the same Bluto case study…..


Number three; the Orbis acquisition is a second very unique 
asset. While the rest of the country is rushing into the GCU 
online very crowded space, Orbis is uniquely differentiated. It 
involves ground classroom and laboratory infrastructure located 
in strategic markets combined with online delivery. There is a 
huge need for the health care professionals it produces and 
there is a significant positive value proposition for its graduates.
Where is LOPE in 18 months?


16


Citron believes the stock of LOPE will trade to $30 in the next 18 
months.  It is inevitable, the only variable is when management is 
going to start telling the truth about industry headwinds.  While this 
might sound drastic to casual observers, note how fast the market 
turned on 2U – the recognized leader in the industry. 


The only way Grand Canyon Education will survive the new norm is 
by lowering prices and lowering admission standards. 


More importantly, the company should trade at a discount to other 
online educators because of its failure to innovate and its 
dependence on one customer.


LOPE price target – either way, LOPE is overvalued.


If you believe that LOPE should be valued as a for profit education 
business, then applying APOL’s takeout multiple implies a stock 
price of $33 or 72% downside.  If you believe that LOPE should be 
valued in-line with OPM industry leading TWOU then this implies a 
stock price of $28 or 76% downside.
Do Not Rely On Wall Street Analysts


17


Don’t look to any Wall Street sell-side analyst for answers.  Not one predicted the imminent commoditization of online education.  
It is amazing that despite having insight into the industry no analyst was brave enough to discuss the commoditization of 
education.  


Just six months ago, the same analysts that are bullish on LOPE today had a consensus price target of $88 on TWOU before it 
plunge to $14.     Crickets


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
Conclusion.


18


The worst investments over the past 5 years have been companies who are victims of 
secular forces.  In this case of LOPE management took that time to sell stock and 
deceive Wall Street instead creating of innovation and change.


Trying to model LOPE next 5 years on past 5 years is worse than trying to model 
Blackberry sales after the IPhone by lazily looking backwards.  At least Blackberry had 
loyal customers who did not want change and let the business slowly die.  The need 
to replenish your complete customer base every 2.5 years is death to LOPE business 
in the changing environment.


In order to keep just a stock price of $30 LOPE will be forced to accept a lower quality 
of student as they are being attacked on a national and regional level.


If you are reading this report, Citron will almost GUARANTEE that whatever school 
you attended has an online component that probably did not exist 7 years ago.


2U has blown the whistle on the for-profit education industry and Citron expects  in 
the next 18 months the stock of Grand Canyon Education will blow chunks like a 
creampuff from young Bluto.


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
Unexpected Appendix to Report


19


After completing research for this report, this writer took time to check his Facebook account.   What I saw validated the 


complete thesis behind the report.  Almost every ad served was either a regional educator like USC , Pepperdine, or Berkley or a
national brand like MIT.     


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
These reports have been prepared by either Citron Research (“Citron Research”) 


or Citron Capital, LLC (“Citron Capital”). Citron Research and Citron Capital 


are referred to collectively as “Citron” and each individually as a “Citron Entity.” 


Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that report. All reports are for 


informational purposes only. Under no circumstances should any of these reports 


or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell 


or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments.


Citron Research produces research reports on publicly traded securities, and 


Citron Capital is an investment adviser registered with the SEC. The reports are 


the property of the applicable Citron Entity that published that report. The 


opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely attributable to the 


applicable Citron Entity and are not attributable to any Citron Related Person 


(defined below) (other than the Citron Entity that published the report).


By downloading, accessing, or viewing any research report, you agree to the 


following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research presented in any report 


is at your own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold 


harmless Citron Research, Citron Capital and each of their affiliates and related 


parties, including, but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, 


members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Citron 


Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) 


attributable to any information in a research report. You further agree to do your 


own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect 


to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other 


financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by 


the Covered Issuer. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication 


to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion presented in any Citron 


report. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and 


other materials made available by Citron to any other person unless that person 


has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive 


the contents of Citron reports or other materials on your own behalf, you agree to 


and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the 


contents of Citron reports or other materials as an agent for any other person, you 


are binding your principal to these same Terms of Use.


You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Citron report, Citron 


Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, 


employees, and/or consultants), Citron Related Persons clients and/or investors 


and/or their clients and/or investors have a position (long or short) in one or more 


of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives 


related to one or more of these securities), and therefore may realize significant 


gains in the event that the prices of a Covered Issuer’s securities decline or 


appreciate. Citron Research, Citron Capital and/or the Citron Related Persons 


may continue to transact in Covered Issuers’ securities for an indefinite period 


after an initial report on a Covered Issuer, and such position(s) may be long, short, 


or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position(s) and views as 


stated in the Citron research. Neither Citron Research nor Citron Capital will 


update any report or information to reflect changes in positions that may be held by 


a Citron Related Person.


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither 


Citron Research nor any Citron Related Person (including Citron Capital) are 


offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through any Citron 


research reports. Citron Research is affiliated with Citron Capital. Citron Capital 


is an investment adviser registered with the SEC. Citron Capital does not render 


investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship 


with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Citron 


Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not 


owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your 


financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and Citron Capital 


has no such knowledge about you.


The research and reports made available by Citron reflect express the opinion of 


the applicable Citron Entity as of the time of the report only. Reports are based on 


generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through 


the applicable Citron Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of 


the applicable Citron Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is 


accurate and reliable, is not material non-public information, and has been 


obtained from public sources that the applicable Citron Entity believe to be 


accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the 


Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality 


or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). However, such 


information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or 


implied. With respect to their respective research reports, Citron Research and 


Citron Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, 


timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 


be obtained from its use. Further, any research report contains a very large 


measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change 


without notice, and Citron does not undertake to update or supplement any reports 


or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.


In no event shall Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons be 


liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, 


indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising 


out of or in any way connected with any information presented in any Citron 


report. This limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross 


negligence of Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons. You 


accept all risks in relying on the information presented in any report.


You agree that the information in any Citron research report is copyrighted, and 


you therefore agree not to distribute this information in any manner without the 


express prior written consent of the applicable Citron Entity. If you have obtained 


Citron research reports in any manner other than as provided by Citron, you may 


not read such research without agreeing to these Terms of Use. You further agree 


that any dispute between you and Citron and their affiliates arising from or related 


to this report or viewing the material presented herein shall be governed by the 


laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. 


The failure of Citron Research or Citron Capital to exercise or enforce any right or 


provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or 


provision. You agree that each Citron Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to 


these Terms of Use. If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of 


competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court 


should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision 


and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and 


effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree 


that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action 


arising out of or related to Citron report or related material must be filed within 


one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or 


cause of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred.


Cautious Investing to All


20
© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
