February 12, 2020


Terms of Service


By viewing this material you agree to the following Terms of Service. You represent to J Capital Research USA LLC that you are 
not an Australian resident. This material is not intended to be and does not constitute or contain any financial product advice as 
defined in the Australian Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). J Capital Research USA LLC is regulated by the United States Securities 
and Exchange Commission under United States laws, which differ from Australian laws. If you are an Australian resident, please 
do not read this report. You agree that use of J Capital Research USA LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you 
hold J Capital Research USA LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information 
on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect 
to securities covered herein. You represent to J Capital Research USA LLC that you have sufficient investment sophistication 
to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site. You further agree that you will not communicate the 
contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you 
download or receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same 
Terms of Service. You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, J Capital Research USA LLC 
may benefit from short positions a client has in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) 
and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. This is 
not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall J Capital Research offer, sell or buy any security to 
or from any person through this site or reports on this site. J Capital Research USA LLC is registered as an investment advisor 
with the SEC. If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) 
an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 
2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. Our research and reports express our opinions, 
which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due diligence 
and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has 
been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons 
of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, 
such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. J Capital Research USA LLC 
makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with 
regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and 
opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and J Capital Research USA LLC does not undertake 
to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. You agree that the 
information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded 
file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: https://
www.jcapitalresearch.com/. If you have obtained the research of J Capital Research USA LLC in any manner other than by 
downloading from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You 
further agree that any dispute arising from your use of this report and / or the J Capital Research USA LLC website or viewing 
the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You 
knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the 
State of New York and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law. The failure of J Capital Research USA LLC 
to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. 
If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless 
agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the 
other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction 
provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related 
to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be 
forever barred.


Food & Beverage
China
Food & Beverage
China


© 2020 J Capital Research Limited. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J Capital. Use of this publication by authorized users is subject to the J Capital 
Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Use of this publication by non-authorized individuals is subject to the J 
Capital Non-Authorized User Content Agreement available here.


February 12, 2020
Company Note


Anne Stevenson-Yang
anne@jcapitalresearch.com


+1 860 391 6094


Luckin Coffee (LK)


The Long and  
Short of It


Price $38.79
Market Cap (USD) $9,767.20 mln


Luckin Coffee (LK) One Year 
Price Chart and Volume


0


10


20


30


40


50


60


70


80


90


0


10


20


30


40


50


60


May-19 Sep-19 Jan-20


Luckin Cofee (LK) last share price in 
USD (left, pink) and volume in 100k 
shares (right, blue)


Source: Bloomberg February 10, 2020


On January 31, Citron Research tweeted out a response to a detailed short report alleging fraud in Luckin Coffee’s (LK) sales numbers.


Citron cited data from “Biz Con China," referring to Business Connect 
China (BCC), a Shanghai-based expert-network company that also 
sells data on listed, Chinese-domiciled companies. We managed to see 
a copy of BCC’s report, and right there in the first paragraph is writ-
ten: “Based on BCC’s tracking, we are skeptical about some of Luckin’s 
reported figures.” The next paragraph begins: “Luckin’s reported fig-
ure of 444 items sold per day in 3Q19 is likely to be higher than their 
actual sales.” Citron seems to have missed this.


Closed Luckin store in Shijiazhuang February 7. | Source: J Capital



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/files/0/f/3236012520/1/f_27196548308

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LKOYMpXVo1ssbWQx8j4G3-strg6mpQ7F/view

https://www.businessconnectchina.com/HomeEn/Index

https://www.businessconnectchina.com/HomeEn/Index
3


February 12, 2020


Luckin Coffee (LK) 


Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094
See final page for disclaimers. 


We know BCC to operate with a high degree of integrity but think the 
methodology used to collect the data was flawed. BCC itself warns clients 
that “we believe BCC’s tracking results portray the optimal situation that 
Luckin can reach.” Notably, BCC’s tracking results show lower numbers 
than LK management reports.


BCC tracked only 10 physical stores (0.3% of total physical stores) ver-
sus the 620 physical stores (18.1% of total physical stores) tracked in the 
Anonymous report. Further to this, 50% of the stores that BCC visited were 
"Relax stores" which make up only 4% of Luckin's total store count as of 
September 30, 2019. Relax stores on average have a 23% higher order vol-
ume than do other types of stores, according to BCC.


It's not all bad news. In several areas, BCC's data backed up the data in the 
Anonymous report. Citron conveniently forgot to mention that in the tweet. 


Luckin has so far issued a blanket denial without providing confirmatory 
evidence. We are short Luckin and believe that the work of the anonymous 
short sellers was credible and complementary to our own analysis of the 
company’s reports. 


Problems with the sample methodology
BCC's overall sample size of physical stores pales in comparison with the 
Anonymous report.


“A good 
intention, 


with a bad 
approach, 


often leads to 
a poor result.” 


Thomas 
Edison


Chart 1. Total Stores Visited: BCC vs Anonymous


620


10
0.0%


2.0%


4.0%


6.0%


8.0%


10.0%


12.0%


14.0%


16.0%


18.0%


20.0%


0


100


200


300


400


500


600


700


Anonymous BCC


Total  Stores Visited % of LK Stores (RHS)


Source: Anonymous report, BCC data
4


February 12, 2020


Luckin Coffee (LK) 


Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094
See final page for disclaimers. 


BCC visited only 10 stores across Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities. In Tier 1 cities BCC 
visited four "Pick up" and four "Relax" stores. When compared with the 620 
stores visited by the Anonymous report the coverage is underwhelming.


BCC selected physical LK stores to observe based on highest popularity 
(measured by number of comments and views) on Meituan Dianping. These 
stores were located in the downtown CBD area of each sampled city. Ran-
dom sampling would have likely produced a more representative sample. 
The anonymous report sampled physical stores in 53 cities.


The BCC sampling chose to emphasize geographies rather than cities 
where order volume is representative of the whole, sampling eight of 10 
stores in Tier 1 cities, where coffee consumption is higher, although less 
than 25% of Luckin stores are in Tier 1 cities. 


BCC observed traffic for one day per month on a weekday, recognizing that 
for most stores located in the CBD area, the weekend traffic is significantly 
lower than on weekdays. Anonymous data indicates a 9% difference be-
tween weighted average orders and weekday orders.


BCC's sanity check strategy no longer holds. That check consisted of hav-
ing field staff place orders when they arrived and departed, then check the 
receipt by order number. But as of November, LK no longer used sequen-
tial numbering on receipts. The anonymous team, by contrast, made video 
recordings of full opening hours of the stores they monitored and then 
checked the videos, tossing out any that were missing 10 minutes or more 
out of the average 11.5-hour days.


Most problematic, BCC designed a large portion of its survey around Luck-
in’s app. The integrity of app data In China Is debatable at best. The anony-
mous report provided clear evidence of number skipping online that the 


Table 1. Store Types Visited


Source: Anonymous report, BCC data


LK Stores Sep 30, 2019 LK Store %
BCC 
Sample Anonymous


Pick Up 3,433 93% 50%


Relax 138 4% 50%


Delivery 
Kitchen


109 3%


Total 3,680 620
5


February 12, 2020


Luckin Coffee (LK) 


Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094
See final page for disclaimers. 


team estimated led to order inflation of 72%. Anonymous compared data 
from their visits to 151 offline stores with app data for the same day.


Apples to apples
There are numerous instances where BCC's data confirms the findings in 
the anonymous survey.


At the single store that BCC and Anonymous both monitored, the China 
Shine Plaza (耀中广场店 ) Relax Store in Guangzhou, data is almost identi-
cal, indicating that the store bias likely affected the survey.


BCC estimated that “other products" were 5% of pick-up orders in Q4 2019. 
The Anon survey reported 6.2% for Q4. Meanwhile, Luckin claims “Other 
Products” is driving revenue growth and rose from 7% Q1 2018 to 22% Q3 
2019.


BCC reported counting 396 orders per store per day in Q4 2019, while LK 
reported 483-506 orders per day in that quarter.


Table 2. China Shine Store, Guangzhou


Source: Anonymous report, BCC data


Average Orders Per Day


Anonymous 853


BCC (Dec 2019) 860


Chart 2. Items per Day: LK vs. BCC


495


396


263


0


100


200


300


400


500


600


LK BCC Anon


Source: LK data, Anonymous report, BCC data
6


February 12, 2020


Luckin Coffee (LK) 


Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094
See final page for disclaimers. 


Anonymous receipts show that the net selling price is 12% lower than 
claimed. The BCC survey indicates that the December 2019 revenue in-
crease was driven by heavy discounting (eg, 45% off lattes).


Most significantly, even with its strong bias, BCC clearly showed that the 
number of items sold per day is far below what the company claims.


Converting shares
On February 10, the chairman’s 
sister, Wong Sunying, filed an 
SC13G form to indicate that she 
had converted 95.4 mln, or near-
ly half, of her B class shares in 
Luckin to A class shares, indicat-
ing a change of control. Wong’s 
9.7% share in the company was 
100% pledged for loans as of the 
last filing, on January 21, so this 
likely indicates a margin call or 
other prompt for a sale.


The virus
The general shutdown of the 
Chinese economy in response to 
the nCoV virus has been extraor-
dinary, forcing all Luckin outlets 
in the four cities we checked to 
be closed at through February 9. 
On the 11th, the company was 
no longer posting a general shut-
down notice, but over 90% of the 
outlets we checked in Beijing, 
Shanghai, Haikou, and Shiji-
azhuang remained closed. We 
believe Q1 revenue will be very 
severely impacted. 


Screenshot from the Luckin app showing six of seven stores 
in Beijing’s Haidian District reporting that they were closed on 


February 11.
7


February 12, 2020


Luckin Coffee (LK) 


Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094


Disclaimer
This publication is prepared by J Capital Research USA LLC (“J Capital”), a US registered company. J Capital is 
registered as an investment adviser with the U.S. SEC (CRD# 290086).  This publication is distributed solely to 
authorized recipients and clients of J Capital for their general use in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
a Services Agreement and the J Capital Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Unauthorized copying 
or distribution is prohibited. If you are reading this publication without having entered into a Services Agreement 
with J Capital, or having received written authorization to do so, you hereby agree to be bound by the J Capital Non-
Authorized User Content Agreement that can be viewed here. J Capital does not do business with companies covered 
in its publications, and nothing in this publication should be construed as a solicitation to buy or sell any security 
or product. In preparing this document, J Capital did not take into account the investment objectives, financial 
situation and particular needs of the reader. This publication is intended by J Capital only to be used by investment 
professionals. Before making an investment decision, the reader needs to consider, with or without the assistance 
of an adviser, whether the contents are appropriate in light of their particular investment needs, objectives and 
financial circumstances. J Capital accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect, consequential or other loss 
arising from any use of this publication and/or further communication in relation to this document. 



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/ksnvgifdr3zw776joxn6ivfy30xtfg8v
