1


Critical Q2 2020 Update
2


Full Legal Disclaimer


This research presentation expresses our research opinions. You should assume that as of the publication date of any presentation, report or letter, Spruce Point 
Capital Management LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our subscribers and clients has 
a short position in all stocks (and are long/short combinations of puts and calls on the stock) covered herein, including without limitation WD-40 Company (“WDFC”), 
and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any presentation, report or letter, we intend 
to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Spruce Point Capital Management does not undertake to update this report or any information 
contained herein. Spruce Point Capital Management, subscribers and/or consultants shall have no obligation to inform any investor or viewer of this report about 
their historical, current, and future trading activities.


This research presentation expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon interpretation of certain facts and observations, all of which are based upon 
publicly available information, and all of which are set out in this research presentation. Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital. 
Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in 
this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections. You should assume these types of statements, 
expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s control. This is 
not investment or accounting advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s research is at your own risk. You should do 
your own research and due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, before making any investment decision with respect to 
securities covered herein. All figures assumed to be in US Dollars, unless specified otherwise.


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state material facts 
necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who 
are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any 
other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Spruce Point Capital Management LLC. However, Spruce Point Capital Management 
LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the possession of WDFC or other insiders of WDFC that has not been publicly disclosed by WDFC. 
Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC 
makes no other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 
obtained from its use. 


This report’s estimated fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation of a specific security, and is not expressed 
as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. This is not an offer to 
sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful 
under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC is registered with the SEC as an investment advisor. Spruce Point Capital 
Management LLC is not registered as a broker/dealer or accounting firm.


All rights reserved. This document may not be reproduced or disseminated in whole or in part without the prior written consent of Spruce Point Capital 
Management LLC.
3


Q2 Results Strengthens Conviction For 
Downside To $75 - $85 Per Share


WD-40’s recent Q2 2020 earnings support our original thesis and management refuted none of our concerns. We remain confident the 


business is under pressure, with sales and earnings declining even before the full effect of COVID-19. We believe the problems will only 


intensify once the Americas and EMEA businesses realize the economic impact of the virus. As the financial stress on WD-40 grows and 


earnings become under additional pressure, we believe the current dividend is at risk to be cut.


Financial Results Missed Street Expectations On The Top And Bottom Line:


▪ Sales: $100m vs. $103m and EPS: $1.04 vs $1.21e


Working Capital Intensified To New Highs


▪ Working capital as a % of sales continues to escalate compared to the previous financial crisis when the metric declined 


▪ Spruce Point’s working capital analysis has been a successful indicator of numerous past financial disasters


Dividend At Risk Of Being Cut. Evidence WD-40 In Discussions With Lenders About Dividend:


▪ On the most recent call, WD-40’s CFO stated the current strategy is to pay out 50% of earnings. As strong headwinds put the business 


under pressure and earnings in jeopardy, we believe the dividend is at risk of being cut. Share repurchase program was suspended


Management Dodged Important Questions And Refuted None Of Spruce Point’s Concerns


▪ Analysts started asking tougher questions on the most recent earning call regarding end market exposure and sales by channel


▪ Management has not quantified the exposure and has spun its answers to discuss points they want to address


▪ WD-40 continues to talk up e-commerce, but has not addressed how they will safely ship the product in regions requiring air 


transportation. We continue to believe the product is not well adapted for an e-commerce world


Management Gave No Confidence That Lower Oil Prices Will Benefit WD-40. This Contradicts Recent Sell-Side Bulls


▪ Management stated, “only a small amount of the total cost to produce a can of the WD-40 Multi-Use Product directly correlates to the 


price of a barrel of crude oil,” and it will “most likely be a net positive to gross margins”. These stand in contrast to its chart which shows 


33% of a can’s cost attributable to petroleum-based specialty chemicals. Analysts confidently boosted earnings for lower oil prices


New Risk Factor Added Should Be Alarming Since It’s More Strongly Worded Than Peers


▪ New risk factor warning of potential future write-offs supports our belief that WD-40’s customers are under pressure


▪ Current allowance for doubtful accounts is significantly below its peers’ average


Shares Are Still Materially Overvalued For A Declining Company


▪ WD-40 trades at 6.1x, 28x and 39x 2020E EV/Sales, EV/EBITDA and P/E, respectively for a declining non-recession proof business


▪ We still see long-term price potential of $75 - $85 per share (55% downside) and expect analysts to start cutting price targets


“During the first half of fiscal year 2020, financial results and operations for our Americas and EMEA segments were not 


significantly impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak that occurred in many countries beginning in early calendar year 2020. The 


significance of the impacts to our Asia-Pacific segment during the first half of fiscal year 2020 were material and are discussed herein.”


WD-40 10-Q


Q2 2020


Page 26


Poor financial results in the Americas and EMEA for the first half of 2020 were not a result of COVID-19


Second 


Quarter


Key 


Takeaways
4


Working Capital Intensified To New Highs


Source: Company filings and Spruce Point analysis


Spruce Point’s working capital analysis has proven a prescient indicator of numerous financial disasters. 


We conducted a similar analysis on WD-40 and find that its current working capital to LTM sales ratio is spiraling higher.


$ in mm


Pre-Financial Crisis Prior Financial Crisis Recent Results This Qtr.


2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2018 2019 Q1 2020 Q2 2020


Trailing 12 Month Revenues (A) $263.2 $286.9 $307.8 $317.1 $292.0 $408.5 $423.4 $420.6 $419.4


Total Current Assets $101.2 $115.5 $130.6 $119.5 $120.8 $168.0 $148.0 $149.2 $158.3


Less: Cash and Investments ($37.1) ($45.4) ($61.1) ($42.0) ($46.0) ($49.1) ($27.3) ($28.7) ($30.5)


Total Adjusted Current Assets (B) $64.1 $70.1 $69.5 $77.5 $74.8 $118.9 $120.7 $120.5 $127.8


Total Current Liabilities $46.7 $43.7 $53.9 $54.6 $48.2 $85.9 $74.6 $81.0 $95.4


Less: Short-Term Debt ($10.7) ($10.7) ($10.7) ($10.7) ($10.7) ($23.6) ($21.2) ($29.1) ($41.7)


Total Adjusted Current Liabilities (C) $36.0 $33.0 $43.2 $43.9 $37.5 $62.3 $53.4 $51.9 $53.7


Adjusted Working Capital (B – C) = D $28.1 $37.2 $26.3 $33.6 $37.3 $56.6 $67.3 $68.6 $74.1


Working Capital % of LTM Sales (D/A) 10.7% 13.0% 8.6% 10.6% 12.8% 13.9% 15.9% 16.3% 17.7%


Increasing Working Capital Intensity = Increasing Strain


“During the first half of fiscal year 2020, financial results and operations for our Americas and EMEA segments were not 


significantly impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak that occurred in many countries beginning in early calendar year 2020.”


WD-40 Says 


No COVID 


Impact


So what is driving intensifying financial strain as evidenced by a record working capital to sales ratio?
Spruce Point 


Reality
5


Dividend At Risk Of Being Cut


Source: Q2 2020 company transcript


Given the Company’s current dividend strategy of paying out 50% of earnings, Spruce Point believes the dividend is at risk of 


being cut as the business is under pressure and earnings are in jeopardy. The combination of no share buybacks and a reduced 


dividend does not justify WD-40’s current premium. From a 10-Q disclosure, it is clear the lenders and WD-40 are talking about the 


ability to pay the dividend.


“we have elected to suspend the stock purchases we have been making under our 


current share buyback plan. We are doing this in order to preserve cash until we have 


a better idea of the long-term financial impacts of this crisis. We continue to return 


capital to our shareholders through regular dividends. On March 17, our Board of 


Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.67 per share payable to 


shareholders of record on the close of business April 17.”


Jay Rembolt


CFO


“Did you indicate that the dividend is largely intact that you're not considering cutting 
that at this point?”


Jefferies 


Analyst


Capital return plans are uncertain as 
the Company suspended its share 


repurchase program


“No. Yes, we did issue a dividend. The Board declared a dividend, and we -- excuse 
me, we will issue a dividend at the end of the month.”


Jay Rembolt


CFO


Jefferies 


Analyst


“That -- we make those dividend decisions on a quarterly basis. I mean our policy 
hasn't really changed, and that is -- we look first to pay a dividend out at 50% of 
our earnings, and that strategy continues.”


Jay Rembolt


CFO


WD-40’s CFO stated the dividend policy 
is to pay out 50% of earnings


On April 8, 2020, the Company signed letters from Bank and America and Prudential acknowledging an agreement between the 


Company and both lenders to permit the Company to add back to its net income for the quarter ended August 31, 2019 a one-time, 


non-cash charge for an uncertain tax position associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act “toll tax” in the amount of $8.7 million solely 


for the purpose of the Dividend Covenant as described in Note 8 – Debt. 


Management stated they have not 
considered cutting the dividend at this 
point but later stated they “make those 
dividend decisions on a quarterly basis”“Right. But I'm saying going forward in the second half of the year, given the uncertain 


outlook.”


10-Q 


Disclosure on 


Dividend: 


Note The 


Timing
6


Management Dodged Key Question


Source: Q2 2020 company transcript


Management his not answered an important question investors are asking: What are WD-40’s end-market exposures? We believe 


one reason management is dodging the question is it points to channels facing significant headwinds. In our report, we argued


automotive, bicycle, and motorbike end markets are material, and facing long-term structural challenges. Management could have 


used the recent call as a platform to refute these assertions, but it did not. 


“So I guess I was most struck by Steve's comment that March was similar to previous 


March results. So I guess you're kind of saying that sales were flattish, not significantly 


down. I find that hard to believe, given that we've had a suspension of almost all 


nonessential manufacturing in the United States, in other countries. So can you just 


kind of give us a little more color? And also, we've had a lot of investors ask us 


about a breakdown of your demand by end market. So like how much is 


automotive, how much would be high tech, manufacturing, different end-market 


demand. Do you think you could give a little color on all of that?”


D.A. Davidson


Analyst


Management has dodged the 
question quantifying end market 


exposure and sales by channel


Steven A. Brass


President & 


COO


“Thanks, Linda. We were pleased with being able to hold up in March. And I guess it 


does really reflect on our multiple trade channel, multiple country business strategy. As 


far as trade channels are concerned, I'll ask Steve just to give a high-level view of the 


key channels that we operate in. 


Garry Ridge


CEO


“Sure. Thanks, Garry. So as Garry said, I mean, one of the big advantages of WD-40 


Company is that we are diversified both by trade channel and by geographies. So no 


one trade channel, customer or geography is -- we're not overly reliant. The biggest 


markets we operate in, our automotive, DIY hardware, e-commerce, as we 


mentioned on the call, is a fast-growing channel, both in terms of percentage growth 


and also dollar volume, so -- and an industry as well being the -- one of the big 4. And 


-- but the beauty is the diversification. And so no one of those trade channels has an 


overbearing weight on the overall revenues.”


Management dodged specific 
quantification of end-markets.


Management continues to talk-up 
e-commerce. Our initial research 


has shown WD-40 is not 
recommended to be transported by 


air as it is flammable. This makes 
the product not well suited for 


e-commerce


“Second, e-commerce is the fastest-growing retail channel in the world today, 


and it is our fastest-growing channel as well. 2 years ago, we committed to our 


global vision of becoming the category leader in digital and e-commerce, and we 


continue to make outstanding progress in this area. Year-to-date, e-commerce sales 


globally grew by 44% compared to last year.”


Earlier in Call


Steven A. Brass


CEO deflects the question
7


Lack Of Transparency By Management


Source: Q2 2020 company transcript


We believe investors deserve greater transparency to material aspects of WD-40’s business which are clearly key drivers for the 


Company’s margins and earnings.


“Okay. And then just finally, in terms of the gross margin, I guess relative to at least my 


estimate, it was kind of disappointing in the quarter. And you mentioned, I think mix 


issue was quite a big issue. It seems like in many quarters, mix seems to be an 


issue. And I'm just wondering, is the idea that you're continuing to shift people toward 


the Smart Straw and Specialist, which is a higher-margin product. Is that still 


occurring? And then if so, what are these -- I don't know, it seems like almost like a 


recurring issue with mix that impacts your gross margin?


D.A. Davidson


Analyst


Jay Rembolt


CFO


“Okay. I'll touch some of it -- and I'll give it to Jay, if I can. The mix issue in this 
quarter was the shortfall of sales in China. We have a higher gross margin in 
China. And because our sales fell into the gutter there completely, that was the 
issue. Jay, I'll pass on to you for the rest.”


Garry Ridge


CEO


How does WD-40 have higher 
gross margins in a country where 
criminal organizations are known 


to produce cheap knock-offs?


“Yes. Thanks, Garry. Yeah, Linda, that was -- a lot of what happens is in our direct --
the other is -- the other shift we have is between our direct markets and our MD 
markets, there's a shift in the margin depending on the volumes in any given period 
that go through those 2 distribution channels. So our MD markets, our marketing 
distributor markets, have a quite a bit lower margin as a whole, our direct markets 
have a much higher margin. And then when we see mixes between -- there's also 
even mixes between markets. So for example, there's much higher-margin in Europe 
than there is in the U.S. based on just the sophistication of the distribution channel and 
the size of the market.”


The Company discloses the bare 
minimum of sales by geography 


despite portraying an international 
growth story to investors


Investors should be concerned 
when management blames the 


same recurring issue


Despite the clear importance of 
distribution method mix, 


management does not quantify it
8


Oil Prices Are Not A Clear Benefit


Source: Q2 2020 company transcript, corporate presentation


Management has given ZERO confidence that lower oil prices will benefit WD-40. The Company has previously stated 33% of the 


cost of a can is attributable to petroleum-based specialty chemicals. We believe analysts have prematurely increased their price


targets as a result of the highly uncertain benefit. 


“Now let's talk a little bit more about oil. Recently, crude oil 


has plunged to multiyear lows. Falling crude oil prices will 


most likely be a net positive to our gross margin. However, 


it is extremely difficult to know the long-term impact of 


these changes until we see it in our cost of goods sold, 


which will take some time. This is because we don't buy 


crude oil, we instead buy custom-formulated petroleum-


based specialty chemicals, which have complex cost drivers, 


including the manufacturing region, fixed production costs 


and distinctive supply and demand characteristics. In 


addition, since the global petroleum market is based on the 


U.S. dollar, when the price of oil falls, the dollar often 


strengthens. And for products manufactured in countries 


outside the U.S., this can leave costs in other currencies 


much higher. Overall, we estimate only a small amount of 


the total cost to produce a can of the WD-40 Multi-Use 


Product directly correlates to the price of a barrel of 


crude oil. If oil stays here at current levels for a 


considerable amount of time, we will likely begin to see a 


benefit in our cost of goods in about 90 to 120 days.”


Jay Rembolt


CFO


2nd Quarter Call


4/9/2020


According to WD-40’s February 2020 Investor 
Presentation, Petroleum-Based Specialty Chemicals 


represents 33% of the cost to produce a canCFO’s wording does not display confidence


DA Davidson March 27th Upgrade To $225sh: “We 
are now projecting a Y/Y gross margin increase of 
80bp in F4Q20E vs. a 100bp decline previously.”


Jefferies (March 18): “We increase our estimates to 
account for the drop in input costs.”


Premature 


Increased 


Estimates From 


Sell-Side



https://s21.q4cdn.com/612895086/files/doc_presentations/2020/02/Corporate-Overview-February-2020.pdf
9


Addition Of New Risk Factor Raises Concerns


We are concerned by the addition of WD-40’s unique new risk factor regarding relationships with other parties and potential 


increases in write-offs of accounts receivable. WD-40’s current allowance is significantly lower than its peer set average. 


”Adverse economic and market conditions could also harm the Company’s business 


by negatively affecting the parties with whom it does business, including its customers, 


retailers, distributors and wholesalers, and third-party contract manufacturers and 


suppliers. These conditions could impair the ability of the Company’s customers to pay 


for products they have purchased from the Company. As a result, allowances for 


doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from the Company’s 


customers may increase. In addition, the Company’s third-party contract 


manufacturers and their suppliers may experience financial difficulties or business 


disruptions that could negatively affect their operations and their ability to supply the 


Company with finished goods and the raw materials, packaging, and 


components required for the Company’s products.”


New Risk 


Factor


1) Average excludes WD-40


Source: Company filings


Allowance For Doubtful Accounts As A Percentage Of Gross 


Accounts Receivable


WD-40’s allowance for doubtful accounts as a 
percentage of accounts receivable is less than half 


the peer set median


New risk factor warning about 
potential future write-offs supports 


our belief that WD-40’s customers are 
under pressure


New risk factor hints suppliers are 
under pressure too
10


Still Approximately 55% Downside Risk


$ in mm Consensus Spruce Point What Is the 2 Analyst “Consensus” Missing


Net Sales
growth %


$429.0
1.3%


$387.0 -$408.0
-3.0% to -8.0% 


• Price increases from 2018-19 cannot be sustained with competing products at dollar 
stores, WalMart and other key channels 50%+ lower


• Significant foreign exposure, primarily to the U.K. where the Pound hit decade+ 
lows. We estimate 37% of sales in the U.K. 


• Continued disappointment in Asia/Pacific, notably China 
• Bloated inventory in the channel, will be hard to push more
• Long-term headwinds in auto, bike, and motorbike maintenance channel
• Challenges selling new RV product into a stalled market
• During the last crisis, WD-40 missed its projections by 13% at the midpoint and this 


crisis is arguably more severe


Gross Profit
% margin 


$236.0
55.0% 


$209.0 - $220.0
54.0% 


• Estimating too much near-term benefit from falling oil prices. WD-40 already has 90 
days of unsold inventory, and oil will take another 120+ days to cycle through the 
financials


• Competitors also get the same oil benefit, and can become more price aggressive
• Even now before lower oil prices, the competition is price discounting 


EBITDA
% margin 


$93.0
21.7%


$64.5 - $76.0
16.7% - 18.6% 


• We don’t assume WD-40 takes any immediate cost reduction measures to SG&A


Price Target
% upside / (downside)


$217.5
+24%


$75.0 – $85.0
(52% - 57%)


• A generous 2x sales multiple (vs. 6x) for a low/no growth company under short and 
long-term pressure or 12x EBITDA (vs 26x)


• Pro forma for incremental revolver borrowing and 13.9m shares


Commentary


• Defensive in a 
recession


• Imminent oil 
benefit


• Multiple expansion


• More exposed now than 
ever to a crisis


• Hole in balance sheet
• Oil won’t save WD-40
• Multiple contraction


Our results may prove to be conservative. When asked on the conference call if an 8% sales decline for the year was reasonable, the CEO 
would not comment. Bear in mind, last cycle WD-40 did not have to suspend guidance. This cycle they had to suspend guidance. 


Source: Spruce Point analysis and research
