1
2


Full Legal Disclaimer


This research presentation expresses our research opinions.  You should assume that as of the publication date of any presentation, report or letter, Spruce Point 
Capital Management LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our subscribers and clients has 
a short position in all stocks (and are long/short combinations of puts and calls on the stock) covered herein, including without limitation Forescout Technologies, Inc. 
(“FSCT”), and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any presentation, report or letter, 
we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial 
recommendation.  All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Spruce Point Capital Management does not undertake to update this report
or any information contained herein.  Spruce Point Capital Management, subscribers and/or consultants shall have no obligation to inform any investor or viewer of 
this report about their historical, current, and future trading activities.


This research presentation expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon interpretation of certain facts and observations, all of which are based upon 
publicly available information, and all of which are set out in this research presentation.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital. 
Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in 
this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections. You should assume these types of statements, 
expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s control. This is 
not investment or accounting advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s research is at your own risk. You should do 
your own research and due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, before making any investment decision with respect to 
securities covered herein. All figures assumed to be in US Dollars, unless specified otherwise.


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state material facts 
necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who 
are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any 
other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Spruce Point Capital Management LLC. However, Spruce Point Capital Management 
LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the possession of FSCT or other insiders of FSCT that has not been publicly disclosed by FSCT. Therefore, 
such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC makes no 
other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from 
its use. You should assume all statements made are our opinions, unless sourced as facts where practical. 


This report’s estimated fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation of a specific security, and is not expressed 
as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. This is not an offer to 
sell or a solicitation of an offer to Buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful 
under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC is registered as an investment 
advisor with the SEC. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC is not registered as a broker/dealer or accounting firm.


All rights reserved. This document may not be reproduced or disseminated in whole or in part without the prior written consent of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC.
Spruce Point Capital Management 
1740 Broadway – 15th Floor 


New York, NY 10019 
212-579-1176 


May 12, 2020 
 
 
Bryan Taylor 
Advent International 
San Francisco, CA 
 
 
Dear Bryan, 
 
You will recall that, on April 30th, Spruce Point Capital Management (“Spruce Point” or “we”) 
published the results of our forensic review of the public filings related to your pending 
acquisition of Forescout Technologies (“Forescout,” “FSCT,” or “the Company”), and strongly 
recommended that you consider revisiting the terms of the deal or terminating the transaction 
entirely. Critical to our recommendation was our finding that, prior to agreeing to the deal, 
Forescout had prepared financial projections suggesting that the Company expected revenue to 
decline by 18% year-over-year in Q1 FY20. This projection, which management prepared with 
the specific intention of announcing to the public as its Q1 revenue guidance, was ultimately 
disclosed later in the proxy following the cancellation of its Q4 FY19 conference call. As far as 
we can tell, it was also never disclosed to you during the due diligence process. We believe 
that Forescout’s newly-released Q1 results, which largely affirm the more pessimistic 
“Illustrative Guidance” revenue projection, and which discloses a restructuring and 
credit revolver drawdown event (both which may violate a deal covenant) provide 
stronger justification for renegotiating or terminating the deal. We strongly encourage 
you to revisit the acquisition on this basis. 
 
In particular, Forescout announced yesterday that it recorded total revenue of just $57.2M in Q1 
FY20, down over 24% versus Q1 FY19. This stands in stark contrast to management’s “Target 
Plan” and “Alternate Plan” – both disclosed to prospective acquirers during the diligence 
process, per the proxy – which projected full-year FY20 sales growth of 15.5% and 14.6%, 
respectively. It also stands in contrast to the average sell-side analyst estimate of $78.1M for 
Forescout’s Q1 sales, implying expected growth of 3.4%. The Company’s actual Q1 sales 
results are even worse than the $62.0M Q1 revenue forecast prepared in anticipation of its Q4 
FY19 conference call. Spruce Point concludes that this unannounced Q1 guidance – 
which, again, was never issued to the public as initially intended, and which appears 
never to have been disclosed to prospective buyers – was in fact a directionally better 
measure of Forescout’s realized Q1 performance.
Spruce Point Capital Management 
1740 Broadway – 15th Floor 


New York, NY 10019 
212-579-1176 





 
 
 
 
In its press release and 10-Q issued yesterday afternoon, Forescout management attributed its 
disappointing Q1 performance to A) “the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on large-size deals 
and new perpetual licenses,” and B) “customer uncertainty related to our pending transaction 
with Advent International Corporation.” We note, however, that the pandemic did not have a 
serious effect on the U.S. economy until the beginning of March at the earliest, and, indeed, 
that the first shelter-in-place order issued in the U.S. did not take effect until March 19. 
Accordingly, we strongly doubt that the pandemic could have had such a powerful effect on 
Forescout’s Q1 performance, particularly as over 50% of the Company’s revenue is tied to 
(relatively new) subscriptions and, as such, is recurring. Furthermore, with management’s 
preliminary Q1 guidance so close to the Company’s actual performance for the quarter, we 
question whether either the pandemic or the deal announcement – both of which occurred after 
its preliminary guidance was prepared in late January 2020 (per the proxy) – could in fact be 
responsible for Forescout’s disappointing growth. Therefore, we believe that neither of 
management’s stated reasons for its overwhelming revenue contraction offer a robust 
justification for its lackluster performance. 
 
 
 


41.5% 


35.2% 


23.5% 


34.7% 


26.6% 


15.8% 


7.0% 7.8% 7.8% 
3.4%


7.8% 


-18.0%


7.8% 


-24.3%-30%


-20%


-10%


0%


10%


20%


30%


40%


50%


Q1-2018 Q2-2018 Q3-2018 Q4-2018 Q1-2019 Q2-2019 Q3-2019 Q4-2019 Q1-2020


Forescout Revenue Growth, YoY


Revenue Growth, YoY Q1 Growth - Consensus


Q1 Growth - Prelim. Guidance (Undisclosed) Q1 Growth - Actual
Spruce Point Capital Management 
1740 Broadway – 15th Floor 


New York, NY 10019 
212-579-1176 


 
 
From these observations, we arrive at three deeply worrying conclusions: 
 
 


1. Given the relative precision of Forescout’s preliminary Q1 guidance to its actual Q1 
performance, and given management’s failure to provide a credible “non-fundamental” 
explanation for its poor results, we believe that the Company’s 24% revenue 
contraction reflects a breakdown of its top-line growth trajectory attributable to 
fundamental, business-specific developments are highly likely to have been 
visible prior to A) the onset of the pandemic in the U.S. and B) the deal 
announcement. 
 
If this is indeed the case, and while we are not lawyers and urge you to seek 
independent counsel, we believe that the observed decline in Company 
performance may represent a Company Material Adverse Effect as defined in the 
merger agreement, the occurrence of which could give you legal grounds to 
terminate the deal.  


 
2. Given that management had foreseen a significant downturn in Forescout’s Q1 revenue 


prior to both A) the onset of the pandemic and B) the deal announcement, yet appears to 
have failed to disclose this projection during the diligence process, we remain 
concerned that Forescout executives may have been aware of the emergence of 
dramatic, Company-altering headwinds which it never divulged to prospective 
acquirers, including you. 
 
Failure to disclose such devastating, yet realistic projections certainly calls 
management’s credibility into question and gives Advent a basis for reevaluation 
of the transaction price and conditions. 
 


3. If Forescout’s financial outlook was as promising as indicated by the optimistic 
projections shared during the diligence process, why did the Company announce 
a restructuring in Q1 2020, and draw down $16m on its credit facility while 
maintaining $98m of cash and equivalents at year end – enough to bridge its gap 
to expected Q2 2020 closing? The Company did not state in its 10-Q that these actions 
were approved by the Parent, and as such, we worry that Forescout may have violated a 
Forbearance Covenant in Article V, Section 5.2.
Spruce Point Capital Management 
1740 Broadway – 15th Floor 


New York, NY 10019 
212-579-1176 


 
 
Spruce Point continues to pursue all avenues of diligence available to us in our ongoing 
evaluation of the health of Forescout’s business. In particular, under the Freedom of Information 
Act (“FOIA”), we have submitted requests to major government customers for documents and 
correspondence relating the status of their relationships with Forescout. We encourage you to 
conduct similar diligence as the merger deadline approaches. Even then, we believe that the 
evidence already known to the public may itself both suggest, and justify, that terminating or 
renegotiating the acquisition is in your best interest as a fiduciary for public pension funds.  
 
For full disclosure, funds managed by Spruce Point Capital Management hold a short position 
in Forescout and stand to benefit in the event its share price declines. If you have any 
questions, please don’t hesitate to contact me. 
 


Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Ben Axler 
Managing Partner 
Spruce Point Capital Management, LLC
Observations From Q1 2020 Results
4


Revenues Decline Way Worse Than Expected; 
Explanation Is Unsatisfactory


Spruce Point observes that Forescout’s revenues declined materially more than “Illustrative Guidance” that was 
formulated in late January 2020, a time period before the deal was announced on February 6th, 2020 and the WHO 


declared a pandemic on March 11th, 2020. As a result, we express extreme skepticism with management’s explanation for 
its poor performance.


$ in mm Consensus


Q1 Illustrative 
Guidance Formed 
Late January And
Buried In Proxy


Actual Q1
Results


Total Revenue
% Growth


$78.1
3.4%


$62.0
-18.0%


$57.2
-24.3%


Source: Forescout 10-Q, proxy and Bloomberg consensus


From Forescout’s 10-Q: “The decrease in license revenue primarily resulted from the economic slowdown 
caused by the global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as customer uncertainty related to the Merger.”
5


New Risk Factor About The Transaction Not 
Being Consummated Just Added


Forward Risks: Q1 2020 Earnings
May 12, 2020


Forward Risks: Shareholder Vote Approval
April 23, 2020


Why Are More Risk Factors Being 
Described At The 11th Hour Ahead Of A 


Promoted May 18th Closing Date By 
Forescout? These Are Non-Pandemic 


Risks And Might Allow Advent To Claim A 
Material Adverse Change
6


Evidence To Suggest Forescout Violated 
A Deal Covenant


Upon close scrutiny of Forescout’s $2.5m surprise restructuring charge and plan initiated in Q1 2020, we 
see the potential that it violated a Forbearance Covenant of the merger document. There is no mention 


that approval was obtained from Advent. 


From Forescout’s 10-Q: “In the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, the Company initiated a restructuring plan (the “Q1 2020 
Restructuring Plan”) as part of the Company’s effort to realign its cost structure in both its go-to-market and engineering organizations. 


The Q1 2020 Restructuring Plan included reduction in force of approximately 90 employees within the sales, marketing, and 
engineering functions and was largely completed by March 31, 2020 with no material future costs expected to be incurred.”
7


Did Forescout Violate Another Deal Covenant?


Why would Forescout draw down on its credit facility, and incur financing costs, if it had $98m of cash 
and equivalents as of Dec 31, 2019, and it had a reasonable expectation of closing the transaction with 


Advent in Q2 2020. The merger agreement lists debt incurrence in the Forbearance Covenants. 
Specifically the debt would have to be “in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices”. 


However, Forescout has never had to draw on its credit facility before as a public company, so the 
practice does not appear to be consistent with past practices. There is no mention that approval was 


obtained from Advent. 


“Further, during the three months ended March 31, 2020, we elected to drawdown on the revolving credit facility available to us in light of 
the macro-economic conditions and its potential impact on credit market availability in the future.”


“In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we borrowed $16.0 million under our revolving credit facility as a precautionary measure 
to provide additional liquidity in light of global economic uncertainty and financial market conditions caused by COVID-19. The amount 


borrowed has been gradually paid down and will be fully paid upon consummation of the Merger.”
8


Do Negative Hardware Margins Suggest Declining 
Competitive Position, Desperation To Hit Numbers or 
Channel Stuffing?


Spruce Point observes that Forescout’s gross margin on its hardware products plummeted into negative territory for the first time in 
Q1 FY20. Management attributed this downward trend to “one off negotiations” on “deeply discounted” deals. However, in light of 
the competitive struggles which the Company appears to be having in the marketplace, we wonder if such “deep discounting” on 


hardware products represents, a new normal for Forescout, or at worst evidence to suggest desperation to hit numbers or channel 
stuffing? If so, we believe that Forescout’s growth potential and profitability profile have fundamentally turned for the worse.


This could represent a material adverse effect per the language of the merger agreement with Advent?


Q1 
FY17


Q2 
FY17


Q3 
FY17


Q4
FY17


FY17
Q1 


FY18
Q2


FY18
Q3


FY18
Q4


FY18
FY18


Q1 
FY19


Q2
FY19


Q3
FY19


Q4
FY19


FY19
Q1


FY20


Hardware 
Margin


22% 23% 26% - 27% 23% 25% 25% - 24% 24% 25% 13% - 26% -8%


FSCT: Average Margin on Hardware Sold Separately


FSCT: Q1 FY20 10-Q


Source: Forescout 10-Q
April 30, 2020 


Bryan Taylor 


Advent International 


San Francisco, CA 


Dear Bryan, 


First off, congratulations on your recent appointment as head of technology investing at Advent 


International, and for the successful closing of your $2 billion technology fund focused on “disruptive” 


businesses. It is an impressive vote of confidence to receive an investment from the Los Angeles City 


Employees’ Retirement System and Virginia Retirement System, among others reported by the press. 


With great investment power comes even greater investment responsibility. As a fiduciary for the funds 


of many hard-working public employees, we trust that you are upholding your duties to seek the best 


investment returns with the lowest risk possible in this highly uncertain and complex period.  


Spruce Point Capital Management (“Spruce Point” or “we”) has recently conducted a deep forensic 


review of the public proxy filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) related to your 


$1.8 billion acquisition of Forescout Technologies, Inc. (“Forescout” or “FSCT”) announced on Feb 6, 


2020. We are concerned that Forescout may not have given complete, timely, or realistic access to 


information with respect to its financial projections, thus leading to an inflated $33 per share purchase 


price. Forescout had been dubbed a dinosaur IPO, and throughout its life as a public company, failed to 


hit its financial targets. Upon reading the proxy, it appears that Forescout was eager to complete a 


transaction prior to its Q4 2019 earnings call. At that time, Forescout was set to issue 2020 “Illustrative 


Guidance” that would have exposed a serious decline in financial expectations, resetting annual revenue 


guidance from $386m to $355m, or 8% below plan. Surely, this information would have been a blow to 


its share price. For context, in Q3 FY19, revised sales guidance resulted in a 37% price drop.  


Now bear in mind, this dramatic financial revision was contemplated before the WHO declared COVID-


19 a pandemic, and lock down measures spread to the Americas, where Forescout has customer 


concentration. In today’s environment, it’s likely that Forescout’s financial projections would be 


even materially worse, as many public companies have retracted financial guidance and 


Forescout’s growth would likely come from small and medium sized businesses that have taken 


the brunt of the pain.  We do not blame Advent for its inability to see the full-scale impact that COVID-


19 has had on the world, or its ill-timed acquisition. However, Advent does have the ability, and a 


fiduciary duty, to rethink what this means to the valuation ascribed, and share price paid, to acquire 


Forescout.  


It is our belief and request that Advent should consider revising its offer lower or abandoning the 
transaction outright. In this environment, other companies are terminating deals given the  


Spruce Point Capital Management 
1740 Broadway – 15th Floor 


New York, NY 10019 
212-579-1176
Spruce Point Capital Management 
1740 Broadway – 15th Floor 


New York, NY 10019 
212-579-1176


changing state of world affairs. Forescout’s management, venture capitalists, and index shareholders 
stand to reap significant financial gain from Forescout’s inability to achieve its financial goals. This 
comes at the direct expense of Advent investors. Forescout is unprofitable and appears to be growing 
much slower than industry peers. On the basis of the Alternative Plan – the last forecast believed to be 
provided to prospective buyers, per the timeline in the proxy – Advent is offering 4.7x FY20E sales for 
Forescout. However, on the basis of the Illustrative Guidance, is offering 5.1x FY20E sales. Reducing 
the deal price to the initial 4.7x on the basis of the (4) Illustrative Guidance would put FSCT shares at 
$30.39, or 8% below the current deal price. However, share values fall to just ~$26.00 – over 21% below 
the deal price – if we instead value FSCT shares at 4.7x pandemic-adjusted (15% haircut) FY20 sales 
guidance. We conclude that, conservatively taking into account the effect of the pandemic, Advent likely 
paid close to 20% above what it would have intended to pay had it (A) been given clear access to 
management’s Illustrative Guidance and (B) waited just several weeks to observe the effect of the 
pandemic on the economy. 


The precedent (pre-COVID19) software transactions cited in the deal proxy carry a median NTM 
revenue multiple of 4.7x. However, Spruce Point questions whether these transactions are now relevant 
to a post-COVID19 Forescout, a chronically-unprofitable player in a pressured vertical of the 
cybersecurity space. Other, closer comps appear to suggest a lower multiple. In particular, on April 9, 
2020 Investcorp Technology Partners acquired German cybersecurity company Avira for $180M. While 
German financial filings reveal that, like Forescout, Avira has been growing at a relatively modest single-
digit rate through the recent past, they also show that it has been consistently profitable over the same 
period. Even then, it was acquired for a modest revenue multiple of just ~2.2x – considerably lower than 
Forescout’s 4.7x purchase price (on Target Plan), despite its own projected Q1 contraction and 
continued failure to turn a profit. Spruce Point believes that Forescout should be valued closer to slower-
growing peers like Avira. On our pandemic adjusted sales numbers, and assuming a generous 3x sales 
multiple, we could realistically see Forescout shares 50%-60% lower than your $33 offer price. 


We hope you carefully evaluate our opinions about Forescout. In these difficult financial times, 


increased consideration and scrutiny should be given to how capital is allocated between have and have 


nots. We feel strongly that Forescout’s management, VCs, and index owners should not benefit at the 


expense of hard-working employees of public pension funds.  


For full disclosure, funds managed by Spruce Point Capital Management hold a short position in 


Forescout and stand to benefit in the event its share price declines.  


Sincerely, 


Ben Axler 


Managing Partner 


Spruce Point Capital Management, LLC
Why Advent Should Cut Its Purchase 
Price or Abandon The Forescout 
Deal
Executive Summary
4


Spruce Point Believes Advent Must Revise The 
FSCT Deal Price 35%-50% Lower, Or Walk Away


Was Forescout’s Complete Financial Outlook Shared With Prospective Buyers?: Upon a close forensic analysis of the deal proxy statement, Spruce Point believes that some 
financial forecasts prepared by management may not have been shared with prospective buyers. In particular, forecasts which projected FY20 sales 8%-9% lower than the 
Company’s primary “Target Plan” were prepared and analyzed internally at various points through the acquisition timeline, but appear not to have been submitted to 
potential acquirers. In each case, these internal financial forecasts appear to have represented plausible outcomes for Company performance based on management’s best 
knowledge of the state of the business at the time, and, accordingly, should have been shared alongside its more optimistic forecasts. One of these forecasts was 
management’s preliminary Q1 and full-year FY20 revenue guidance which it planned to (but did not) share on its Feb 6, 2020 (Q4 FY19 earnings) – a call which was cancelled 
upon the morning’s deal announcement. With the Q1’20 guide a full 20% below consensus Q1 estimates and suggesting year-over-year contraction, the announcement could 
have dealt a crushing blow to the stock, possibly altering the course of any acquisition talks. With Advent – a financial buyer – having shown a relatively high level of 
sensitivity to forecast adjustments over the course of the negotiation, Spruce Point believes that the later disclosure of this guidance revision lower in the deal proxy may 
serve as motivation for the firm to walk away from the deal, or at least demand renegotiation.


A Busted Dinosaur IPO Under Greater Pressures Remarketing Debt Capital In A Highly Discriminating Environment: It took Forescout 17 years to IPO, giving analysts reason 
to dub it a “dinosaur” IPO. As a public company, we believe FSCT created little/no value for shareholders, and was showing signs of fundamental strain even prior to the onset 
of the COVID-19 pandemic: a disappointing Q3 FY19 preannouncement sent shares tumbling down ~37% as top-line growth decelerated to single-digit levels for the first time 
in years. Spruce Point finds evidence of widespread dissatisfaction among its employee base, notably the front-line sales force which has shown significant turnover. The 
product itself has also received increasingly unfavorable reviews through the past several years as the competitive landscape has grown more crowded. Based on our primary 
due diligence, we learned that competitors are bundling more solutions, and cyber deals for small and medium sized businesses are being delayed, leading to pricing 
pressure. With a large percentage of its customers tied to government spending where margin upside is generally limited, a history of negative EBITDA and free cash flow, 
and an uncertain SaaS transition, investors should be worried about $400m of debt capital needed to fund the transaction during a newly disclosed “remarketing” period.


A Favorable Cost / Benefit Analysis Gives Advent Leverage To Demand New Terms: Spruce Point estimates that, given (1) Advent’s potentially incomplete view into 
Forescout’s financials during the negotiation process, and (2) pandemic-related developments which we believe erodes the Company’s outlook going forward, a conservative 
reevaluation of the deal featuring NO multiple compression could see Advent value FSCT more than 20% below the $33/share deal price.  Despite facing a $112M 
termination fee, a straight-forward cost/benefit analysis reveals that, at the current terms,  Advent would do better to walk away from the deal rather than complete it. We 
believe that, in a more realistic scenario in which Forescout’s projections are revised downward, and the multiple compressed, FSCT shares should be valued between $17-
$22 regardless of whether the deal is renegotiated or annulled completely, yielding 35%-50% downside to the $33 price.


On Feb 6, 2020 Forescout Technologies, Inc. (“FSCT” or “the Company”) announced its purchase by Advent International for $33/share in a 
$1.8bn deal. We believe investors ascribe too high a probability that it is a done deal. Upon conducting a forensic analysis of deal proxy 


statements, we observe that some financial forecasts reviewed by Forescout internally may not have been shared with prospective acquirers –
and that some of these forecasts were materially worse than those known to be disclosed to buyers. Whether or not this represents a breach of 
reps and warranties, we believe it should serve as grounds for Advent to negotiate a lower share price. Advent’s interest in revisiting the terms 
should be high given that the deal was struck just weeks prior to the WHO declaring COVID-19 a pandemic, which we believe dramatically alters 


the financial outlook for Forescout, a negative EBITDA business which was already under growth pressures and missing its guidance. 
Importantly, with the onset of the pandemic, Spruce Point estimates that it is likely in Advent’s interest to walk away from the deal – even after 


taking into account its $112M termination fee. We believe Advent substantially overpaid, underscored by Investcorp’s recent purchase of Avira in 
early April. Avira, a profitable cybersecurity company, was acquired at a revenue multiple >50% less than Forescout’s. We believe that Advent can, 
and should, use this as leverage to renegotiate the deal price lower by 35%-50%. In our opinion, Advent, a steward of public pension capital, must 


negotiate a lower deal price more reflective of Forescout’s ominous outlook, rather than unjustly enriching management with a $100m payday, 
and early VCs for having created limited / no value as a public company.
5


A Busted Dinosaur IPO: Forescout Management 
Appears To Have Created Little, If Any, Value


Even in the midst of one of the strongest bull markets on record, favoring technology companies, FSCT shares appreciated little since the 


Company went public in late 2017. Spruce Point believes that this reflects management’s failure to create meaningful value in recent years, 


combined with top-line headwinds which, we believe, will continue to plague the Company – particularly against the backdrop of an 


unprecedented economic environment.


Source: Bloomberg Nov 2018


Forescout acquires 


SecurityMatters for $113M, 


creating little value


Oct 2019


Forescout preannounces 


disappointing Q3 FY19


Oct 2019


Corvex Management and 


Jericho Capital announce 


activist stake


Feb 2020


Buyout announced
Source



https://techcrunch.com/2017/10/26/forescout-technologies-prices-iot-security-ipo-at-22
6


Big Guidance Miss Likely Would Have Been 
Material To The Stock – And To The Deal Price?


When management announced the deal on Feb 6, it also cancelled its earnings call scheduled for later that day. It instead released its Q4 results 


immediately upon announcing the deal, disclosing a sales figure which came in 4% below Q4 guidance and consensus estimates of $95M. 


However, management chose not to disclose the guidance that it planned to issue on the call – figures that would have disappointed Q1 and full-


year FY20 consensus by 21% and 6%, respectively, and which would have revealed management’s expectation that Q1 sales would have


contracted year-over-year. Prior to Q3 FY19, an earnings preannouncement which saw management cut its Q3 sales estimate by 9% sent the 


stock tumbling by nearly 40% in a single day. What might a >20% Q1 guidance miss have done to the stock had the deal not been completed prior 


to the call?


If conscious of the full extent of the revenue headwinds of which management appeared to be aware, would Advent have still been willing to 


purchase Forescout for $33 per share, just one quarter after the stock fell as low as ~$25 after a posting a top-line miss similar to what it would 


have posted on the Q4 call?


Q3 FY19 Guidance Revision Sent Stock Tumbling Just Under 40%... …So What Would Have Happened On Another Top-Line Guidance Miss?


Q3 FY19 Preannouncement


Initial Consensus, Sales: $102.0M


Revised Sales Estimate: $91.1M


Disappointment: -10.7%


Stock Price Response: -37.3%


FY20 Q1 / Full-Year Guide


Consensus, Sales: $78.1M / $377.4M


Illustrative Guide: $62.0M / $355.0M


Miss (Unannounced): -20.6% / -5.9%


Stock Price Response: ???


Source: BloombergSource: Yahoo! Finance
7


Review The Deal: Advent Must Carry Out Its 
Fiduciary Duty To Investors


Spruce Point believes that Advent has a duty to its investor base to reevaluate the deal in light of potentially new financial forecasts and the 


rapidly-evolving economic environment. This duty is only magnified by the fact that Advent’s largest investors in its latest fund include a host of 


public investment boards and pension systems, many of which could face increasing strain as the pandemic continues to wreak havoc on 


financial markets. If this deal no longer makes financial sense in light of new developments, Advent should consider renegotiating or backing out.


Source


With its sales growth rate plunging, front-line sales people 


departing, and diversified competition bundling services and 


discounting, is Forescout disruptive or being disrupted?


The savings of hard-working public employees put at risk by a 


low-quality deal?


Source



https://www.pionline.com/article/20190606/ONLINE/190609922/advent-international-raises-17-5-billion-for-ninth-global-pe-fund

https://www.privateequityinternational.com/advent-eyes-disruptive-high-growth-businesses-with-debut-tech-fund/
8


Deals Are Being Cancelled In Response To The 
Pandemic – Is The Forescout Deal Next?


There is no shame in modifying a bad deal. Spruce Point notes that the COVID-19 pandemic has already begun to wreak 


havoc on M&A: announced deals, both large and small, have cancelled unilaterally or consensually due to the effects of 


the crisis. We believe that Advent’s planned acquisition of Forescout – announced just weeks before the pandemic took 


hold in the US – could be the next casualty.
9


Why Does Management Get To Walk Away 
With $100m For Its Failures?


Despite having created little to no value, in our opinion, as a public company (including missing financial targets and 


spending $110m on a revenue-less venture SecurityMatters with no clear evidence that it succeeded), Forescout insiders 


are in line for a hefty payday – cashing out nearly $100m. Why does management get to walk away with so much money, 


while Advent and its sponsors – reportedly largely state employee pension funds – are left paying richly for an ostensibly 


struggling business with no clear financial visibility in the midst of a pandemic?


Note: All insiders based on $33/share


Source: Proxy



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1145057/000104746920001712/a2241060zdefm14a.htm
10


Enriching Management And Financial Interests 
At The Expense Of The Public


In an unprecedented period akin to a depression where the disparity between have and have-nots is widening, Spruce Point believes 


that the proposed Forescout deal unjustly enriches management and long-time VCs stuck in dinosaur investment, while putting 


public employee pension dollars at risk. We believe that Advent has a duty to review the terms of the deal in light of Forescout’s 


struggles and the ongoing pandemic.


Potential Winners Of The Deal Potential Losers Of The Deal


Advent (via portfolio fees)
Advent investors / public pension funds / hard-working U.S. 


citizens


Venture capital firms with a stake in Forescout > 10yrs Debt investors 


Activists and Index / ETF funds Forescout employees jumping ship


Management (via excessive golden parachute pay day) Forescout customers during transition of business/ownership


Lawyers collecting fees


Morgan Stanley (advisor/fairness opinion fees)
11


Change (And Inconsistent) Language Suggests 
Rising Financing Risk?


Does a subtle change (and inconsistency) in the transaction details discussed in Forescout’s deal-related press releases suggest that financing 


for the deal may be at risk? On Feb 6th and March 9th the Company claimed that the deal was expected to close in Q2 FY20 “subject to customary 


closing conditions, including approval by Forescout shareholders and receipt of regulatory approvals.” On Apr 23rd , the deal was indeed 


approved by a shareholder vote, with over 99% voting in favor of the transaction. However, the press release now says the completion of the deal 


is conditional upon “a customary debt marketing period.” whereas the transcript says “remarketing period”. Why did management choose to 


highlight this condition only now? Does remarketing the financing suggest it is at risk now with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic?


FSCT: Acquisition Press Release (Feb 6, 2020)


Source


Source


FSCT: Acquisition Press Release (Apr 23, 2020)


FSCT: Special Meeting of Stockholders (Apr 23, 2020)


“Based on the preliminary report of Inspector of Elections, stockholders voted to adopt the merger agreement 


and voted to approve the compensation that will or may become payable to Forescout -- by Forescout to its 


named executive officers. The Inspector of Elections will execute a certificate as to the results of the voting, 


and that certificate will be filed with the minutes of this meeting. As we have sufficient votes to approve the 


adoption of the merger agreement, the proposal of the proxy to adjourn this meeting to a later date to solicit 


additional proxies is rendered moot, and will not be presented for a vote. The final tabulation of these votes will 


appear in the Form 8-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We currently expect the 


merger to be consummated on or around May 18, 2020, after buyer's remarketing period ends.”


- Darren Milliken, General Counsel – Forescout Technologies


Remarketing or marketing period?


Has the financing for the deal 


originally announced on Feb 6 fallen 


through or become less certain?


FSCT: Expiration Go Shop Release (March 9, 2020)


Source



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1145057/000110465920030809/tm2012117d2_ex99-1.htm

https://investors.forescout.com/node/8836/pdf

https://www.forescout.com/company/news/press-releases/forescout-to-be-acquired-by-advent-international-in-1.9-billion-transaction/
Did Management Fail To Disclose A 
Weak Financial Outlook To 
Prospective Acquirers?
13


Were All Financial Forecasts Prepared By 
Management Provided To Prospective Buyers?


In the acquisition timeline provided in the proxy statement issued following the deal’s announcement, Forescout discusses its preparation of four 


different sets of long-term financial forecasts at various points through late 2019 and early 2020. Its (1) “Target Plan” and (2) “Preliminary 


Alternate Plan” were completed in Nov 2019 – towards the beginning of the acquisition timeline, and in the normal course of management’s 


internal financial reviews. Its (3) “Alternate Plan” was later completed in early Feb 2020 on updated information regarding its sales and expense 


outlook, in conjunction with the (4) “Illustrative Guidance” which management expected to release on its planned Feb 6, 2020 earnings call for Q4 


FY19. After a close analysis of the provided deal timeline and the contents of each of the forecasts disclosed, Spruce Point questions whether 


potential buyers were provided all of management’s forecasts – each of which differed materially from the others – and, therefore, whether they 


were made fully aware of management’s financial outlook. 


Spruce Point believes that any failure by management to disclose its full financial outlook to prospective buyers could, at the very least, 


provide sufficient grounds for Advent to ask Forescout to renegotiate the deal price. At worst, it could represent a potential breach of 


Forescout’s representations and warranties, and thus give Advent a chance to exit the deal without paying an exit fee.


FSCT: Deal Proxy Statement


Nov 2019


Management had 


prepared a (1) Target Plan


and (2) Preliminary 


Alternative Plan, but 


submitted only the (1) 


Target Plan to potential 


acquirers?


Jan 2020


Management prepared an 


amended (3) Alternative 


Plan and (4) Illustrative 


Guidance, but submitted 


only the (3) Alternative 


Plan to potential 


acquirers?
14


Low-End Forecast Of Financial Outcomes Not 
Provided To Prospective Buyers?


In Nov 2019, management completed its (1) “Target Plan” and (2) “Preliminary Alternate Plan” in the course of its regular preparation of internal 


financial forecasts. Both were formed a “tops-down” basis, without the “bottoms-up” analyses of Forescout’s sales pipeline and anticipated 


expenses which would be completed only in Jan 2020. Management claims that the two plans “were prepared to illustrate to the Forescout Board


the degree of variability” in the Company’s prospective sales and expenses. However, Spruce Point notes that, at the time, only the (1) “Target 


Plan” was provided to potential acquirers, according the deal proxy. If, per its (2) “Preliminary Alternate Plan,” management believed that sales 


could plausibly be close to 10% lower than its Target Plan forecast in FY20 and beyond, and if it believed that EBIT could remain close to zero 


through FY22, why was this not explicitly communicated to potential acquirers?


(1) Target Plan


(Nov 2019)


Disclosed To 


Buyers


(2) Preliminary 


Alternative Plan


(Nov 2019)


NOT Disclosed 


To Buyers?


Management 


Discussion


FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23


Sales -8.5% -10.9% -11.7% -12.7%


EBIT -184.6% -102.9% -95.7% -64.8%


Difference In Forecasts


Why was only the more 


optimistic (1) Target Plan


provided to prospective 


acquirers when the less 


optimistic (2) Preliminary 


Alternative Plan represented 


plausible variability in 


Forescout’s future results?
15


Why was the (3) Alternative Plan so different 


from management’s (4) Illustrative Guidance


when supposedly both informed by the same 


bottoms-up analysis?


Why does it seem that only the (3) Alternative 


Plan was given to potential buyers?


Amended Low-End Forecast Provided To Prospective 
Buyers Differed From Internal Low-End Forecast?


In Jan 2020, after performing a “bottoms-up” analysis of the Company’s sales pipeline and anticipated expenses, management prepared an 


amended (3) “Alternate Plan” reflecting the updated data, in addition to (4) “Illustrative Guidance” which it planned to release to investors on its 


Feb 6, 2020 Q4 FY19 earnings call. While projecting out-year sales between 6%-11% below those outlined in the (1) “Target Plan” – which, at this 


point, remained unchanged – the (3) “Alternate Plan” outlined a FY20 revenue estimate of $386M, close to the (1) “Target Plan’s” $389M estimate. 


Why, then, was management preparing to issue FY20 guidance of $355M, $34M (close to 10%) below the (1) “Target Plan” estimate? How could 


management justify an (3) “Alternate Plan” revenue estimate so far above a guide which should have been informed by the same data? And why 


does it appear that, per the acquisition timeline, the (4) “Illustrative Guidance” was never provided to potential buyers?


(2) Preliminary


Alternative Plan


(Nov 2019)


NOT Disclosed 


To Buyers?


(3) Alternative 


Plan


(Jan 2020)


Disclosed To 


Buyers


(4) Illustrative 


Guidance


(Jan 2020)


NOT Disclosed 


To Buyers?


Amended in Jan 2020 based on bottoms-up sales and expense analysis


Forecast FY20 Sales Estimate


(3) Alternative Plan $386.0M


(4) Illustrative Guidance $355.0M


% Difference -8.0%


Difference In Jan 2020 Forecasts
16


Language In Acquisition Timeline Appears To 
Suggest That Not All Forecasts Were Disclosed


Upon a close review of the text of the provided acquisition timeline, Spruce Point concludes that, per the deal proxy, it appears that neither the (2) 


“Preliminary Alternate Plan” nor the (4) “Illustrative Guidance” was ever provided directly to potential acquirers.


Nov 19-20


(1) Target Plan and 


(2) Prelim. Alternative 


Plan BOTH prepared


ONLY (1) Target Plan


provided to 


prospective buyers


Jan 3-6


Mgmt. discusses 


poor preliminary Q4 


results and ‘20 


pipeline internally


ONLY preliminary Q4 


results provided to 


prospective buyers


Jan 24


Mgmt. concludes that 


it will not meet the (1) 


Target Plan OR the 


lower (2) Prelim. 


Alternative Plan in ‘20


Jan 27


Mgmt. prepares (3) 


Alternative Plan and 


(4) Illustrative 


Guidance


ONLY (3) Alternative 


Plan is provided to 


prospective buyers
17


Summary: Not All Financial Information 
Provided To Prospective Buyers?


Spruce Point finds that, if the details provided by the proxy’s acquisition timeline are complete, prospective buyers may not have been given 


internal financial forecasts which differed materially from the forecasts provided to them.


Date
Forecasts Prepared By / 


Information Available To 
Management


Forecasts / Information Provided 
To Potential Buyers?


Difference In Financial Forecast 
(Selected Items)


Commentary


Nov 19-20, 2019
• (1) Target Plan


• (2) Preliminary Alternative Plan


• (1) Target Plan


• (2) Preliminary Alternative Plan


• FY20 Sales: $33M (9%)
• FY20 EBIT: $24M (185%)


• FY23 Sales: $78M (13%)
• FY23 EBIT: $57M (65%)


• If the (2) Preliminary 
Alternative Plan was “prepared 
to illustrate to the Forescout 
board the degree of variability” 
in Forescout’s sales pipeline 
and future expenses, why was 
it not provided to prospective 
buyers alongside the more 
optimistic (1) Target Plan?


Jan 3-6, 2020
• Preliminary Q4 FY19 Results


• FY20 Sales Pipeline Forecast


• Preliminary Q4 FY19 Results


• FY20 Sales Pipeline Forecast
• N/A


• Why were prospective buyers 
not given a “bottoms-up” view 
into Forescout’s forward sales 
outlook after being given only 
a “tops-down” forecast (the (1) 
Target Plan) in Nov 2019, 
particularly since this pipeline 
forecast later informed a lower 
(3) Alternative Plan?


Jan 24-27, 2020
• (3) Alternative Plan


• (4) Illustrative Guidance


• (3) Alternative Plan


• (4) Illustrative Guidance
• FY20 Sales: $31M (8%)


• How could two FY20 sales 
forecasts supposedly based on 
the same internal information 
vary so significantly? If both 
were plausible, why was only 
the more optimistic (3) 
Alternative Plan provided to 
prospective buyers?
18


If The “Alternative Plan” Elicited Revised Offers, 
What Would Disclosing Guidance Have Done?


Given the details provided in the acquisition timeline, it seems reasonable to believe that the (2) “Preliminary Alternative Plan” was indeed never 


provided to prospective acquirers. When the (3) “Alternative Plan” – a more optimistic forecast than the (2) “Preliminary Alternative Plan,” but 


less optimistic than the (1) “Target Plan” – was purportedly provided to the remaining prospective buyers, both immediately revised their offers 


downwards in response: “Financial C” from $34-$35 per share to “a couple of dollars” lower, and Advent from $38-$41 to $32. It seems unlikely 


that these offers would have been revised downward in response to the (3) “Alternative Plan” had “Financial C” and Advent both been privy to 


the more pessimistic (2) “Preliminary Alternative Plan” beforehand. As the deal timeline also appears to suggest that the even more negative (4) 


“Illustrative Guidance” was never provided to the prospective buyers, it seems reasonable to believe that they were never made aware of these 


estimates during the diligence process.


If they were indeed never made aware of the (4) “Illustrative Guidance,” by how much more might have the prospective buyers revised their 


offers downwards had this guide been disclosed?


Jan 27


(3) Alternative Plan 


ONLY is provided to 


buyers, NOT (4) 


Illustrative Guidance


Jan 31


Buyers require time 


to review (3) 


Alternative Plan


Feb 3


Both remaining 


prospective buyers 


revise offers 


downward in 


response to (3) 


Alternative Plan
19


Big Guidance Miss Likely Would Have Been 
Material To The Stock – And To The Deal Price?


When management announced the deal on Feb 6, it also cancelled its earnings call scheduled for later that day. It instead released its Q4 results 


immediately upon announcing the deal, disclosing a sales figure which came in 4% below Q4 guidance and consensus estimates of $95M. 


However, management chose not to disclose the guidance that it planned to issue on the call – figures that would have disappointed Q1 and full-


year FY20 consensus by 21% and 6%, respectively, and which would have revealed management’s expectation that Q1 sales would have


contracted year-over-year. Prior to Q3 FY19, an earnings preannouncement which saw management cut its Q3 sales estimate by 9% sent the 


stock tumbling by nearly 40% in a single day. What might a >20% Q1 guidance miss have done to the stock had the deal not been completed prior 


to the call?


If conscious of the full extent of the revenue headwinds of which management appeared to be aware, would Advent have still been willing to 


purchase Forescout for $33 per share, just one quarter after the stock fell as low as ~$25 after a posting a top-line miss similar to what it would 


have posted on the Q4 call?


Q3 FY19 Guidance Revision Sent Stock Tumbling Just Under 40%... …So What Would Have Happened On Another Top-Line Guidance Miss?


Q3 FY19 Preannouncement


Initial Consensus, Sales: $102.0M


Revised Sales Estimate: $91.1M


Disappointment: -10.7%


Stock Price Response: -37.3%


FY20 Q1 / Full-Year Guide


Consensus, Sales: $78.1M / $377.4M


Illustrative Guide: $62.0M / $355.0M


Miss (Unannounced): -20.6% / -5.9%


Stock Price Response: ???


Source: BloombergSource: Yahoo! Finance
20


If Not A Breach Of Duties, At Least Leverage To 
Renegotiate Deal Price Downwards?


According to the proxy, the forecasts provided by management “reflected the best currently available estimates and judgments” on the business 


and “presented, to Forescout management’s knowledge, the expected future financial performance of Forescout within the parameters and under 


the assumptions specified in preparing the Forecasts.” However, press releases regularly released by management in conjunction with earnings 


announcements, which themselves included forward guidance, stated that “All forward-looking statements in this press release are based on 


information available to us as of the date hereof….” How could management’s (4) Illustrative Guidance have varied so heavily from its (1) Target 


Plan and (3) Alternate Plan in its FY20 sales estimate, particularly when both the (3) Alternate Plan and (4) Illustrative Guidance were both 


prepared with the benefit of a full view into the FY20 pipeline as of late January 2020? Did management violate its representations and warranties 


by failing to provide buyers a full view into internal financial estimates? If nothing else, Spruce Point believes that, if management did in fact fail 


to provide material internal estimates, Advent – a financial buyer – may have sufficient leverage to demand that the deal price be renegotiated, 


particularly amidst a radically weakened economic environment.


FSCT: Definitive Proxy Statement (Mar 23, 2020)


FSCT: Q3 FY19 Earnings Press Release (Nov 6, 2019)


Representative Disclosure Regarding Forward Guidance


Forecasts Provided To Prospective Buyers FY20 Sales Estimate


(1) Target Plan (Nov 2019) $389.0M


(3) Alternative Plan (Jan 2020) $386.0M


Planned Guidance For Q4 FY19 Earnings Call FY20 Sales Estimate


(4) Illustrative Guidance (Jan 2020) $355.0M


How could these 


numbers vary so 


significantly when 


supposedly 


informed by the 


same bottoms-up 


sales pipeline and 


expense analysis 


as of Jan 2020?


Spruce Point 


believes that these 


discrepancies may 


give Advent 


motivation (and 


justification) to 


renegotiate the 


terms of the deal
Is It Still In Advent’s Interest To Close 
The Deal?
22


Is An Acquisition Conceived In A Pre-Pandemic 
Environment Still As Palatable Today?


After exploring a sale of the business as early as Oct 2019, management announced its deal with Advent on Feb 6, 2020 – just weeks before the 


COVID-19 pandemic radically transformed the world’s economic outlook. It’s no secret to those who have been following the Company since at 


least Q3 FY19 that Forescout had already been struggling to meet expectations of late. Spruce Point believes that the overwhelming 


macroeconomic events which have transpired since the deal was announced could render the business even less appealing at the current 


juncture, encouraging the buyers to pressure Forescout into renegotiating the deal, or even compelling them to walk away outright.


Feb 6, 2020: Forescout Acquisition Announcement


Mar 13, 2020: HHS Expects Shortages, Healthcare System Strain


Source


Source



https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/6819-covid-19-response-plan/d367f758bec47cad361f/optimized/full.pdf

https://investors.forescout.com/node/8606/pdf
23


All Signs Suggest That Fundamental 
Headwinds Were Not Improving


While the deal announcement spared management from having to disclose its poor Q1 and full-year FY20 guidance, its Q4 FY19 numbers came in 


well below Street expectations across the board. After management already disappointed investors with its negative Q3 FY19 earnings 


preannouncement, we believe that the market would have responded very negatively to Forescout’s Q4 results had they not been released 


alongside the buyout announcement, particularly had management been forced to announce its forward guidance as well. We acknowledge that 


prospective buyers were forewarned about Forescout’s Q4 difficulties during the diligence process, but we wonder whether they were fully aware 


of the extent to which the Company would fall below consensus estimates. 


Further, in light of Advent’s decision to revise its offer downwards in response to its Q4 forewarning, we believe that the likely consequences 


of the ongoing pandemic for the business would only make Advent more reluctant to follow through with its final offer of $33 per share.


($, Millions, except per share figures and 
percentages)


Revenue, 
Total


Revenue 
Growth, YoY


Billings
Billings 


Growth, YoY
Operating 


Income
EBIT Margin EPS


Actual $91 8% $102 9% ($4) -4% ($0.09)


Consensus $95 13% $108 15% ($2) -2% ($0.06)


Beat / Miss -4% - -6% - -100% - -50%


($, Millions, except per share figures and 
percentages)


Revenue, 
Total


Revenue 
Growth, YoY


Billings
Billings 


Growth, YoY
Operating 


Income
EBIT Margin EPS


Actual $91 8% N/A N/A ($2) -4% N/A


Consensus $100 13% N/A N/A $3 -2% N/A


Beat / Miss -9% - N/A N/A -167% - N/A


FSCT: Q3 FY19 Preannouncement


FSCT: Q4 FY19 Earnings Results


Stock Price 


Response


-37%


Stock Price 


Response


???


Management was aware 


that its Q4 results would 


likely depress offer prices
24


Was Management In A Rush To Complete The 
Deal Before Announcing Q4 Results?


The acquisition timeline provided in the deal proxy highlights that management was focused on completing the deal prior to its Q4 earnings call, 


going so far as to prioritize financial acquirers over strategic acquirers who were not prepared to announce a deal prior to the earnings release. 


With Company growth quickly decelerating at the time, with management still on the heels of a disappointing Q3 preannouncement, and with 


prospective buyers actively cutting their offers in response to lower Company forecasts, Spruce Point wonders whether management was looking 


to secure a deal before any further disappointing announcements could depress the stock – particularly given its poor FY20 guidance, which, 


again, appears not to have been disclosed to potential acquirers.


If management is in fact desperate to secure a deal, it is perhaps even more likely that the Company would entertain a demand by Advent to 


renegotiate the terms, lest it be forced to find a new acquirer amidst unprecedented economic uncertainty as a recently-failed take-out target


Dec 18, 2019


Management prioritizes 


completing deal before 


disclosure of Q4 results


Jan 3, 2020


Poor preliminary Q4 results


discussed internally


Jan 24, 2020


Poor FY20 sales pipeline


discussed internally


Jan 27, 2020


Management prioritizes 


financial acquirers which 


were prepared to agree to 


terms prior to Q4 earnings 


call


Feb 3, 2020


Remaining financial 


acquirers reduce offer 


prices in response to lower 


(3) Alternative Plan
25


Missing The Boat On Critical Industry 
Developments


An expert we spoke to gave his opinion that Forescout is being left behind as the focus on cybersecurity shifts to the cloud. As both public and 


private sector organizations increasingly rely on cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Microsoft Azure, Forescout’s solution – which experts 


describe as primarily “on-premise” and for end-use devices – is becoming less and less critical to customers’ approach to cybersecurity. 


Meanwhile, the expert told us that competitors such as Tanium provide more comprehensive, cloud-friendly solutions which can be sold in 


bundles to satisfy a broader swath of customers’ cybersecurity needs. Product bundling leads to pricing pressure. Spruce Point believes that the 


recent deceleration in Forescout’s growth is largely a product of the Company’s failure to keep pace with industry trends, which will continue to 


weigh on performance going forward.


“It was about 2010 that this whole cybersecurity thing came in. 


Everybody stamped their webpage that they had something to do with 


cyber. So that whole process gained a lot of momentum. Now, it’s 


starting to wane from a general perspective. And Forescout, 


because they are 95% cyber, is going to take a bigger hit. It’s still 


important, and it’s still critical, but I think this shift into 


digitalization, and obviously cloud, and so on – the dollars, and the 


sizzle if you will, is shifting away. Now I have my DNC, I have my 


firewall – I have all of this stuff. I’m OK now. And Forescout ends up 


being – it’s just nice to have, instead of a must-have. Now I’m just 


securing all of the inputs. And I’m like, ‘That would be great, but my core 


is secure, my edge is secure, my network is secure, all of this cloud 


stuff – I’m just going to have Amazon and everybody else do that.’ 


That whole shift is going to hit Forescout much harder because 


Forescout is generally a cybersecurity business. And it’s, even more, it’s 


just in the end-user devices. So to summarize, as [the space] shifted 


down, it caused more disruption to Forescout than it would otherwise.”


- Cybersecurity Expert, Former Forescout Employee


“They're mostly on-campus, they're mostly on-prem. And as I shift to the 


cloud, a lot of those security requirements go away – not go away, 


but shift away from who's responsible, now to the cloud provider…. 


[Forescout] will get hurt and they don't shift more to the cloud.”


- Cybersecurity Expert, Former Forescout Employee


“And [end-point is] almost the last thing you're going to build out when 


you build out your whole security approach. You get the core and go out 


and make sure that your network and everything is secure. Then you can 


say, ‘Oh my gosh, I got printers, I got cameras, I've got all this end-point 


stuff and it would be great to know, what's their compliance?’ But the 


device is only one little piece. Tanium is going to come in and offer 


a dozen different services, and end-point security is just one of 


them. Because [Forescout] doesn’t offer a whole bunch of stuff, I 


may get all this other services from a Tanium, where Forescout just 


doesn’t play.”


- Cybersecurity Expert, Former Forescout Employee


Forescout Losing Its Industry Positioning With The Shift To The 


Cloud…


…And Other Players Can Provide More Comprehensive 


Offerings


Source



https://www.upguard.com/articles/forescout-vs-tanium
26


Field Research Indicates Faster Growing 
Upstarts Are Winning Business, Gaining Share


Industry experts indicate that the 30%+ annual growth that Forescout enjoyed from 2016-18 was driven largely by its success among government 


agencies and large corporate customers. This market, they report, is now largely saturated – the major culprit behind the Company’s recent top-


line deceleration. Further growth will require Forescout to appeal to smaller customers and to expand its presence internationally. However, one 


expert told us that Forescout is “five years behind the curve” in critical foreign markets, and that newer startups – many of which have effectively 


“reverse-engineered” elements of Forescout’s cybersecurity services, and which are ahead of Forescout in offering a SaaS-enabled solution – are 


dominating among smaller and mid-size businesses. These experts believe that the continued economic slowdown triggered by the COVID-19 


pandemic will only exacerbate sector pricing pressure and drive more customers to lower-cost players.


“Forescout did a good job of winning contracts with government agencies 


and large civilian enterprises… But most of the runway with 


government customers and Fortune 500 companies is now 


saturated. Forescout has to figure out international to get its growth rate 


back up, and it is going to have to go down market for new customers. It 


has to simplify its sales pitch for smaller customers with less 


comprehensive needs.”


- Cybersecurity Expert, Former Forescout Employee (paraphrased)


“There is a lot of reverse engineering going on among competitors 


and startups. They might not all offer as complete of a solution as 


Forescout, but they are cheaper and can be enough to meet down-


market customers’ needs.”


- Cybersecurity Expert, Former Forescout Employee (paraphrased)


Source: LinkedIn


Spruce Point believes that Forescout will have trouble 


reaccelerating its top-line growth rate as it attempts to win smaller, 


more price-sensitive mid-level customers with less comprehensive 


cybersecurity needs – particularly as the ongoing pandemic 


pressures budgets across the global economy.
27


Product Losing Traction?


Spruce Point observes that Forescout’s technology appears to be losing favor among customers. As recently as 2014, the Company was listed 


among the “leaders” in network access control by Gartner. However, it scores far worse in industry overviews published more recently. In 


particular, Forrester rated it among the weakest options in the “Zero Trust eXtended Ecosystem Platform Providers Space” in Q4 2019. We believe 


that Forescout’s observed financial headwinds are reflected in, and a product of, the Company’s declining perception among customers and 


seemingly low employee morale, all of which create an image of a business which is under considerable pressure – to say nothing of the potential 


consequences of the ongoing pandemic.


Forrester Wave:


Zero Trust eXtended Ecosystem Platform Providers Space (Q4 2019)


Gartner:


Magic Quadrant for Network Access Control (Dec 2014)


Dec 2014


From among the best…


Q4 2019


…to among the worst
28


Employee Anecdotes: Technology Behind The 
Times, Poor Management


Company reviews by former employees suggest that Forescout’s technology is lacking, and, most notably, that management is 


political and weak. Recent reviews are almost universally negative. Spruce Point believes that this color is particularly revealing 


given the Company’s recent struggles and public disappointments.


!!!


Source



https://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Forescout-Technologies-Reviews-E262243.htm
29


Steady Exodus Of Staff, Particularly Among 
Sales Force


Spruce Point observes that Forescout appears to have experienced higher-than-average employee departures of late, particularly among its sales 


staff – confirming employee anecdotes that we’ve heard elsewhere. Hiring, meanwhile, appears to have slowed to a trickle through the past 


several months. We believe that reaccelerating its pace of top-line growth will be very difficult for Forescout with high turnover among its sales 


force and slowed hiring.


Source: LinkedIn


Forescout: LinkedIn Hiring Trends Forescout: Recent Sales Force Departures
30


Sales Force Attrition Reflected In Changes To 
Language In 10-K


Spruce Point observes that, despite management claiming that it was looking to grow its sales headcount, recent changes to Forescout’s 10-K 


appear to reveal emerging challenges in sales force retention, confirming the evidence which we have found elsewhere. These changes also 


suggest that its sales force may have been growing less productive overall.


FSCT: 2018 10-K


FSCT: 2019 10-K (Filed Feb 28th After Deal Announcement)


No longer 


quantify 


productivity



https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/1145057/000114505720000002/forescout1231201910-k.htm
31


Pandemic Puts Customers At Risk And 
Encourages Cost Cutting


As the COVID-19 pandemic continues with no clear end in sight, businesses of all sizes are being put at risk, yet continue to face political and 


social pressure to refrain from layoffs to whatever extent possible. Spruce Point believes that, while a portion of Forescout’s customer base will 


be seriously financially impaired, even customers who aren’t will take the opportunity to review and cut unnecessary service costs in an effort to 


spare labor and spending on mission-critical items. Software like Forescout’s – increasingly a laggard in its own industry – could be a prime 


candidate for replacement or removal as companies look to cut expenses amidst the crisis. Meanwhile, many prospective customers in the FY20 


pipeline are likely to defer any new spending on software such as Forescout’s.


“Across the board, [customers] are just trying to get by – not cut back employees, etc…. 


Nobody’s going to add anything. Its just not going to happen.”


- Cybersecurity Expert, Former Forescout Relationship Manager
32


Outsized Exposure To Industries Undergoing 
Change And Experiencing New Pressures


Forescout highlights that well over 50% of its total sales are attributable to financial services and government customers. Our research suggests 


that its exposure to the public sector is particularly high – and that new developments and evolving priorities in this space may be contributing to 


Forescout’s slowing growth. Meanwhile, Spruce Point notes that the financial sector bears particularly high risk to the economic consequences 


of the pandemic, which will likely pressure spending on IT and business services among financial institutions.


“What should be of concern is that – 10 to 15, maybe 20% of the worldwide business is public 


sector, but at Forescout, that was much higher. If you disrupt that – as you know, it’s not 


linear. To me, as an employee, I was concerned that they were reaching so top-heavy on public 


sector as a part of the entire business…. If federal now misses, it’s going to have an impact on 


the whole company…. That could be one of the reasons that we see the overall down-trend in 


the business.”


- Cybersecurity Expert, Former Forescout Employee


FSCT: 2019 Investor Day Presentation
33


Deal Financing Could Encourage Renegotiation 
Of Terms


Perhaps putting the deal at even greater risk is the fact that it is being supported by $400M of debt financing from Owl Rock Capital. A significant 


change in Company forecasts – whether due to the evolving economic environment or otherwise – could strongly deter Advent from participating 


in a heavily-levered deal for a business under such pressure. Indeed, the acquisition timeline appears to indicate that learning of the more 


pessimistic (3) Alternative Plan was alone sufficient to force prospective buyers to review their offers and financing sources.


Jan 27


Mgmt. prepares (3) 


Alternative Plan and 


(4) Illustrative 


Guidance


(3) Alternative Plan is 


provided to 


prospective buyers


Jan 31


Prospective buyers 


notify management 


that they must review 


offers and deal 


structure in light of 


lower forecast


Feb 3


Remaining financial 


acquirers reduce offer 


prices in response to 


lower (3) Alternative 


Plan


FSCT: Definitive Proxy Statement (Mar 23, 2020)
34


Change (And Inconsistent) Language Suggests 
Rising Financing Risk?


Does a subtle change (and inconsistency) in the transaction details discussed in Forescout’s deal-related press releases suggest that financing 


for the deal may be at risk? On Feb 6th an March 9th the Company claimed that the deal was expected to close in Q2 FY20 “subject to customary 


closing conditions, including approval by Forescout shareholders and receipt of regulatory approvals.” On Apr 23rd , the deal was indeed 


approved by a shareholder vote, with over 99% voting in favor of the transaction. However, the press release now says the completion of the deal 


is conditional upon “a customary debt marketing period.” whereas the transcript says “remarketing period”. Why did management choose to 


highlight this condition only now? Does remarketing the financing suggest it is at risk now with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic?


FSCT: Acquisition Press Release (Feb 6, 2020)


Source


Source


FSCT: Acquisition Press Release (Apr 23, 2020)


FSCT: Special Meeting of Stockholders (Apr 23, 2020)


“Based on the preliminary report of Inspector of Elections, stockholders voted to adopt the merger agreement 


and voted to approve the compensation that will or may become payable to Forescout -- by Forescout to its 


named executive officers. The Inspector of Elections will execute a certificate as to the results of the voting, 


and that certificate will be filed with the minutes of this meeting. As we have sufficient votes to approve the 


adoption of the merger agreement, the proposal of the proxy to adjourn this meeting to a later date to solicit 


additional proxies is rendered moot, and will not be presented for a vote. The final tabulation of these votes will 


appear in the Form 8-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We currently expect the 


merger to be consummated on or around May 18, 2020, after buyer's remarketing period ends.”


- Darren Milliken, General Counsel – Forescout Technologies


Remarketing or marketing period?


Has the financing for the deal 


originally announced on Feb 6 fallen 


through or become less certain?


FSCT: Expiration Go Shop Release (March 9, 2020)


Source



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1145057/000110465920030809/tm2012117d2_ex99-1.htm

https://investors.forescout.com/node/8836/pdf

https://www.forescout.com/company/news/press-releases/forescout-to-be-acquired-by-advent-international-in-1.9-billion-transaction/
Reevaluating The Deal
36


Can The (Unreleased) Guidance Even Be 
Trusted?


Management’s (4) Illustrative Guidance – which was intended for the Q4 FY19 earnings call, but which was never ultimately released outside of 


the deal proxy statement – forecasts Q1 FY20 sales of $62M and full-year FY20 sales of $355M. It should be noted that, while this would imply full-


year revenue growth of 5.4%, it would imply Q1 revenue contraction of a whopping 18%. Did management really expect to grow sales so fast in 


Q2-Q4 that it would be able to recover from nearly 20% Q1 contraction to achieve mid-single digit growth for the year? Given management’s 


recent history of missing sales estimates by up to double-digit percentages, it is entirely plausible that management’s full-year sales guidance of 


$355M is aggressive. Extrapolating the anticipated Q1 18% sales contraction throughout the year would suggest that full-year FY20 sales could be 


as low as $276M – and this is before taking into account the potential effects of the pandemic on business performance.


($M, except %s) Q1 FY18 Q2 FY18 Q3 FY18 Q4 FY18 FY18 Q1 FY19 Q2 FY19 Q3 FY19 Q4 FY19 FY19 Q1 FY20E Q2 FY20E Q3 FY20E Q4 FY20E FY20E


Revenue $59.7 $67.6 $85.6 $84.7 $297.7 $75.6 $78.3 $91.6 $91.3 $336.8 $62.0 - - - $355.0


Growth, YoY 41.5% 35.2% 23.5% 34.7% 32.6% 26.6% 15.8% 7.0% 7.8% 13.2% -18.0% - - - 5.4%


FSCT: Illustrative Guidance


($M, except %s) Q1 FY18 Q2 FY18 Q3 FY18 Q4 FY18 FY18 Q1 FY19 Q2 FY19 Q3 FY19 Q4 FY19 FY19 Q1 FY20E Q2 FY20E Q3 FY20E Q4 FY20E FY20E


Revenue $59.7 $67.6 $85.6 $84.7 $297.7 $75.6 $78.3 $91.6 $91.3 $336.8 $62.0 $69.9 $87.9 $87.0 $306.9


Incremental v. ’18 - - - - - $15.9 $10.7 $6.0 $6.6 $39.1 $2.3 $2.3 $2.3 $2.3 $9.2


FSCT Growth Projection: Incremental Sales Over FY18


($M, except %s) Q1 FY18 Q2 FY18 Q3 FY18 Q4 FY18 FY18 Q1 FY19 Q2 FY19 Q3 FY19 Q4 FY19 FY19 Q1 FY20E Q2 FY20E Q3 FY20E Q4 FY20E FY20E


Revenue $59.7 $67.6 $85.6 $84.7 $297.7 $75.6 $78.3 $91.6 $91.3 $336.8 $62.0 $64.2 $75.1 $74.9 $276.2


Growth, YoY 41.5% 35.2% 23.5% 34.7% 32.6% 26.6% 15.8% 7.0% 7.8% 13.2% -18.0% -18.0% -18.0% -18.0% -18.0%


FSCT Growth Projection: Extrapolating Q1 FY20 Growth Rate


Spruce Point Estimate


Spruce Point Estimate
37


Economic Fallout Of Pandemic Brings Even 
More Downside Risk


Spruce Point estimates that, across Forescout’s purported peer group, sell-side estimates for full-year sales have been revised 


downward by anywhere between 10%-20% in light of the ongoing pandemic. We believe that, should the economic consequences of 


the pandemic grow increasingly severe – a distinct possibility as unemployment grows more severe by the week – the pandemic 


could pose even greater downside risk to Forescout’s full-year sales. However, following industry practice, we believe that 


whichever FY20 sales forecast investors use to evaluate the deal must be adjusted downward by at least ~15% to account for the 


likely impact of the pandemic, since each of these forecasts predates the onset of COVID-19 in the United States.


($M, except %s) (1) Target Plan
(3) Alternative 


Plan
(4) Illustrative 


Guidance


Spruce Point 
Projection: 


Extrapolating
Incremental 


Two-Year Sales 
From Q1 
Guidance


Spruce Point 
Projection: 


Extrapolating
Implied Growth 


From Q1 
Guidance


Revenue, FY20E $389.0 $386.0 $355.0 $306.9 $276.3


Pandemic Adjustment -15% -15% -15% -15% -15%


Revenue, FY20E, with Pandemic Adjustment $330.7 $328.1 $301.8 $260.9 $234.9


Growth, YoY -1.8% -2.6% -10.4% -22.5% -30.3%
38


Suggested Comps Are All Superior To 
Forescout


Morgan Stanley, which advised Forescout on the deal, provides a list of suggested comps in its financial analysis of the deal contained within the 


proxy. Spruce Point believes that each of the comps provided is superior to Forescout: none of the companies provided on the list has both as 


low margins and as limited growth as Forescout. Accordingly, we believe that the Company should be valued at a material discount to the peer 


group provided in the proxy.


($M, except for multiples and %s) Ticker
Enterprise 


Value1


Revenue 
Growth 


(Consensus)1


EBITDA 
Margin 


(Consensus)1


EV/Sales,
FY20 (Oct 18, 


2019)2


EV/Sales,
FY20 


(Current)1


Cyberark Software Ltd CYBR $3,163 10.4% 20.0% 10.0x 6.6x


FireEye Inc FEYE $2,589 0.9% 10.0% 4.3x 2.9x


Fortinet Inc FTNT $15,475 14.9% 26.5% 7.8x 6.2x


Palo Alto Networks Inc PANW $15,475 14.9% 26.5% 6.5x 6.2x


Qualys Inc QLYS $3,723 10.8% 42.7% 8.9x 10.4x


Rapid7 Inc RPD $2,334 18.1% 4.1% 8.7x 6.1x


SailPoint Technologies Holdings SAIL $1,570 6.7% 4.0% 7.0x 5.0x


Splunk Inc SPLK $22,603 8.0% 3.7% 9.6x 8.8x


Tenable Holdings Inc TENB $2,450 21.1% -4.4% 6.3x 4.7x


Varonis Systems Inc VRNS $2,130 1.8% -7.6% 9.7x 8.2x


Box Inc BOX $2,700 10.3% 15.8% 3.5x 3.5x


Talend SA TLND $830 10.0% -13.0% 4.1x 3.0x


Workiva Inc WK $1,590 14.0% -10.0% 6.7x 4.7x


Zuora Inc ZUO $1,159 9.3% -6.2% 5.6x 3.8x


MEDIAN - $2,519 10.4% 4.1% 6.9x 5.5x


Forescout Technologies Inc – Illustrative Guidance3 FSCT $1,566 5.4% -3.0% N/A 4.4x


Forescout Technologies Inc – Pandemic-Adj.4 FSCT $1,566 -10.4% N/A N/A 5.2x


1. Source: Bloomberg April 29, 2020


2. As enumerated in the deal proxy


3. Using estimates provided in (4) Illustrative Guidance


4. Using estimates from Spruce Point’s “Pandemic-Adjusted” (4) Illustrative Guidance


Why should FSCT 


shares be valued 


on par with a peer 


group which is 


both more 


profitable and is 


projected to grow 


more than twice as 


fast 


(even before taking 


COVID-19 into 


account)?
39


More Recent, Profitable, Cybersecurity Deal 
Priced At A Sales Multiple Half of Forescout’s


The precedent (pre-COVID19) software transactions cited in the deal proxy carry a median NTM revenue multiple of 4.7x. However, Spruce Point 


questions whether these transactions are now relevant to a post-COVID19 Forescout, a chronically-unprofitable player in a pressured vertical of 


the cybersecurity space. Other, closer comps appear to suggest a lower multiple. In particular, on April 9, 2020 Investcorp Technology Partners 


acquired German cybersecurity company Avira for $180M. While German financial filings reveal that, like Forescout, Avira has been growing at a 


relatively modest single-digit rate through the recent past, they also show that it has been consistently profitable over the same period. Even 


then, it was acquired for a modest revenue multiple of just ~2.2x – considerably lower than Forescout’s 4.7x purchase price (on Target Plan), 


despite its own projected Q1 contraction and continued failure to turn a profit. Spruce Point believes that Forescout should be valued closer to 


slower-growing peers like Avira, and perhaps deserves a discount for its consistent unprofitability.


Source: Bundesanzeiger


Source


Revenue Growth: 1% with the 


filing calling for “slight” growth in 


2019


Profitable


($, Millions, except percentages) FY17 FY18 FY19 (Est)1 FY20 (Est)1


Actual Sales (US$) $74.3 $82.0 $83.0 $84.0


Growth (local currency) - 1.0% 1.0% 1.0%


Acquisition EV / Sales Multiple N/A 2.2x 2.2x 2.4x


Avira 


Acquisition 


Analysis


1. Spruce Point Estimates


How can Forescout justify a 4.7x NTM 


EV / Sales multiple with projected 


sales contraction in Q1 FY20 and 


continued unprofitability?


Recent Post COVID19 


pandemic



https://www.bundesanzeiger.de/ebanzwww/wexsservlet

https://www.investcorp.com/investcorp-acquires-germanys-leading-cybersecurity-company-avira/
40


Reassessing Valuation In Light Of New 
Forecasts And Effect Of Pandemic


On the basis of the (3) Alternative Plan – the last forecast believed to be provided to prospective buyers, per the timeline in the proxy – Advent is paying 


4.7x FY20E sales for Forescout. However, on the basis of the (4) Illustrative Guidance, it is paying 5.0x FY20E sales. Reducing the deal price to the initial 


4.7x on the basis of the (4) Illustrative Guidance would put FSCT shares at $30.39, or 8% below the current deal price. However, share values fall to just 


~$26.00 – over 21% below the deal price – if we instead value FSCT shares at 4.7x pandemic-adjusted FY20 sales guidance. We conclude that, 


conservatively taking into account the effect of the pandemic, Advent likely paid close to 20% above what it would have intended to pay had it (A) had 


access to management’s Illustrative Guidance and (B) waited just several weeks to observe the effect of the pandemic on the economy.


($M, except multiples)
(1) Target 


Plan


(3) 
Alternative 


Plan


(4) 
Illustrative 
Guidance


Spruce Point 
Projection: 


Extrapolating
Incremental 


Two-Year 
Sales From 


Q1 Guidance


Spruce Point 
Projection: 


Extrapolating
Implied 


Growth From 
Q1 Guidance


Sales, FY20E $389.0 $386.0 $355.0 $306.9 $276.3


EV/Sales Multiple 4.7x 4.7x 5.1x 5.9x 6.6x


Sales, FY20E, with Pandemic Adj. $330.7 $328.1 $301.8 $260.9 $234.9


EV/Sales Multiple 5.5x 5.5x 6.0x 7.0x 7.7x


($M, except share values) Valuation1


(A) Price per Share $33.00


(B) Shares Outstanding, RSUs, and PSUs 54.8


(C) Net Proceeds per Option @ $33 Buyout $21.45


(D) Options 2.8


Equity Value  ([(A) x (B)] + [(C) x (D)]) $1,868.1


Debt $8.2


Operating Lease Liabilities $38.0


Less: Cash and Equivalents ($98.2)


Net Debt ($52.0)


Enterprise Value $1,816.1


($M, except share values & percents) Valuation


Sales, FY20E $355.0


Purchase Multiple 4.7x


Enterprise Value $1,668.5


Less (Plus): Net Debt (Cash) ($52.0)


Equity Value $1,720.5


Shares Outstanding, RSUs, and PSUs2 56.6


Price per Share $30.39


Discount to Deal Price -8.1%


($M, except share values & percents) Valuation


Sales, FY20E (Spruce Pt. Estimate) $301.8


Purchase Multiple 4.7x


Enterprise Value $1,418.2


Less (Plus): Net Debt (Cash) ($52.0)


Equity Value $1,470.5


Shares Outstanding, RSUs, and PSUs2 56.6


Price per Share $25.98


Discount to Deal Price -21.2%


Revaluation


Deal EV / Sales 


Multiple (4.7x)


on FY20E Sales 


According to 


Illustrative 


Guidance


Revaluation


Deal EV / Sales 


Multiple (4.7x) 


on FY20E Sales 


According to 


Pandemic-


Adjusted 


Illustrative 


Guidance


1. Based on share count, RSU and PSU count, option count, and weighted-average option strike price as of 10-K (Feb 14), the latest date for which all info is available


2. Options based on treasury stock method
41


($M, except share values & percents) Valuation


Sales, FY20E (Spruce Pt. Estimate) $301.8


Purchase Multiple 4.7x


Enterprise Value $1,418.2


Less (Plus): Net Debt (Cash) ($52.0)


Less: Option Proceeds ($59.9)


Equity Value $1,410.4


Shares Outstanding, RSUs, and PSUs2 56.6


Price per Share $25.97


Discount to Deal Price -21.2%


($M, except share values) Valuation1


(A) Price per Share $33.00


(B) Shares Outstanding, RSUs, and PSUs 54.8


(C) Net Proceeds per Option @ $33 Buyout $21.45


(D) Options 2.8


Equity Value  ([(A) x (B)] + [(C) x (D)]) $1,868.1


Debt $8.2


Operating Lease Liabilities $38.0


Less: Cash and Equivalents ($98.2)


Net Debt (Cash) ($52.0)


Enterprise Value $1,816.1


It Makes Sense For Advent To Walk
From The Deal


The preceding analysis leads us to a startling conclusion: even taking the deal-break fee of $111.7M into account, it could make sense for Advent 


to break off the deal rather than follow through under the agreed-upon terms. Not only does this analysis open an avenue for Advent to walk 


away, but, in so doing, it gives Advent leverage to demand that Forescout agree to renegotiate the deal, significantly raising the probability that 


the acquisition is not culminated under the current terms. Note that the disparity between Advent’s valuation under the existing agreement and 


any amended valuation could be even larger, given the magnitude of the change in Forescout’s growth trajectory per its unannounced guidance.


FSCT Valuation Per Existing Agreement FSCT Valuation With Forecast Adjustments


($M)


(A) Enterprise Value, Initial $1,816.1


(B) Enterprise Value, with Adjustments $1,418.2


(C) Deal-Break Benefit, Gross  ((A) - (B)) $397.9


(D) Deal-Break Fee3 $111.7


Deal-Break Benefit , Net ((C) - (D)) $286.2


As it is conceivably in Advent’s best interest to walk from the deal, 


we believe that Advent should use this as leverage renegotiate the 


price. Either way, we believe that there is a meaningful probability 


that the deal will not be completed under the existing terms, whether 


by means of a complete break or a renegotiation. Given Forescout’s 


apparent rush to get the deal done, we would not be surprised to see 


the Company concede to renegotiated terms, and encourage Advent 


to pursue this alternative.


1. Based on share count, RSU and PSU count, option count, and weighted-average option strike price as of 10-K (Feb 14), the 


latest date for which all necessary information is available


2. Options based on treasury stock method


3. We assume no tax impact since FSCT has $379m existing NOLs


Advent: Deal Break Cost / Benefit Analysis
42


FSCT Shares Have Significant Downside In A 
Deal-Break Scenario


Valuing FSCT shares at a more conservative multiple – below that of its purported peer group – and taking into account (A) management’s 


unreleased guidance and (B) the potential impact of the pandemic on sales, Spruce Point believes that FSCT shares are worth 50%-60% less than 


the $33 price set by the merger agreement. Taking into account the fact that the Company stands to receive a termination fee of $111.7M in the 


case of a broken deal – which would presumably be factored into any renegotiation – FSCT shares still face 35-50% downside to the $33 deal 


price, depending on the severity of the top-line projections used to value the Company.


($M, except share values and 
percentages)


(4) Illustrative Guidance


Spruce Point Projection: 
Extrapolating Incremental 
Two-Year Sales From Q1 


Guidance


Spruce Point Projection: 
Extrapolating Implied Growth 


From Q1 Guidance


Sales, FY20E, with Pandemic Adj. $301.8 $260.9 $234.9


EV/Sales Multiple 3.0x 3.0x 3.0x


Enterprise Value $905.4 $782.6 $704.6


Less (Plus): Net Debt (Cash) ($52.0) ($52.0) ($52.0)


Equity Value $957.4 $834.6 $756.6


Pro Forma Dil. Shares Outstanding1 56.6 56.6 56.6


Price per Share $16.92 $14.75 $13.37


Discount to Deal Price -49% -55% -60%


Deal-Break Fee (to Forescout)2 $111.7 $111.7 $111.7


Equity Value, Adj. $1,068.9 $946.3 $868.3


Pro Forma Dil. Shares Outstanding3 50.2 50.2 50.2


Price per Share $21.30 $18.85 $17.30


Discount to Deal Price -35% -43% -48%


Deal-Agnostic 


Valuation


Complete 


Valuation


1. Based on share count and option count as of Mar 23 proxy statement. Based on weighted-average option strike price as of 10-K (Feb 14), the latest date for which it is available.


2. We assume no tax impact since FSCT has $379m existing NOLs
