5/23/2018 Yuhe International Addresses Allegations: Attempts at Persuasion Unsuccessful - Yuhe International, Inc. (NASDAQ:YUII) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/275586-yuhe-international-addresses-allegations-attempts-at-persuasion-unsuccessful 1/6


Yuhe International Addresses Allegations: Attempts at Persuasion
Unsuccessful
Jun. 19, 2011 9:05 AM ET12 comments
by: The GeoTeam


On June 14, 2011, Yuhe International's (NASDAQ:YUII) management conducted an
investors conference call to address the allegations and issues raised in our report
published on June 13, 2011. We participated in YUII’s conference call and were not
persuaded by management’s explanations or the documents it provided as support for its
claims to have acquired farms from Dajiang Enterprise Group Co., Ltd.


Given our misgivings about the representations made by YUII’s management during their
conference call, we once again decided to reach out to Dajiang’s Chairman, Mr.
Xuejiang Zheng to make sure there were no "misunderstandings" and to see if he could
shed more light on the situation. Our investigator had two follow up telephone
conversations with Mr. Zheng, one at the beginning and the other at the end of the day
(Beijing time) on June 15, 2011 (transcripts attached).


Third call transcript – Click here to view
Fourth call transcript – Click here to view


Key statements made by Mr. Zheng during the third and fourth calls follow:


When YUII first contacted Mr. Zheng in 2009, they proposed renting Dajiang’s breeder
farms. Mr. Zheng proposed conditions that were unacceptable to YUII so no
agreement was reached. He does not understand why YUII is claiming to have
acquired his farms but assumes the motivation was/is to mislead regulators and
investors in the US so the company could obtain/maintain a listing in the US that it is
not qualified for in China.
When Mr. Zheng was told that disclosures in YUII’s SEC filings state a down payment
of approximately $12.1 million was made he considered such claims a joke. He
categorically denies ever receiving any payment whatsoever, not even $1, from YUII.
Mr. Zheng said that, Mr. Zhentao Gao, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Yuhe
International, visited his offices on Tuesday (June 14, 2011, Beijing time) to discuss
issues raised in Geo’s report regarding YUII’s claimed acquisition of Dajiang’s farms.
According to Mr. Zheng, Mr. Gao apologized for any inconveniences caused by this
matter but assured him that the disclosures regarding the transaction would not
harm Dajiang since they were only in English and only made in the US. Nobody



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/YUII

http://www.geoinvesting.com/companies/duediligence/YUII_Report06132011.aspx/t_blank

http://www.slideshare.net/secret/ipxQ7pWWZnNIcn

http://www.slideshare.net/secret/DZnA8Xa0I0Kowg
5/23/2018 Yuhe International Addresses Allegations: Attempts at Persuasion Unsuccessful - Yuhe International, Inc. (NASDAQ:YUII) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/275586-yuhe-international-addresses-allegations-attempts-at-persuasion-unsuccessful 2/6


Comments (12)


in China was aware of these issues so Mr. Zheng should not be concerned. Mr.
Zheng was unclear as to what Mr. Gao’s intent was but it is apparent he wanted his
cooperation, with or without incentives, to support YUII’s story. Mr. Zheng admonished
Mr. Gao for bringing Dajiang into the matter and his business practices. He refused to
support Mr. Gao’s story and has consulted with his attorney concerning possible
legal action against YUII.
Mr. Zheng was aware of the documents that YUII offered to US investors as support
for and proof of the transaction. In the fourth call, when Geo’s investigator offered to
fax the documents to Mr. Zheng, he said he had already seen them and that they are
forged. Once again, he has contacted his attorney regarding this matter.


In summary, Mr. Zheng repeatedly stated that there never was an agreement for YUII to
acquire Dajiang’s farms much less an actual transfer of ownership. In his opinion,


YUII created the illusion of acquiring Dajiang’s farms to present a strong front and solid
business for its SEC filings. YUII’s management seems to be caught in a series of lies
regarding this matter and apparently produced forged documents to support the
transaction. Those documents may have been created in late 2009 or early 2010 to give
to YUII’s auditors as required support for the alleged transaction. YUII’s management is
playing a dangerous game by continuing to claim it acquired Dajiang’s farms and is only
digging a deeper hole by producing what are apparently forged documents to support
their claims. One sobering thought for investors is if YUII is willing to falsely claim it
acquired Dajiang’s farms when it did not and go so far as to create forged documents to
support the story, what does this say about the company’s other acquisitions?


Investors should know that YUII’s claims that Geo somehow misled Mr. Zheng during the
first two telephone conversations in a manner that caused him to give confused or
unintended statements regarding the transaction are false. Mr. Zheng knew perfectly well
what was being discussed and his statements regarding YUII’s claims of having acquired
Dajiang’s farms were consistent both before and after the investors’ conference call; there
was no such deal and Dajiang did not receive the $12.1 million (or any other amount)
down payment reported by YUII. This raises the obvious question; if the cash was really
transferred from YUII’s bank accounts, who got the payments?


Disclosure: I am short YUII and am also short via puts


 Like this article



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/YUII
5/23/2018 Yuhe International Addresses Allegations: Attempts at Persuasion Unsuccessful - Yuhe International, Inc. (NASDAQ:YUII) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/275586-yuhe-international-addresses-allegations-attempts-at-persuasion-unsuccessful 3/6


bigbarry
This is pretty unbelievable although not surprising for anyone who has done business in China. This attitude is
widespread- a high % of Chinese businessmen are criminals, like this guy.


I don't know why China's gvt isn't taking care of these crooks w/ a firing squad. The US is still the richest country in
the world, and there are plenty of capitalists here who would be happy to finance the rise of China in exchange for a
decent IRR. Instead, China will now need to foot the bill because US investors are no longer throwing money to
China, and the good companies are getting increasingly frustrated w/ awful valuations & will leave as soon as they
can via buyouts.


19 Jun 2011, 06:58 PM


sjoham
I got in long with 40.000 shares Friday in pre market and just before the trading halt at $1.10 - $1.15.


Unfortunately I had not read al this excellent DD from the GEO team before making the investment. My question is:
Presuming this actually is a scam (I am convinced it is), but having read that GEO team discovered the legacy farms
are operating normally. Is there any chance that only based on the legacy the stock could be worth $1.10 that i paid. I
assume a lot of you guys need to cover your short positions :)))


Oyvind, Norway


20 Jun 2011, 05:32 AM


connorport
You are also assuming that GEO here is presenting proper findings and are being 100% truthful. Fact is most
of these claims are not so it makes these investigative short selling crooks just as bad as a few of these
companies that are fraudulent. You must tread carefully on both sides of these fences. Remember, these
investigative teams as well are mostly made up of former traders who were kicked out of markets and such
for Securities Fraud among others charges made against them. They openly trade Illegally here in the US and
many like Alfred Little openly brag about his in and out illegal positions. These are the guys you trust in. I'm
just not buying all of it. Some maybe but all these outlandish claims against all these companies? Read the
following, it will enlighten you. counterfeitingstock.co...


22 Jun 2011, 10:30 AM


sjoham
Here is a plausible investment strategy in the wake of the GEO Teams due dilligence on YUII.


How about shorting any stock that is using CHILD as an auditor?


Does anyone know of any other US listed stocks using CHILD?


20 Jun 2011, 05:46 AM


sjoham
I found this list of clients:



https://seekingalpha.com/user/887289

https://seekingalpha.com/user/958560

https://seekingalpha.com/user/169059

http://counterfeitingstock.com/CounterfeitingStock.html

https://seekingalpha.com/user/958560

https://seekingalpha.com/user/958560
5/23/2018 Yuhe International Addresses Allegations: Attempts at Persuasion Unsuccessful - Yuhe International, Inc. (NASDAQ:YUII) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/275586-yuhe-international-addresses-allegations-attempts-at-persuasion-unsuccessful 4/6


•China Marketing Media Holdings, Shenzhen & Beijing 
•Yuhe International, Inc., Weifang 
•Lightbridge Corp., Virginia 
•Bacterin International, Inc., Montana 
•Dahua Inc., Beijing 
•China New Energy Group, Tianjin 
•Master Silicon Carbide, Connecticut 
•China SLP Filtration Technologies, Foshan 
•Longwei Petroleum, Taiyaun 
•Viper Powersports, Minnesota 
•China Infrastructure Construction Corporation, Beijing 
Past clients for which we were the initial auditor include:


•Zhongpin Inc., Henan Province 
•China Ritar Power Corp., Shenzhen 
•China Security & Serveillance Technology, Shenzhen 
•SkyPeople Fruit Juice, Xi’an 
•China Industrial Waste Management, Dalian 
•China Power Equipment, Xi’an


At least : LTBR, BONE, LPH seem to be possible to trade!


20 Jun 2011, 06:02 AM


Anybody has an idea about Agfeed today ($FEEDQ),
As Yuhe(yuii) investors, should we fill a claim with Rosen law firm? or should we waiting until the NASDAQ decision?


20 Jun 2011, 08:05 AM


humbletrader
For all those interested there is a class action suit forming against GEO, and Muddy waters for frivolous reporting. I
will keep you posted on who to contact.


20 Jun 2011, 01:44 PM


soleprop
Oh, oh. Is that one of the mobile execution vans pulling up in the driveway? 
www.usatoday.com/news/...


20 Jun 2011, 04:06 PM


hashem
What do you get after so much expenses from law office ??????????? I rather goes to drain . 
in other hand with current financial report the stocks worth $ 3-4


20 Jun 2011, 10:34 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/187768

https://seekingalpha.com/user/633657

https://seekingalpha.com/user/833207

http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2006-06-14-death-van_x.htm

https://seekingalpha.com/user/959230
5/23/2018 Yuhe International Addresses Allegations: Attempts at Persuasion Unsuccessful - Yuhe International, Inc. (NASDAQ:YUII) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/275586-yuhe-international-addresses-allegations-attempts-at-persuasion-unsuccessful 5/6


connorport
This is how you attack an entire sector in the market.


Frivolous SEC investigations — The shorts “leak” tips to the SEC about “corporate malfeasance” by the target
company. The SEC, which can take months processing Freedom of Information Act requests, swoops in as the
supposed “confidential inquiry” is leaked to the short media. 
The plethora of corporate rules means the SEC may ultimately find minor transgressions or there may be no findings.
Occasionally they do uncover an Enron, but the initial leak can be counted on to drive the stock price down by twenty-
five percent. The announcement of no or little findings comes months later, but by then the damage that has been
done to the stock price is irreversible. The San Francisco office of the SEC appears to be particularly close to the
short community.


Class Action lawsuits — Based upon leaked stories of SEC investigations or other media exposes, a handful of law
firms immediately file class-action shareholder suits. Milberg Weiss, before they were disbanded as a result of a
Justice Department investigation, could be counted on to file a class-action suit against a company that was under
short attack. Allegations of accounting improprieties that were made in the complaint would be reported as being the
truth by the short friendly media, again causing panic among small investors.


Interfering with target company's customers, financings, etc. — If the shorts became aware of clients, customers or
financings that the target company was working on, they would call and tell lies or otherwise attempt to persuade the
customer to abandon the transaction. Allegedly the shorts have gone so far as to bribe public officials to dissuade
them from using a company's product.


Pulling margin from long customers — The clearinghouses and broker dealers who finance margin accounts will
suddenly pull all long margin availability, citing very transparent reasons for the abrupt change in lending policy. This
causes a flood of margin selling, which further drives the stock price down and gets the shorts the cheap long shares
that they need to cover.


Paid bashers — The shorts will hire paid bashers who “invade” the message boards of the company. The bashers
disguise themselves as legitimate investors and try to persuade or panic small investors into selling into the
manipulation.


Just ask Jim Cramer


Jim Cramer, in a video-taped interview with The Street.com, best described the media function: 
When (shorting) ... The hedge fund mode is to not do anything remotely truthful, because the truth is so against your
view, (so the hedge funds) create a new 'truth' that is development of the fictional you hit the brokerage houses with a
series of orders (a short down ladder that pushes the price down), then we go to the press. You have a vicious cycle
down — it's a pretty good game. 
This interview, which is more like a confession, was never supposed to get on the air, however, it somehow ended up
on YouTube. Cramer and The Street.com have made repeated efforts, with some success, to get it taken off of
YouTube.


Pretty enlightening information. How many people got a margin pull due last friday or monday by your brokerage
house? Drives the point home about who's defrauding who now doesn't it?


25 Jun 2011, 11:30 AM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/169059
5/23/2018 Yuhe International Addresses Allegations: Attempts at Persuasion Unsuccessful - Yuhe International, Inc. (NASDAQ:YUII) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/275586-yuhe-international-addresses-allegations-attempts-at-persuasion-unsuccessful 6/6


irish2b1
When the law firms get involved and a lawsuit is completed the investors will come out with a few penny's. The suit
usually takes years. I have been through this thing three times and the lawyers always end up with the assets (
money ).


26 Jun 2011, 05:53 PM


kenzad01
A lot of this data is old. Is there anything current on YUII? WHy is YAHOO showing a projected 7.50 price? Anyi nfo?


19 Dec 2013, 01:12 PM



https://seekingalpha.com/user/424947

https://seekingalpha.com/user/696992
