5/19/2018 CGPI (China Redstone) Investigatory Report – Red Flags Raised by the GeoTeam - The GeoTeam | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/360252-the-geoteam/144916-cgpi-china-redstone-investigatory-report-red-flags-raised-by-the-geoteam 1/3


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


CGPI (China
Redstone)
Investigatory
Report – Red
Flags Raised by
the GeoTeam
Mar. 7, 2011 10:01 AM ET | Includes: China Redstone Grou…


The GeoTeam has raised serious concerns regarding China Redstone. Please
review our CGPI introduction below and use the hyper-link at the bottom of
our introduction to see a full report as well as supporting documents.


Introduction:


In December 2010, we were contacted by a private investor who asked us to
take a look at the CGPI story.  Specifically, he was seeking clarity on rumors
circulating around whether or not CGPI possessed necessary land use rights to
operate its cemetery business.  We asked our attorney, Bob, to delve into this
story not knowing he would open Pandora’s Box.  Bob, along with our new on-
the-ground due diligence team, have performed extensive due diligence on
CGPI operations. What follows is a brief summary of our findings.  It is
supported by a 19 page internal report and 52 pages of supplemental
documents. We have maps, pictures, documents including land use rights and
lease agreements and conversation notes with government contacts to back
up our findings.  At first, the CGPI story appeared complicated, but after
numerous conversations with Bob, we have been able to simplify our analysis.
Our original goal was to summarize Bob’s conclusions on our focused China
Due Diligence Board, “Ask Bob – GEO’s PRC Attorney”, at GeoInvesting.com,
as we worked with CGPI and its IR firm to hopefully resolve open issues. They
were cooperative.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CGPI

http://geoinvesting.com/companies/cgpi_report.aspx

http://geoinvesting.com/forums/yaf_postsm5140_We-have-opened-an-investigation-on-the-CGPI.aspx#singleMsg
5/19/2018 CGPI (China Redstone) Investigatory Report – Red Flags Raised by the GeoTeam - The GeoTeam | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/360252-the-geoteam/144916-cgpi-china-redstone-investigatory-report-red-flags-raised-by-the-geoteam 2/3


History: Foguang was established in Fulin District of Chongqing City in 2002. 
Foguang started to apply for the cemetery business and tourism business
located in Changshou District.  Jan 2004, the office of Foguang moved to
JiangnanTown, ChangshouDistrctChongqingCity.  Feb. 19 2004, Foguang
received the land use rights for no consideration, from the Agricultural
Machinery Bureau of Changshou District regarding the LongqiaoLake (339,444
m2).  Based on this agreement, Foguang can use the lake for its business. On
Aug. 25, 2005, Foguang arranged an agreement to lease the land (570MU,
380,190 m2) surrounding the LongqiaoLake owned by Group 6,
LongqiaoVillage with the government of Jiangnan town.  May 25, 2005,
Foguang and two individuals establishes Chongqing Guiyuan Cemetery
Industrial Co Ltd which obtains a Cemetery Service Business License to
operate the cemetery on Aug. 22, 2006. Fonuang has a 51% ownership stake
in Chongqing Guiyuan Cemetery Industrial Co until November 7, 2008 when it
transfers stake to three individuals.


In 2010, CGPI went public via a reverse merger, communicating that Foguang,
a VIE, operates Guiyuan cemeteries. CGPI claims it has a right to cemetery
revenues through contractual agreements between a PRC WFOE (Ran Ji) and
Foguang PRC (VIE arrangement).


The underlying themes in our report include:


A loose ownership structure between the non-PRC and PRC entities
jeopardizes investors’ claims to revenues.
Misrepresentation of the entity that actually owns and operates cemeteries.
We believe we have evidence that all the relevant parties of the cemetery
business have not been disclosed in SEC documents.
Misrepresentation of land use rights; it appears that developed cemetery
plots are situated on a much smaller area of land than CGPI claims. It
appears that the only “land” that CGPI owns is a lake.
Illegal lease of land where cemetery plots have been developed.
A nominal fine had been levied against cemetery operation helps to suggest
that CGPI is operating an illegal cemetery operation; the right to operate
cemeteries appears to have been revoked.
There is real potential for increased competition in the cemetery business.
The Company’s tourism business plan may be less attractive than
portrayed. (since we opened the investigation on CGPI, the company has
5/19/2018 CGPI (China Redstone) Investigatory Report – Red Flags Raised by the GeoTeam - The GeoTeam | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/360252-the-geoteam/144916-cgpi-china-redstone-investigatory-report-red-flags-raised-by-the-geoteam 3/3


Comments (0)


made a decision to terminate and divest this project entirely)
Revenues may be overstated, supported by plot counts and receipts from
cemetery plots a member of our team purchased.
Assets may be overstated.


Conclusion:


The SEC documents of CGPI may not reflect its real business.  We feel there
are several significant risks that can adversely influence its business.  We
suggest that CGPI should revise its SEC documents and/or make substantial
disclosures to clarify these issues.  We also suggest that the investors of CGPI
pay attention to the issues summarized  in the attached report.


Please Read Full Report Here **Disclosure:  No Long or Short Positions in
CGPI at time of article
 


 



http://geoinvesting.com/companies/cgpi_report.aspx
