Page 1 of 12 


FMCN: Reiterating Strong Sell 
Muddy Waters, LLC 


November 29, 2011 – Final Version1 
 




I. Introduction 
 
FMCN’s partial response2 to our 80-page November 21, 2011 report reinforces our Strong Sell rating.   
 
FMCN’s response admitted that our estimate of fewer than 120,000 LCD screens showing full motion 
video advertisements is correct.  Despite this admission, FMCN denied that it was fraudulently 
overstating the number of displays in its network because the 178,382 displays it discloses include 
62,656 digital picture frames.  FMCN’s response stated that it does not also count these digital picture 
frames in its poster segment.  There is strong evidence that FMCN does in fact double count these 
digital frames.  However, in response to our report and in contrast to previous 20-F filings, FMCN has 
expanded the definition of its LCD commercial display network beyond full motion video, which makes 
a clear and final resolution of this point unlikely.  Therefore, FMCN at best prompted investors to think 
it had more motion displays than it does, and at worst fraudulently overstated the size of its LCD 
commercial display network.  Both possibilities raise concerns about the health of this business line.   
 
FMCN has fraudulently overstated the size of at least one other business line – through 2008, FMCN 
claimed its movie theater network was 17.6x the size of the potential market.   
 
FMCN’s response did nothing to dispel our concerns about its acquisitions – namely that it deliberately 
overpays for, and unduly impairs in order to improperly give away, a substantial portion of its 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 An earlier draft / discussion version of this report may have been inadvertently disseminated – this report is the only official 
version, and any content in an earlier version was for internal discussion purposes and should be disregarded in its entirety. 
2 FMCN did not respond to many of the problems Muddy Waters highlighted in our report, including why business friends of 
Jason Jiang were allowed to make 5.7x on investments in Allyes.
Page 2 of 12 


acquisitions.  It is still clear that FMCN did not actually purchase six purported mobile handset 
advertising businesses, even as VIEs. 
 
FMCN’s response that insiders’ self-dealing was to show “confidence” in the businesses is almost 
ridiculous enough to not merit a mention in this report.  FMCN’s response cites a dubious valuation 
report as support for self-dealing in Allyes, yet FMCN does not provide answers as to why two outside 
individuals were allowed to earn $20 million on the transactions. 
 
We believe that FMCN’s impending “independent” verification of the number of LCD screens in its 
network is likely to be compromised.  There is precedent for this statement – FMCN’s audit committee 
previously undertook a flawed investigation into possible improprieties.  As we discussed in our initial 
report, FMCN’s board’s is comprised of individuals who are largely entangled with management and 
whose compensation misaligns their interests from those of shareholders. 
 
We maintain our Strong Sell rating on FMCN mainly because our concerns regarding the viability of 
FMCN’s core LCD commercial location network remain.  This issue, combined with FMCN’s 
additional misrepresentations about the size of the network, FMCN’s opaque business model (on both 
the revenue and cost sides), and insiders’ penchant for self-dealing, render FMCN shares un-investable.   
 
II. FMCN’s filings and MW’s conversations with FMCN provide strong evidence that FMCN’s 
response is double counting digital poster frames (although FMCN’s response specifically states 
that it is not). 
 
FMCN’s response stated that MW misunderstood the way that FMCN classifies its LCD displays, and 
that MW excluded 32,478 “LCD 2.0 digital picture screens” and 29,878 “LCD 1.0 picture frame 
devices” from our calculation of the size of its commercial location network; and, that including these 
digital frames, FMCN has 178,382 LCD displays in the network.  FMCN stated that these frames are not 
included in its calculations of poster network size. 3 
 
We believe FMCN already counted those digital frames in the 335,822 digital and traditional poster 
frames it claimed to have as of December 31, 20104 because: 
 


• FMCN’s filings clearly state the three menu items through which it sells LCD commercial 
location network advertising.  The three menu items are channels A1, A2, and the Travel 
channel. 5  Per the media kits and confirmatory conversations with FMCN sales, channel A1 
consists of approximately 70,000 displays.  A2 consists of approximately 40,000 displays.  
Travel consists of approximately 3,000 displays.  See Appendix A for an excerpt of a 
conversation with FMCN sales confirming these numbers.  The total number of displays in these 
three channels is fewer than 120,000. 
 


• The digital frames to which FMCN’s response counts in the LCD commercial display network 
are actually separate and distinct products.  FMCN’s filings state that it counts digital poster 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
3 http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1330017/000130901411000764/exhibit2.htm 
4 FMCN 2010  20-F, pp. 4-5. 
5 FMCN 2010 20-F, p. 40.
Page 3 of 12 


frames in its poster segment. 6  Further, our Framedia Digital 2.0 media kit lists approximately 
32,000 frames, which is equivalent to the number of Digital 2.0 frames that FMCN’s response 
stated are part of its LCD display network. FMCN salespeople clearly think of Digital 2.0 frames 
as separate and distinct from the LCD commercial display network. 
 


• Intuitively, it is clear why FMCN (in reality) separates LCD commercial displays from digital 
posters.  The LCD display segment allows advertisers to show full motion video in five to 30-
second clips.  Digital posters show static images just as paper posters do –it does not matter 
whether the static images are shown on LCD, LED, plasma, or CRT displays.  They do not offer 
advertisers the ability to “tell a story” via video.  Hence, advertisers and FMCN regard digital 
frames as separate from LCD displays. 


 
III. FMCN previously claimed to have market share in the movie theater business of 1,758.2%.  
This obviously fraudulent overstatement of its movie theater network size shows that it has a 
habitual problem making truthful statements about the scale of its businesses.  The below table 
compares FMCN’s claimed network size versus the number of movie theaters in China. 
 


 
 
The 20-F passage below gives the inflated screen numbers, and warns that much of the $85.8 million 
FMCN spent on cost of movie theater network sales may be overstated.  (See Appendix B to see the 
source for the China theater statistics.)   
 


Movie theater and traditional outdoor billboard network. The cost of revenue for our movie 
theater and traditional outdoor billboard network increased 101% from $28.5 million in 2007 to 
$57.3 million in 2008. The increase is primarily attributable to…increased leasing costs 
associated with time we rent on movie theater screens as a result of an increase in the number of 
theaters we lease in our network from 10,930 in 2007 to 27,164 in 2008.7 


 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
6 FMCN 2010 20-F, pp. 4-5. 
7 2008 20-F, p. 72.
Page 4 of 12 


When FMCN reduced its network size to the plausible in 2009, FMCN appears not to have explained the 
99% decrease in theaters.  FMCN simply availed itself of the memory hole trick.  
 
IV. FMCN’s rebuttal that it in fact made the six phantom VIE arrangements is false.  Our report 
addressed the VIE possibility, and concluded that FMCN did not use VIE arrangements.  As 
discussed in the Muddy Waters report, FMCN’s disposal accounting does not add up, which is 
because the acquisitions are fictitious.  Further, as the report stated, FMCN did not make any of 
the control changes that would show it had acquired the companies as VIEs. 
 
Our report concludes that FMCN never acquired six of the mobile handset advertising companies it 
claimed to buy and dispose of shortly thereafter.8  Our analysis precludes FMCN having purchased these 
companies via VIE arrangements for numerous reasons beyond the lack of FMCN ownership of their 
equity.  FMCN’s response merely stated that it acquired these companies as VIEs, and ignored the 
following facts Muddy Waters stated in our report:9 
 


• The $26.1 million imbalance in FMCN’s accounting for disposal of its mobile handset 
subsidiaries is due in part to its failure to have actually made the six phantom acquisitions.  
FMCN did not address the accounting imbalance in its response.  
 


• FMCN did not change any nominee shareholders, company directors, or legal representatives of 
these six companies.  Nor are there any records of equity pledges.  FMCN typically effects all of 
the following changes and registers equity pledges when it acquires VIEs.  FMCN followed this 
pattern when it acquired Yitong, which is a mobile handset advertising VIE that it actually did 
acquire.  Without having changed at least some of the aforementioned positions in these six 
companies, FMCN would have had little to no effective control of the VIE, which is why it 
would have made at least some changes had it really acquired these companies.  FMCN’s 
response makes the questionable (based on Yitong) claim that it was unable to change the 
nominee shareholders of these six companies due to the selling shareholders personally holding 
the companies’ licenses.  FMCN did not address why it failed to change the legal representatives 
and directors of these companies, and why it failed to register any equity pledges. 


 
• We spoke with multiple companies that FMCN falsely claimed to acquire, and each confirmed 


that FMCN never owned or controlled them.  There were indications that FMCN may have been 
a client of these companies.   
 


• A CCTV program interview with one of the purported acquires, Shenzhen Julan, confirmed that 
FMCN did not acquire the company, nor have any relationship with it.   


 
• Disclosures in the 2008 and 2009 20-Fs10 about the acquisition and disposal date of the largest of 


the phantom acquisitions, Shenzhen Jingzhun, are materially different from one another and are 
mutually exclusive.  FMCN slyly attempted to rewrite history in order to disguise inconsistencies 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
8 See Muddy Waters, LLC: Initiating Coverage on  FMCN with Strong Sell November 21, 2011 (the “MW Report”), pp. 26-
31. 
9 Id. 
10 2008 20-F, p. 98 & 2009 20-F, p. 99
Page 5 of 12 


in its story about the purported loss on disposal of (never acquired) Jingzhun.  FMCN did not 
address these problems. 


 
• FMCN does not list any of these six companies in subsidiary list of its 2007 20-F; however, it 


does list two mobile companies11 we confirmed FMCN did acquire as subsidiaries.  Further, the 
absence of any commentary about the acquisitions as being a reason for the increase in mobile 
advertising revenue in 2007 in any of the quarterly 6-K filings or the 2007 20-F is conspicuous.  
According to these seven companies’ SAIC files, they generated combined 2007 revenue of 
$18.0 million, which was 38.4% of FMCN’s 2007 mobile advertising revenue.  FMCN did not 
explain why it failed to mention these companies in its 2007 20-F filing. 


 
Finally, FMCN does not address our point that these companies were not “zeroes” at the time it claimed 
to give them back to their original shareholders.   
 
V. We still conclude that FMCN paid 7.4x for a LED display boat operator, ZHPY.  In our report, 
we calculated that FMCN paid $27.4 million to acquire ZHPY, which was far more than its established 
market value of $3.7 million.  FMCN’s response claims that we overestimated the cost and loss for 
ZHPY.  However, our conclusion is based on FMCN’s disclosures in its filings – specifically the 
statement that its total boat-related impairment was $36.9 million.  FMCN’s response did not explain 
how it arrived at the $36.9 million without paying $27.4 million for ZHPY.  Until we receive an 
explanation of how FMCN could rack up such a large impairment charge without buying ZHPY for well 
more than it was worth, our conclusion that FMCN deliberately and massively overpaid for ZHPY 
stands.  Below is an excerpt from FMCN’s 2010 20-F [emphasis added] that shows the aggregate 
impairment loss of $36.9 million: 
 


In October 2007, we acquired Zong Heng Pin Yu, which owned an advertising license for use on 
the Huangpu River in Shanghai, from an unrelated third party. After the acquisition, we 
purchased a boat as the adverting platform on the Huangpu River and commenced commercial 
operations in January 2008. On January 4, 2009, the Shanghai Municipality Government 
amended its regulations governing outdoor advertisements to prohibit non-passenger and non-
cargo boats from engaging in advertising activities on all rivers within Shanghai until December 
31, 2010. We believed there was a high likelihood that the regulation would remain effective 
indefinitely. Since the license we obtained through the acquisition of Zong Heng Pin Yu could 
only be utilized for advertising on the Huangpu River and it was not commercially viable to use 
the boat for any other purpose, as, following renovations and outfitting of the boat for non-
passenger and non-cargo services and an eight-month solicitation effort to use the boat for 
advertising purposes in other markets, we were unable to find a suitable alternative market where 
the boat could be put to active use.  As a result, we fully impaired the long-lived assets 
associated with our boat-based advertising platform in 2009, recording an aggregate 
impairment loss of $36.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.12 


 
With a $36.9 million impairment charge for the boat and ZHPY, we are left to conclude that FMCN paid 
7.4x ZHPY’s established market value. 
 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
11 Beijing Focus Media Wireless Co., Ltd. & Beijing Yitong Wireless Information Technology Co., Ltd. 
12 FMCN 2010 20-F.
Page 6 of 12 


VI. FMCN’s excuse for insiders’ abject greed in their self-dealing in the Allyes and OOH 
transactions is that these investments is that the investments were meant to inspire the subsidiary 
management to invest by showing insiders’ “confidence” in the businesses.13  We laughed at this 
statement.   
 
Chairman / CEO Jason Jiang personally made at least $24.8 million in seven months by investing in 
Allyes, which is an IRR of 2,127.2%.  We are not organizational behavior experts, but we wonder what 
management theory supports incentivizing mid-senior employees by having them watch senior 
management make outlandish sums of money.  (Outside of the investment banking industry of course.)  
Further, FMCN did not explain why venture capitalist Xiong Xiangdong and LaShou CFO James Jian 
Zhang were allowed to participate and earn approximately $20 million combined.14  Again, we lack 
organizational behavior expertise, but this too seems unlikely to have the desired effect of incentivizing 
subsidiary management. 
   
VII. FMCN’s response justifies insiders’ bargain purchase of Allyes shares by stating that an 
independent valuation in June 2010 valued Allyes at a price similar to the valuation at which 
insiders invested.  This statement does not hold water.   
 
We accused FMCN insiders of value-destroying greed in part because management subscribed to shares 
in FMCN’s Allyes subsidiary, and then exited seven months later for 5.7x their investments.  FMCN 
responded that the subscription price insiders paid was fair to shareholders because in June 2010, an 
independent third-party valuation firm valued Allyes at only $38 million.  (Insiders had subscribed in 
January 2010 at an implied valuation of $35 million.)  However, on August 3, 2011, FMCN sold 90.8% 
of Allyes to SilverLake Partners for $181.0 million, which is an implied valuation of $200 million.15  
 
Any independent valuation in June of 2010 that yielded $38 million was obviously a sham.  First, 
FMCN would almost certainly have been in discussions with SilverLake at that point, given that FMCN 
announced the sale of Allyes on August 3, 2011.  One wonders how FMCN insiders could keep a 
straight face over a valuation of $38 million while likely in discussions to sell at a valuation of $200 
million.  Second, Allyes had $40.7 million in cash and a book value of $58.4 million as of July 30, 
201016 – yet another reason it would be hard to keep a straight face when seeing a $38 million valuation. 
 
VIII. FMCN’s response calls for its audit committee to independently verify the number of screens 
in its LCD commercial display network.  We expect any such confirmation to be compromised. 
 
FMCN’s audit committee previously “investigated” charges that it was paying undisclosed rebates (i.e., 
off the books costs) via a third-party agency and an undisclosed related party, Everease.  The 
investigation agreed that Everease is a related party (previously undisclosed), but the investigation found 
no wrongdoing on FMCN’s part.  However in clearing FMCN of wrongdoing, the audit committee 
noted that “Everease and the third-party advertising agency declined investigators’ request to provide 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
13 http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1330017/000130901411000764/exhibit2.htm  
14 MW Report, pp. 24-26. 
15 MW Report, pp. 23-26. 
16 MW Report p. 23.
Page 7 of 12 


access to specified witnesses and documents.”17  When a related party at the center of an investigation 
denies such access, it raises serious questions about the investigation.   
 
Investors accustomed to the China fraud world know that independent third party evaluators can be 
manipulated in China – particularly when the client wants a corroborating or exculpatory finding.  (We 
suspect that much of this is actually cooperation by the third parties, rather than manipulation; however, 
that is beside the point.)  CTR, a purportedly reputable media research firm, issued erroneous reports 
that strongly supported key fraudulent claims that China MediaExpress (OTC: CCME) made.  The 
independent valuation of Allyes we discuss supra is additional evidence that independent opinions are 
frequently manipulated in the China context. 
 
The following is the diagram shown in our report showing the deep entanglement of FMCN board 
members with one another, and shows part of why we believe that any engagement to count screens will 
be tainted:18 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
17 FMCN 2006 F-20, p. 7. 
18 For a full discussion on the dysfunction of FMCN’s board, see MW Report pp. 40-42.
Page 8 of 12
Page 9 of 12 


Appendix A – Expanded Conversation Excerpt19 
 





	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
19 We have redacted immaterial portions of this conversation in order to protect the identity of the FMCN salesperson.
Page 10 of 12
Page 11 of 12
Page 12 of 12 


Appendix B – China Movie Theater Source Data
