

 
Article 16  (Notice) 
 


1.  The contact persons the Parties appoint to sign and perform the Contract and   
contact approaches are shown below:  


 
Party A: 
Dentsu Inc. 
Correspondence Address: No 1, Block 8, Chome 1, Higashi-shimbashi,  
Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan 
Zip Code: 1580094 
Fax: 03-6217-5538 
Consignee: 华腾和也 


 
Party B: 
Hua Kuang Advertising Company,. Ltd  
Correspondence Address: 28-30/F, Zhao Feng World Trade Building  


369 JiangSu Road, Shanghai, PRC. 
Zip Code: 200050 
Fax: 86-21-5240-0228 


Consignee: ，Focus Media Holding Limited  
 


2.  Each Party shall give a written notice to the other Party within 48 hours after  
changing the above address, contact approach and consignee. The notice, which is sent 
according to the above address, contact approach and consignee ahead of a change 
notice and received within the time below, is deemed to be delivered. If the notice is 
delivered by hand, the time the consignee confirms as the notice is received is the 
delivery time; if the notice is delivered by registered post, the delivery time is 9:00 
a.m. on the fifth working day after post; if the notice is faxed, the delivery time is 9:00 
a.m. next day.  


 
Article 17  (Severability) 
 


Even though any term or any other provision in the Contract is either void because of 
breach in law or public order or may not be carried out because of infraction of law, other 
terms and provisions in the Contract remain valid as long as the transaction intended to be 
conducted under the Contract does not bring any adverse effect against any Party herein 
economically or legally in essence. Whereas any term or any other provision in the 
Contract is determined to be void, infraction of law or not be performed, Parties herein 


65
shall make sincere negotiation so that the transaction intended to be conducted under the 
Contract may be carried out to the fullest extent possible and shall alter the Contract in 
order that the original intention of each party herein may be realized in the manner similar 
to it by using allowable methods. 


 
Article 18  (Applicable Law and Arbitration) 
 
1.  The Contract is governed and interpreted by law in China. 


 
2.  All disputes arising or relating to the Contract owning to performance of the   


Contract shall be resolved through friendly consultations by the Parties. Disputes which are 
not resolved through consultations shall be settled by arbitration in accordance to the 
arbitral procedure of Japan Commercial Arbitration Association in Tokyo, Japan. 
Arbitration awards are final and shall bind the Parties. All costs of arbitration (including a 
reasonable retaining fee) shall be borne by the losing party. 
 


3.  When any dispute occurs and is the subject of friendly consultations or arbitration,  
the Parties shall continue to undertake respective responsibilities and fulfill their remaining 
respective obligations under the Contract. 


  
The Contract shall be written both in the Chinese language and in the Japanese language in 5 originals on 
the date first set forth above in the Contract, one for each party and the rest submitted to the Approval 
Authority after legal representatives or authorized representatives on behalf of the Parties herein sign the 
Contract.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This page is intentionally left/made blank.) 
 
 


66
Party A: Dentsu Inc. 
 
 
By 
  
Legal representative or authorized representative 
 
 
 
 
 
Party B: Hua Kuang Advertising Company,. Ltd 
 
 
 
By  
Legal representative or authorized representative 
 


 
February 22, 2010 


 
 
 
Appendix H – Mobile Acquisitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


67
68
69
70
71
72
73
Appendix H – Zong Heng Pin Yu (Boat) 
 


PEOPLE’S COURT OF SHANGHAI NO.1 INTERMEDIATE PEOPLE’S COURT 
CIVIL JUDGMENT 


 
(2008) Hu Yi Zhong Min San (Shang) Zhong Zi No. 517 


 
Appellant:     Shanghai Zongheng Pinyu Advertisement Co., Ltd 
(Defendant in the first instance) 
Appellee:     Shanghai Xiangxieli Advertisement Co., Ltd,  
(Plaintiff in the first instance) 
 
As for a case regarding operation right transfer contract dispute, the Appellant, Shanghai 
Zongheng Pinyu Advertisement Co., Ltd (hereinafter referred to as “Zongheng”), was 
dissatisfied with the civil judgment (2008) Xu Min Er (Shang) Chu Zi No.1587 rendered by 
Shanghai Xuhui District People’s Court and filed an appeal with this court. After this  court 
accepted this case on November 4, 2008, a collegiate court has been lawfully established. An 
open hearing was conducted on November 19, 2008. Mao Jie, the attorney entrusted by the 
Appellant Zongheng, and Shi Quanhong, the attorney entrusted by the Appellee Shanghai 
Xiangxieli Advertisement Co., Ltd (hereinafter referred to as “Xiangxieli”) attended the 
litigation. The case now has been decided.  
 
The court of first instance found that there is an Authorization Agreement on Exclusive 
Operation of Advertisement on Led Advertisement Vessels and Share Buyout Agreement 
concluded between Zongheng and Xiangxieli on July 22, 2007, with main content as follows: 
Zongheng grants Xiangxieli with the exclusive right to operate the advertisement business in the 
Shanghai Huangpu River Project (on-water Led advertisement vessels) and an agreement on the 
share buyout matters in the next year; within three working days after conclusion and 
effectiveness of the agreement, Xiangxieli should pay a deposit in the amount of RMB 1 million 
to Zongheng; August 11, 2007 should be the formal starting date for rental, and within three 
working days prior to the official starting date for rental, Xiangxieli should pay to Zongheng the 
advertisement operation transfer fee for the first quarter in the amount of RMB 1.5 million, the 
advertisement operation transfer fee for each quarter afterwards should be paid within first three 
working days of each quarter respectively; Zongheng should issue the formal advertisement 
operation invoice before payment by Xiangxieli; the authorization period for advertisement 
operation right should be July 23, 2007 until August 11, 2008; if there is any overdue payment 
by Xiangxieli, 3‰ of arrears should be charged for each overdue date as the late fee apart from 
the due payment; if Xiangxieli delays payment for 25 days, Zongheng shall be entitled to 
terminate the contract and the deposit in the amount of RMB 1 million shall not be refunded. 
After completion of the authorization period, Xiangxieli undertakes to buy out 90% of the shares 
of Zongheng at the price of RMB 25 million, a separate agreement will be concluded by both 
parties for detailed buyout matters; the deposit in the amount of RMB 1 million will be used as 
the deposit for the contract regarding share buyout after completion of the authorization period. 
After conclusion of the above agreement, Xiangxieli paid RMB 1 million for the deposit on 
August 1, 2007, RMB 500,000 for the advertisement operation transfer fee on September 7 of the 
same year, RMB 500,000 for the advertisement operation transfer fee on September 19 of the 


74
same year; RMB 300,000 for the advertisement operation transfer fee on October 23 of the same 
year. On November 2, 2007, the shareholder of Zongheng concluded a Share Transfer 
Agreement with an outsider of this case. On November 26, 2007, Zongheng filed a lawsuit, 
requesting to terminate the contract at issue, demanding payment for advertisement operation 
transfer fee and late fee. Xiangxieli filed a counterclaim, requesting continuous performance of 
the contract and demanding payment of liquidated damage for breach. After the trial, Shanghai 
Xuhui District People’s Court was of the opinion that the Authorization Agreement on Exclusive 
Operation of Advertisement on Led Advertisement Vessels and Share Buyout Agreement 
concluded between both parties was legal and valid. During the contract performance procedure, 
Xiangxieli had delayed the payment for deposit and advertisement operation transfer fee, which 
constituted a fundamental breach of the contract. Zongheng’s non-delivery of invoices merely 
constituted an ordinary breach. Based on that, the civil judgment (2007) Xu Min Er (Shang) Chu 
Zi No.2254 was issued on February 22, 2008, which supported Zongheng’s litigation requests 
but dismissed Xiangxieli’s counterclaim requests. Dissatisfied with the judgment, Xiangxieli 
filed an appeal. After a trial, Shanghai Municipal No.1 Intermediate People’s Court was of the 
opinion that although it had been agreed in the contract at issue that Xiangxieli should make the 
payment upon receipt of the invoice from Zongheng, Xiangxieli had not filed any objection 
against Zongheng for not receiving the invoice or execute the defense of first performance during 
the agreed payment period, while instead, Xiangxieli had successively made most of the payment 
and even paid the second installment of advertisement fee to Zongheng during the litigation 
period. Therefore, the above behavior of Xiangxieli could be deemed already as a waiver of the 
defense of first performance. Due to the contract term agreed under the contract at issue was 
ended in July 2008, and Zongheng had already transferred relevant shares to an outsider, the 
contract at issue was actually impossible to be continuously performed, Xiangxieli’s claim 
requesting continuous performance of the contract at issue could not be supported. Taking into 
consideration that evidences provided by Zongheng were insufficient to prove that it had issued 
invoices to Xiangxieli, which could possibly exert certain impact upon timely payment by 
Xiangxieli, it is approved that Zongheng, at its own discretion, renounces to claim the late fee. 
After termination of the contract at issue, the debt and credit relation occurred due to termination 
of the contract could be settled separately. Based on this, the civil judgment (2008) Hu Yi Zhong 
Min Si (Shang) Zhong Zi No.669 was rendered by Shanghai Municipal No.1 Intermediate 
People’s Court on June 13, 2008, ordering termination of the contract at issue. 
 
The court of first instance was of the opinion that the dispute of this case focused on whether 
Zongheng could confiscate the deposit under the contract at issue. First of all, it had been agreed 
in the contract that Zongheng should issue a formal advertisement operation invoice to 
Xiangxieli prior to the payment by Xiangxieli. The transaction habit of invoice before payment 
had been further explicitly recognized by both parties in the contract, which indicated the great 
significance attached to the sequence of obligation performance by both parties. After the trial by 
the court of the second instance, it is found that Zongheng did not have sufficient evidences to 
prove that it had implemented its pre-contract obligation of issuing invoices on time. Therefore, 
the behavior of Zongheng could, to some extent, exert impact upon the timely payment by 
Xiangxieli. Secondly, Xiangxieli’s conduct of not making payment within agreed period had 
been acknowledged and confirmed by the judgment that had already come into force; however, 
Xiangxieli’s successive payment behavior constituted a waiver of its right of defense of first 
performance. As provided in Article 67 of PRC Contract Law, if each party has an obligation 


75
towards the other and a sequence for the performance of those obligations was agreed upon but 
the party which was to perform his obligation first fails to do so, the other party has the right to 
refuse his demand for performance. Payment period as agreed by the contract at issue was set 
based on the sequence of performance. According to the contract, Xiangxieli absolutely had the 
right to refuse the demand for payment before Zongheng’s issuance of the invoice; however, 
Xiangxieli did not choose to refuse but successively made the payment. Therefore, it could be 
concluded that the above conduct of Xiangxieli could be deemed as of waiver of the defense of 
first performance. However, waiver does not equal to a breach, because the agreed payment 
period is under an uncertain status due to the breach of Zongheng. Thirdly, it had been agreed in 
the contract that if Xiangxieli delays the payment for 25 days, Zongheng is entitled to terminate 
the contract and the deposit of RMB 1 million should not be refunded. Such provision is 
provided for the time point of Zongheng’s executing the right to terminate the contract and 
confiscation of the deposit. In other words, if the time when Xiangxieli makes the payment 
exceeds 25 days after the agreed payment period, Zongheng shall have the right to execute such 
right within a reasonable period. On the other hand, it shall be deemed as a waiver. The contract 
does not grant Zongheng the right to execute the right of confiscation at any time, but it has a 
time restriction. In fact, Zongheng did not execute the right of confiscation within a reasonable 
period, but instead during the litigation of the previous case, chose to demand payment for the 
late fee, Zongheng’s conduct could also be deemed as a waiver of the right of confiscation. 
Based on the above, as there are discrepancies between the agreement and the actual 
performance, there are constant disputes between both parties. No matter it is the waiver of the 
defense of first performance or the waiver of the right of confiscation, it starts from and is 
determined from a perspective of fairness and reasonableness and for the benefit of dispute 
settlement. Taking into consideration that it is impossible to reach an agreement between both 
parties regarding the share buyout matters, and the contract at issue has been terminated, 
Zongheng’s continuous occupancy of the deposit had been lacking of factual and legal basis; 
therefore, Zongheng should refund the deposit to Xiangxieli. 
 
Based on the above, in accordance with Article 98 of the PRC Contract Law, the court of the first 
instance has rendered the judgment as follows: Zongheng should refund the deposit in the 
amount of RMB 1 million to Xiangxieli within ten days after effectiveness of the judgment. The 
case acceptance fee in the amount of RMB 13,800 will be collected in half at the amount of 
RMB 6,900, which should be borne by Zongheng. 
 
After the judgment being rendered by the court of first instance, Zongheng was dissatisfied and 
filed an appeal with this court, requesting to cancel the judgment of first instance and amend it as 
reject the litigation requests filed by Xiangxieli during the trial of first instance. The appellate 
reasons were as follows: 1. Xiangxieli’s fundamental breach of contract resulted in termination 
of the contract, the late fee demanded by Zongheng was against Xiangxieli’s liability for breach 
regarding the deferred payment, while confiscation of the deposit was against the liability for 
breach regarding termination of the contract; both of which were not contradictory to each other. 
The facts asserted by the court of the first instance were wrong; 2. Zongheng had never implied 
to give up its right to confiscate the deposit. And it had been agreed in the contract that if 
Xiangxieli delays the payment, the Appellant is entitled to convert the deposit of RMB 1 million 
into the liquidated damage to confiscate.  
 


76
The Appellee Xiangxieli defended that since Zongheng failed to provide the advertisement 
operation invoices, which caused the untimely payment, and the judgment of the second instance 
for another case did not recognize the fundamental breach at Xiangxieli’s side either, it merely 
asserted that Xiangxieli had waived its right of defense of first performance, thus it requested to 
reject Zongheng’s appellate requests and maintains the original judgment. During the trial of this 
case by this court, neither party has provided any new evidence. 
 
After the trial, this court has found that the facts asserted by the court of first instance are correct 
which is affirmed by this court. 
 
This court is of the opinion that the dispute summarized by the court of the first instance focuses 
on whether Zongheng could confiscate the deposit under the contract at issue, for which neither 
party has any objection. Now the Appellant Zongheng is of the opinion that it has never implied 
that it waives the right to confiscate the deposit of RMB 1 million, the late fee is claimed against 
Xiangxieli’s liability for breach regarding the deferred payment, confiscation of the deposit is 
against the liability for breach concerning termination of the contract, both of which are not 
contradictory to each other. Since the reason caused termination of relevant contract is the 
fundamental breach on Xiangxieli’s side regarding the deferred payment, thus Zongheng is 
entitled to confiscate such deposit of RMB 1 million, the facts asserted by the court of the first 
instance regarding this are wrong. 
 
This court through the trial and examination of evidences provided by both parties, is of the 
opinion that during performance of the contract at issue, for Zongheng, its failure to provide 
advertisement operation invoices on time as agreed in the contract constitutes a breach, and 
Zongheng’s such breach, to certain extent, caused that Xiangxieli did not make the payment of 
deposit and advertisement operation transfer fee on time as agreed in the contract. However, 
during the following performance procedure, Xiangxieli paid the deposit of RMB 1 million and 
advertisement operation transfer fee for the first quarter to Zongheng in several installments, 
which had been received by Zongheng also in several installments accordingly. Xiangxieli has 
started to make the relevant payments even before receipt of advertisement operation invoices, 
which conforms to the fact asserted by the court of the first instance that Xiangxieli had waived 
its right to refuse payment as its right of defense of first performance. On the other side, 
Zongheng did not timely execute its right to terminate the contract and confiscate the deposit due 
to Xiangxieli’s deferred payment, but instead accepted the deferred payment of deposit and 
advertisement operation transfer fee from Xiangxieli, which indicates that Zongheng chose to 
recognize Xiangxieli’s continuous performance of the contract, without executing its right to 
confiscate the deposit. In addition, under the circumstances that not informing Xiangxieli, 
Zongheng has concluded a share transfer agreement with an outsider of this case, which is 
actually the fundamental reason causing the impossibility of continuous performance of the 
contract and further termination of such contract. This court also has noticed that such appellate 
claims filed by Zongheng had already been put forward during the original trial. Since during the 
trial conducted by this court, Zongheng fails to provide further evidences accordingly to support 
its claim, thus the appellate opinions from Zongheng are not supported by this court. 
 
Based on all of the above, the appellate claims of the Appellant Zongheng lack of factual basis, 
thus are not supported by this court. The original judgment which asserted facts clear and 


77
correctly applied laws, should be maintained. In accordance with item (1), Para 1 of Article 153, 
and Article 158 of PRC Civil Procedure Law, the judgment is as follows: 
 
To dismiss the appeal and maintains the original judgment.  
 
The case acceptance fee in the amount of RMB 13,800 for the second instance should be borne 
by the Appellant, Shanghai Zongheng Pinyu Advertisement Co., Ltd. 
 
This judgment is final. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presiding Judge: Gu Keqiang 
Acting Judge: Jin Cheng 
Acting Judge: Wang Wei 
January 8, 2009 
Recorded by: Zhang Qing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix I — Mobile Segment Transactions 
 


78
79
