Page 1 of 9	
  


 
Muddy Waters, LLC 


www.muddywatersresearch.com 
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director of Research:  Carson C. Block, Esq. 
 








Terms of Service: 


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service.  You agree that use of Muddy Waters LLC’s 
research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by 
any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to 
securities covered herein.  You represent to Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis 
and opinion on this site.  You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to 
be bound by these same terms of service.  If you download or receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your 
principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or through our 
members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors has a 
short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to 
realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this 
site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial 
recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from any person 
through this site or reports on this site.  Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of:  (a) an investment professional falling 
within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling 
within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions 
through our due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has 
been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or 
who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of 
any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness 
of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis 
and opinion.  All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any 
reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, 
copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any manner other than by download from that link, you 
may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your use of 
this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without 
regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior 
courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in 
California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this 
right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that 
the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service 
remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the 
contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such 
claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. 
  


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.
Page 2 of 9	
  


Muddy Waters, LLC 
August 1, 2013 


Maintaining Strong Sell 
 


Cracking Façade: AMT’s Second Quarter 
 


AMT’s Q2 2013 results show the cracks in the façade of its international business, with 
international EBITDA flat for the past three quarters, and international operating profit 
margin down 470 bps from Q2 2012.  Certain of the issues we detailed in our July 17th 
report are at least partly responsible for the deterioration in the business.  AMT has 
attempted to paper over these issues by, on one hand, failing to respond to numerous 
issues we raised in our prior report; and, on the other hand, attempting to evade some 
fairly pointed questioning on yesterday’s call.  Further, we continue to take AMT to task 
for materially misstating the purchase price for Site Sharing.  In this update, we present 
additional information showing that approximately $250 million appears to have gone 
missing in the transaction.  Our conversations with a selling shareholder and a former 
AMT employee involved in the transaction confirm that AMT paid the selling 
shareholders approximately $300 million, and not the $585 million AMT claims.   
 
We note that six banks have responded to the results by lowering price targets: Barclays, 
Citi, J.P. Morgan, Macquarie, Pacific Crest, and Stifel.   
 
Dismal Q2 for International Highlights our Previously Expressed Concerns 
 
AMT’s Q2 2013 international gross and operating margins declined 200 bps and 470 bps, 
respectively, since Q2 2012.1  International EBITDA growth has been close to zero for 
the past three quarters.2  These disappointing results highlight the “feed the beast” 
problem of AMT’s M&A driven international growth, coupled with the distortions 
caused by its de facto lending business – particularly that additional tenants are not 
meaningfully impacting margins.  The 280 bps growth YoY in SG&A as a percentage of 
international revenue shows both the inefficacy of AMT’s CPI-linked escalators in 
hedging against wage inflation, and the incoherence of AMT’s strategy of making 
piecemeal investments into numerous markets (i.e., Chile, Peru, Colombia, Ghana, 
Uganda, Germany) just because they can do deals there.   
 
When the Beast is Hungry, Growth and Margins Drop 
 
The below graph showing the per tower valuations of international acquisitions since 
2009 illustrates the dual problems of needing to feed the beast and the distortions caused 
by AMT’s de facto lending business.  (We excluded Site Sharing from this graph because 
it is an outlier and would unduly skew the trend line.) 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 All international numbers include pass through in the revenue because it is easier to make comparisons 
between quarters. 
2 Q3 2012: $111 million, Q4 2012: $120 million, Q1 2013: $136 million, Q2 2013 $116 million.
Page 3 of 9	
  


 
 
AMT needs to pay more money each year to drive higher EBITDA and margins.  As we 
detailed in our initial report, a good portion of AMT’s international business is de facto 
lending whereby AMT pays an above market purchase price for a tower in exchange for 
the carrier paying above market rent.3  Lending distorts growth by making revenue and 
EBITDA margins appear higher initially.  However, rents tend to reset to market rates at 
lease expiration.  The table below shows that AMT’s international growth fell off a cliff 
in Q3 2012 – not coincidentally, AMT’s acquisition activities have moderated since Q2 
2012.  Based on management’s comments, we believe the moderation is due to not 
finding deals that are large enough, rather than a newly found prudence. 
 


 
 
Unfortunately, one analyst asked AMT for color on how it determines how much to pay 
for a tower portfolio.  Management completely failed to answer the question.  We then 
entered the question queue (in part to ask that question again), but AMT never took our 
question.   
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
3 See July 17, 2013 report pp. 22-28.
Page 4 of 9	
  


 
Investors should also note that AMT’s international joint venture losses are growing. 
 
Another analyst asked a similar question, asking management to explain differences in 
rents that its tenants pay, particularly relative to market.  When management answered 
the question, they discussed only headline rental rates, did not discuss rent abatements 
nor sunsets on above market rents.  These factors are integral to forecasting AMT’s 
future cash flows, and it is misleading of management not to acknowledge them and 
provide more detail. 
 
AMT Reinvests Money Overseas out of Necessity – Not Choice 
 
AMT gives investors the impression that it chooses to reinvest its overseas cash flows in 
growing its local operations because of the business opportunities.  Our view is that AMT 
management feels it has no choice but to reinvest these monies locally – and this leads to 
further value destruction.  In addition to needing to feed the beast in order to try to 
produce additional (often low quality) growth overseas, as we discussed in our initial 
report, it is simply too expensive for AMT to repatriate much of its cash flows.  The taxes 
it would pay would take a large chunk out of the cash flows.  Many emerging and frontier 
markets are like roach motels for foreign direct investment – it is much harder to get 
money out than put it in.  Finally, repatriating funds would force it to realize currency 
losses, so like a dangerous trader, AMT runs the position and increases the risk.   
 
The bottom line is that AMT needs to spend more money overseas in order to grow its 
international metrics.  Because AMT’s international business is in part carry trade where 
it earns returns that seem high by US standards in high interest (and substantially riskier) 
countries (but after hedging in the FX market, those returns would be negative) and 
hence, this reality is dangerous for AMT investors because it incentivizes the Company to 
grow in value destroying ways, particularly given management’s compensation structure.  
Investors should keep in mind that our model shows AMT’s international returns often do 
not exceed local sovereign bond yields.  Sovereign bonds are obviously substantially 
more liquid and less risky than AMT’s tower portfolios in those same countries. 
 
Be Wary of AMT’s Claims About its Track Record Overseas 
 
AMT management made two comments about AMT’s track record overseas that merit 
clarification.  Management highlighted the strong performance of AMT’s pre-2008 
legacy sites, seeming to imply that AMT can replicate this success.  Management also 
stated that AMT’s rental rates in Mexico and Brazil are approximately $2,000 per month 
(which is not much lower than rates in the US).   
 
AMT’s legacy sites are not comparable to its recently purchased portfolios.  AMT 
entered Mexico in 1999 and Brazil in 2000.  The environment then was far less 
competitive and valuations were much more reasonable – particularly given that the US 
was soon thereafter just emerging from a burst stock market bubble.  After the bubble 
burst, the US was cutting rates, and these foreign currencies strengthened, making early
Page 5 of 9	
  


returns look better.  Some of its early purchases were from NII Holdings, Inc. 
(NASDAQ: NIHD).  NIHD emerged from bankruptcy in November 2002, and AMT 
agreed to enter into a series of sale and leaseback transactions with it in December 2002.  
(As we pointed out, there are discrepancies between the way AMT and NIHD account for 
these transactions, including purchase consideration differences.)  Because AMT was 
likely NIHD’s lender of only resort, it is not surprising that NIHD would have paid AMT 
relatively high rents on the towers it sold AMT.  Finally, the trend has been for market 
rents to drop over time in the overseas markets.  We have observed declining market 
rents over time in Mexico, Brazil, India, Ghana (albeit with limited data), Uganda.  We 
expect Germany’s market rents will decline as well with the emphasis that carriers are 
putting on cost savings, particularly through consolidation.  While AMT’s contract rates 
in Mexico and Brazil early on were in the $2,000-range, the market rate in those 
countries is now approximately $1,000.  When the legacy contracts still in effect expire, 
it is highly likely they will reset substantially lower. 
 
Statements that Strain Credulity 
 
Management made several statements on the call about AMT’s international business that 
strain credulity.  Management’s comments about its India business are highly misleading.  
Management’s description of AMT’s standards for selecting international markets is 
slightly humorous (e.g., we struggle to understand which of AMT’s emerging and 
frontier markets exhibit a “tradition of rule of law”).  Management bizarrely stated that 
AMT has grown Site Sharing’s EBITDA since acquiring it – without ever responding to 
the fact that Site Sharing’s financial statements show that its EBITDA was far lower than 
what AMT implied it was at the time of acquisition.  In response to management’s 
gilding the lily (to put it mildly) on Site Sharing, we introduce additional evidence that 
AMT’s actual payment for the Company was approximately $250 million less than 
AMT’s accounts show.  Perhaps next quarter management will explain where this money 
went? 
 
In discussing India, management stated that when it initially approached the market, it 
felt that the portfolio valuations were too high, and that it would be prudent to wait for 
them to compress.  If only the Company really were that prescient.  The reality is that 
AMT acquired over 6,000 (of its 10,774 total India sites) at close to peak valuations.  
AMT paid $98,000 per tower for 1,700 sites from Xcel in 2009, and $123,000 per tower 
for 4,629 sites from Essar in Q3 2010.  As we mentioned in our initial report, AMT has 
reportedly been contemplating acquiring a comparably sized operator for a valuation of 
approximately $50,000 per tower.  (The market peaked in India in Q4 2010 – Q1 2011, 
around when AMT acquired 43% of its portfolio from Essar.)  With rent prices in India 
declining by as much as 50% since 2011, and with the numerous major obstacles that a 
medium-size, independent player such as AMT faces (detailed in our initial report), we 
strongly disagree with management’s assertion that India presents an attractive 
investment case.  On yesterday’s call, management stated, “We view the Indian market as 
long-term growth investment”.  The key word there is “long”.
Page 6 of 9	
  


Management stated that it only enters an international market if its meets the criteria of 
“tradition of rule of law in that country, the track record of judicial independence and 
respect for property rights, specifically with regard to existing foreign investors.”  Our 
report chronicles numerous capricious and detrimental actions taken against foreign 
investors (including in the telecom and tower industries) in these jurisdictions.  Does 
management really believe that India, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, Uganda, and Ghana 
satisfy these criteria?  If so, it only highlights their lack of understanding of emerging and 
frontier markets. 
 
Management portrayed its acquisition of Site Sharing as a success, without addressing the 
approximately $250 million accounting discrepancy, or alternatively, trying to justify 
how, on a per tower basis, Site Sharing could have been worth about 4x its other 
international acquisitions.  We previously presented a portion of our evidence that the 
Site Sharing shareholders received approximately $250 million less than AMT claimed to 
pay for it.  Part of that evidence was reference to Site Sharing’s 2010 financial 
statements, which showed EBITDA of only BRL 45.5 million.  The problem is that 
management has claimed on numerous occasions that it paid a multiple of 12x to 13x 
EBITDA for Site Sharing.  This would have amounted to a purchase price of only $328 
million to $355 million – not $585 million.  This much lower range corresponds to what 
six sources (including one of the selling shareholders and a former AMT employee 
involved in the transaction) have told us. 
 
AMT’s response to our conclusions regarding Site Sharing was devoid of any substance – 
it reaffirmed the purchase price, and stated it injected sufficient funds into Brazil to pay 
for the purchase.  As a result of this non-response – particularly given our reference to 
Site Sharing’s historical EBITDA, our jaws hit the floor when Mr. Taiclet casually stated 
that AMT has, since the acquisition, grown Site Sharing’s EBITDA by 15%.  We would 
appreciate some elaboration on what he thinks Site Sharing’s EBITDA was.   
 
We view the disappearance of approximately $250 million from one acquisition as 
alarming – particularly because this could be more than a one-off problem.  We therefore 
present additional details that AMT has significantly misstated the amount it paid the 
selling shareholders for Site Sharing.  Our conversations with a longtime shareholder 
who was among the selling shareholders and with a former AMT employee who was 
involved in the transaction confirm that the actual purchase consideration for Site Sharing 
was far less than the $585 million that AMT’s accounts show. 
 
The question is therefore: What happened to the approximately $250 million extra AMT 
claimed to pay?  Did AMT employees steal the money?  Was this an accounting plug to 
make the Company appear to be more profitable than it actually is?  Is this money 
supposed to come in later disguised as revenue?  Was the money used to fund a bribe of 
government officials?  Or is there a perfectly innocent explanation for the discrepancy?  
We have many questions, and unfortunately the Company has not provided any answers.   
 
The key to understanding the discrepancy between AMT’s disclosed price and the actual 
price is the BRL:USD exchange rate.  The Site Sharing purchase is best understood by
Page 7 of 9	
  


looking at the price per tower AMT paid and the selling shareholders received.  AMT 
paid between 800,000 and 900,000 per tower.  The question is whether this was in US 
dollars or Brazilian Real.  At the March 1, 2011 exchange rate of 1.665, purchasing in 
Brazilian Real but disclosing US dollars would have resulted in an overstatement of 
purchase consideration of 66.5%.   
 
AMT disclosed paying $879,000 per tower; however, both the selling shareholder of Site 
Sharing NE SA and the former AMT employee stated that the purchase price was in the 
range of BRL 800,000 to BRL 900,000 per tower.   
 
We spoke with a longtime shareholder of Site Sharing (who was among the selling 
shareholders), and the main takeaways were the following: 
 


• The Site Sharing shareholders received about BRL 800,000 per tower.   
• The total USD consideration was in the $300 million range. 
• He is aware that AMT disclosed paying $585 million / $879,000 per tower, and he 


does not know why AMT disclosed the much higher price.   
 
We spoke with a former AMT employee who was involved in the purchase of Site 
Sharing, and the main takeaway with respect to the Site Sharing transaction was that the 
transaction price was approximately BRL 900,000 per tower, which he recalled was 
about $560,000 per tower at the time.4  These figures imply that the transaction was 
approximately $370 million, rather than $585 million. 
 
In addition to these two sources, we spoke with four sources who were familiar with the 
transaction from having considered bidding on it, and who believe that the transaction 
pricing was in the BRL 800,000 to BRL 900,000 per tower range.  The combination of 
the Site Sharing financial statements and these six sources creates a very strong case that 
AMT materially misstated its accounts with respect to this transaction. 
 
More Bad News for AMT from Overseas 
 
Recent news from Germany highlights our conclusion that AMT spends investor money 
overseas regardless of the risk / reward ratio.  On July 23, 2013, Telefónica and KPN 
announced that Telefónica would acquire 100% of E-Plus.  (E-Plus is the seller and 
anchor tenant of AMT’s German portfolio.)  We stated that this transaction was a strong 
possibility, and unfortunately for AMT investors, it decreases the already anemic returns 
AMT can expect from its $525.7 million purchase of towers from E-Plus only nine 
months earlier.  We understand that E-Plus and Telefónica’s o2 operation in Germany use 
the same technology, similar frequencies, and that antennae that can handle both carriers 
are becoming increasingly common in Germany.  An industry source estimates that o2 is 
a tenant on approximately 30% of AMT’s towers in Germany, and likely accounts for 
15% to 20% of AMT’s revenue in the country.  Because AMT has not announced a 
master lease agreement with o2, it is possible (if not probable) that o2 will be able to 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
4 These figures jibe with the then-prevailing FX rate.
Page 8 of 9	
  


terminate many of the leases in the next one to two years.  Our model previously was 
forecasting an IRR of 4% on the E-Plus transaction.  That IRR could be quite optimistic 
in light of this transaction. 
 
Money Supply Does Not Protect the Tower Model 
 
In our initial report, we predicted that macro towers will soon be the most expensive 
option of last resort for carriers; and, that tower revenue growth in the US is at or near 
peak because new and existing technologies (particularly Wi-Fi) will handle much of the 
future growth in wireless data, and at a much lower cost.  We pointed out that finding 
alternatives to macro towers is an imperative for carriers because their margins have 
greatly compressed in recent years due to the costs of providing wireless data via macro 
towers.  Management offered the following counterargument, which we are still trying to 
understand: 
 


“I think we view [additional demand for towers] in that it all flows from 
subscriber demand and the population for paying more for advanced mobile 
services and we see that happening everywhere around the world, one of those 
obvious is the United States, that subscriber demand flows through to revenue and 
cash flow to the carriers, which make them feel comfortable investing.  You 
know, at levels they have over the past few years collectively among the big 
carriers, 20 plus billion a year there is so much on the network side, so many 
projects, amendments, new sites that the engineers want, there is plenty of things 
to spend money on, it’s really cash.  I look at cash supply and demand, there is 
plenty of demand from the engineer to put equipment out there and improve their 
network.  Will the investor base or carrier support the cash supply to do that?...” 


 
We continue to view the tower as becoming the most expensive option of last resort for 
carriers. 
 
AMT’s AFFO – Still Without Justification 
 
One of the points we raised in our initial report is that AMT’s means of calculating AFFO 
is misleading.  While AMT has not responded to that issue, an analyst raised it on the 
call.  Management’s response was that its method of calculating AFFO represents the 
recurring cash flow of its business.  We disagree, and reiterate that its AFFO calculation 
methodology is inappropriate and misleading – specifically because it overstates the 
recurring cash flow of the business.  As we discuss in Appendix A.6 of our initial report, 
we conservatively calculate that if making adjustments to show a truer picture of AMT’s 
recurring cash flow, its 2013 AFFO would be approximately $340 million lower than the 
number it will eventually report. 
 
Because AMT is an alternative REIT, its depreciation and capital expenditure 
requirements differ from those of a traditional real estate investment.  AMT’s asset base 
deteriorates much faster than traditional real estate, and the primary driver of AMT’s 
value is its contracts – not its tangible assets.  Adding back all depreciation (as a
Page 9 of 9	
  


traditional RETIT does) is therefore inappropriate.  Further, AMT does not subtract 
ground lease purchases, maintenance capital expenditures, and redevelopment capital 
expenditures from its AFFO calculations, which is misleading given AMT’s business 
model and the nature of its assets – particularly in the case of redevelopment capital 
expenditures.  It is reasonable to assume that over the course of the life of a typical tower, 
it will need to be redeveloped at some point.  Ten years ago, few people imagined that 
towers would hold the loads they are required to today, which is a key reason why towers 
have been redeveloped. 
 
Tower companies are far more susceptible to changes in technology than are traditional 
REITs.  Tower companies do not have alternative uses for their assets.  These are 
important risks investors need to consider in light of small cell rollouts, Wi-Fi, and other 
means that carriers are using to diversify away from their dependence on towers. 
 
AMT’s Evasions 
 
The Company has thus far failed to respond to the following issues we raised in our 
initial report, even with management speaking for over 20 minutes on its international 
business: 
 


• Frequent underperformance of AMT’s international investments relative to local 
sovereign bonds, 


• Transaction reporting discrepancies in transactions in Mexico and Ghana, 
• Corporate governance issues, including questionable board and employee team 


appointments, 
• AMT’s de facto lending business artificially inflates international margins, while 


making long-term growth more difficult to achieve, 
• AMT’s international business is effectively part carry trade, and part levered 


directional currency bet – particularly why it is appropriate for management’s 
bonus targets to be adjusted for currency fluctuations while the Company’s 
overseas investments and cash flows are largely unhedged, 


• AMT’s REIT structure is a square peg in a round hole, given the impediments to 
accessing overseas cash flows to benefit US investors. 


 
Finally, we left messages with both of AMT’s investor relations personnel yesterday, 
asking them to return our call to discuss their results.  They failed to respond.
