5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 1/9


Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience
Sep. 11, 2012 1:21 PM ET8 comments
by: The GeoTeam


Investors who were long Audience (NASDAQ:ADNC) and ignored, or were unaware of,
the "boiler plate" risk factors in ADNC filings just saw their investments get demolished in
the Sept. 7, 2012, trading session. The stock fell $11.96, or 63.4%, to close at $6.90
when it announced in a press release that Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) would no longer use its
processor in its next-generation phones. The release stated:


Audience sells processors and licenses its processor IP to Apple Inc. and certain of
its subsidiaries (collectively, OEM) for inclusion in the OEM's mobile phones
pursuant to a Master Development and Supply Agreement (MDSA). Pursuant to a
statement of work under the MDSA, amended in March 2012, Audience developed
and licensed a new generation of processor IP for use in the OEM's devices.
However, the OEM is not obligated to use Audience's processor IP.


Audience now believes that it is unlikely that the OEM will enable Audience's
processor IP in its next generation mobile phone. Audience is not aware of any
intended changes by this OEM to its use of Audience's processors or processor IP in
prior generations of the OEM's mobile phones.


Rating downgrades before the morning bell by some "respected" analysts only added fuel
to the fire. But we believe this fire is far from being tamed and the stock will continue to
trade lower.


ADNC shareholders should be furious that analysts did not see the AAPL news coming, or
that the company was not more proactive in telegraphing it as a high probability event. On
July 26, 2012, ADNC disseminated its 2012 second-quarter financial press release, its first
earnings release since going public on May 10, 2012.


In its 2012 second-quarter 10-Q filed on Aug. 7, 2012, ADNC sneaked in a risk factor
disclosure on page 13 that mentioned that it was named in a patent infringement lawsuit.
More interestingly, the suit made reference to "our OEM" as also being involved in the suit,
but failed to specifically mention who the OEM was, which we will soon show is AAPL.


On July 3, 2012, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by a company called NoiseFree.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ADNC

http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/news.html?d=10004389

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL

http://www.globenewswire.com/newsroom/news.html?d=263616

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1201663/000119312512340640/0001193125-12-340640-index.htm
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 2/9


On July 3, 2012, Noise Free Wireless, Inc. filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California against one of our OEMs and against us. The
complaint:


alleges that our products infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,742,790 held by Noise Free
Wireless and that our OEM infringes the same patent based on its alleged use of
our products
alleges that we misappropriated Noise Free Wireless' trade secrets and engaged
in unfair business practices based on the alleged patent infringement and trade
secret misappropriation
makes additional allegations against our OEM


The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, costs and fees and injunctive
relief against us. The costs associated with any actual, pending or threatened
litigation could negatively impact our operating results regardless of the actual
outcome. Due to the preliminary status of the lawsuit and uncertainties related to
litigation, we are unable to evaluate the likelihood of either a favorable or
unfavorable outcome. We cannot currently estimate a range of any possible losses
we may experience in connection with this case. Accordingly, we are unable at this
time to estimate the effects of this complaint on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.


While the July 26, 2012, press release was positive overall, it omits a huge potential
negative to ADNC's story. It's an omission that, when combined with information in its
2012 second-quarter 10-Q and court documents, leads us to believe that the words "our
OEM" was a clear attempt by management to delay knowledge of who this original
equipment manufacturer is.


The keys to what we consider were manipulative actions taken by management come
from two facts:


1. It is very obvious who the OEM mentioned in the suit is. It clearly lists that AAPL is
actually the first defendant in the suit.


2. Court documents pertaining to the suit were filed on July 3, 2012, well in advance of
the 2012 second-quarter press release or related 10Q.


We surmise that AAPL may have left the building just less than six months after inking an
amended licensing agreement with ADNC due to the existence of the patent infringement
suit. We also believe it is plausible that there is risk that ADNC's other customers and its



http://docs.justia.com/cases/federal/district-courts/california/candce/4:2012cv03483/256830/1/
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 3/9


manufacture of processors could consider severing ties before they are mentioned in
future suits. AAPL's move could imply that its legal team found some merit in the patent
infringement suit.


In addition to the obvious negative "reputation" repercussions that arise from our findings,
several other negative ramifications could result from this development, including impacts
on cash flow streams and relationships with its customers other than AAPL and its supply
chain entities.


Equally as eye-opening is that ADNC could be on the hook for legal fees of customers
who use its products. Here is another risk factor quote from ADNC's filings:


Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our OEMs. Claims against
our OEMs may require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly
litigation on an OEM's behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we
generally agree to defend and indemnify our OEMs with which we have long-term
agreements from claims of infringement and misappropriation of proprietary rights of
third parties based on the use or resale of our products. Other OEMs, with which we
do not have formal agreements requiring us to indemnify them, may ask us to
indemnify them if a claim is made as a condition to awarding future design wins to
us. A party making an infringement claim against our OEMs, if successful, could
secure an injunction or other court order that could prevent our OEMs from
producing or selling their mobile devices incorporating our products. Any such claims
or injunction against our OEMs could seriously harm our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows.


We believe that investors who are banking on ADNC cash per share of around $5.50
($113 million divided by 20 million shares) to serve as a bottom could be making a serious
miscalculation.


The Aug. 7, 2012 news only highlights one of many risk factors present in the ADNC story
and investors should not take solace in management's attempt to coddle them:


...we are confident in the diversification of our business and see sustainable growth
in 2012 and beyond. As such we are raising guidance for the third quarter of 2012.
Looking ahead, we believe our expansion into adjacent markets such as Smart TVs,
automotive, and notebooks, will continue to bring growth in 2013 and beyond.
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 4/9


We take these comments with a grain of salt. We do not think the benefits of its customer
or product diversification goals are right around the corner or guaranteed. In reality, as we
plan to show in a follow-up article, ADNC is basically a one product segment company
that now, after the loss of AAPL, largely depends on one customer (Samsung) for the
majority of its revenues. In its going public prospectus filed on May 10, 2012, the company
readily admits that its dependence on a limited amount of customers will continue to be
the norm for the foreseeable future.


We came across an article on Investopedia that attempted to interject a silver lining in the
news about AAPL development. Unfortunately, the author does not discuss the patent
litigation case or several other risk factors present in the ADNC story. Furthermore, his
silver living included the following statement:


Not a Fatal Blow at This Point


Apple has been a significant customer for Audience for a while now, and losing that
relationship has always been a risk factor. However, it's important to note that Apple
was not Audience's only customer. The company also relies heavily on Samsung for
revenue (over 40% in the last quarter), and that relationship seems to be secure.
Likewise, the company has announced recent wins with HTC, Huawei and GOOG.


We performed some research regarding this passage and found that HTC, Huawei, and
Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) have been customers of ADNC for a period of time, well before
the existence of the patent infringement suit we highlighted. The question bears asking:
Will the AAPL development spread to other customers once they become aware of it?


The hit to ADNC financials is something we don't take lightly. AAPL's revenue contribution
model (not shared by other ADNC customers) was built on licensing fees paid to ADNC
based on a fee per each phone AAPL sells that incorporates ADNC processor. A good
deal of margin is captured by ADNC since the company was licensing the intellectual
property to AAPL and not manufacturing processors for AAPL. This helps to provide a
significant boost to net income. Now that the AAPL licensing revenue stream is gone, it
makes sense to assume that ADNC has to replace it with a greater share than what it lost.


The loss of the AAPL relationship is significant for several reasons:


1. Investors and analysts that were hanging their hat on an AAPL takeover to support
ADNC stock now need to look at pure valuation and market metrics to provide them
with a bottom.



http://www.investopedia.com/stock-analysis/2012/Apple-Throws-Everything-Into-Question-For-Audience-AAPL-ADNC-QCOM-CRUS0910.aspx?partner=YahooSA#axzz265EYT264

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOG
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 5/9


2. Historically, ADNC sold its products primarily to OEMs, distributors and contract
manufacturers (CMs) whose customers include OEMs of mobile devices. Beginning in
the 2012 first quarter, the ADNC/AAPL relationship was changed to that of a licensing
structure. We postulate that this move was partly made to improve margins that had
been on a precipitous decline. With the loss of AAPL as a major customer, a revenue
stream that was providing some stability to a business with unpredictable margins is
gone, once again exposing the company to margin volatility.


3. We estimate that without AAPL's licensing business ADNC may report losses
beginning in the 2012 fourth quarter when its effect will be first felt.


4. Revenues not related to AAPL (hardware sales) for the first six months of 2012 have
declined, which should give investors pause when assessing potential revenue growth
of ADNC's remaining business.


5. The big elephant in the room now becomes AAPL's abandonment of ADNC's
processor, no longer including it into its new generation phones. Even if it was not as a
result of the patent infringement suit, apparently ADNC technology may not be the gold
standard and the best one out there, contradicting its "Leading Provider" status
boasted in its company description. This begs the question: Who is AAPL now using?
Will other customers, namely Samsung, soon jump ship?


6. Did AAPL analyze the details surrounding the filing patent infringement lawsuit and
determine that it may be valid, realizing financial risk exists to companies who use
ADNC's processors? If so, will others do the same?


With so many uncertainties (including another lawsuit discussed in its going public
prospectus), how can any rational investor not see significant risk to a long investment in
ADNC shares, even at current levels?


We believe that most investors will eventually assume a worst case valuation scenario of
ADNC's proper cash per share of around $5.50. However, we believe this assumption
could be short sighted. It takes into account an assumption that its relationship with its
OEM customer Samsung is strong and that two patent infringement lawsuits against the
company (the second also against AAPL) are frivolous, leading to no cash drain on
operations. It further ignores the big possibility that the loss of AAPL related revenues will
result in a cessation or significant reduction in cash flows. Lastly, it assumes that its
customers other than AAPL or the companies it outsources the manufacturing of its
processors to will not follow in AAPL's footsteps.


In summary, our valuation is not so much based on the attractiveness of the market ADNC
serves, but more on the possible negative ramifications of:
5/23/2018 Patent Infringement Lawsuit Looms Over Audience - Audience, Inc (NASDAQ:ADNC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/860251-patent-infringement-lawsuit-looms-over-audience 6/9


