5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators - Management's Silence And Broker's Rebuttal May Validate The Worst Fear - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NY…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1517322-lumber-liquidators-managements-silence-and-brokers-rebuttal-may-validate-the-worst-fear 1/12


Lumber Liquidators - Management's Silence And Broker's Rebuttal
May Validate The Worst Fear
Jun. 24, 2013 8:06 AM ET35 comments
by: Xuhua Zhou


Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) experienced a roughly 7% sell-off since my last article was
published highlighting the existence of illegal and noncompliant toxic product in its
inventory. Despite having offered to send the company my noncompliant sample and the
relevant lab reports, I have yet to correspond with anyone from Lumber Liquidators.
Instead, Lumber Liquidators initiated an End of Quarter CLEARANCE sale for all its
flooring products per a marketing email received this Sunday. The company chose not to
follow up on credible questions raised about its product safety and instead launched a
marketing sales campaign to get rid of existing inventory faster. It could be that Lumber
Liquidators management needs to make analyst projections for the second quarter or it
may be trying to unload all noncompliant inventories before the California Air Resource
Board starts to crack down on the issue. Regardless of the rationale, it is hardly a
responsible decision on the part of Lumber Liquidators.


Rebuttal from Analyst at Piper Jaffray


It seems always to be the case when an insightful negative piece of analysis gets read by
market participants, certain Wall Street cheerleading brokerage firms would come out and
reiterate their bullish sentiment on the stock. They summarily dismiss serious questions
raised in the analysis and respond to every question with a simple and uniform answer -
we spoke with the management; everything is fine. After raising the price target from $90
per share to $97 per share on Monday of last week, Piper Jaffray analyst Peter Keith
issued another commentary on Friday responding to the evidence I presented in my
Thursday article. Mr. Keith summarily dismissed the issue I raised by stating:


"After completing our own research and speaking with members of LL
management team, we believe many of the claims made in the report are
misleading."


Before discussing in detail the lack of merits presented in the referenced commentary, I
would like to note that reading this comment was a déjà vu moment for me. Almost exactly
five months ago on January 23rd, 2013, I published an article on Joy Global (NYSE:JOY)
discussing the ramifications of the revealed misdeeds at Caterpillar (NYSE:CAT) and



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1513142-illegal-products-could-spell-big-trouble-at-lumber-liquidators

https://www.box.com/s/gb5afw4et9hddi9363db

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1126641-joy-global-when-will-we-see-the-1-billion-write-down

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/JOY

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CAT
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators - Management's Silence And Broker's Rebuttal May Validate The Worst Fear - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NY…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1517322-lumber-liquidators-managements-silence-and-brokers-rebuttal-may-validate-the-worst-fear 2/12


raised serious questions about Joy Global's acquisition of IMM. The concerns raised in the
article were essentially proven true after Anonymous Analytics released a detailed 46-
page report showing with documents the financial irregularities that were present at the
time of IMM's acquisition by JOY. Another Piper Jaffray analyst posted a response to the
concerns raised in my article on the same day dismissing all questions raised in the
article. The analyst reiterated his buy rating with an $84 price target and advised its clients
the temporary dip in JOY's share price was a buying opportunity.


Clients who heeded Piper's advice lost almost 25% while S&P 500 Index gained 6.5%.
JOY is a member of S&P 500 Index.


Fast forward five months, Piper analyst again stated the following:


"Today's sell-off in LL shares as a result of a short report posted on Seeking Alpha
presents investors with an attractive buying opportunity."


Investors who plan on heeding Piper's advice and buy into LL's stock on the dip should be
aware of its prior track record given the eerie similarity of the setup between JOY and LL.


Piper's defense came in three folds:


1. Quality Control is taken very seriously at LL with the management stating all of its
products are CARB Phase 2 compliant. Then, the analyst noted the CARB regulations
are not yet adopted nationally. Even if it were to be adopted, LL will be overly
compliant. Products are extensively tested by 3rd party with random sampling.
Additionally, LL also spot tests on products at its facility in China.


2. Due to the amount of products I tested, the results suffer from sampling error hence
the result may not be valid.



http://anonanalytics.blogspot.com/

https://www.box.com/files/0/f/0/1/f_8834310631

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/6/6756741_13720514499720_rId13.png
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators - Management's Silence And Broker's Rebuttal May Validate The Worst Fear - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NY…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1517322-lumber-liquidators-managements-silence-and-brokers-rebuttal-may-validate-the-worst-fear 3/12


3. The negative review issue I noted on Reseller Reviews is a result of cherry picking
data to put a negative spin on the company. Piper believes it is much more helpful to
also consider reviews found on Google Shopping with over 2400 largely positive
reviews because sample size is 28x larger.


Before the product quality issue can be addressed, it is imperative for investors to
understand which review website holds more value. In my humble opinion, Piper's claim
that Google's review is more relevant is one of the most preposterous opinions rendered
by a professional who is supposed to possess extensive knowledge to analyze the
consumer space. The Google reviews are notoriously known to be subject to easy
manipulation. The issue got so severe that Google itself had to issue a warning to SEO
and businesses to avoid fake reviews. In the case of Lumber Liquidators, the reviews on
Google Shopping are especially suspicious. Investors should take time to scroll down a
number of pages and actually read the reviews. Most of the reviews came from Online
Shopper (I do not think many consumers who purchase LL products do so exclusively
online). And almost 96% of the reviews or 3168 of them came from a single source,
Bizrate. Of the 11 opinions sourced from Epinions, 8 of the 11 reviewers gave LL 1 out 5.
Reseller Ratings is noted in my prior article which is also almost exclusively negative. The
reviewers through Epinions and Reseller Ratings are all individuals with names yet the
ones from Bizrate are uniformly online shopper. Amazingly, the equity research analyst at
Piper believes those online shopper reviews should be relied upon by investors to
determine the quality of LL's products and the level of its consumer satisfaction.


Needless to say, it is my strongest belief that somebody has been rigging Google reviews
and an email has been sent to Google to request an investigation on the matter due to the
apparent data discrepancy. It is my view that Google has a strong interest in ensuring the
integrity of its review product and we may see a slightly different Google review on LL in
the next few weeks should anything unusual gets discovered.


Furthermore, it is puzzling to me how Piper can state all of LL's products are compliant
with CARB Phase 2 when my lab report clearly demonstrates egregious noncompliance.
The noncompliant flooring product that was tested came straight from a box purchase at
Lumber Liquidators and that box is clearly non-compliant as demonstrated by the
presented lab report. The statement is patently false. Additionally, while the sample size is
small, they are selected randomly. Precisely because of that, there is a greater potential
variation of the extent to which LL has been selling noncompliant products. If anything,
investors should be concerned more by my ability to identify one egregious violator after
testing merely three products sourced from China. Finally, that very tested box was sold to



http://www.google.com/products/seller?zmi=lumberliquidators.com%26start=30

http://searchenginewatch.com/article/2241393/Google-Warns-SEO-Businesses-to-Avoid-Fake-Reviews

http://www.google.com/products/seller?zmi=lumberliquidators.com%26start=30
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators - Management's Silence And Broker's Rebuttal May Validate The Worst Fear - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NY…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1517322-lumber-liquidators-managements-silence-and-brokers-rebuttal-may-validate-the-worst-fear 4/12


me as a consumer in the state of California. It is a clear violation of the relevant laws and
regulations governing formaldehyde emission standards in the state of California. Even if
we take a step back from a regulatory perspective, that box of flooring is supposed to go
into somebody's home and will be emitting excessive levels of formaldehyde heightening
that entire family's risk to a slew of incurable diseases such as leukemia for years to
come. It is simply wrong regardless of how one may look at the situation.


Management's Silence


After publishing the article on Thursday, I have been expecting to be contacted by
someone from Lumber Liquidators to address the situation and supply them with the
evidence and sample I tested. Unfortunately, I have yet to hear from anybody. Obviously
well-aware of the situation and my concerns, LL's management thus far has chosen a path
of inaction hoping the issue will simply blow over. From the commentary published by
Piper Jaffray, it appears the management stated to the analyst that all their products are
CARB Phase 2 compliant without addressing how I was able to purchase a sample that
emits over two times the CARB phase 1 limit. Instead of using its proper channel, a press
release, to communicate with its shareholders, LL has chosen to hide behind a speaker. Is
it because the management wants to shield any potential liability and therefore does not
want to make any statements they know to be false? Maybe, maybe not. But it does not
strike me as the management genuinely intends to deal with the issue in a proper fashion.


Activism Helps


In light of the lack of proper response from Lumber Liquidators, I believe further activist
activities may be warranted to ensure the public interest can be preserved in this matter. I
plan to spend a portion of my profits from shoring LL to engage a public relations firm to
raise the general consumer awareness on the formaldehyde issues in flooring products. It
is not limited to Lumber Liquidators but also other flooring retailers. Further, a plan is
developed to initiate active conversations with members of Congress who have
demonstrated interest in the formaldehyde issue. Public letters can be found here, here
and here. Finally, as a LL customer, I may plan to file a class-action lawsuit against
Lumber Liquidators so other similarly situated can be properly compensated for the harm
caused by the potentially unscrupulous products.


Conclusion


In conclusion, I remain steadfastly short Lumber Liquidators with the belief that Lumber
Liquidators' future will be clouded by its past. Even with an improving housing market and
growing demand for home renovation, consumers will become aware that the risks of



https://www.box.com/s/y4q7wubw9861grf4zdtb

https://www.box.com/s/7mkqd6n44n6pecmxtj2p

https://www.box.com/s/n1qh6qbsx02888urhy1y
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators - Management's Silence And Broker's Rebuttal May Validate The Worst Fear - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NY…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1517322-lumber-liquidators-managements-silence-and-brokers-rebuttal-may-validate-the-worst-fear 5/12


