5/23/2018 MBIA's GIC Exposure Could Trigger a Liquidity Crisis - MBIA Inc. (NYSE:MBI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/83057-mbias-gic-exposure-could-trigger-a-liquidity-crisis 1/17


MBIA's GIC Exposure Could Trigger a Liquidity Crisis
Jun. 28, 2008 5:57 PM ET37 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


MBIA was down 26% this week -- and I'm surprised it wasn't more, given the news last
Thursday and Friday. 


In Bill Ackman's presentation last Wednesday (which is posted at
www.valueinvestingcongress.com), he revealed an area of exposure for many of the bond
insurers that I hadn't previously been aware of: Guaranteed Investment Contracts (GICs).
I knew MBIA had an investment management division that sold GICs, but didn't fully
understand their structure and how toxic this business can be in the event of a
downgrade. It's really quite ironic that everyone (myself included) has been so focused on
the company's structured finance exposure, but something out of left field like GICs might
be what triggers a liquidity crisis that takes the company under. 


Allow me to explain what a GIC is. Let's say a municipality like Wichita does a $100 million
bond offering to build some schools (or bridges or whatever). Immediately after the
offering, it has $100 million in the bank, but it doesn't need all of the money up front.
Instead, as the schools are built, it pays the costs over time -- let's say $25 million per
year. 


MBIA (and many other bond insurers) of course have relationships with countless
municipalities, so they set up investment management divisions to tap these relationships
and help municipalities invest the money they raised so they could earn some extra return.
(In many cases, the bond insurer offers a package deal in which it wraps the bonds and
also invests the proceeds -- possible illegal tying, but that's another story.) The produce
the bond insurers sold to the munitipalities was a guaranteed investment contract, which
was of course marketed as 100% safe, secure, liquid, triple-A, blah, blah, blah (you see
where this story's going, don't you? Think auction rate securities...).  


A GIC would typically be structured to pay out over time -- in the case of the example
above, Wichita would give MBIA the $100 million it had just raised and in return MBIA
Asset Management would give Wichita a GIC that promised to pay out $25 million per
year plus interest a tiny bit higher than what Wichita could have earned by putting it in
Treasuries. MBIA Asset Management (part of the publicly traded holding company) would,



http://www.valueinvestingcongress.com/
5/23/2018 MBIA's GIC Exposure Could Trigger a Liquidity Crisis - MBIA Inc. (NYSE:MBI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/83057-mbias-gic-exposure-could-trigger-a-liquidity-crisis 2/17


in turn, have MBIA's insurance sub provide 100% financing, taking advantage of its AAA
rating (and taking all of the risk; more non-arm's-length dealings...), and the MBIA holding
company would simply pocket the spread. Finally, MBIA would invest the money in various
securities, attempting to match their duration with the expected payout timetables of the
GICs.  


A nice feature of this set-up for MBIA was that it sold a steadily increasing amount of
GICs, so it could pay off maturing GICs with incoming cash from new GICs -- not a Ponzi
scheme, because there are assets backing it up, but the liquidity characteristics of the GIC
business allowed MBIA, if it wanted (or if it got sloppy or greedy), to invest the GIC assets
in illiquid and/or long-dated securities. 


This was a wonderful business for everyone as long as markets were tranquil, assets
were liquid and held their value, MBIA's customers continued to buy new GICs and,
critically, MBIA maintained its AAA rating. None of these things are true today, however.  


In particular, many GICs have a clause that says if MBIA is downgraded, it had to
immediately repay or post "eligible collateral" on most or all of the GIC. Sure enough,
MBIA was downgraded five notches by Moody's last Thursday and, as a result, on Friday
after the close, MBIA released the following statement:


As a result of the downgrade to A2, MBIA expects that it will require $2.9 billion to
satisfy potential termination payments under Guaranteed Investment Contracts
(GICs). In addition, MBIA expects to be required to post approximately $4.5 billion in
eligible collateral to satisfy potential collateral posting requirements under GIC's as a
result of the downgrade. MBIA Inc. has total assets of $25 billion related to its ALM
business, of which $15.2 billion is available to satisfy these requirements including
approximately $4.0 billion in cash and liquid short-term investments; $1.0 billion of
unpledged eligible collateral on hand; and approximately $10.2 billion of other
unpledged diversified securities with an average rating of Double-A. In addition,
MBIA Inc. also has available another $1.4 billion in cash, including the proceeds of
its recent equity offering.


Translation: "Contrary to everything we've ever said about no accelerating liabilities in any
part of our business, we now have to immediately come up with $7.4 billion of cash and
eligible collateral (U.S Treasury or agency securities, with appropriate haircuts -- roughly
5%). But don't worry, we have $25 billion of assets..."
5/23/2018 MBIA's GIC Exposure Could Trigger a Liquidity Crisis - MBIA Inc. (NYSE:MBI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/83057-mbias-gic-exposure-could-trigger-a-liquidity-crisis 3/17


$25 billion of assets to cover $7.4 billion of liabilities sounds reassuring -- perhaps that's
why the stock was up on the open Monday (giving us the opportunity to short more) -- but
in reality MBIA is in big trouble because it never expected to have to come up with huge
amounts of cash on short notice. Here's why: 


When MBIA says that it has "$15.2 billion is available to satisfy these requirements", it
means that $9.8 billion of its ALM (Asset/Liability Management) business assets are
already collateralized. And there's not really $15.2 billion left to meet the collateral call --
that's based on MBIA's cost, but according to MBIA's own filings, this was impaired by
$1.4 billion as of 3/31 -- and the actual impairment today is surely much greater, for two
reasons: 1) prices of these securities have declined this quarter and 2) the estimated
values are based on an orderly sale, not a rushed sale to meet a collateral call (speaking
of which, I spoke with a senior fixed income trader today who said there are lots of sellers
but absolutely no buyers for fixed income securities, as financial firms are looking to
reduce their holdings going into the close of the quarter). 


In reality, as MBIA admits in its press release, it has only $5 billion in cash or cash
equivalents in its ALM business, plus the $1.4 billion recently raised by the holding
company (no wonder it didn't downstream the $900 million!), so it needs to come up with
another $1 billion from the "approximately $10.2 billion of other unpledged diversified
securities with an average rating of Double-A" -- not an easy thing to do in this ghastly
market. 


Can MBIA come up with the $7.4 billion it needs to pay off a lucky subset of its creditors?
Sure, but only by pledging all of its cash and selling its best, most liquid securities, which
is exactly what it's doing right now according to the article below that just came out on the
WSJ web site. But what about all of its other creditors -- the holders of GICs and medium
term notes that come due next month (and the month after that and the month after that) --
which are secured by increasingly low-quality, illiquid assets?  


This is the kind of liquidity crunch that has led many financial companies to file for
bankruptcy. If MBIA were to do so, it would obviously wipe out the equity, but it would at
least treat all creditors fairly rather than early ones getting paid in full and later ones left
holding the bag (this is the same issue that exists for policyholders at MBIA's insurance
sub as well, by the way).
5/23/2018 MBIA's GIC Exposure Could Trigger a Liquidity Crisis - MBIA Inc. (NYSE:MBI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/83057-mbias-gic-exposure-could-trigger-a-liquidity-crisis 4/17


When MBIA finally sinks beneath the waves, its management, board, analysts and
defenders will surely cry that no-one could have predicted this perfect storm, yada, yada,
yada, but in fact Bill Ackman spelled it all out five and a half years ago in 66 pages of
excruciating detail in his original presentation on MBIA, Is MBIA Triple A? (attached), in
which he concluded:
5/23/2018 MBIA's GIC Exposure Could Trigger a Liquidity Crisis - MBIA Inc. (NYSE:MBI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/83057-mbias-gic-exposure-could-trigger-a-liquidity-crisis 5/17


A two-notch downgrade could have catastrophic consequences for the company. It
would likely create problems for the renewal of MBIA’s SPV commercial paper. It
might also cause a reduction in the value of all of MBIA’s wrapped obligations
including all of Triple-A One’s assets. The decline in values of these assets, in turn,
could trigger covenant defaults in the SPV’s liquidity facilities, further exacerbating its
immediate liquidity crisis.





Additionally, Moody’s reports that MBIA’s ISDA documentation contains increasing
collateral requirements in the event of a downgrade of the company. The company’s
municipal GIC portfolio also has rating downgrade triggers. 86 Perhaps most
significantly, a downgrade could shut off a material percentage of the company’s
cash flow, for MBIA may be unable to write new premium without a AAA rating.





A Barclays Capital research report which is available on MBIA’s website explains:


Spiraling down…down…and down?


In the event of a financial guarantor being downgraded, will a vicious circle
lead to rapid rating deterioration and potential bankruptcy? This is a much-
debated question in that a financial guarantor who relies on its credit ratings for
its business franchise could face a rapid decline in new business in the event
of a downgrade, which could precipitate further downgrades.





It appears to us that an actual or perceived downgrade of MBIA would have
draconian consequences to the company and create substantial drains on the
company’s liquidity. The self-reinforcing and circular nature of the company’s
exposures makes it, we believe, a poor candidate for a AAA rating.





In light of MBIA’s enormous leverage, the company’s credit quality, underwriting,
transparency, accounting, and track record must be beyond reproach. The company
can simply not afford any significant risk of loss in its nearly $500 billion of net par
exposure, for a mere 20 to 35 basis points loss would equate to levels sufficient to
5/23/2018 MBIA's GIC Exposure Could Trigger a Liquidity Crisis - MBIA Inc. (NYSE:MBI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/83057-mbias-gic-exposure-could-trigger-a-liquidity-crisis 6/17


