Full Legal Disclaimer 





Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital. Any forecasts or estimates are for 
illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any 
information contained in this report may include forward-looking statements, expectations, and projections. You 
should assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect. Use of 
Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s (“Spruce Point”) research is at your own risk. You should do your own 
research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. 


You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Spruce Point (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors 
has a short position in all stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including 
without limitation Liquidmetal Technologies Inc and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that 
the price of stock declines. Following publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the 
securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial 
recommendation. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to 
any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. 
Spruce Point is not registered as an investment advisor. 


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been 
obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected 
persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the 
issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Spruce Point. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Spruce 
Point makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 


All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Spruce Point does not undertake to update or 
supplement this report or any of the information contained herein.
Liquidmetals Stock Is Likely To Melt 
May 2, 2012 
 


About Liquidmetals 


Liquidmetals (OTCQB:LQMT) is a materials technology company that develops and commercializes products made 
from amorphous alloys. Their Liquidmetal® family of alloys consists of a variety of proprietary bulk alloys and 
composites that utilize the advantages offered by amorphous alloy technology. They design, develop and sell 
products and components from bulk amorphous alloys to customers in various industries. They also partner with 
third-party manufacturers and licensees to develop and commercialize Liquidmetal alloy products. 





Situation Overview 


LQMT is a highly promoted penny stock with a market cap that exceeds $125 million, and highly speculative business 
prospects. However, a little due diligence reveals a company with a troubled past, as highlighted in an earlier article 
written by StreetSweeper in 2010, a convoluted capital structure, and a virtually insolvent business. The sexy story 
comes from the association of their technology with Apple (AAPL). On August 5, 2010, LQMT entered into a license 
transaction with Apple Inc. pursuant to which, for a one-time licensing fee of $20 million, they granted to Apple a 
perpetual, worldwide, fully-paid, exclusive license to commercialize all of the company's intellectual property in the 
field of consumer electronic products. (See page 7 of the 10-k linked above.) As a result, they will not be able to 
pursue applications of their bulk Liquidmetal alloys in the consumer electronics field with other companies. 


The current rumors propelling the stock are that Apple may use the Liquidmetal technology in the iPhone 5. While 
this is certainly nice to hear, it will have no material impact on LQMT's financials going forward since they received a 
one-time payment almost 2 years ago, and will receive no ongoing royalties. 


Furthermore, LQMT does not have sufficient infrastructure, property, or equipment to manufacture bulk production 
for any orders of size that Apple might need in the future, so hopes of additional production revenue or cash flow can 
likely be dismissed. As indicated in the table below, LQMT's balance sheet includes depreciated plant and equipment 
valued at just $162,000. Furthermore, their patents which the market is ascribing a $125 million value for are marked 
on the company's books at under $1 million dollars. 











Meanwhile, a more pressing issue for LQMT is its near-term financial insolvency. The money that was received from 
Apple has already been used to fund operations and retire debt. The company currently has a going concern warning
in their 10-k that they were likely to run out of cash as of April 30, 2012. The table below shows LQMT's income 
statement for the past two years. With no revenues, no cash and high fixed expenses, the company currently has 
solvency issues. 











My best estimate of the capital structure is as follows:
Other Negative Factors Investors Should Consider Before Buying LQMT 


1. The company only had $1 million of sales in 2011, yet total operating expenses were $7 million. The company 
only has 13 employees. 


2. Death Financing - The company recently had to take a bridge loan twice both here and here on onerous 
terms reaching a maximum of 15% to continue operations 


3. Non-Reliance on Financials / Material Weakness 
4. Recent Auditor Change 
5. Insiders appear to be converting preferred and exiting common 
6. Plenty of related party transactions - see Note 19 of the 10-K for the laundry list of deals 
7. Legal issues - The company and its executives have had numerous legal issues in the past which are also 


discussed in the 10-K 





Summary 


With LQMT, buy the rumor, sell the facts. 


The facts are that the company is virtually insolvent and has limited prospects for future liquidity. Absent another IP 
sale or licensing agreement, the company will have to dilute shareholders even further by either 1) new stock sales; 
2) get the large warrant or option holders to exercise their positions, or 3) issue a type of convertible debt. 


All of these scenarios include significant dilution which will weigh heavily on the stock price. Meanwhile the preferred 
holders can also convert and sell the stock at market, and it appears they are currently doing so. Once the latest 
hoopla over the iPhone 5 news passes, the cold reality of a nearly insolvent company will unfold. Maybe this time is 
different, and LQMT will be able pull together another blockbuster deal from a company in a different industry. The 
initial Apple deal did not preclude them from licensing the technology to companies in other industries. However, I 
remain very skeptical given the company's long track record of not producing any significant industrial applications. 
The current implied enterprise value of $125m is 6x higher than the $20m deal they got from Apple and 125x their 
2011 revenues. At the current share price, investors would be wise to think twice before purchasing shares.
