5/19/2018 Tangoe - The Misrepresented Dance - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/1043801-tangoe-the-misrepresented-dance 1/9


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


Tangoe - The
Misrepresented
Dance
Sep. 6, 2012 10:13 AM ET6 comments | Includes: BCOV, C…


Today we published a report on Tangoe (TNGO). It can be found in its entirety
at:


http://www.scribd.com/doc/105112452/Tangoe-The-Misrepresented-Dance


Below is a piece of the report. THE REPORT SHOULD BE READ IN ITS
ENTIRETY AS THE SEGMENT BELOW ONLY CONTAINS HIGHLIGHTS
AND THE APPROPRIATE REFERENCES ARE FOUND IN THE FULL
REPORT:


Last week, a blog called StreetSweeper published a thoughtful report on
Tangoe, Inc (NASDAQ: TNGO, $17.00).[i] Their expose was quite
comprehensive on the investigative side, uncovering significant red flags in the
Tangoe story. After doing a deep dive into Tangoe's financials, it is our belief
that the company has significantly misrepresented its de novo growth rate,
while demonstrating many of the telltale shenanigans and behavior that tends
to be a harbinger for blow ups. We believe that an SEC investigation may be
warranted based on our belief Tangoe publicly misrepresented its organic
growth rates, and altered material biographic information, in front of a large
secondary offering.


Despite ample opportunity to expand on the StreetSweeper's material, we will
instead focus this report on irrefutable facts that have been meticulously
gathered from SEC documents and other corporate filings. As such, this report
should be read in conjunction with the StreetSweeper report.


In response to the StreetSweeper's report, a myriad of sellside analysts have
produced reports in a matter of hours, attempting to defend Tangoe. These
analysts have argued that Tangoe's organic growth is indeed 20-25% per year,
just as management has claimed. Further, given the fact much of the sellside



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BCOV

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CNQR

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/T

http://www.scribd.com/doc/105112452/Tangoe-The-Misrepresented-Dance
5/19/2018 Tangoe - The Misrepresented Dance - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/1043801-tangoe-the-misrepresented-dance 2/9


analysis is in fact taken directly from management, many analysts went on to
note that Tangoe's management team is honest and forthcoming. Additionally,
the arguments suggested that management's prior issues at Information
Management Associates were simply an unfortunate situation related to the
dot-com bust. In the following abbreviated report, which may be expanded in
the future, we explain why we believe Tangoe's issues are much deeper than
even the StreetSweeper suggests. We will present both the "bull case" based
on quotes taken from sell-side analysts and "the reality." Based on the analysis
below, we believe any unbiased, objective analyst will conclude that Tangoe
has severely misrepresented its business model, its organic growth, as well as
management's backgrounds and IMA experience which led to the CEO and CFO
of Tangoe being accused of fraud.


This report will highlight:


1) Tangoe is a fast growth SaaS business - FALSE


We believe that Tangoe's financial profile and key business metrics are not
consistent with those of SaaS peers. Non-recurring consulting services, the
resale of telecommunication accessories, a deferred revenue balance showing
minimal growth, BPO-like gross margins that are roughly 2000 basis points
below the purported SaaS comps, and revenue per employee that is 50%
lower than its "comps" all suggest Tangoe is little more than a body shop.


2) Tangoe's organic growth rate is 20% - 25%- FALSE


Based on our analysis Tangoe has been systematically underreporting the
revenue contribution from acquisitions, which has had the effect of
misrepresenting the company's organic growth. Our analysis suggests the CFO
categorically falsified the impact from a recent acquisition on the Q2'12
earnings call, understating its impact by up to 60% compared to the figures
disclosed in their quarterly 10Q. This would mark the second time in the last
three quarters that Tangoe has provided a lower revenue contribution from
acquisitions on its calls than it ultimately discloses in SEC filings. This
effectively overstates organic growth.


3) Deferred Revenue Growth is not a Reliable Business Metric - FALSE
5/19/2018 Tangoe - The Misrepresented Dance - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/1043801-tangoe-the-misrepresented-dance 3/9


Tangoe has repeatedly claimed that changes in deferred revenues are not
indicative of its organic growth rate, which would be problematic because
deferred revenues have actually contracted over the last three quarters.
Inconsistencies between Tangoe's disclosed revenue recognition policy for
implementation fees (ratably over twice the term of the customer contract)
and a declining balance of deferred implantation fees would seem to suggest
Tangoe may not be growing organic new customers. Implementation fees,
which should grow as the company adds new customers, have grown 0% since
December 2010, the first date it reported this metric.


4) The REAL Organic Growth Rate


We are unable to reconcile CFO Martino's public statements about organic
growth. Current SEC filings combined with management's guidance at face
value, leads to an implied organic revenue growth rate that IS WELL BELOW
20%. Based on our analysis, we believe Tangoe's organic growth rate may be
almost 50% lower year-to-date than the rate many analysts have
communicated. If we assume ProfitLine's revenue is flat year-over-year (rather
than the decline management implied with their guidance) and we annualize
the revenue for ttMobiles from Q1'12, then organic growth has been closer to
ZERO year-to-date.


5) Based on 20%-25% organic growth - here would be the
conservative estimates for Q3 and Q4


We believe that with our report, sellside "estimates" will no longer matter and
Tangoe's new benchmark to demonstrate 20% growth will be based on our
analysis (which is rather straight forward). We clearly illustrate why Tangoe's
actual results will need to be $2.28M and $3.69M higher than the midpoint of
their guidance for Q3 and Q4 respectively if they are actually growing at least
20%. This assumes they do not underreport the Symphony acquisition.


6) Squeaky clean management and VC partner - FALSE


Tangoe's CEO and CFO were accused of fraud at IMA, a fact the sellside has
arrogantly ignored. Further, in their last venture at IMA, their large VC-backer
(who happens to be Tangoe's VC investor as well) aggressively sold stock after
a fictitious earnings report. Tangoe's CEO and CFO blatantly changed their bios
for the most recent secondary offering, removing the disclosures that IMA filed
for bankruptcy from the original IPO filing. In neither filing do they
5/19/2018 Tangoe - The Misrepresented Dance - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/1043801-tangoe-the-misrepresented-dance 4/9


disclose to investors that they were accused of fraud, while
"recklessly issuing quarterly financial statements which materially
overstated the Company's actual revenues and assets and materially
understated its expenses and net loss." According to public records, we
show that Tangoe was actually founded while the CEO shared duties as CEO of
IMA, and at the same time the SEC had asked his other company for
information pertaining to A/R balances, the collectability of A/R and revenue
recognition. Further, we have found inconsistencies in management bios,
including claiming to have been credited with a patent that doesn't seem to
exist (or at least that we have been able to find).


7) IMA was just another dot.com bust - FALSE


Contrary to the sellside story, IMA had multiple financial restatements,
including IMPROPER EXPENSE RECOGNITION FOR TWO ACQUISITIONS. One
particular earnings misstatement led to operating income being overstated by
257%, which led to a 200%+ increases in the stock in a mere 10 days, which
was followed by aggressive insider sales. Additionally, IMA raised capital for a
subsidiary called Buyingedge (which Subbloie claims he founded) at a time
IMA had falsified public earnings statements that were later restated. Further,
IMA fired Arthur Andersen (who took issue with the Company's bad debt
reserve) and subsequently fired PwC a mere 172 days after engaging them.
PwC "had identified certain transactions where the underlying documentation
raises questions regarding the revenue recognition accounting afforded to the
transactions." Amazingly, many of the same players are deeply entrenched in
the Tangoe story, including its primary VC investor, CEO, and CFO.


8) Tangoe throws off a lot of operating cash - MISLEADING


Tangoe strangely spends 87% less on capital expenditures (including
capitalized software) than a broad set of its desired SaaS peers. More troubling
is the potentially artificial benefit acquisitions have had on the already
insignificant cash flow. Based on our analysis, we believe Tangoe may be
acquiring balance sheets with positive working capital, which may create a
"one-time recurring" benefit to cash flow from operations (the acquisitions are
deducted from cash flow from investing which is ignored by sellside analysts in
their free cash flow calculations). Our analysis suggest that excluding the
5/19/2018 Tangoe - The Misrepresented Dance - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/1043801-tangoe-the-misrepresented-dance 5/9


potential forward working capital benefit, Tangoe's trailing 12 month operating
cash flows would have been 38% lower than the measures the Company has
reported.


9) Sellside analysts really believe - Paint us skeptical


The Tangoe story is a bank's best friend because the one thing that all roll-ups
require is capital. Tangoe has already raised $104.7 million through two public
offerings in a little over a year, which may help explain the blind justification
from Wall Street for asinine price targets and ignominious analysis. We believe
Tangoe's cash that is effectively "unrestricted" is closer to $17 million,
compared to the $78.4 million that was reported on 6/30/12.


10) How to Value Tangoe


Tangoe's "stellar profitability" (according to management and analysts) would
suggest that it should be valued based on some metric of profitability. Using
both forward EBITDA and EPS, as well as affording Tangoe a generous 20%
premium to what we believe are the appropriate peers, yields a price target
between $6.47 and $9.60 per share, representing down side of 44% to 62%.


1. www.thestreetsweeper.org/undersurveillan....html


Disclosure: I am short TNGO.


Additional disclosure: IMPORTANT Disclaimer – You should do your own
research and due diligence before making any investment decision with
respect to securities covered herein. As of the publication date, the author of
this report has a short position in the company covered herein and stands to
realize gains in the event that the price of the stock declines. The author does
not discuss unpublished reports, or provide any advanced warning of future
reports to others. Following publication of this report, the author may transact
in the securities of the company, and may be long, short, or neutral at any
time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. To the best of our ability and
belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been
obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable. However,
such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether
express or implied. The author of this report makes no representations,
express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All



http://www.thestreetsweeper.org/undersurveillance_archive

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TNGO
5/19/2018 Tangoe - The Misrepresented Dance - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/1043801-tangoe-the-misrepresented-dance 6/9


