5/18/2018 China Green Agriculture Fails to Answer Questions Raised by IFRA - China Green Agriculture, Inc. (NYSE:CGA) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/223746-china-green-agriculture-fails-to-answer-questions-raised-by-ifra 1/6


China Green Agriculture Fails to Answer Questions Raised by IFRA
Sep. 3, 2010 8:20 AM ET9 comments
by: Alfred Little


Wednesday after the close China Green Agriculture (NYSE: CGA) reported its fiscal fourth
quarter and annual results followed by a conference call discussion with the analysts
following the company. Notably absent from the call was anyone asking tough questions
or demanding management provide a detailed response to the due diligence findings of
the International Financial Research & Analysis Group (IFRA) that I summarized and
linked to earlier this week.


Yesterday my friend uploaded a copy of IFRA’s latest update. You can download a copy
for yourself here.


Here are the key updates from the report along with my comments:


A) VAT:


According to SAT records, from July 2008 through April 2010 Jinong paid VAT of
only 469,000 RMB (about $67,971). This small amount is completely inconsistent
with the large amounts reported on CGA’s balance sheet each quarter as shown
above. The difference is nearly $15 million (assuming each quarter ending balance
payable was in fact paid according to the regulation, which only gives companies 30
days to pay before serious penalties are applied). We have repeatedly asked CGA
management to provide an accounting of this huge shortfall. Where did these funds
go? To date management has refused to respond other than stating on their
conference call that the records we obtained were “incomplete”.


Comment: Obviously a huge discrepancy and even though going forward this is no longer
an issue, management needs to account for $15M in historical taxes they claim they paid
that cannot be verified by government records. 


B) Greenhouse Land Purchase:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CGA

http://cid-55c2ddf5e323b488.office.live.com/browse.aspx/CGA%20files
5/18/2018 China Green Agriculture Fails to Answer Questions Raised by IFRA - China Green Agriculture, Inc. (NYSE:CGA) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/223746-china-green-agriculture-fails-to-answer-questions-raised-by-ifra 2/6


Yesterday, CEO Tao Li claimed on the conference call that the evidence we collected
regarding the greenhouse land purchase was, similar to the tax records,
“incomplete”. He asserted that in addition to our well-documented costs there was
another 54.8 million RMB land use rights transfer payment to an undisclosed SOE.
Tao Li did not offer any proof of this payment nor do we think any valid proof exists.
From a review of the extensive evidence and PRC law:


1. It is clearly stated in the land use right transfer agreement that CGA subsidiary
Yuxing (Yuxing) acquired the land use right from Hu County government's Land and
Resource Bureau. There is no possibility of payment made to a 3rd party. The
agreement is titled "State-Owned Land Use Right Transfer Agreement" and it clearly
stated the seller is the Land and Resource Bureau of Hu County, Xi'an, Shaanxi.
In the Notice of Approval of the Land Use Right Sale issued by Hu County People's
Government, file number - Notice #16 (2009), it is clearly stated that, on April 3rd
2009, the local government had already taken back the ownership of the Land Use
Right that was subsequently sold to Yuxing. The document also indicated the land
use right was granted to Yuxing by the Hu County government according to the 26th
and 60th meeting by its standing committee. There clearly was no 3  party involved
in this transaction.


2. The same notice clearly pointed out the specified usage of the land is for
agriculture. Agricultural use land is much lower price than industrial use land. In fact
the “comparable” prices quoted by CGA management on the conference call were
for land sold for industrial purposes, a much higher cost use. We are preparing a
table of real comparable sales and will circulate in a subsequent update.


3. The designated receipts issued for the payment in the sale each indicate the
seller is the government, not the farm that previously owned the land.


4. Calculation of the Deed Tax does not support management’s inflated claim
because regardless of whether the land use right was purchased from a 3rd party or
the government, deed taxes are required to be calculated and paid based on total
sale price. In this case, the deed tax receipt and proof of completion from the Land
and Resource Bureau shows the 3% deed tax is applied only to the RMB17.35M
recorded purchase price not the RMB73.2M inflated purchase price claimed by CGA
management.


rd
5/18/2018 China Green Agriculture Fails to Answer Questions Raised by IFRA - China Green Agriculture, Inc. (NYSE:CGA) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/223746-china-green-agriculture-fails-to-answer-questions-raised-by-ifra 3/6


5. Finally, the sale price of the land use right was the result of an appraisal by a 3rd
party appraisal firm and approved by the Land and Resource Bureau. In the official
Confirmation Report of Land Appraisal issued by the Land and Resource Bureau
(confirmation file #14 dated August 5, 2009), the bureau acknowledged the
appraised value of RMB17.33M properly reflects the real value of the land. 


In this case, the overwhelming evidence strongly contradicts CGA’s disclosed
purchase price. The difference of $8,181,372 (over 4X) cannot be account for. CGA
management has still not provided any valid explanation or proof otherwise. And
seriously, who has ever paid over $120,000 per acre for undeveloped farmland?
Where did the money really go?


Comment: My farming friends say they would feel they’d hit the jackpot if they could sell
their farmland for $120,000 per acre! Even 1/4 of that is still an incredibly high price in
most parts of the developed world. 


C) Large Sales and Net Income Discrepancies:


On yesterday’s conference call, CEO Tao Li and CFO Ken Ren asserted that the
amounts reported to the SEC are correct and that all the SAIC records are
“incomplete”. This combined with all the other claims by management that their PRC
records are supposedly “incomplete” is nonsense. We remind investors that
management signed off on all these records and has yet to offer any additional
records to supplement those we collected from reliable sources. We clearly do not
believe such records exist, though management might certainly be trying to create
some right now in response to our repeated challenges.


Comment: Agreed. CEO Tao Li signed both sets of documents and needs to provide a
detailed reconciliation, if possible.


D) Insane valuation paid for Beijing Gufeng:
5/18/2018 China Green Agriculture Fails to Answer Questions Raised by IFRA - China Green Agriculture, Inc. (NYSE:CGA) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/223746-china-green-agriculture-fails-to-answer-questions-raised-by-ifra 4/6


