to realize significant gains in the event that the price of the stock declines.  Please refer to our full disclaimer on the last page of this 


 them eat cake”                                                    - Marie Antoinette (attributed)


|COMPANY: SOUFUN HOLDINGS LIMITED
INDUSTRY:  Online Real Estate


NYSE: SFUN


“Let


RESEARCH GROUP
GLAUCUS 
格 勞 克 斯 研 究


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at 
your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to the 
securities covered herein. This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such.  We are short SFUN and therefore stand 


report.  


ANOTHER UNDISCLOSED RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION (NYSE: SFUN)


On April 16, 2013, we released a follow-up report on SouFun Holdings Limited (“SouFun” or the “Company”), available here.  In this, our third 


report, we present new evidence of yet another undisclosed related party transaction between SouFun and Chairman Vincent Tianquan Mo


(“Chairman Mo”), this time involving Shun Cheong Holdings Limited ("Shun Cheong") (HK: 0650), the Hong Kong listed company majority owned 
by Chairman Mo and his wife.  


I. The Missing Link.  According to Shun Cheong’s public filings, Beijing Pukai Shijie Investment Consultancy Company ("MoCo"), an 
entity 80% beneficially owned by Chairman Mo, provided consulting services to SouFun in 2011.  SouFun failed to disclose this related 


party transaction to investors, which we believe is a clear violation of SEC rules. 


a. Consultancy Services to 72 Wall St.  According to the public filing, which is dated December 14, 2011, MoCo "provided 


consultancy service to the existing owner during the acquisition of 72 Wall St."  SouFun completed the purchase of 72 Wall Street by 
October 2011, just months before these “consultancy services” were disclosed to the shareholders of Shun Cheong.  While the amount 


that SouFun paid MoCo for ‘consulting services’ is not disclosed, no-one works for free so it is not a stretch to presume that SouFun 
paid MoCo for participating in the project.  There is no mention of MoCo or the consulting services it supposedly provided to the 


Company in SouFun's 2011 20-F, making this, in our opinion, an undisclosed related party transaction.


b. Training Center, Mansion, or Hotel?  In SouFun’s December 2010 SEC filing announcing the purchase of 72 Wall Street, it is 


clearly stated to shareholders that SouFun’s intention is to use the property for “training purposes.”  In fact, in SEC filings since 
December 2010, the Company reiterates that the property is to be used for training.  However, according to the Shun Cheong filing in 


December 2011, MoCo “evaluated the possible options for subsequent redevelopment or conversion of 72 Wall Street Mansion, 
into training center or hotels.” The filing goes on to state that "the concrete plan for said conversion has not yet been finalized


and is subject to further evaluation by [SouFun]."  SouFun tells its investors that it bought 72 Wall Street for training.  Shun Cheong, 
Chairman Mo’s other company, tells investors that SouFun was deciding whether to leave 72 Wall Street as a training facility or 


convert it to a hotel.  Both cannot be true.


c. The Big Picture.  In our initial report, we expressed skepticism as to why a capital-light Internet business had recently "accumulated 


nearly $200 million in high-priced real estate across the globe, supposedly to serve as 'training' facilities." Now we have the common 
thread: the Sanya property ($14 million), the newly purchased Shanghai Bao'An complex ($127 million), and 72 Wall St. ($61 


million) are either already hotels or, in the case of 72 Wall Street, have been recently evaluated for conversion into a hotel.  


According to the Shun Cheong filing, MoCo is "mainly engaged in hotel investments, investing management, consultancy, securities 
investments and business services."  MoCo is also connected via a JV to one of the Chairman's hotel management websites. Chairman 


Mo’s hotel business makes us suspicious of SouFun’s acquisitions of hotel properties.  Is SouFun buying hotel properties and 


properties which it could convert into hotels for the benefit of MoCo?  Has the Company paid MoCo for hotel management or 
consultancy services in connection with the acquisitions of the Sanya property or Shanghai Bao’An complex?  



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2013/04/GlaucusResearch-SouFun_Follow_Up-SFUN-Strong_Sell-April_16_2013.pdf

http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2011/1214/LTN20111214400.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1294404/000095012310116334/h04713exv99w1.htm

http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2011/1214/LTN20111214400.pdf

http://www.whartonhotel.com/english/jdjs02.htm
www.glaucusresearch.comSOUFUN HOLDINGS LIMITED | NYSE: SFUN


2


II. What Happens in Sanya, Should Not Stay in Sanya.  In our April 16
th


follow-up report, we presented smoking-gun evidence which, we 
believe, showed that Chairman Mo orchestrated a series of undisclosed related party transactions to siphon $14 million out of the Company


in connection with SouFun’s acquisition of hotel rooms in Sanya (“Sanya”); and in the process violated US and Hong Kong securities laws. 
SouFun's response was evasive and contradictory.  


a. Glaucus Was Right.  SouFun admitted that Chairman Mo and CEO Richard Dai were the previous owners of the Sanya Property 


SPV from which SouFun purchased the Sanya Property, but pleaded to the market that “all [such transactions] have been 
disclosed.”  We found this curious, because SouFun had most certainly not disclosed to investors that SouFun’s Chairman and CEO 


sold the special purpose vehicle which owned the Sanya property, Beijing Hengxinjahua, to Chairman Mo’s university buddy (Deng 


Wei) three months before the transaction.


b. SEC Correspondence Revealed.  This week SouFun admitted that it in “our response to SEC staff comments on our 2011 20-F in 
November 2012, we provided the … clarification of our Hainan Sanya property transaction.”   To our knowledge, SouFun has never 


disclosed to the market that the SEC inquired about Sanya property purchase.  Simply put, neither Glaucus nor, to our knowledge, 
any other public investor was ever aware before last week (4/16/2013) of any such correspondence with the SEC.  We believe 


that in the interest of transparency, SouFun should disclose any and all inquiries or correspondence from the SEC.


c. Liquidity Crisis Seems Unlikely.  SouFun claims that it loaned $15 million to Deng Wei to enable him to buy the Sanya Properties, 


immediately after which, Deng Wei experienced "liquidity issues and as a result was unable to repay the Company's loan." We find
nothing credible about this explanation.  Deng Wei is the president of Century Bridge Capital, so it is safe to assume that he is 


financially sophisticated, making it unlikely that he was dumb enough to borrow $15 million to buy a property only to teeter on the 
edge of insolvency three months later.  Moreover, if he was such a credit risk, why is SouFun lending him $15 million only to see him 


default in less than 3 months?  


Ultimately, investors can choose between two competing explanations with respect to the Sanya Transaction:


1. SouFun’s explanation is that it just happened to loan $15 million to Chairman Mo’s university buddy who, coincidentally, just 


happened to buy a holding Company from Chairman Mo and CEO Richard Dai.  That university buddy then just happened to 
use that same holding company to buy hotel rooms, Chairman Mo's specialty. And, as luck would have it, immediately after all these 


coincidental transactions, the university buddy runs out of cash, and, what do you know, his BEST OPTION was to sell that same 
property to none other than to SouFun at, of course, a below market price, which just happened to be valued at almost the exact 


amount of the original loan.


2. Isn’t the more likely explanation (and the one that we believe) that the plan all along was for SouFun to front Deng Wei the money to 


buy the Sanya properties from Chairman Mo and CEO Richard Dai and then to have SouFun buy the properties from Deng Wei, 
effectively allowing SouFun to purchase the hotel rooms from the Chairman and CEO without disclosing to shareholders their interest 


in the transaction?  


If you buy the Company’s explanation, please contact us because we have some ocean front property in Arizona to sell you.  If you buy that, we’ll 
throw the Golden Gate Bridge in for free.  


III. Release SEC Correspondence.  We reiterate our call on SouFun to make public any and all previously undisclosed SEC correspondence 
and questions from the SEC.  If the Company has done nothing wrong, this should not be a problem.  Investors, long or short, deserve to 


know.  


 



http://www.centurybridge.com/team_wei_deng.php

http://www.xtranormal.com/watch/14365824/it-is-so-fun-to-scheme

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2013/04/GlaucusResearch-SouFun_Follow_Up-SFUN-Strong_Sell-April_16_2013.pdf
www.glaucusresearch.comSOUFUN HOLDINGS LIMITED | NYSE: SFUN


3


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is SouFun. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If you are invested 
(either long or short) in SouFun, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like everyone else, are entitled to our 
opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of SouFun stock declines. This report and all statements 
contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of fact. You can publicly access any piece of 
evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making any 
investment decision. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law.


As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability compa ny) (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or indirect short position 
in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of SouFun’s 
stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before 
making any investment decision with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor 
should they be construed as investment advice.


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any 
time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be 
offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our 
ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and 
reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of 
confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind–whether express or implied. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, LLC research and 
materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value trust) falling within Article 49 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial 
institution, government or local authority, or international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Glaucus 
Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By 
downloading and opening this report you knowingly and independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the 
material herein shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal 
and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, 
given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates exclusively in California; and (iii) that 
regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this websi te or the material herein must 
be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to 
exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is 
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' 
intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this 
governing law and jurisdiction provision.


Disclaimer
