Release Date: July 2, 2012 


Qihoo 360 


When a Nigerian Prince files for IPO 


Ticker:      QIHU:NYSE 


Recent Price:    US$17.29 


Market Cap:     US$2 billion 





Target Price:        US$32.50 


Implied Return:    88.0% 








Delisting 





You should have expected us 
 


anonanalytics@neomailbox.net 
www.anonanalytics.com
1 
 


 
 
Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital. Any forecasts or estimates 
are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or 
gain. Any information contained in this report may include forward-looking statements, expectations, 
and projections. You should assume these type of statements, expectations, and projections may turn 
out to be incorrect.  
 
All facts, figures, and opinions are as at the last practicable date. This document has been prepared for 
informational purposes only. This document is not an offer, or the solicitation of an offer, to buy or sell a 
security or enter into any other agreement. However, if you do decide to buy shares of Qihoo, maybe 
you should consider parental locks on your trading account. 
 
We have made every effort to ensure that all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and 
has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders 
or connected person of the stock or company covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary 
duty to the issuer. However, we do not represent that it is accurate or complete and should not be 
relied on as such. Anonymous Analytics is not a registered investment advisor. 
 
Do not assume that any company mentioned herein has reviewed our report prior to its publication. We 
make no representation or warranty, expressed or implied, in respect to the information contained in 
this report and accept no liability whatsoever for any loss or damage arising from any distribution or 
reliance on this report or its contents.  
 
We are not short sellers. Anonymous Analytics holds no direct or indirect interest or position in any of 
the securities profiled in this report. However, you should assume that certain contributors to this 
report, as well as their members, partners, affiliates, colleagues, employees, consultants, clients and 
investors, as well as our clients have a short position in the stock of Qihoo 360 (QIHU:NYSE, “Qihoo” or 
the “Company”) and/or options of the stock, and therefore stand to gain substantially in the event that 
the price of the stock declines. You should further assume that following the distribution of this report, 
the aforementioned individuals and entities may continue transacting in the securities covered therein, 
and may be long, short or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of this report’s initial 
recommendation. 
 
We waive our right to copyright protection laws as they pertain to redistribution. Accordingly, any part 
of this report may be reproduced – in context – without our consent. For the sake of congruency and 
brevity, the terms “We”, “Us”, and “Our” may refer to our associates and consultants from this point 
forward. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Disclaimer
2 
 


 
 
A few years ago, the global Anonymous collective made headlines by hacking into corporate and 
government servers. Morals and ethics aside, most within the collective saw this practice as a sort of 
sport, a way to pit their technical skills against what were supposed to be the best IT departments the 
world had to offer – those belonging to state governments and multinational corporations.  
 
As the wins and losses piled up on both sides, attacking servers and websites became cliché, if not 
outright boring. Some within the collective sought other, more interesting challenges. With this 
background, a cluster of us from Anonymous decided to enter the financial markets. 
 
Anonymous Analytics was established less than a year ago with the aim of using our skills to flush out 
corruption in the corporate world. We started with China not because Chinese companies are engaged 
in more fraud than Western companies, but because they are less apt at covering their tracks. China is 
new to capitalism, and Chinese managers are new to stealing money from the capital markets. But give 
them a few more years and they will learn how to hide their improprieties just as well as their Western 
counterparts. After all, China’s specialty isn’t manufacturing – it’s copying. 
 
It’s this inexperience that has made exposing Chinese companies so common. But just like hacking 
websites, exposing Chinese frauds has become cliché, if not outright boring.  Accordingly, we have 
turned our attention to several Western companies that may be surprised to find themselves in our 
crosshairs. We expect to release our first such report by year-end. 
 
In the interim, there is still more work to be done in China. This report is an example of that. This report 
isn’t very long because it doesn’t need to be. The proof of fraud is simple and took a single phone call to 
obtain.  
 
It wasn’t our intention to report on another Chinese company so soon, but sometimes finding smoking 
gun proof of fraud is too easy. Sometimes, management leaves the evidence in plain sight. Sometimes, 
all it takes to delist a multi-billion dollar company is a right-click of the mouse. 
 
 
 
 


Love us. Hate us. Anonymous. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





Introduction
3 
 


 
 
Qihoo 360 is an internet company that was brought public on the New York Stock Exchange in 2011. 
Reporting quarter after quarter of explosive growth that consistently beats analyst estimates, Qihoo has 
been heralded as the next great internet company on par with Baidu. Morgan Stanley went as far as to 
call it “a trusted online partner” when it initiated coverage with ‘Overweight’ two months ago. 
 
Perhaps that should have been the first clue to question the glowing ‘buy’ recommendations that 12 of 
13 analysts have on the stock. Ironically, the Company is so poorly regarded by its Chinese peers that 
several major internet firms, including Tencent and Baidu, have publically refused to conduct business 
with Qihoo. Moreover, Qihoo’s CEO, Mr. Hongyi Zhou is infamously credited with having introduced 
malware to China.


1
 


 
Analyst fanfare is understandable, if not naïve. Qihoo’s massive web traffic is supposed to be one of the 
largest in China. Once the Company manages to effectively monetize this traffic, the sky is the limit – or 
at least that’s the story management has sold to investors. 
 
It’s a good story. The only problem is that Qihoo’s massive traffic volume is a lie – and we have proof. 
 
Several months ago, our team discovered a piece of code embedded in Qihoo’s directory page. This 
code was voluntarily placed by the Company so that comScore, an independent third-party auditor, 
could accurately measure the true traffic volume to the site.  
 
We waited patiently – with hopes that management would release the results of the traffic data to 
corroborate Qihoo’s claims of massive traffic activity. They never did. In fact, two weeks ago, the code 
that allowed comScore to measure the traffic volume was quietly removed – as if the whole thing had 
never happened. 
 
As a result, we mobilized our team and acquired the comScore data ourselves.  
 
As detailed in this report, management chose to keep the data secret because it shows irrefutably that 
Qihoo’s directory page gets significantly less traffic than management has led the capital markets to 
believe. All that massive traffic volume that was supposed to transform Qihoo into an internet marvel 
doesn’t exist.  
 
Qihoo was supposed to be the next great internet company. It turns out that it’s just another fraud. 
 
We have reason to believe that the SEC already has Qihoo on its radar. Given the information presented 
in this report, along with other issues that we have omitted, we believe that Qihoo will be delisted from 
the NYSE and management charged with securities fraud. 
 
 
 


                                                           
1
 Malware and computer viruses are incredibly prevalent in China. To be widely acknowledged as the man 


responsible for this a new level of infamy. 


Executive Summary
4 
 


 
 
Qihoo 360 is a Chinese internet company that was brought public in 2011 on the New York Stock 
Exchange by UBS and Citigroup. Evidence suggests that these two investment banks have no analysts 
with any internet or IT knowledge, because shortly after its debut, Qihoo was the target of multiple 
articles questioning its accounts which defy any semblance of reality. 
 
But Qihoo and its Chairman and CEO are no strangers to controversy, with both sharing a sordid history. 
For context and to truly appreciate the magnitude of swindling we’re dealing with here, we provide a 
summary of some of the more colorful issues surrounding Qihoo and its Chairman/ CEO, Mr. Hongyi 
Zhou, a man infamously known in China as “the Father of Malware.”


2
 


 
 
Early 2000s – Origins of Mr. Hongyi Zhou 
 
The Event: Mr. Zhou first appeared on the internet scene in the early 2000s with a website called 
3721.com. For the sake of brevity, 3721.com was effectively a search engine. 
 
What Happened Next: Mr. Zhou was sued for defamation by the CNNIC (China Internet Network 
Information Center), an entity under China’s Ministry of Information. The CNIIC suit was successful and 
Mr. Zhou was ordered to pay restitution and issue a public apology. Perhaps, more relevant to investors 
than the outcome of the case, is what was uncovered about Mr. Zhou and his company during the 
discovery process: 
 


(i) Mr. Zhou falsely advertised that 3721.com had attracted investments from various 
prominent venture capital firms. As an example, Mr. Zhou claimed that Japan’s JAFCO 
had invested US$10 million into 3721.com. However, filings showed that there were no 
external investors, and the company was 100% owned by Mr. Zhou and his wife alone.


3
  


 
(ii) On October, 2001, Mr. Zhou claimed that 3721.com was China’s first profitable internet 


company. 3721.com’s homepage went as far as to state that “monthly income keeps 
growing at 20%.” However, records obtained from China’s Ministry of Commerce 
showed that 3721.com had negative equity. A representative from CNNIC stated that 
there were only two possible explanations – either 3721.com was fabricating its 
numbers, or Mr. Zhou was lying to the Ministry of Commerce.


4
 





                                                           
2
 http://web2.commongate.com/post/China_Malware_War_Gets_Personal 


3
 http://www.eweb.cn/news/newsshow.php?Id=63 


4
 http://www.eweb.cn/news/newsshow.php?Id=63 


History 



http://web2.commongate.com/post/China_Malware_War_Gets_Personal

http://www.eweb.cn/news/newsshow.php?Id=63

http://www.eweb.cn/news/newsshow.php?Id=63
5 
 


November, 2003 – Yahoo! acquires 3721.com 
 
The Event: Following a messy lawsuit with the Chinese government, Mr. Zhou promptly sold 3721.com 
to Yahoo for $120 million. As part of the acquisition, 3721.com was renamed Yahoo! China, and Mr. 
Zhou was appointed CEO with compensation tied to the division’s financial performance. 
 
What Happened Next: Within a year, Mr. Zhou was fired from Yahoo! China. Yahoo quickly discovered 
that 3721.com installed itself on client computers and redirected search results. This was widely 
deemed as malware by the industry, which forced Yahoo to scrap the project. 
 
Our sources tell us that during this time, Yahoo also discovered that Mr. Zhou was falsifying the financial 
results of his division in order to boost his compensation. In 2006, Yahoo! China filed a suit claiming that 
“Zhou has embezzled from Yahoo China and defrauded it.”


5
 This suit was later won by Yahoo, and Mr. 


Zhou was ordered to pay restitution and publically apologize.
6
 


 
 
August, 2006 – Mr. Zhou assumes his role as Qihoo’s CEO and Chairman 
 
Mr. Zhou was appointed CEO and Chairman of Qihoo after being fired from Yahoo! China. Building on his 
history of deceptive business practices, Mr. Zhou found himself and Qihoo in various lawsuits brought 
on by some of China’s biggest internet companies, including Tencent, Kingsoft, and Baidu. All these 
lawsuits involved charges of deceptive and/or illegal business practices by Qihoo, and in each case the 
courts ordered Qihoo to issue a public apology and pay restitution. 
 
Qihoo has aliented so many industry players with its business practices that Tencent, Kingsoft, Baidu, 
Maxthon, and Keniu posted a joint statement accusing Qihoo of unfair competition and announced in a 
press conference that their software and services would be configured to become non-compatible with 
Qihoo’s applications.


7
 Yahoo founder Jerry Yang took it one step further and advised potential investors 


in the US not to trust his “old acquaintance” from China. Perhaps that is why Mr. Zhou had difficulty 
rounding up supporters during a Hong Kong trip to discuss Qihoo’s IPO.


8
 


 
  
February, 2012 – Apple bans Qihoo Apps  
 
Earlier this year, Apple temporarily banned all iOS apps by Qihoo. These apps were removed because of 
abnormal user ratings. It was found that the App Store rankings had been manipulated to promote 
Qihoo apps.


9
 The relevance of this event will become apparent by the end of this report. 


 
Qihoo’s CEO is effectively a real life internet troll with a background that defies belief. He has  
been credited for introducing computer viruses into China. He has alienated industry  
peers. He has been to court more times than is sensible. And now he’s running a multi-billion  
dollar NYSE listed fraud. If Mr. Zhou didn’t exist, would it be possible to invent such a character?   


                                                           
5
 http://archive.webpronews.com//topnews/topnews/wpn-60-20061103YahooChinaWagesWarOnQihoo.html 


6
 http://www.iresearchchina.com/views/2862.html 


7
 http://wenku.baidu.com/view/d3a6c483bceb19e8b8f6ba73.html 


8
 http://www.wantchinatimes.com/news-subclass-cnt.aspx?id=20101222000107&cid=1102 


9
 http://www.china.org.cn/business/2012-02/07/content_24575087.htm
6 
 


 
 
Qihoo has a very straightforward and easy to understand business model. Qihoo is best known for its 
Qihoo 360 browser and anti-virus software products, both which are popular in China. Despite the 
prominence of these products, the Company makes no money from them. Browsers do not generate 
any revenue as anyone who remembers Netscape Navigator will attest to. Likewise, it is impossible to 
charge for software products in China, which has the highest piracy rate in the world. This makes the 
prospect of selling anti-virus programs so challenging that most (including Qihoo’s own anti-virus) are 
free to download. 
 
Instead, Qihoo leverages its browser and anti-virus user base to generate revenue from (i) online 
advertising and (ii) web-based games. As presented in Exhibit 1, the Company generates all of its 
revenue from these two sources. 
 
            Exhibit 1 
                  Revenue Source, 2011 
            (in millions of US$) 


 
              Source: Company filings 
 
Online advertising sales come primarily from selling link space to advertisers on Qihoo’s directory page, 
hao.360.cn. Web-based gaming revenue comes predominantly from browser-based subscription games 
or in-game virtual item sales. 
 
Based on our analysis, we are absolutely confident that management is wildly exaggerating earnings 
from both these segments. Listening to Qihoo proclaim that their shitty web-games earn vastly more per 
paying player than World of Warcraft while analysts nod in acceptance is an unbearable exercise


10
. In 


any case, this report will focus solely on the online advertising segment, as it generates the vast majority 
of Qihoo’s company-wide revenue. 


 
“Dear Friend, I have an urgent business proposal for you.” 


         
-Prince Okoye of Nigeria 


                                                           
10


 World of Warcraft play-time costs about $10 per month per player in China. Qihoo claims its games earn US$60 
per month per paying player. The average salary in China is US$300 a month. Whatever. 


0


20


40


60


80


100


120


140


Online advertising Web-based games Other services


Qihoo’s Business Model
7 
 


 
 
Qihoo’s primary revenue generator is its directory page, hao.360.cn. Exhibit 2 presents a screenshot of 
this page. 
 
Exhibit 2 
hao.360.cn 





Online Advertising
8 
 


As unintuitive as it may seem, this simple directory site purportedly generates the majority of Qihoo’s 
advertising revenue, which in 2011 amounted to a reported US$123 million, up over 200% from US$39 
million in 2010. Site revenues are generated two ways, Direct Links and Google Search Queries: 
 
 
 
Google Search Queries – hao.360.cn uses the Google search engine to conduct search queries. Google 
pays Qihoo a pre-determined fee for each search query originating from the site. This relationship is by 
no means unique as Google has this type of agreement with legions of sites and applications. Anyone 
can create a site and code in the Google search component and start collecting payments from Google. 
Despite this non-relationship, Qihoo refers to Google 42 times in its 2011 annual report and 48 times in 
its IPO prospectus.  


 
It should be noted that any sensible Chinese internet company would use Baidu as its third party search 
engine. However, as we mentioned in the ‘History’ section of this report, Qihoo has alienated most of its 
peers in the Chinese internet space, including Baidu, so it’s forced to use Google – a company that no 
longer even operates in China.  


 
In any case, only a fraction of online revenue comes from Google. The vast majority of company-wide 
revenue is earned from selling link space on hao.360.cn. 
 
 
 
Direct Links – Direct link sales on the hao.360.cn page represent the bulk of revenue for Qihoo. We are 
somewhat surprised that a company valued at over US$2 billion can survive mainly by selling links on a 
directory site. We know of no other internet company that earns material revenue in this way, as there 
are countless directory sites on the internet, and even more that have long gone out of business. As a 
prominent example, Baidu operates its own directory page, but earnings are so negligible that Baidu 
doesn’t bother to report the segment separately.  
 
Exhibit 3 shows a side by side comparison of hao123.com (owned by Baidu), and hao.360.cn (owned by 
Qihoo).
9 
 


 Exhibit 3 
 hao123.com (owned by Baidu)                     hao.360.cn (owned by Qihoo)  


       
 
 
 
 
Qihoo states that on average it can charge approximately RMB320,000 to RMB350,000 (~US$50,000) 
per month, per link on its directory page. In some cases, Qihoo claims it can charge up to RMB1 million 
(~US$156,000) per month per link in its “Famous Sites” section.


11
  


 
These figures may seem like exorbitant monthly sums to charge clients to simply place a link on a 
crowded directory page – and they are. As we previously mentioned, we know of no other company, 
public or otherwise, that has generated material revenue by selling links on a directory page, much less 
created a sustainable business from this model.  
 
So, how does Qihoo justify its claims of charging small fortunes for link space? 
 
 
 
 
 


                                                           
11


 http://ir.360.cn/phoenix.zhtml?c=243376&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1636619&highlight= 



http://ir.360.cn/phoenix.zhtml?c=243376&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1636619&highlight=
10 
 


Apparently the answer has to do with Qihoo’s expansive user base and audience reach. You see, the 
underlying driver of all advertising pricing – online or otherwise – has to do with audience exposure. 
 
On its Q4 2012 conference call, management states: 
 
 


“I think we are right now we’re probably closer or near what the hao123 is pricing on the 
per link basis… the traffic on our Personalized Start-Up Page already surpassed hao123 a 
while ago and today we believe we have at least 20% plus kind of a traffic advantage 
over hao123. So in other words, the – from a price performance perspective, we have 
about 25% advantage over hao123.” 


 
 
 
Qihoo claims that its directory page gets 20% more traffic than even Baidu’s directory page. And so it 
appears, huge traffic flow is the reason Qihoo can charge absurd sums for its link space. This is also the 
reason Qihoo has apparently succeeded in establishing a multi-billion dollar enterprise based on a 
business model no other company in the world has been able to effectively monetize. 
 
It turns out that Qihoo’s traffic volume is the primary driver of its great fortunes.  
 
It turns out that Qihoo’s traffic volume is the reason the Company has reported revenue growth of 200% 
per year in the last three years – a stratospheric growth rate unmatched in the industry and void of all 
logic. 
 
It turns out that Qihoo’s traffic volume is the reason that as of this writing, 12 of 13 analysts had buy 
recommendations on Qihoo. 
 
But, what if it turns out that Qihoo’s purported traffic volume is a complete lie? What if hao.360.cn has 
only a fraction of the traffic that Qihoo claims? 
 
The reality is that Qihoo is an internet company whose primary prospect is a delisting. We have 
uncovered smoking gun evidence that Qihoo is grotesquely exaggerating its traffic volume, and in the 
process committed securities fraud.  
 
 
 
 


“Jerry, just remember, it’s not a lie if you believe it.” 
 


       -George Costanza, Seinfeld
11 
 


 
 
We have been monitoring hao.360.cn since last year when questions involving Qihoo finances first 
appeared. At the beginning of this year something happened – we noticed a change in the website’s 
source code. The change was small and barely noticeable, but crucial: a comScore tag was added to 
Qihoo’s HTML code. Exhibit 4 presents a screenshot of this tag, which is highlighted by the red box. 
 


Exhibit 4 





Secrets Hidden in Plain Sight
12 
 


What is comScore? 
 
To understand the significance of this discovery, it helps to understand what comScore is. ComScore is 
the premier independent third party verifier of internet traffic statistics. It is used by a multitude of 
major corporations, including Financial Times, AOL, Microsoft, Yahoo, and Baidu. Third party verifiers 
such as comScore are often used by these organizations to corroborate traffic volume for potential 
advertising clients. As would be expected, most prospective advertisers require independent verification 
of traffic data instead of just taking the word of the company they are considering for advertising. 
 
For its part, comScore gathers traffic data using two primary sources: either an internet panel or a tag. 
 
Internet Panel:  A panel is a piece of plug-in software that is embedded in a browser. This software 
records a user’s browsing habits and sends the information back to comScore’s servers. According to 
comScore, around 2 million users in 170 countries have volunteered to install the comScore panel. 
However, given its nature, data gathered from internet panels is susceptible to sampling error. 
 
Tag: A tag is a script voluntarily embedded into a webpage’s source code. Because it is hardcoded 
directly into the site, traffic data gathered by this method is highly accurate. It is not susceptible to 
sampling error, and it is not affected by any form of anti-virus software. ComScore goes as far as to state 
that the tag “account*s+ for 100 percent of a site’s audience”. Due to its accuracy, many companies 
voluntarily place the tag on their site. Exhibit 5 shows Yahoo.com’s source code which contains the 
comScore tag as an example. 
 


Exhibit 5
13 
 


When we became aware of the comScore tag on hao.360.cn, we were intrigued enough to pay attention 
to it, but not enough to pursue the matter. That all changed two weeks ago. 
 
You see, after months of the comScore tag quietly laying active on hao.360.cn, it was just as quietly 
removed on or around June 20, 2012. If you examine hao.360.cn’s source code today, you will no longer 
find the tag. But that’s okay. We had the foresight to mirror the webpage and its source code using 
FreezePage.  
 
Note: Freezepage (www.freezepage.com) is an independent service that copies a website and all its 
associated content and code at a specific point in time. Once copied, the page is time stamped and 
cannot be altered. Below are the most recent copies of hao.360.cn on two different dates. 
 
May 3, 2012: http://www.freezepage.com/1336068092BJFQTGFPZQ 
June 13, 2012: http://www.freezepage.com/1339597268FOWHHCCULD 
 
To access the source code and view the now-removed comScore tag, click on “More Info” as highlighted 
in Exhibit 6, and then click on “Source Code” under “Properties”. The tag will be near the bottom of the 
source code. 
 
 
             Exhibit 6 


              
 
 
 
 
In the event management tries to backtrack and re-add the comScore tag in response to this report, we 
have also mirrored hao.360.cn as it appears today, without the tag: 
 
June 27, 2012: http://www.freezepage.com/1340854158YQMEMONEFB 
 
 
 
 



http://www.freezepage.com/1336068092BJFQTGFPZQ

http://www.freezepage.com/1339597268FOWHHCCULD

http://www.freezepage.com/1340854158YQMEMONEFB
14 
 


The Smoking Gun 
 
It’s unusual for a company that deals predominantly in advertising space to quietly add and then remove 
a comScore tag after only a few months of activity. We can think of no positive reason for such a covert 
move. Neither could a representative from comScore when we called them.  
 
When asked if they knew any reason someone would remove their tag, the representative answered 
that “[the company] probably didn’t like what they saw.”  
 
Indeed. 
 
Our sources have acquired the comScore statistics spanning three months that the tag was active. As 
presented in Exhibit 7, Qihoo had every reason to remove the tag.  
 


Exhibit 7 
comScore Data 


 
   February, 2012 


  
Total Unique 
Visitors (000) 


Average Daily 
Visitors (000) 


Reach in China 
(Percent) 


hao123.com (Baidu) 81,268 20,009 24.9% 


hao.360.cn (Qihoo) 35,483 7,271 10.9% 


Difference -56% -64% -56% 


 
   March, 2012 


  
Total Unique 
Visitors (000) 


Average Daily 
Visitors (000) 


Reach in China 
(Percent) 


hao123.com (Baidu) 85,310 21,764 25.6% 


hao.360.cn (Qihoo) 41,717 10,786 12.5% 


Difference -51% -50% -51% 


 
   April, 2012 


  
Total Unique 
Visitors (000) 


Average Daily 
Visitors (000) 


Reach in China 
(Percent) 


hao123.com (Baidu) 84,689 21,434 25.4% 


hao.360.cn (Qihoo) 40,877 6,444 12.2% 


Difference -52% -70% -52% 


 
 
This data proves definitively that Qihoo has been lying to investors about its traffic volume. By any 
measurement, hao.360.cn gets embarrassingly less traffic than hao123.com.  
 
Of course, this will come as no surprise to critics who have questioned Qihoo’s accounts since its IPO. In 
fact, we don’t even really think it will come as much of a surprise to the analysts promoting the stock. To 
not have suspected that Qihoo was committing a grand fraud in the face of all other evidence would 
take a level of ineptitude we do not believe any analyst is capable of.
15 
 


Acquiring this proof was almost too easy. It was effectively handed to us by management’s own 
carelessness. And perhaps because it is so simple, it is so devastating.  
 
In the end, the one outstanding question is “why would management risk putting the tag on their 
website in the first place?”  
 
Without the tag, we would still have been able to acquire the comScore data. However, the data would 
have been compiled using the panel method. Management would have been able to claim that the data 
was completely inaccurate and the results were affected by sampling error and anti-virus programs. 
Management would then go on to insist that hao.360.cn gets incredible amounts of traffic that isn’t 
being properly measured. In fact, this was their defense when confronted by their Alexa ranking.


12
 


 
So, why would management risk putting the tag on their website? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


                                                           
12


 Alexa ranks hao123.com as the 15
th


 most visited site in China and hao.360.cn as 27
th


. Confronted with this 
information, management claimed that Alexa didn’t properly measure traffic to hao.360.cn due to its anti-virus 
software which deletes plug-ins. Yes, it’s a stupid defense, we know.
16 
 


 
 
Since its IPO, Qihoo’s numbers have been thrown into question. As a result, many analysts, investors, 
and critics have called for management to provide independent verification of Qihoo’s traffic claims. 
 
On December 6


th
, 2011, management held an emergency conference call with analysts and investors to 


address concerns of financial irregularities brought on by a third party. During the conference call, the 
following exchange took place with one of the callers: 
 
 
Analyst: And finally, my last question is would you consider conducting third-party verifications of click-
throughs just to try and settle all these allegations once and for all, because this is really getting 
annoying? 
 
Zouli Xu (CFO of Qihoo): We are actually in the process of talking to some well-known third parties as a 
sort of backup data source… we are in the process of talking or communicate with those third-party, 
well-known third-party data trackers, and hopefully in the foreseeable future, in not very long time later, 
we’ll have this third party, a second source of third-party data come up to provide it to the investors. 
 
 
Management knows that Qihoo is doomed as a publically traded company given the constant scrutiny. 
The only way to vindicate itself is to get a reputable third-party to vouch for Qihoo’s traffic volume. Of 
course, the problem is that Qihoo does not generate the traffic management claims. So what to do?  
 
We have reason to believe that management installed the tag in order to find a way to manipulate the 
traffic analytics gathered by comScore. Over the last few months, Qihoo’s technical team was likely busy 
trying to crack comScore’s system in order to fabricate the data.  
 
In fact, we are so certain of this that we invite engineers at comScore to analyze data coming out of 
hao.360.cn since the beginning of the year. We are confident they will find anomalies in their system 
(particularly with regards to the months of April and May).  
 
In any case, this wouldn’t be the first time Qihoo has attempted to manipulate ranking data. Recall from 
page 5 that earlier this year Qihoo’s apps were temporarily banned by Apple due to unusual ranking 
activity.  
 
Perhaps it speaks to the integrity of comScore’s data, because with the tag removed, we suspect Qihoo 
has abandoned hopes of cracking comScore’s sytem and manipulating the third-party verification that it 
so desperately needs.  
 
So, what’s next for Qihoo? 
 





Desperate Times Call for Desperate Measures
17 
 


 
 
Qihoo 360 is a company with a questionable future that was rushed through an IPO process by 
incompetent investment banks. Reading through its regulatory filings, we felt a sense of embarrassment 
for UBS and Citigroup for signing off as Qihoo’s underwriters – especially in an era where Chinese 
companies are blowing up left and right. 
 
It’s unbelievable that Qihoo has been able to survive this long as a company with a market cap over 
US$2 billion. It’s even more unbelievable how many analysts consider Qihoo to be the next great 
Chinese internet company. 
 
It’s not.  
 
Qihoo has managed to play on the lack of in-depth technical knowledge and critical thinking of its 
investment bankers, analysts, and investors. Critics that often voiced valid concerns regarding the 
Company’s accounts were brushed off by management as ‘not understanding the internet.’  
 
Every analyst that covers Qihoo has a different view of its growth prospects – from the mobile market, 
to vertical search to desktop applications. While there is no coherent view of how this Company will 
monetize its user base, all analysts agree that Qihoo’s future is predicated on the enormous traffic the 
Company is able to generate from its web properties. 
 
As it turns out, this enormous traffic doesn’t exist. 
 
This story will not end well. We suspect that the SEC already has Qihoo on its radar. Given the proof 
presented in this report, we doubt it will take the regulators long to conduct their own investigation to 
confirm our findings. Once completed, we expect Qihoo to eventually be delisted for securities fraud. 
  
In any case, Qihoo still hasn’t delivered the independent third-party verification that was promised 
seven months ago. We can’t fathom why since these things only take a couple of months at most, but 
we’ll leave it up to management to provide an explanation. In the meantime, we look forward to 
management responding to this report by claiming “Anonymous doesn’t understand the internet.” 
 





Conclusion
