Page 1 of 6 


July 13, 2010 
 


ONP: “Oh What a Tangled Web We Weave, When First We Practice to 
Deceive!”1 


 
Since Muddy Waters, LLC published its initial Strong Sell report on ONP on June 28, 
2010, in which we charge that ONP is a fraud, ONP has been engaged in a rushed 
effort to cover up evidence that would prove our allegations to be true.  ONP is 
creating more problems for itself through its attempt to refute the allegations.  It has 
switched the type of machine it is ordering (without disclosure) in order to try to 
meet the 360,000 ton benchmark it set.  Our checks indicate that ONP is overpaying 
by approximately $13 – 14 million for the new machine. 
 
ONP is purchasing an entirely different machine from the one it claimed as recently 
as July 7, 20102 to be purchasing.  In an attempt to refute our allegation that the 5.6 
meter corrugating paper machine that ONP intends to purchase is not capable of 
producing nearly 360,000 tons per year, ONP has changed the type of machine it is 
ordering.  The new machine produces kraft paper, which ONP does not claim to 
currently produce nor sell.3  Kraft paper is thicker than corrugating medium by a 
factor of about two times.  In this way, ONP will increase the nominal tonnage of its 
output – but it will be a different kind of paper than corrugating medium.  Investors 
should be highly alarmed that ONP is making this change without apparent business 
justification.   
 
We have provided a transcript of our July 9, 2010 conversation with Mr. Zhang of 
Henan Qinyang First Paper Machine Ltd. (“Qinyang”), which is selling the machine to 
ONP, as Exhibit 1.  It was during this conversation we learned that ONP had changed 
its order, while stating publicly that it is still ordering a corrugating medium 
machine. 
 
ONP’s issue with respect to its claim regarding the output of the new machine is that 
no Chinese manufacturer – including Qinyang – can make a machine 5.6 m wide 
running at a speed greater than 800 m / min.  (ONP claims that its machine will 
produce at 1,200 m / min, which our industry sources dismiss as impossible for a 
Chinese manufactured machine.)  The output of a paper manufacturing machine is a 
function of three items: speed (measured in linear meters per minute), width, and 
paper thickness.  Because ONP’s machine will be far slower than the 1,200 m / min 
that it claims, it is doubling the thickness of the paper it is producing in order to try 
to meet its tonnage claim. 
 
Note when reading the transcript that Mr. Zhang admits that in “theory”, the 
machine that ONP is buying can produce at a speed of 600 – 800 m / min.  He also 
                                                        
1 Sir Walter Scott, Marmion, Canto vi. Stanza 17. 
2 Orient Paper, Inc., July 6, 2010 Form 8‐K (filed July 7, 2010), exhibit 99.1, p. 1. 
3 Orient Paper, Inc., March 31, 2010 Form 10‐Q (filed May 13, 2010), p. 4.
Page 2 of 6 


says that the machine HBOP claims to be purchasing is “a theory” in terms of 
capabilities, and no such machine has been produced before in China.  ONP is 
abjectly lying to investors about what it is purchasing, and has been all along. 
 
Our checks on the new machine with three other producers indicate that ONP is 
paying approximately $13 ‐ $14 million too much for the kraft paper line.  (We 
doubt that ONP is overpaying out of incompetence.)  The transcript with Mr. Zhang 
supports our findings.  First, Mr. Zhang thinks it is reasonable that the company 
“maybe ranking number two in China in this industry” (called “Huadong”) would sell 
a comparable line for $10 million less than what ONP is claiming to pay Qinyang.  
Mr. Zhang then proceeds to equivocate on ONP’s price during our conversation.  
 
Page 3 of 6 


Exhibit 1 
 


A: Inquirer 
B: Mr. Zhang, General Manager of Sales, Henan Qinyang First Paper Machine Ltd.  He is 
overseeing the ONP account. 
 
A: Hello. Is this Manager Zhang? I am from an investment company located on Wall Street in the 
United States. We know that there are several Chinese paper manufacturing companies listed in 
the US. We have been tracking and researching one of these companies called He Bei Bao Ding 
Oriental Paper Milling. It claimed that it ordered a machine from your company. It was a 
corrugating medium paper machine. Was that right?  
B: It ordered a kraft board paper machine. In the beginning, HBOP ordered a corrugating medium 
paper machine, but now, it’s ordering a kraft board paper machine. 
A: A kraft board paper machine? Is that right? 
B: Yes, it has ordered a kraft board paper machine. 
A: What was the payment amount for their kraft board paper machine order? 
B: Payment amount? 
A: How big is the machine? Is it 5.6 meters? How much does such a machine cost in total? 
B: It is difficult to tell you about the total cost. Are you asking in specific regard to their order or 
are you asking about the sale price? 
A: I want to know roughly how much HBOP’s order costs in total. 
B: I’m not sure if it is convenient to say… 
A: (Interrupts.) It’s ok. I want to know…(cut off by B) 
B: Please go on. 
A: HBOP said that it ordered the Long Mesh and Multi-cylinder Paper Machine from you guys. 
B: Yes. Multi mesh and Multi-cylinder. Multi mesh is Long mesh.  
A: Multi Mesh and Multi-cylinder. Generally speaking, how much is a Long Mesh and Multi-
cylinder Paper Machine like that HBOP ordered? 
B: Generally speaking, it is 200 million. It has several systems. So the price is different 
depending on which system it contains. What is your surname? 
A: Wang. I want to know its operation speed. 
B: Its speed is 600-800 meter 
A: 600-800 meter? 
B: Yes. Its standard requirement is more than 300,000 tons. 
A: More than 300,000 tons? 
B: Annual production capacity is more than 300,000 tons. 
A: How about the parts of the machine? Are they imported or what? 
B: Should you ask their assistant about this? I’m not sure it’s okay for me to say… 
A: It does not matter. HBOP said that the machine’s operation speed is 1,200 meters. 
B: The speed of the corrugating medium paper machine is 1,200 meters but its annual production 
capacity cannot reach 360,000 tons. The paper is classified into thick paper and thin paper, e.g. 
weight. It depends on thickness and weight. Thick paper is easier to manufacture. Printing-and-
writing paper will be more difficult because it is thinner. This is the situation.  
A: So HBOP ordered a kraft board paper machine and not a corrugating medium paper machine. 
Is that right? 
B: Yes. 
A: Does the machine they ordered contain winder machine, sizing machine, rewinding machine, 
quantitative moisture analyzer or not? 
B: Yes. It contains all systems. 
A: So I see. To our understanding, there are only some domestic companies that can produce 
large paper machines like this one.
Page 4 of 6 


B: Yes. Maybe there are 4,5,6,7 or 8 companies that can produce such machines currently. These 
past few years, technology has been improving by learning from foreign technology and assembly 
methods. 
A: Yes. 
B: Our boss goes to a company located in Finland every year. 
A: Finland or Switzerland? 
B: Finland. That company has a systematic production line. My boss has shown me the blueprint 
before. They may come here this September. My boss said that the Finnish company is interested 
in setting up a JV company in China. I am not quite sure of that. 
A: I want to know whether your company has delivered the machine to HBOP yet. 
B: Not yet. We only provide the foundation plate. It has not been a long time. 
A: It will take a long time? 
B: It has not been a long time. I meant it has not been a long time since both companies signed 
the contract. 
A: HBOP signed the contract with your company in April right?  
B: Right. We officially signed the contract in April. Prior to that, we signed an agreement. 
A: It is a large amount. It is close to the price of an imported machine. 
B: I am not very clear about the costs and prices of imported machines. As a domestic company, 
we export machines and also do domestic business. 
A: Oh and Huadong Paper Machinery too. 
B: Huadong? You mean the company in Kunshan? 
A: Yes 
B: The company in Kunshan is a good company, maybe ranking number two in China in this 
industry. 
A: From what we understand, the price of the 5.6 meter Long Mesh and Multi-cylinder Paper 
Machine produced by Huadong Paper Machinery should not be more than RMB 120 million. 
B: That price sounds about right. Our production line contains vacuum system, electrical system 
(The electrical system is worth of RMB40million), many electric motors and water-proof cables. 
Vacuum system is made of stainless steel. It also includes Moisture Analyzer. It’s an automatic 
control system in a whole. We have all the complete systems. The price Huadong Paper 
Machinery provided is on industry level. 
A: Is the price from Huadong Paper Machinery very close right? 
B: It really depends on how they sell. You said their price is 120 million. The price ranges from 
110 million to140 million. Every company has its method of pricing and more or less, the price is 
bound to fluctuate.  
A: How much is the machine which includes? Winder Machine? What is the total payment 
amount for the machine that includes all systems according to the signed contract with HBOP? 
B: Now that you have especially called, I feel a bit embarrassed… 
A: We bought its stocks and thus we need to know some information about it. To our 
understanding, not many domestic companies can produce this kind of huge machine with more 
than 300,000 ton annual production capacity.  


B: What you say is realistic. The quotation is 196 million. In the end the agreed-upon deal price is 
190 million. I have been busy with this recently even we have already signed the contract with 
HBOP. A boss named Liu is concerned about the same. Yesterday, I just hosted a Ms.Yu from 
Shanghai, her name I think is Yu Xiao Cheng? She came here without a camera, so I brought a 
camera to take pictures for her. She wanted to watch how the steel is melted and forged into such 
large machine. She saw the 5 meters machine and asked if we can produce 5.6 meter machine. I 
told her that she could take a look for herself and see that the longest machine we can produce is 
up to 12.5 meters long. She took a look. The pit in the ground is 12.5 meters or 10 meters, which 
is more than 5.6 meters. The depth of the pit in the ground and the height of the plant determine
Page 5 of 6 


the maximum possible size of the forged product. If you cannot provide accurate figures, it could 
be a wasted effort. Yesterday both of them took a look. 


A: We know that even Huadong Paper Machinery can only produce machines with speeds up 
1,000 meters. It can’t produce machines which speeds are 1,200 meters. 


B: Yes. About the speed, it’s theory. When we negotiated with HBOP, we negotiated for some 
time about the order of a corrugating medium paper machine. Later they changed their order to a 
kraft board paper machine. 


From discussions with my boss, 360,000 tons kraft board paper is within the range of 330,000 to 
380,000 tons, which meets industry standard. This number is not 100% accurate. For kraft board 
paper, 500 meter machinery is capable of production. We do not need a 1,200 meter, 1,000 meter 
or 900 meter machine. 


A: Yes, 360,000 tons of annual production means more than 1,000 ton per day. The quantity is so 
much. 


B: 1,000 – 1,100 ton per day. 
A: This is also a very big number. 
B: Yes. It is not a small number. In China, there isn’t a machine with such speed that is so wide. 
A: So you’re saying that the capacity of machine can’t reach 360,000 tons? 
B: 500-600 meter is capable. You can calculate. For example, paper weighing 300g does not 
require 600 meters to meet its production capacity of nearly 400,000 tons. 


A: You mean kraft board paper? 
B: Yes. kraft board paper of 300g. For better kraft board paper, normally its weight is 220g, 250g 
or 300g. If its weight is 350g to 500g, its production capacity will go up even more easily. 


A: How much is the weight of 1 meter? 120g per square meter? 
B: It is close. Normally its weight is 220g till 300g. Paper made from good pulp will be around 
250g. It mainly means pulp system.  


A: From 220g to 300g. Right? 
B: Yes. 
A: It should be 120g right? 
B: 120g is uncoated paper 
A: Is the 120g paper corrugating medium paper? 
B: Not corrugating medium paper. 120g paper is called uncoated paper 
A: Uncoated paper? 
B: Yes, uncoated paper is one of the higher classifications of corrugating medium paper. 
To tell you truth, we can try to make machines with speeds of 1,200m/min but we cannot be 
confident. We are not sure that we will be able to make it. Other companies are the same. Since 
2004, in the past few years, we have been adding to our land area, but not exceeding 120 mu. 
Not only have we added land, we have added new equipment as well. Other companies monitor 
our machine prices. We serve people who visit our company and order machines. The residual is 
very small. One company named Zhongchengji we bought in Qinhai can produce machines that 
are 14 meters.  


A: 14 meters? 
B: Yes. Some time ago, we bought two places that can produce 8 meter paper machines but it is 
still far below our needs.  


A: Is that so? 
B: Last year we produce 1,100 meter for a Taiwan company Yuliu in Kunshan but we only did 
the dry part.  


A: Did your company receive advance payment from HBOP for their machine order? 
B: If HBOP does not give advance payment, we will not provide the technology. We can’t do 
that. 


A: That means HBOP have already paid? 
B: Right.
Page 6 of 6 


A: I believe that other companies will contact you later. Our company is just one of these 
companies. We will promote your machine as much as we can. 
B: Haha. 
A: We know of your company because of HBOP. You know many Chinese companies are listed 
on Wall Street. Maybe we will contact you in the future to obtain a more detailed understanding. 


B: It doesn’t matter. You can come here if you have time and it is convenient for you. 
A: Yes 
B: I served GM Liu and GM Yu a couple days before. I went to Zhengzhou to pick them when 
they came and drove them to airport later. 


A: Did GM Liu come to your company a couple days ago? Is that right? 
B: Yes. Liu arrived here the day before yesterday. Now he shall be in Beijing or HBOP. He 
should be in these two places. 
A: Beijing? Where in Beijing? 
B: Beijing. I drove him to Zhengzhou. He caught the train to Beijing. He should be in Beijing 
now. I sent a message at 7:00 p.m to Ms.Yu yesterday. She has arrived safely home as well. 
 A: Ms.Yu? 
B: Yes. Ms.Yu arrived home about 7:00 p.m yesterday. 
A: Did she go back to Shanghai? 
B: Yeah. She went back to Shanghai. 
A: Shanghai? Which company does she work for in Shanghai? 
B: Shanghai? I do not know. 
A: Did she go to your company with GM Liu? Did she go to your company with GM Liu? 
B: No. She was introduced by Yang Assistant. 5 guys arrived the day before yesterday, but we 
had only three cars. The cars were too busy and two cars went to pick them up. At 9:00p.m, 
someone called me and said that 2 guys would come here tomorrow. They came from south not 
from north. They arrived at the airport and would proceed to the railway station. I said that we 
would go to airport, it’s fine, there was need to go to the railway station. Why should he go to 
railway station? I was told that the guy arrived in airport, but he would go to railway station to 
buy train ticket to Beijing without troubling me. I was told to pick him up at 12:00 at Zhengzhou 
railway station. I said that they were guests and we could buy train ticket for him and that was no 
big deal since it was just 200 or 300 RMB. But he said that there was no need. 


A: Did Ms.Yu visit your company for the things about machines that HBOP ordered? 
B: Yeah. 
A: Oh yes. I believe that a lot of other people will contact you in the future. In that case I will 
contact you later for our US company if we need more information. We will publish some 
information on Wall Street newspapers in the name of your company. 


B: Okay. Okay. 
A: Thank you. I will contact you again. Thank you for today. 
B: You are welcome. 
A: Thank you. Bye 
B: Bye.
