An Analysis of Allied Capital 
Questions of Valuation Technique 





By 
 


Greenlight Capital, Inc. 
 


June 17, 2002 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Funds advised by Greenlight Capital have sold shares of Allied Capital short.  This 
analysis is based upon information about Allied Capital including publicly available 
information, interviews with Allied Capital’s management, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and numerous other industry sources.  Greenlight presents this analysis “as 
is” and believes the information contained to be reliable.  The opinions expressed in this 
analysis belong to Greenlight Capital.  This analysis is not intended as an investment 
recommendation to others.  Greenlight Capital only provides investment advice to the 
funds it advises.  Greenlight reserves the right to change its investment position and 
opinion at any time without further notice to any party.  The primary purpose of this 
analysis is to protect Greenlight’s reputation for thorough analysis and refute the 
spurious claims by Allied’s management that Greenlight Capital did not talk to 
management in the course of its analysis and is out to “develop the short thesis to scare 
people and make a quick buck and move on.” 





 1
Greenlight Capital’s Analysis of Allied Capital 


 
 
Executive Summary: 
 
Following is a summary of Greenlight’s analysis of Allied Capital.  A more detailed 
analysis follows the summary. 
 


1. Allied Appears to have Created Its Own Accounting Methods.  Allied has 
produced a “white paper” with its interpretation of fair value accounting.  Allied 
appears to be openly flaunting SEC requirements.  Allied believes that, “the Small 
Business Administration Policy is far more applicable to the portfolio of a 
Business Development Company than the valuation guidance set forth by the 
SEC.”  Greenlight disagrees.  Greenlight has checked with the Douglas Scheidt, 
Associate Director and Chief Counsel in the SEC’s Division of Investment 
Management.  Greenlight believes that the SEC disagrees with Allied’s 
interpretation and believes that Business Development Companies are subject to 
the same rules as other Investment Companies.  As a result, Greenlight doubts 
Allied complies with the Investment Company Act of 1940 requirements in 
calculating its earnings and Net Asset Value. 


 
2. Allied Appears to have Mismarked Individual Investments.  Greenlight wonders 


whether the examples Greenlight has been able to identify are isolated or are part 
of a broader problem.  As there is little information available about most of 
Allied’s investments, Greenlight is worried that since Greenlight has identified so 
many apparent problems in the small number of investments where information is 
available, many valuations might not stand up to scrutiny if all the circumstances 
were fully disclosed.  Greenlight has identified approximately 35% of Allied’s 
specialty finance portfolio that it believes may be carried above fair value. 


 
3. Allied does not Reflect Temporary Changes in Value in its Net Asset Value 


Calculation.  This is inconsistent with the 1940 Act.  According to Mr. Scheidt, 
“the appropriate standard is, ‘what can you get for it today?’”  This leads to 
systemic overstatement of asset values, in Greenlight’s opinion.  This applies, in 
particular, to monitor list and non-accrual loans that Allied carries at cost (without 
any reserve) and impaired loans that Allied carries at ultimate recovery value, 
rather than current fair value. 


 
4. Allied Recognizes Permanent Impairments in Value as “Unrealized 


Depreciation.”  As the value has been permanently impaired, Greenlight believes 
that such losses should be classified as “charge-offs.”  In the event of a better than 
expected recovery on a “charged-off” loan, Allied could recognize a recovery that 
would be netted against current period charge-offs.  Allied’s treatment delays the 
recognition of losses and creates the investor misperception that realized gains 


 2
exceed realized losses.  Greenlight estimates that through its treatment Allied has 
deferred over $65 million of charge-offs. 


 
5. Allied has Several Unconsolidated Controlled Investments that Contribute 


Disproportionately to Allied’s Reported Earnings.  Allied provides no disclosure 
of the actual performance of controlled investments.  Allied recognized $29 
million in fees from controlled companies last year and charges them interest rates 
up to 25%.  Greenlight wonders whether these fees are arms-length transactions 
for competitive services at competitive prices, as few non-controlled companies 
engage Allied on similar terms.   


 
6. Allied’s Largest Investment, Business Loan Express, is Analagous to Enron’s 


Raptor.  Allied controls Business Loan Express through common share 
ownership.  Allied books income for fees and interest income which Business 
Loan Express finances through cash investments and third party loans guaranteed 
by Allied.  Yet because of the peculiar rules of Regulated Investment Companies, 
Allied does not have to provide any data on the actual economics of Business 
Loan Express.  Meanwhile, Business Loan Express appears to be performing 
poorly as delinquencies reached 14.5% in December 2001 compared to 3.5% in 
June 1999.  Greenlight believes it would be helpful for Allied to provide full 
financial statements for Business Loan Express and all other controlled 
companies. 


 
7. Allied has to Finance its Dividend.  Allied earned $65 million in non-cash income 


that it pays out to shareholders as a dividend.  In fact, Allied sold more new equity 
in each of the last three years than it has paid out in dividends.  Allied says the 
new equity was for new investment.  Greenlight believes that money is fungible 
and the dividend could not have been paid without shrinking the portfolio, new 
borrowings (which are limited by statute) or equity sales. 


 
8. Promised Dividend Growth Requires Premium Stock Sales.  As Allied cannot 


retain its operating earnings, the principal way it grows its Net Asset Value is 
through new equity sales at a premium to Net Asset Value.  In order to grow its 
dividend on a sustained basis, Allied must continue this practice. 


 
9. Arthur Andersen Changed Its Language in Allied’s Most Recent Audit Letter.  


Allied’s management’s explanations on this point have been inconsistent and 
evolving.  Greenlight believes that the change in audit language is a red flag.  
From Greenlight’s point of view, regardless of whether the scope of the audit has 
changed, whoever approved the Velocita debt and warrant valuations at cost at the 
end of 2001 and the other criticized investments and valuation methods did not 
provide appropriate critical scrutiny.   


 3
An Analysis of Allied Capital 
Questions of Valuation Technique 


 
Background: 
 


On Wednesday, May 15th, David Einhorn, Portfolio Manager of Greenlight 
Capital, presented an example of Greenlight’s analysis and investment discipline at the 
Ira W. Sohn Investment Research Conference, a charity event sponsored by the 
Tomorrows Children’s Fund to support the needs of pediatric cancer and blood disorder 
victims at the Don Imus/WFAN Pediatric Center at Hackensack University Medical 
Center in Hackensack, NJ.  The conference, now in its seventh year, featured eleven 
accomplished investment managers, each of whom presented at least one idea currently 
in his portfolio. 


 
Mr. Einhorn began his remarks by describing the success Greenlight has had on 


its short portfolio over the last six years, a 30% return on invested capital, including 
many financial institutions such as Conseco, Compucredit, Sirrom Capital, and Resource 
America.  He explained Greenlight’s long-standing general criteria for shorting stocks:  
overvaluation and deterioration—generally with an insight misunderstood by the market.  
Finally, Mr. Einhorn explained why Allied Capital (ticker: ALD) met Greenlight’s 
criteria and is a current short investment in the firm’s portfolio. 
  


Greenlight has found several examples where Allied’s management has not 
marked its investments to fair value.  The reason these examples are important is not only 
do they provide clear publicly available data by which to judge their market value, but 
also they indicate that other parts of Allied’s portfolio may suffer from similar 
mismarkings.  Greenlight has identified 35% of Allied’s specialty finance portfolio that 
may be carried above fair value. 


 
While Mr. Einhorn did share Greenlight’s thesis that Allied Capital has 


mismarked its portfolio, benefits from low quality earnings streams, and depends on 
premium stock sales to grow its net asset value and support the dividend, he made no 
personal attacks against Allied’s management.  Contrary to press accounts, Mr. Einhorn 
does not offer investment advice other than to Greenlight’s portfolios, and Mr. Einhorn 
did not recommend a short sale of Allied to anyone else in the audience.  Mr. Einhorn 
pledged on behalf of himself and his partners to donate half of Greenlight’s carried 
interest on its Allied investment to the Tomorrows Children’s Fund. 


 
Conference Calls: 
 


The next morning on May 16th, Allied management held a conference call, in 
evident response to the large negative trading reaction to questions raised by Mr. 
Einhorn.  Management disputed Greenlight’s research and conclusions and gave its view 
of Greenlight’s agenda.  Unfortunately, Greenlight was unable to directly access the 


 4
conference call given “capacity constraints.”  Greenlight was able to access an audio 
transcript of the call after its completion on Allied Capital’s website. 


 
During the conference call, Allied’s CEO Mr. Walton said, “We find it unusual 


that somebody gets up and gives a speech about a company who never bothers to talk to 
management.  I think most informed investors would appreciate some time spent with us 
so they can talk these things through unless you are simply trying to develop the short 
thesis to scare people and make a quick buck and move on.” 


 
While Greenlight never spoke with Mr. Walton, Greenlight spent several hours 


discussing issues and confirming information with company representatives.  Greenlight 
spoke with Ms. Sparrow of Allied’s investor relations on April 24th and with Allied’s 
Chief Financial Officer, Ms. Roll, and Ms. Beane on May 1st.  Greenlight can only 
conclude management, through Mr. Walton’s assertions, desperately wants the public to 
believe Greenlight has been negligent in its homework.  Ms. Sparrow’s silence during 
this portion of the conference call was deafening.   


 
In a subsequent Dow Jones newswire story, Allied reversed its previous public 


declaration by conceding Greenlight had, in fact, spoken with Ms. Roll and Ms. 
Sparrow.1 


 
Allied conducted a second conference call on May 29th.  During that conference 


call Greenlight attended but was unable to ask any questions in the Q&A, as Greenlight 
was not accepted to ask a question despite following the operator’s instructions.   


 
Now, Greenlight understands that Allied has hired Mr. Lanny Davis to assist them 


in spinning the media, particularly with conspiracy theories.  Greenlight last encountered 
Mr. Davis a few months ago when he was enthusiastically defending questionable 
accounting at Seitel, Inc. (NYSE: SEI).  Seitel is another company Greenlight is short.  
Since Mr. Davis was retained, Seitel has restated its earnings, its Chairman and CEO has 
resigned, its CFO was terminated and it is in default on its recently issued investment 
grade debt. 
  
Fair Value Accounting: 
 
 Allied is a Regulated Investment Company (“RIC”).  As a RIC it is subject to the 
Investment Company Act of 1940.  As such, it uses “fair value” accounting.  As a result, 
it is not required to take a general loss reserve as a bank or a specialty lender would.  
Instead, in each period Allied must mark each investment in its portfolio at fair value.    
  
 According to Section 2(a)(39) of the 1940 Act “value” is defined as (i) with 
respect to securities for which market quotations are readily available, the market value 
of such securities; and (ii) with respect to other securities and assets, fair value as 
determined in good faith by the board of directors…”2 
                                                 
1 “Allied Capital Call: Nothing Changed with Audit’s Scope”, Dow Jones Newswire, May 16, 2002 
2 ASR 118, p.2. 


 5
The SEC has issued two accounting series releases (“ASR”) that amplify the 


SEC’s interpretation of requirements under the 1940 Act. 
  


In a December 8, 1999 letter by Douglas Scheidt, Associate Director and Chief 
Counsel in the SEC’s Division of Investment Management to the Investment Company 
Institute, the SEC’s views on fair value pricing were made clear: 
 


“The Commission has stated that, as a general principle, the fair 
value of a portfolio security is the price which the fund might 
reasonably expect to receive upon its current sale. Ascertaining fair 
value requires a determination of the amount that an arm’s-length 
buyer, under the circumstances, would currently pay for the 
security. Fair value cannot be based on what a buyer might pay at 
some later time, such as when the market ultimately recognizes the 
security’s true value as currently perceived by the portfolio 
manager. Funds also may not fair value price portfolio securities at 
prices which are not achievable on a current basis on the belief that 
the fund would not currently need to sell those securities. Thus, 
bond or similar funds generally may not fair value price portfolio 
securities at par based on the expectation that the funds will hold 
these securities until maturity, if the fund could not receive par 
value upon the current sale of those securities.”3 


 
Allied has prepared a white paper titled, “Valuation of Illiquid Securities Held by 


Business Development Companies.”  According to Ms. Sweeney on the May 29th 
conference call,  
 


“[O]ur net asset value is based upon fair value estimates for the 
securities in our portfolios.  We have a consistent process we’ve  
used to determine fair value, and that process is clearly outlined in 
our disclosure document.  In addition, if you visit our website, you 
will see that we have written a white paper on fair value 
accounting and our interpretation of its application.”   


 
This white paper appears to be a description of the accounting policies Allied 


actually uses.  The general thesis of the paper is that the 1940 Act was not designed to 
accommodate the special needs of Business Development Companies (“BDC”) and that 
the Small Business Administration (“SBA”) accounting principles are more appropriate 
for BDC portfolios. 
  


Greenlight observes that a portion of Allied’s stated accounting policy in its 10-K 
appears to reflect SBA rather than SEC accounting principles.  


 
                                                 
3 “December 1999 Letter to the ICI Regarding Valuation Issues,” from Douglas Scheidt Associate Director 
and Chief Counsel of the SEC Division of Investment, December 8, 1999. 


 6
“The Company’s valuation policy considers the fact that privately 
negotiated securities increase in value over a long period of time, 
that the Company does not intend to trade the securities, and that 
no ready market exists.  The Company’s valuation policy is 
intended to provide a consistent, conservative basis for establishing 
the fair value of the portfolio . . .The Company will record 
unrealized depreciation on investments when it believes that an 
asset has been impaired and full collection for the loan or 
realization of an equity security is doubtful.  Conversely, the 
Company will record unrealized appreciation if it has a clear 
indication that the underlying portfolio company has appreciated in 
value and, therefore, the Company’s security has also appreciated 
in value.  Under its valuation policy, the Company does not 
consider temporary changes in the capital markets, such as interest 
rate movements or changes in the public equity markets, in order to 
determine whether an investment in a private company has been 
impaired or whether a private investment has increased in value.”4 
 


In the white paper Allied argues, “the SBA Policy is far more applicable to the 
portfolio of a BDC than the valuation guidance set forth by the SEC in the ASRs.”5   


 
Greenlight believes that Allied wants to legislate its own regulatory treatment, 


where it gets the best benefits of being a RIC or an SBIC on a line item by line item 
basis. 


 
Though the SEC has made it clear that illiquid investments must be valued based 


upon what they are worth in a current sale, Allied does not use the current sale test.  Even 
so, Allied concedes if it did use the “current sale” test it would cause a material change in 
its NAV.  In its white paper Allied states, “The concept of ‘current sale’ in ASR 118 is 
particularly troubling if applied to a BDC’s illiquid portfolio, because if such a portfolio 
were subject to a current sale test, the portfolio would need to carry a significant discount 
from the face value of its underlying securities.”6 


 
Ms. Sweeney continued to explain why current value should not be used on the 


May 29th conference call,  
 


“The idea that we should be marking long-term, illiquid 
investments to some artificial or theoretical markets instead of 
telling shareholders what we really think we have made in gains or 
lost in principal seems theoretical at best and at least confusing.  
We don’t hide what we’ve lost by claiming a temporary decline in 
market.  When you read our income statement and look at net 
income, you know where we think we actually are and don’t think 


                                                 
4 Allied Capital Corporation 2001 Annual Report, p. 18. 
5 Allied Capital White Paper, p.11. 
6 Ibid, p.6. 


 7
it serves any purpose to cloud our results with a lot of temporary 
unsustainable ups and downs.” 


 
The problem here is that ASR 113 clearly states otherwise, 
 


“As a general principle, the current fair value of restricted 
securities would appear to be the amount which the owner might 
reasonably expect to receive for them upon their current sale.  This 
depends upon their inherent worth, without regard to the restricted 
feature, adjusted for any diminution in value resulting from the 
restrictive feature.  Consequently, the valuation of restricted 
securities at the market quotations for unrestricted securities of the 
same class would, except for most unusual situations, be improper.  
Further, the continued valuation of such securities at cost would be 
improper if, as a result of the operations of the issuer, change in 
general market conditions or otherwise, cost has ceased to 
represent fair value.  In such circumstances, maintaining the value 
of the restricted securities at cost would mislead investors as to the 
value of the portfolio of the investment company which holds 
restricted securities.”7 
 


There are many items in the white paper that seem inaccurate or out of context.  
Here are some quotes that seem faulty. 


 
• “However, ASR 118 does not contemplate a privately negotiated, highly 


structured illiquid security held for investment until maturity in its explanation of 
what a ‘current sale’ means.”8 
 


• “The concept of ‘current sale’ for purposes of determining fair value in ASR 118 
is difficult, if not impossible, to apply in the case of a BDC’s portfolio.”9 
 


• “Over the expected investment period, it is natural for a BDC to expect temporary 
increases and decreases in perceived investment value, however, these temporary 
anomalies have little to do with the expected investment return.”10 
 


• “Clearly, since the BDC plans to hold a debt security until its repayment, 
fluctuations in interest rates in the capital markets are not relevant to the value of 
the principal amount of the note that will ultimately be collected.  If the BDC 
were to change the value of debt securities solely because of market interest rate 
fluctuations, it could erroneously record appreciation or depreciation that has no 
chance of ever being realized when the debt security is repaid.”11 


                                                 
7 ASR 113, p. 2. 
8 Allied Capital White Paper, p.4. 
9 Ibid, p.5. 
10 Ibid, pp.5-6. 
11 Ibid, p.7. 


 8
• “The SEC has recently confirmed, with little further guidance, that in fact fair 


value is not intended to be a ‘fire sale’ price. In In Re Parnassus Investments, an 
administrative law judge found that the fund had violated the requirement that the 
fund’s board of directors fair value restricted securities in good faith.  Respondent 
had argued that the ‘current sale’ requirement was tantamount to a ‘fire sale.’  The 
judge responded that ‘[r]espondents are correct in that fire sale pricing was never 
the intention of the Commission.”12   
 
Here, Allied leaves out the next sentence which reads, “However, while it is clear 


that the current sale principle recognizes a reasonable time frame in which to arrange 
sales it does not ignore the fact that a security may suffer from a thin market or other 
unenviable variables.” 


 
Without providing detailed analysis of each of these points, it seems clear that 


Allied has adopted policies that are inconsistent with SEC policy.  If so, Allied’s  
statements of earnings and NAV are inconsistent with statutory requirements. 
 
 Greenlight spoke with Mr. Scheidt at the SEC about Allied’s claims that BDC’s 
should be treated differently than other investment companies.  While Mr. Scheidt did not 
comment about Allied specifically, he did address the argument that BDC’s should have 
special treatment.  Greenlight asked for and received explicit permission from Mr. 
Scheidt to quote him and the following is an excerpt from our conversation: 
 
Mr. Einhorn: There’s a BDC out there in the public market that is making the general 


argument that the general standards for the 1940 Act that the SEC has 
given out are mostly for mutual funds closed and open ended that have to 
value their assets on an NAV basis on a daily basis to let investors in and 
out.  And since they are a business development company with a portfolio 
of assets that they could hold for five to ten years, they really are much 
more like a small business lender, and as a result, they should be held to 
sort of the SBA standards for accounting which is instead of a current fair 
value test, more of an impairment test as investments go bad, and I guess 
we’re sort of wondering what you think of that analysis. 


Mr. Scheidt: Disagree.  We said in either or both of the two letters that James [Lin of 
Greenlight] mentioned yesterday that I wrote that the guidance that we 
were providing applied to all investment companies, open end and closed 
end.  And here’s the reason.  The BDC is right to one extent.  Since open 
end funds do have to redeem and since they’re continuously offered, it is 
very important for those funds to accurately calculate their NAVs.  It’s 
essential to their operations.  Closed end funds and BDCs, though, publish 
their NAVs if they’re trading on an exchange, the exchange usually 
requires them to do that at least weekly or monthly, and they are required 
to provide financial statements that set forth their NAV and all of these 


                                                 
12 Ibid, p.6. 


 9
NAV calculations that they are required to make or that they do make are 
subject to the 40 Act and regardless of whether they redeem or repurchase 
or sell their shares.  So it is, and for example, their publication of their 
NAV may have an effect on market prices. 


 
Mr. Einhorn: It may also affect their ability for one-to-one debt/equity limitations. 


Mr. Scheidt: Yeah, so I know of no reason why and I have never -- I know that closed 
end funds have tried to argue that they shouldn’t be subject to the same 
standards because of the differences between closed end funds and open 
end funds.  For that same reason that the BDC … but the Act and the law 
doesn’t differentiate between the two.  It says for all investment 
companies, they are required to use market quotes and do fair value.  And 
we have had closed end funds make the same argument that since they 
don’t have to do redemptions, that if they invest in a bank loan 
participation fund, they typically hold until maturity then they should be 
able to value it at what they can get for it at maturity unless there is some 
sort of impairment in the credit or the collateral that’s underlying the bank 
loan. 


Mr. Einhorn: Exactly. 


Mr. Scheidt: So, and we said no, and in fact in the first of the two letters, as I mentioned 
yesterday, we specifically included in response to those kinds of claims the 
statement that it’s inappropriate for a fund to value it at what the fund 
would expect to get for it at some point in the future because the 
appropriate standard is, ‘what can you get for it today?’  So, a closed-end 
fund made the same sort of argument with a bank participation fund and 
we specifically included that in response to that claim.  And we told them 
privately that they can’t value their securities that way and I don’t even 
know if you followed that market at all, but all the primary or other bank 
loan participation funds all of a sudden went from a fairly stable net asset 
value to a much more fluctuating net asset value and they took hits 
because they used a fair value approach which required them to lower the 
valuations of their securities. 


Mr. Einhorn: Right.  Then what do you say in response to somebody who says well we 
have, we custom tailor every loan we make to every one of these private 
companies and these loans are very illiquid and custom tailored and we 
know these credits better than anybody else and than any potential buyer 
ever would, and we tend to hold these things for five to ten years.  If you 
actually forced us to sell these things, pretty much any sale that we would 
make would constitute a fire sale. 


Mr. Scheidt: I would say we’re not forcing you to sell.  The way that I’ve told people 
when they raise the argument about how do you value illiquid securities, 
how do you apply the standard that says you use the value that you would 


 10
get today from a willing buyer when it would take me months or weeks to 
sell this thing.  I say assume that weeks or months ago you started beating 
the bushes for a buyer.  And it took however long it took and now today 
you have a willing buyer who is willing to buy from you, what would they 
buy it from you for?  So it’s not a fire sale like “Oh my God, I’ve got to 
get rid of this, will somebody take this off my hands?” 


Mr. Einhorn: Right, but their commentary, their response would be, look, nobody ever 
sells these loans and the only time anybody ever sells these loans is when 
they’re in financial distress or when the owner’s in financial distress and 
has to conduct a fire sale.  Even if you told me to go sell it to somebody, if 
I got somebody there and I got them interested in the credit, whether I was 
having a fire sale or I wasn’t having a fire sale, they would perceive it as a 
fire sale because it’s so abnormal to sell a loan such as this in any 
circumstance that is not a fire sale. 


Mr. Scheidt: I would say that would be all the more reason to hold it at a lower value 
because that’s what it’s worth. 


The Manifestations of Allied’s Self Created Accounting: 
 
 Greenlight observes that mezzanine loans to middle market companies are 
generally riskier than high yield bonds.  Mezzanine loans charge higher rates to 
compensate for the greater possibility of loss.  Middle market companies tend to be 
smaller than high yield issuers and usually do not have access to public equity capital as 
many high yield issuers do.  According to Moody’s, over 12% of high yield issues 
defaulted last year.  Some public portfolios of senior loans to middle market companies, 
such as Finova’s, performed awfully.  Therefore, Greenlight questions how Allied has 
survived the recession with a credit loss rate of less than 1%.     


 
Allied has a long-term successful investment record.  However, this record was 


largely achieved under prior portfolio managers who were investing mostly in different 
classes of assets such as small business loans and commercial real estate loans—not 
today’s mix of subordinated mezzanine loans and first loss tranches of commercial 
mortgage backed securities. Greenlight questions how Allied’s portfolio outperformed its 
asset class by such a wide margin during such a difficult period.  If the losses exist, but 
have not been recognized yet, then they will come eventually.    


 
Management has responded that the portfolio is not similar to high yield bonds.  


They say that high yield bonds have few covenants.  In fact, Greenlight has substantial 
experience with high yield bonds.  Greenlight observes that many high yield bonds are 
senior obligations and many have substantial covenant packages.  Allied’s loans are 
mostly subordinated obligations.  As a result of the greater risk Allied takes in 
subordinated investments, Allied charges a higher cost of capital and needs to take a 
more active role in overseeing management decisions than high yield investors.  In this 
sense, Allied acts more like an equity investor.  This seems appropriate as Allied is 


 11
further out on the risk curve that high yield investors.  This supports Greenlight’s analysis 
that Allied should have reported losses much greater than 1% through the recession. 
  
Allied’s Losses: 


 
Greenlight suspects that Allied has not taken certain losses on its financial 


statements that it should have taken.  Greenlight believes both anecdotal evidence and 
methodological valuation flaws suggest that Allied’s portfolio investments have not been 
marked to current “fair value” according to Allied’s own standards or as required by the 
Investment Company Act of 1940. 


 
Sell-side analysts have noted that the remaining exposure to the identified 


questionable investments is low.  However, this misses the point entirely.  The point of 
discussing individual investments is to shine a brighter light on the valuation treatment 
Allied employs more generally.   
  
Specific Anecdotes: 


 
The point of highlighting individual investments is not to expose potential risk in 


the portfolio.  Rather, such investments demonstrate cases where management’s 
willingness to own up to its problems was inadequate.  If one can find so many problems 
in Allied’s small public market portfolio, Greenlight wonders what would be discovered 
in a detailed analysis of Allied’s private holdings. 


 
Below are several investments where Allied appears to have marked its position 


above fair value.  The facts of these investments as Greenlight understands them from 
public documents and conversations with Allied’s management and industry sources are 
as follows: 
 


• Point 1—Velocita, Inc. 
 


Velocita, Inc. (formerly P.F. Net) is an investment that was sponsored by 
Cisco.  On the May 16th conference call, Mr. Walton said, “We do understand that 
Cisco has written down its investment.  But Cisco is in the equity, which of course is 
the first thing to go in a troubled telecom situation.  We’re in with a fairly 
sophisticated group of bondholders here and we think there are some interesting 
recovery possibilities.”   


 
Mr. Walton’s statement is misleading.  In fact, in addition to its $200 million 


equity investment, Cisco also holds $50 million of Velocita’s vendor financing 
facility.13  This facility is senior to Velocita’s publicly traded bonds and equity 
warrants that Allied owns.    





                                                 
13 Velocita, Inc. Form 10-K, December 31, 2001, Note 6. Credit Facility, p. F-15. 


 12
Greenlight understands Cisco fully reserved for both its equity and vendor 
financing exposure during 2001.14  On the other hand, at year-end Allied carried its 
subordinate bond investment at par and its equity warrants at cost.  Even after taking 
an apparently belated write-down in March 2002, Allied continues to mark its debt 
investment in Velocita at about 37% of cost, even as it trades in the low single digits. 


 
In contrast to Allied, Prospect Street Income Shares Inc., a high yield mutual 


fund, carried its investment in the same Velocita bonds at 20% of par at year-end.  
Greenlight understands that CS First Boston traded $20 million face of the Velocita 
bonds on March 29, 2002 at 1.25% of par. 


 
On the May 29th conference call, Ms. Sweeney replied to Greenlight’s 


criticism,  
 


“Now, let’s discuss Velocita.  There is no quoted market price for 
these bonds.  You can go to Bloomberg and search for a quote and 
you will not find one.  You can go to a trading desk and try to buy 
these bonds and assuming they find a seller, the buyer and seller 
will negotiate and agree to a price for their transaction.  When we 
determine that a security is illiquid with no quoted market price, 
our valuation procedures require us to determine its fair value in 
good faith as required by our regulations.   Our good faith fair 
value estimate for the $15 million Velocita bonds was determined 
as follows:  we carried the Velocita bonds at cost at December 31, 
2001.  We just received our November interest payment on these 
bonds.  They pay our interest semi-annually.  And a review of the 
financial information then available to us did not indicate doubtful 
collection.  We did inquire with a broker to see if any market for 
these bonds had developed, and the reply to us was there was no 
trading market for these bonds and they are not quoted.”   


 
What does this say about Allied’s portfolio monitoring techniques?  How 


could this fund with a 40-year track record of superior returns not know how to find a 
quote?  This was a $225 million registered high yield issue.  Who was this 
unidentified broker?  Did they think to call the underwriter?  Did CS First Boston 
stop quoting the bonds?  Did the auditors require a documented record of the good 
faith effort to determine that there was no quoted market?  Did Allied notice any 
problems such as the capital conservation program and the 24% workforce reduction 
that Velocita disclosed in the September 10-Q?  Is the value of every loan cost until 
the debtor stops paying the interest? 





                                                 
14  In a March 20, 2002 Bloomberg news article entitled “Cisco May Lose $200 Million From Velocita 
Investment” Cisco spokeswoman Robyn Jenkins is quoted as saying: “[T]he company has set aside enough 
money for the potential loss of its Velocita investment and financing.” In a call to Cisco investor relations, 
Greenlight Capital confirmed that Cisco had established reserves for its loan and equity to Velocita in 2001. 


 13
Greenlight has obtained historical quoted prices for the Velocita bonds from 
Chase Securities.  According to Chase, at various quarter ends the bonds were quoted: 


 
 Date Quoted Price Allied’s Price 


September 28, 2000 76.5% 100.0% 
December 28, 2000 96.5% 100.0% 
March 29, 2001 60.0% 100.0% 
June 28, 2001 60.0% 100.0% 
September 27, 2001 60.0% 100.0% 
December 27, 2001 10.0% 100.0% 
March 28, 2002 0.5% 36.8%15 








• Point 2—Startec Global Communications 
 


Allied recorded its $20 million debt investment in Startec Global 
Communications at cost throughout 2001 and even increased its investment in the 
company in June 2001 by an additional $15 million despite significant evidence that 
Startec was failing.  Arthur Andersen’s auditor letter to Startec in the 2000 10-K filed 
on April 17, 2001 stated:  


 
“ . . . the Company has suffered recurring losses from operations 
and has a net capital deficiency and working capital deficit. These 
facts raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.”   


 
Similar language was repeated in subsequent filings with emphasis on the 


significant risk that Startec could miss a critical November interest payment. Allied 
did not write down its debt investment in Startec until the fourth quarter of 2001 after 
Startec filed for bankruptcy.  According to Startec’s SEC filings, Allied’s initial 
investment in Startec was pari passu with Startec’s publicly traded 12% Senior 
Notes.16 


Greenlight has obtained historical quoted prices for the Startec 12% Senior 
Notes from Chase Securities.  According to Chase, at various quarter ends the bonds 
were quoted: 





                                                 
15 Allied has said on the May 29th conference call that it carries this debt is carried at 28%.  According to 
the March 31, 2002 form 10-Q, the Velocita debt has a cost of  $11,718,000 and a fair value of $4,318,000. 
16 Disclosure in Startec’s 2000 10K stated that the company’s publicly traded 12% senior unsecured notes 
rank pari passu in right of payment with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated 
obligations. The loan agreement with Allied Capital was filed as an amendment to Startec’s 10Q for the 
period ending June 30, 2000 and clearly stated in the terms that the loan “is intended to have payment 
rights in parity with those of the High Yield/Public Debt.” 


 14
Date Quoted Price Allied’s Price17 
June 29, 2000 80.0% 100.0% 
September 28, 2000 80.0% 100.0% 
December 28, 2000 60.0% 100.0% 
March 29, 2001 45.0% 100.0% 
June 28, 2001 3.0% 100.0% 
September 27, 2001 4.25% 100.0% 
December 27, 2001 2.0% 0.0% 
March 28, 2002 2.0% 0.0% 


 
• Point 3—NetTel Communications  
 


NetTel Communications filed for bankruptcy in late 2000 and a Chapter 7 
auction of its assets was held in December 2000.  Allied valued its $13 million 
unsecured debt investment in NetTel at cost in the third and fourth quarter of 2000 
and continues to value its investment in the defunct NetTel at about 40% of cost.  
Greenlight does not understand how the investment could have been worth cost after 
NetTel had already filed for bankruptcy. 


 
• Point 4—The Loewen Group 
 


Allied owned publicly traded high yield bonds throughout Loewen’s 
reorganization.  The company carried its bonds at a premium to where the bonds 
traded and at a premium to the recovery value estimated in the disclosure document.  
Greenlight asked Ms. Roll why the company did not use the market price to value its 
bonds.  Ms. Roll responded that the trading market was thin and not representative of 
where willing buyers and sellers would discover value.  Based on its own analysis of 
Loewen’s situation, Allied had concluded that its internally estimated premium 
valuation was appropriate.  Ultimately, Allied’s valuation was too optimistic, as the 
subsequent write-down demonstrated.  


 
• Point 5—Companies with Discounted Bank Debt  
 


Allied has invested in several companies where bank debt that is senior to 
Allied appears to be indicated to have lost value.  If the senior debt is impaired, one 
would expect the subordinated debt and warrants to be even worse off.  According to 
Loan Pricing Corporation Data, Kirkland, Inc.’s Term Loan tranche B was quoted 
90%-92% at the end of 2001.  Nonetheless, Allied at year-end carried its $8 million 
investment in debt securities, preferred stock and warrants at cost. 





                                                 
17 We are using the bond price to compare to Allied’s holding of unsecured debt on the belief that the two 
are pari passu.  We understand that when Allied agreed to advance more money to the troubled Startec, it 
was able to make a portion of its investment structurally senior to the notes and wrote down its remaining 
investment that was pari passu with the bonds. 


 15
Wilmar Industries’s Term Loan tranche B was quoted 86%-90%, according to 
Loan Pricing Data Corporation.  The Franklin Floating Rate Trust Fund valued its 
investment in Wilmar term debt at a 10% discount on January 31, 2002.  Allied at 
year-end carried its $36 million investment in subordinated debt securities and 
warrants at cost.   


 
• Point 6—Purchases of Additional Debt at a Discount 
 


According to Allied’s April 23, 2002 earnings press release, 
 


 “The company did find interesting opportunities to invest within 
its own portfolio by providing senior and subordinated capital to 
existing portfolio companies.  The availability of senior debt 
capital from traditional sources, such as banks, continues to be 
scarce, and the company had several opportunities to purchase 
senior or subordinated notes at a discount from lending institutions 
looking to liquidate or reduce middle market portfolios.” 


 
It appears that Allied bought senior debt of MVL Group and subordinated debt 


in United Pet Group and Polaris Pool Systems at a discount.  In all of these cases, it 
appears that Allied continued to hold its existing investments at cost.  Greenlight 
reasons that if the senior debt is available at a discount, then the subordinated debt is 
impaired to a greater extent.  Greenlight thinks that when the subordinated debt can 
be purchased at a discount, then the remaining subordinated debt should be marked to 
the same level and the equity impaired.  Separately, Greenlight has heard from private 
equity industry sources that United Pet Group and Polaris Pool Systems are problem 
credits. 


 
After Mr. Einhorn criticized this practice, Mr. Walton on the May 16th 


conference call replied,  
 
“There’s been a couple of portfolios where people have chosen to 
go out of the business and as we’ve said repeatedly, our business is 
that of mezzanine investments with a long term illiquid asset class 
and when people need to engage in a fire sale of assets, those are 
typically traded at a discount and last quarter we purchased some 
sub-debt at a discount.  And that was simply because of the fire 
sale phenomenon.  It had nothing to do with the credit quality of 
the companies whose debt we were buying.  In fact, it was a huge 
opportunity for us and very good for the shareholders.  Now in 
cases where we were buying down senior debt where we have a 
subordinated debt investment, we recapitalize the business and 
write down the subordinated debt appropriately to reflect the 
overall value of the business.  So it’s not a question of us buying 
down senior debt at a discount and leaving the sub-debt in place at 
its previous structure and value.  That simply does not happen.” 


 16
Greenlight cannot reconcile Mr. Walton’s statement with the purchase of the 


senior MVL debt.  Greenlight sees no sign of a recapitalization at MVL.  Further, it 
seems that this management team is very quick to determine that markets are thin, 
quotations are not available and prices are fire sale. 


 
• Point 7—Cooper Natural Resources 


 
In the third quarter of 2001 Allied did a recapitalization of Cooper Natural 


Resources.  $3,724,000 of debt securities carried at cost became $1,686,000 of debt 
securities, $1,427,000 of preferred stock and $832,000 of warrants.  As the total cost 
basis and carrying value both increased by $222,100, it appears that Allied either 
accrued non-cash interest or advanced additional funds to Cooper Natural Resources.  
According to Ms. Roll, this was done to make the capital structure make more sense 
to the senior lender, as the company was performing below plan. 


 
Greenlight does not understand how debt securities that have to be partially 


equitized due to below plan operating performance can have a fair value of cost. 
 


• Point 8—The CMBS portfolio 
 


Allied owns around $700 million in commercial mortgage backed securities 
(CMBS).    According to the financial statements, Allied holds the CMBS at fair 
value.  However, on the May 29th conference call, Ms. Sweeney said that Allied 
carries the CMBS at “amortized cost.”  Greenlight questions whether amortized cost 
is the same as fair value.   


 
Greenlight has spoken with industry participants.  One participant questioned 


Allied’s use of a single loss assumption.  Allied assumes that all CMBS will suffer 
loss of 1% spread evenly between years 3,6 and 9.  According to him, it is more 
appropriate to make loss assumptions on a loan-by-loan basis.  The industry 
participant estimated that portfolios held by Allied would more likely suffer losses in 
the 2-3% range.  If so, this would have an enormous impact on Allied’s CMBS 
portfolio value.   


 
Greenlight thinks these examples speak loudly.  Allied is required under the 


Investment Company Act of 1940 to mark its portfolio to “fair value.”  For Velocita, 
Startec and Loewen it appears that Allied violated its own policy as stated in its 10-K: 
“The value of investments in public securities is determined using quoted market prices, 
discounted for illiquidity or restrictions on resale.”18  


 
Greenlight questions whether it is appropriate to carry investments above market 


value.  Management has responded on the conference call that it should not have to carry 
its investments at “fire sale” prices.  However, in some cases, Allied appears to have 
carried investments above the market price for several quarters in a row.  This suggests 
                                                 
18  Allied Capital Corporation 2001 Annual Report, p.18. 


 17
that the market prices with which Allied disagreed were not fire sale levels.  To 
Greenlight, the market price is the market price.  If the market price is too low, it will 
eventually improve, and then the investment can be written back up.   


 
One sell side analyst from one of Allied’s underwriters defending Allied has 


written, that “The nuance here is that Allied is required to mark to long term value, not 
mark to market.”19  Greenlight believes that this is inconsistent with Allied’s stated policy 
quoted above and the Investment Company Act of 1940.  


 
If Allied believes its portfolio markings in these instances were justifiable at the 


time, Greenlight invites them to publicly disclose the contemporaneous analysis they 
performed.  Inasmuch as Velocita, Startec and Loewen are public companies with fully 
disclosed public data and NetTel is defunct, it is hard to see how disclosure of Allied’s 
analysis could harm its investees.  In Greenlight’s estimation, disclosure is required to 
restore management’s credibility.   


 
Greenlight wonders whether the examples identified are isolated or part of a 


broader problem.  Unfortunately for investors, little information is available on many of 
Allied’s private investments.  Greenlight has identified 35% of Allied’s specialty finance 
portfolio that Greenlight believes may be carried above fair value.   


 
Greenlight believes the burden is now on Allied’s management to disclose enough 


information about its entire portfolio to demonstrate affirmatively that the anecdotes 
described above are isolated.  As Mr. Walton said during the May 16th conference call, 
“We’re committed to transparency and full disclosure.”  Greenlight awaits further 
disclosure. 


 
Systematic Valuation Concerns: 


 
Greenlight is also critical of certain valuation methodologies that appear to 


permeate entire sections of Allied’s portfolio. 
 
The Whole Portfolio 
 
The entire market for middle market loans has deteriorated.  Allied has not taken 


adjustment to its portfolio value to reflect the changed market.  According to Mr. Walton 
on the May 29th conference call,  


 
“In today’s senior loan environment we are seeing sales as well as 
discounts that are clearly in the money.  What we believe is that 
some banks have changed their policies about things like 
acceptable senior leverage ratios.  Three years ago, banks were 
generally willing to lend up to 3.5, sometimes 4.5 times EBITDA.  
Now EBITDA as we all know is not a measure of cash flow, but is 


                                                 
19 “Allied Capital Corp. – The Song Remains the Same”, Merrill Lynch Equity Research, May 16, 2002, 
p.2. 


 18
a standard metric use in the industry so we’ll use that for today’s 
discussion purposes.  In any event, banks now want loans in most 
cases no more than 2 to 2.5 times EBITDA, at most 3.  Some 
banks are selling loans that are above these ratios and because 
there’s no liquid market, which we’ve talked about in the past, 
they’re forced to take a discount.” 


 
It seems that Allied recognizes the market has changed, but believes that every 


sale is a “fire sale.” 
 
According to the JP Morgan 2001 High-Yield Annual Review, spreads on high 


yield bonds have widened over the past few years.  Within high yield, lower grade bond 
spreads have widened more than higher grade bond spreads and non-cash paying bond 
spreads have widened versus cash paying bond spreads.20  This suggest that the values of 
investments in Allied’s portfolio have probably fallen. 


 
  Greenlight believes that Allied’s entire portfolio should be marked to reflect the 


deterioration in the current value of middle market investments in the current 
environment. 


 
Monitored Loans 
 
Loans rated 3 are on Allied’s monitor list.  According to Allied, companies on the 


monitor list are probably performing below plan and may have tripped financial or other 
covenants.  They may have even stopped paying interest temporarily.  However, no 
permanent loss of interest or principal is expected.  Allied carries such monitor list loans 
at cost.   


 
Greenlight asked the company why Grade 3 loans were not written down.  


Greenlight asked why a loan is not worth less that it was worth on the day it was 
underwritten, given the deterioration.   


 
According to Ms. Sparrow,  “Investments are marked down only when we believe 


that there has been a permanent impairment of the value.  Once we mark it down we 
don’t believe we will recover the investment.”21 


 
Greenlight understands the definitions, and cannot change the company’s beliefs.  


However, Greenlight does not believe permanent impairment of value is an appropriate 
standard for measuring fair value.  The company’s accounting treatment seems 
inconsistent with the notion of fair value as defined by the SEC.   


 
In Greenlight’s experience, when a credit underperforms, even if Greenlight 


thinks it will pay all its interest and principal, spreads widen and debt instruments issued 


                                                 
20 J.P. Morgan “2001 Annual High-Yield Review,” p. 19. 
21 Greenlight Capital spoke to Ms. Sparrow on April 24, 2002 to discuss Allied Capital, its investments and 
its valuation methodology.  


 19
at par become worth 95% or 90% of par or less.  This does not seem to happen at Allied, 
where monitor list loans continue to be marked at cost. 


 
Impaired Loans 
 
Loans rated 4 mean that Allied expects to lose some contractual interest but no 


principal.  These loans are considered non-accrual.  As for the carrying value of these 
loans, according to the May 29th conference call, “It depends on the asset, but most of 
those would be carried at original cost.”  Greenlight does not believe that it is appropriate 
to carry non-accruing loans at a fair value of original cost.    


 
 Loans rated 5 mean that the principal is impaired.  These loans appear to get 


written down to the value Allied expects to eventually recover.  According to Mr. Walton 
on the May 29th call, “We write loans down to the amount that we believe we will collect.  
We record unrealized depreciation to show shareholders what we think has been lost.” 


 
According to Ms. Sparrow, “There is no time limit on our investments…we could 


keep them at some level of value as long as something is being done to try and recover 
the investment.”22 


 
Allied makes a big deal that its realized gains exceed its realized losses.  


Greenlight wonders whether the no time limit policy is appropriate for charge-offs.  This 
leads to an enormous selection bias in this line item.  If they can try collecting for a long 
time, charge-offs are unreasonably delayed.  Perhaps, when a loan is permanently 
impaired the amount of the impairment should be recognized as a charge-off or a realized 
loss.  Greenlight believes that Allied may be using the tax definition rather than the 
GAAP definition of realized losses. Greenlight estimates that Allied has deferred over 
$65 million in charge-offs by not following this method. 


 
Allied cites this as a positive benefit of their structure compared to a bank that has 


to recognize charge-offs to satisfy regulators.  During conversations with Allied’s 
management, Greenlight asked for an example of an investment where the company’s 
patience paid off.  Neither Ms. Sparrow nor Ms. Roll could cite a single loan in the last 
three years where Allied had carried the loan at a discount, were patient, and eventually 
got an improved recovery.   


 
Greenlight believes that when a mezzanine loan to a middle market company 


becomes impaired, its fair value should be discounted from the eventual recovery value at 
a relatively high rate to compensate for both the time value of money and the inherent 
risk of achieving a recovery in such a difficult situation.  Allied appears not to perform its 
valuation analysis in this fashion.  Instead, Allied apparently carries the loan at the 
amount it expects to ultimately recover in the future.   


 
Greenlight has evaluated Allied’s impaired loans.  Greenlight observes that initial 


impairments are often followed by additional impairments.  Greenlight finds very little 
                                                 
22 Ibid. 


 20
evidence to suggest Allied recaptures an appropriate risk-adjusted, net present value 
discount on impaired loans, let alone an actual improved recovery. 


 
Problems With Allied’s Earnings’ Quality: 


 
Greenlight criticizes Allied’s quality of earnings with respect to two additional 


areas:  (1) controlled investment fees and interest and (2) non-cash interest and dividends. 
 


Controlled Investments 
 
In ordinary GAAP accounting, as applied to operating businesses, when one owns 


the majority of a company, results must be consolidated.  Transactions between parent 
companies and controlled subsidiaries are called “intra-company” and are eliminated in 
the consolidation.   


 
In Allied’s RIC accounting, controlled investments are not consolidated, and 


intra-company transactions are not eliminated from consolidated results.  The creation of 
these wholly controlled investments is a relatively recent practice for Allied.  Allied 
provides services and charges fees (for investment banking and the like) to its controlled 
investments.  In 1999, when Allied had no controlled investments, it recorded fee income 
of $6 million, flat with 1998’s fee income.  In 2000, fee income grew to $13 million.  
Last year, fee income on the income statement was $46 million.  According to Ms. Roll, 
$29 million of the fees came from controlled investments.  As non- controlled companies 
seem much less willing to hire Allied to perform services on similar terms, Greenlight 
wonders whether these fees are arms-length transactions for competitive services at 
competitive prices. 


 
Business Loan Express 
 
Business Loan Express (BLX) is the second largest small business lending 


company in the United States.  It is Allied’s largest investment.  Thirteen percent of 
Allied’s specialty finance portfolio is invested in BLX.  Allied acquired the predecessor 
entity to BLX in an all-stock transaction at a 3.6 times multiple of book value in 
December 2000.  The transaction was accomplished at a 60-80% premium to the trading 
value of Business Loan Financial (the predecessor entity).  SBA lenders typically are sold 
at modest premiums to book value. The premiums paid are typically for the value of the 
license.  Allied already owned an SBA license through its own small business lending 
entity called Allied Capital Express.   


 
Subsequent to the acquisition, Allied contributed its 100% ownership interest in 


Allied Capital Express for preferred stock of the newly formed BLX.  The valuation of 
Allied Capital Express is not disclosed.  At the end of the transaction, BLX is owned 94% 
by Allied with Allied holding subordinate debt, preferred stock and common stock.  
Allied also guarantees 50% of BLX’s third party debt. 





 21
Greenlight believes there is little economic substance to the various tranches of 
securities owned by Allied in BLX because Allied effectively owns nearly 100% of the 
upside and 100% of the downside.  By carving out their economic interest in mezzanine 
debt and preferred stock, Allied is able to generate a "return" on its investment that likely 
substantially exceeds the economic earnings the business generates.  At a price of 3.5 
times book, Greenlight doubts an SBA lender could generate even a 10% return on 
investment, let alone the 25% BLX is "paying" to Allied for an $80 million loan.  This 
amounts to $20 million of intra-company interest income. 


 
In addition, Allied reduced its general and administrative expense by 


"transferring" 37 employees to BLX which further increased Allied’s reported 
profitability. 


 
In effect, Allied has turned a potential modest generator of earnings, BLX, into a 


huge generator of reported earnings.  If one is a little more circumspect, one could 
conclude that the motivation to the transaction was to get Allied Capital Express off 
balance sheet because of growing losses in its loan portfolio which many SBAs have 
experienced in the last few years.  BLX’s most recent securitization document suggests 
that credit quality has deteriorated.  Total delinquencies grew from 3.5% on June 30, 
1999 to 14.5% on December 31, 2001.23  


 
Greenlight has had discussions with industry insiders who are familiar with BLX's 


securitizations.  Greenlight has been told that approximately 15% of the portfolio is in the 
liquidation phase, meaning that BLX is in the process of trying to recover value through a 
workout and/or asset sales.  Further, BLX’s recent loan pools have performed very 
poorly.  Greenlight has been told that 7% of the original balance of loans originated in 
FY1999 has already been written-off.  The same statistic for FY2000 was approximately 
1.4% with over 10% of the 2000 loan pool in liquidation. Given that the average life of 
SBA loans are 20 years or more, things can only get worse for these particular pools. 


 
There is no disclosure of BLX’s actual financial statements.  It is the ideal on-


balance sheet/off-balance sheet structure.  Greenlight believe BLX is analogous to 
Enron's Raptor.  (i.e., Allied controls BLX through common share ownership.  Allied 
books income for dividends and interest income which BLX finances through cash 
investments and third party loans guaranteed by Allied.  Yet because of the peculiar rules 
of RIC's, Allied does not have to provide any data on the actual economics of BLX). 
 


In Greenlight’s opinion, however, this type of activity, left pocket to right pocket, 
explains why intra-company transactions are eliminated under most accounting systems.  
Moreover, Greenlight does not know of any finance companies like BLX that are able to 
make consistent profits when forced to borrow money at 25%.  On the May 16th 
conference call, Mr. Walton was not able to cite any other third-party companies to which 
Allied charges 25% interest. 


 
                                                 
23 Business Loan Express SBA Loan-Backed Notes Series 2002-1 Preliminary Private Placement 
Memorandum, April 26, 2002, p. 49. 


 22
Mr. Walton attempted to comfort investors on the May 16th conference call by 
highlighting that BLX is performing “above plan.”  Since, in addition to having no 
financial information at all regarding BLX, the public markets do not know what “plan” 
is, it is difficult to assess how much comfort this provides. 


 
On the May 29th conference call management added, “For the nine months ended 


March 31, 2002, BLX made a profit after all expenses, including interest and fees to 
Allied Capital.”  Greenlight has heard that Allied believes that BLX has $50 million of 
EBITDA and is undervalued on Allied’s balance sheet. 


 
Greenlight questions the quality of these earnings, particularly in the absence of 


full financial disclosure.  As BLX is a securitizer of its loans, Greenlight wonders how 
much of its earnings come from low quality gain on sale accounting.  Given Allied’s 
questionable practices for recognizing deterioration in credit, Greenlight wonders 
whether BLX has sufficiently provided for losses in its income statement.  Further, 
Greenlight wonders whether there may be residuals from earlier securitizations that may 
be impaired because BLX probably did not assume delinquencies would reach 14.5% at 
December 31.   


 
Moreover, Greenlight doubts that BLX has improved in value, as its recent credit 


facility could only be obtained through a 50% guarantee of principal from Allied.  In 
Greenlight’s opinion, when an equity sponsor has to guarantee the bank debt the 
investment is a troubled situation. 


  
Business Loan Express’s largest competitor is CIT.  Tyco purchased CIT about 


six months after Allied purchased Business Loan Financial.  Tyco paid a much lower 
multiple of book value that Allied paid.  As the economy has deteriorated, the SEC 
recently forced Tyco to recognize an impairment in the value of CIT.  Greenlight 
wonders whether Business Loan Express has suffered a similar impairment in value that 
has not been recognized by Allied. 


 
Hillman 
 
Another Allied controlled investment, Hillman, has a $40 million loan 


outstanding for which Allied charges a rate at 18%.  This charge is in addition to the fees 
Allied charges Hillman.  Since Hillman has some publicly traded preferred securities, 
Hillman has publicly available financial information.  While Hillman appears to generate 
enough cash to support its interest expense, Hillman reports net losses.  Greenlight 
concludes, therefore, that Hillman is, in effect, drawing down its equity in order to pay 
Allied fees and interest.  Allied does not appear to be reducing its carrying value of 
Hillman’s equity to reflect such drawdowns. 


 
According to the Hillman 2001 form 10-K, in the description of the term loans 


and credit facility, the term loans have a face value of $54.1 million and were estimated 
to have a “fair value” of $41.3 million.24  This means that Allied’s $40 million of 
                                                 
24 The Hillman Companies, Inc. Form 10-K, December 31, 2001, p. 48. 


 23
unsecured subordinated notes and $57 million equity probably do not have a fair value of 
cost, though they are valued at cost on Allied’s books.  


 
In 2001 Allied earned $29 million in fees and at least $27 million in interest from 


controlled companies.  These low quality earnings streams represented almost one-third 
of the $180 million that Allied paid in dividends last year. 


 
PIK Income 


 
Last year, Allied recognized approximately $65 million from non-cash or PIK 


interest and dividends from companies in which it invested.  This figure represents 
another third of Allied’s dividend.  Greenlight does not believe there is anything wrong 
with non-cash interest, provided Allied eventually collects the money and marks its 
portfolio fairly.  For the reasons described above, Greenlight does not think that is 
happening.  However, the non-cash interest creates a cash flow shortfall that must be 
funded.   


 
According to Allied’s 2001 annual report, “As a provider of long-term privately 


negotiated investment capital, it is not atypical to defer payment of principal or interest 
from time to time.  As a result, the amount of the portfolio that is greater than 90 days 
delinquent may vary from quarter to quarter.” 


 
Greenlight wonders whether it is appropriate to carry investments where Allied 


agreed to defer payment of principal or interest at cost.  Greenlight also wonders whether 
it is appropriate to accrue non-cash interest on such loans.   
 
The Problem With Non-Cash Income and Growing The Dividend: 


 
When Ms. Sweeney explained on the May 16th conference call that, as long as the 


cash portion of loans covers Allied’s cost of debt, incremental PIK interest merely 
enhances returns through reinvestment, she misses Greenlight’s point.  Since Allied must 
pay out its earnings as a dividend, cash needs include both interest on Allied's debt and 
Allied’s required dividend.  Since Allied recognized $65 million in non-cash earnings last 
year that it paid out in dividends, Allied had to finance that payment by shrinking the 
portfolio, borrowing money or selling equity.  


 
Allied has pledged to grow its dividend by 10% per year.  To accomplish such 


growth, Allied must increase its Net Asset Value per share at a similar rate.  Since Allied 
cannot retain most of its earnings, its principal means of increasing Net Asset Value per 
share is to periodically sell new shares at a premium. 


 
Greenlight believes this requirement could prove problematic if investors take a 


more critical view toward Allied’s valuation methods and earnings quality.  Should that 
happen, equity investors might stop valuing Allied based on its dividend yield and start 
asking themselves what the portfolio is actually worth.  Should regulators take a critical 
eye toward Allied’s practices, Allied’s ability to raise equity capital could become further 


 24
impaired.  At that point Allied’s lenders may begin to ask themselves how comfortable 
they feel lending to a management that appears to have mismarked its portfolio. 


 
The Problem with the Arthur Andersen Audit Letter: 
 


At the conference, Mr. Einhorn pointed out that Allied’s auditors, Arthur 
Andersen LLP, either would not, could not, or did not feel they were required to provide 
Allied’s Board of Directors and Shareholders in 2001 the following assurance they had 
provided in previous years:  


 
“We have reviewed the procedures used by the Board of 


Directors in arriving at its estimate of value of such investments and 
have inspected underlying documentation, and, in the circumstances, 
we believe the procedures are reasonable and the documentation 
appropriate.” 


 
In response, Ms. Sweeney, Allied’s COO, on a May 16th conference call 


addressing recent market activity said, “the AICPA in 2001 issued a new audit guide for 
investment companies and Allied Capital Corporation is a sub-set of an investment 
company, being a business development company.  The audit guide simply changed the 
language of the standard auditor’s opinion and, as a result, our audit opinion language 
changed.” 


 
On May 22, Merrill Lynch, which was the lead manager of Allied’s last three 


secondary offerings according to Bloomberg, issued a report that attempted to 
substantiate Ms. Sweeney’s claim. 


 
“[W]e have written that we believe these allegations are 


unfounded and uninformed and have attempted to produce as much 
factual rebuttal as possible.  As outlined below, we believe we can 
now factually dismiss the allegation of a less thorough audit…” 


 
  “Prior to 2001, AICPA guidelines instructed auditors to 


include an explanatory paragraph when they found a company’s 
valuation procedures reasonable and acceptable.  Such paragraphs 
appear in ALD’s pre-2001 auditor reports.  This guideline was 
changed in May 2001.  Auditors are now instructed to comment only 
when they find a company’s valuation procedures unacceptable – 
hence the exclusion of the ‘reasonableness’ sentence from ALD’s 
most recent report…” 


 
  “[B]y excluding a comment on the reasonableness of ALD’s 
investment valuation procedures from its 2001 report, the company’s 
auditor was following AICPA guidelines to the letter of the word, 
not tacitly expressing concern.” 





 25
Mr. Walton, Allied’s CEO, stated on the May 16 th  conference call, “There has 
been no change in the scope of the audit.”   


 
Greenlight actually has no way to know whether or not the scope of the audit 


changed.  Despite Mr. Walton’s and Merrill Lynch’s claims, this issue is not central to 
Greenlight’s analysis in any way.  All of Greenlight’s criticisms hold, regardless of what 
Arthur Andersen did/did not do or said/did not say.  In auditing an Investment Company, 
“the accountant does not function as an appraiser and is not expected to substitute his 
judgment for that of the company's directors.”25  It seems that an auditor is not 
responsible to bless the ultimate valuations arrived at by the Board of Directors. 


 
Nonetheless Greenlight has researched this point.  Greenlight asked its auditors to 


investigate the change in language in Allied’s audit opinion. 
 
According to Greenlight’s auditors: 
 


“We contacted the AICPA and consulted with their ‘technical 
hotline’ department, specifically requesting when the guidance on 
this matter may have changed.  The 1996 audit guide included 
examples of audit opinions in paragraphs 9.08 (unqualified opinion).  
9.09 (qualified opinion). The 1997 audit guide paragraph 9.08 was 
an example of a qualified opinion; there was no specific example 
given of an unqualified opinion. 
 
“We were advised that the removal of the unqualified opinion 
example in the May 1997 guide resulted from changes set forth in 
SAS 79 concerning the reporting of uncertainties.  In order to obtain 
additional clarification of this, we obtained the Accounting 
Standards and Financial Reporting Requirements for Small Business 
Investment Companies (effective date 8/3/99).  SBA has modified its 
sample auditors’ report but state that the inclusion of an explanatory 
paragraph is specifically permitted if the auditor considers it 
appropriate (i.e., the paragraph is not required but may be included at 
the discretion of the auditor). [Emphasis added] 
 
“In conclusion, the changes in guidance for auditors on this 
particular matter occurred between 1996 and 1997 and not during 
2001.” 


 
In fact, Merrill Lynch’s own research report acknowledges in a tiny footnote that 


it was comparing the AICPA guide from 1993 to the 2001 guide.   
 
The actual change in the audit guide occurred in 1996/1997.  This cannot explain 


why the 2001 audit letter should be worded differently from the 2000 letter. 
 


                                                 
25 ASR 118. 


 26
Since the additional assurance is at the discretion of the auditor, Greenlight does 
not know why Arthur Andersen changed the language, but Ms. Sweeney’s and Merrill 
Lynch’s explanation are not factually correct. 


 
Greenlight called this matter to the attention of Mr. Hughes, the author of 


Merrill’s report.  While he conceded, “you have more facts than I do,” he suggested that 
rather than admitting the error, “What if we argue that Arthur Andersen changed its 
internal policy on this matter?”  Is his job to analyze and present facts about his 
investment banking client, or make them up? 


  
A week later, Merrill Lynch did publish an admission of its error.  “We were 


mistaken. The audit guide changed in May 1997.”26 
 
Sirrom Capital was a competitor to Allied in the late 1990s.  Its stock eventually 


collapsed under the weight of its poor loans and aggressive valuations.  Greenlight was 
critical of Sirrom Capital at the time. 


 
Sirrom was another client of Arthur Andersen LLP.  At that time, Greenlight 


identified that the language in Sirrom’s audit letter changed in the same way that Allied’s 
has now changed.  In Andersen’s January 12, 1995, letter to Sirrom, Andersen included 
the assurance worded identically as described above.  However, Andersen removed this 
assurance from subsequent Sirrom audit opinions.   


 
On the May 29th conference call, management attempted to blame Arthur 


Andersen.  According to Ms. Sweeney, “When our audit opinion was issued, we inquired 
as to why the language had changed.  We understood, based upon explanation by our 
auditors, that they had simply conformed their opinion language to the new 2001 audit 
guide.  We thought this meant that the guide had changed, thus requiring new opinion 
language.” 


 
This does not explain why Allied sent pages from the 1993 guide to Merrill Lynch 


to assist Merrill in its inquiry. 
 
Now everyone is left to management’s word that they have “asked Andersen if a 


change in opinion language in any way reflected a change at Allied Capital.  Their 
answer is no.”  Greenlight does not know why management did not get Andersen to put 
this reassurance in writing and file it with the SEC. 


 
From Greenlight’s point of view, regardless of whether the scope of the audit has 


changed, whoever approved the Velocita debt and warrant valuations at cost at the end of 
2001 and the other criticized investments and valuation methods did not provide 
appropriate critical scrutiny.   


                                                 
26 “A Conversation with Allied’s Auditor,” Merrill Lynch Equity Research, May 29, 2002. 


 27
