Page 1 of 3	
  





Terms of Service: 


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service.  You agree 
that use of Muddy Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC or any 
affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree 
to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered 
herein.  You represent to Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the 
information, analysis and opinion on this site.  You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this 
report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  If you download 
or receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same 
Terms of Service. 
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any 
security to or from any person through this site or reports on this site.  Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an 
investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of:  (a) an 
investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) 
Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field 
research, inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of our ability and 
belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe 
to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may 
otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as 
is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no representation, express 
or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 
obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion.  All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or 
supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information 
(whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by 
providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters 
research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that 
link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your use of this report and / 
or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of 
California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the 
personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to 
any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy 
Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this 
right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, 
the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the 
provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim 
or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year  
after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.
Page 2 of 3	
  


Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) 
Muddy Waters, LLC 


January 24, 2013 
 


MW Learned from John Hempton how to Catch FMCN in Another Lie 
 


This past September, research that John Hempton of Bronte Capital did on FMCN inspired us to 
do some more work ourselves.  This is the first time we have publicly discussed these findings, 
which provide additional evidence that FMCN is a long-standing fraud. 
 
As we detailed in our initial November 21, 2011 report, we believe FMCN engaged in a series of 
at least 21 acquisitions and disposals in order to produce fraudulent financials.  We saw a number 
of parallels to the Olympus (7733.JP) scandal, except that FMCN was even more brazen in its 
conduct.  In many cases, FMCN impaired the acquisitions to zero, and literally gave them away – 
usually back to the sellers.  In our opinion, the acquisitions were never bona fide – they were 
intended to either round-trip money that would come back in as revenue, or provide an excuse for 
FMCN’s low cash balances relative to its reported operating cash flows.  We also believe that 
FMCN disposed of the companies in order to keep them out of its auditor’s reach.   
 
One of the key findings in our initial report was that the purported acquisitions and disposals of 
six mobile phone advertising companies were frauds.  (See pp. 26-31.)  We had examined the 
corporate registries in China, and it turned out that FMCN never owned the companies.  We 
considered the possibility that FMCN could have purchased these companies through offshore 
indirect holding companies.  (This type of arrangement is called a Variable Interest Entity or 
VIE.)  For reasons we discussed in the initial report, it was clear that these companies were not 
FMCN VIEs. 
 
Yet, FMCN’s response – really the only thing FMCN could say short of a full admission – is that 
it did purchase those companies as VIEs.1  In its response, FMCN disclosed the purported BVI 
holding companies for the mobile phone companies.  Until a September 2012 post by John 
Hempton of Bronte Capital,2 we did no more research on these purported acquisitions because we 
had already established that they never happened.  (GeoInvesting had also called upon FMCN to 
disclose the WFOEs belonging to these BVI companies, which FMCN did not do. 3) 
 
Late last year, Hempton did some research in the BVI – mostly looking at the holding companies 
for other questionable acquisitions and disposals FMCN had undertaken.  He found four FMCN 
acquisitions – all from purportedly unrelated sellers – had been registered by the same corporate 
secretary in the BVI, Overseas Management Co.  As Hempton says, this is quite a coincidence, 
given the number of agents in BVI.   
 
One of Hempton’s Overseas Management discoveries involves Dongguan Yaya, which is also 
one of the mobile phone advertising companies we found FMCN never actually acquired.  As 
Hempton discovered, and we confirmed, the BVI company that FMCN says it acquired in order 
to give it VIE ownership of Yaya, Directvantage Ltd., was registered over four months after the 
acquisition supposedly occurred.  In other words, when FMCN responded to our report by saying 
that Yaya was a VIE controlled by Directvantage Ltd., FMCN was clearly lying.  Again. 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 http://ir.focusmedia.cn/phoenix.zhtml?c=190067&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1634311&highlight=   
2 http://brontecapital.blogspot.com/2012_09_01_archive.html  
3 http://geoinvesting.com/companies/duediligence/fmcn_thehandsetsix12022011.aspx
Page 3 of 3	
  


Picking up the ball from Hempton, we pulled the registration records of the other five purported 
BVI holding companies for the mobile phone companies.  These acquisitions are also all 
supposed to be from unrelated sellers.  However, four of the five companies were also registered 
by Overseas Management.  The complete results are in the table below: 
 


 
 
Including Hempton’s research, that is now eight transactions that FMCN did with purportedly 
unrelated sellers in which Overseas Management registered the BVI companies.   
 
It should be obvious from the body of research MW, Hempton, and others have put forth that 
FMCN has been committing fraud for a long time.  This includes FMCN’s extremely reluctant 
confirmation that it substantially overstated the size of its LCD network.4  FMCN recently 
disclosed that on March 14, 2012, the SEC informed it that the SEC was investigating the 
Company for possible securities law violations.5  Yet, Carlyle is leading a private equity 
consortium to buy FMCN.  The equity sponsors will borrow a significant amount of money to 
buy the company.   
 
We have been asked repeatedly to comment on the LBO and have not done so until now.  For the 
record, we believe that Carlyle and the other sponsors’ investors will experience a significant loss 
on the FMCN transaction if consummated.  Why would the transaction proceed in light of all of 
the issues?  Carlyle has certainly had its problems in China, including China Agritech Inc. (OTC: 
CAGC) and China Forestry Holdings Inc. (0930.HK).  In any event, some things cannot be 
explained – many asked the same question of HP’s acquisition of Autonomy.   
 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
4 FMCN vehemently denied our allegation at first, and even hired two firms to “verify” the size of its LCD 
network.  FMCN eventually conceded that it was counting in excess of 30,500 cardboard posters in order to 
meet its LCD count – see our Feb. 9, 2012 report on FMCN.  
5 SC 13E3 filed on 1/18/12, p. 58.
