Research Highlights


 
We believe shares of InnerWorkings, Inc. (Nasdaq: INWK or “IW”) are grossly overvalued and poised to collapse by as much as 55%. We believe the company is infla ng 


its revenues in viola on of GAAP principles by misapplying gross revenue accoun ng, placing it in viola on of its credit agreement. The SEC has inquired about IW’s 


gross  revenue  treatment, and we believe management’s  response was  incomplete and/or misleading. We note  that Groupon  (Nasdaq: GRPN) – which has many 


connec ons with IW, including a common cofounder, former board members, and the same auditor in Ernst & Young, Chicago – violated GAAP principles in the same 


way and was forced to restate its revenues. Similarly, we believe IW will be forced to restate its historical financial results. Furthermore, IW shares many of the same 


bad quali es we profiled  in our previous reports on The Ac ve Network (Nasdaq: ACTV or “Ac ve”) and Boulder Brands (Nasdaq: BDBD or “Boulder”). Similar to 


Ac ve, we note IW was also formed through dozens of ques onable acquisi ons – but IW structures them with opaque con ngent payment terms that ar ficially boost 


EBITDA and EPS, even when its deals fail! To be clear, we believe IW has been able to inflate its EBITDA and EPS by conver ng acquisi on earn‐out payables to earnings. 


Similar to Boulder, where we spo ed prior failures of management and trouble at the Board level with numerous departures, we note that IW had 4 out of its 7 board 


members either resign or decide not to run for reelec on in 2012. Follow the $$: IW’s gross margins and free cash flow have been declining for several years, and its 


CEO began selling stock just weeks a er announcing an expanded rela onship with its biggest customer!  We believe IW’s financial statements fail to reflect its true 


financial condi on, that management is misrepresen ng IW’s growth prospects, and that IW’s stock has an intrinsic value today of $5.00/share. 


Disclaimer: This research report expresses Prescience Point LLC’s opinions. Use of the research produced by Prescience Point LLC is at your own risk. This is a short‐biased report and you should assume the author of this report and its clients 


and/or investors hold a short posi on and deriva ves  ed to the security of InnerWorkings, Inc. that will benefit from a decline in the price of the common stock. Following publica on of the report, the author (including members, partners, 


affiliates,  employees,  and/or  consultants)  along  with  its  clients  and/or  investors  intend  to  con nue  transac ng  in  the  securi es  covered  therein,  and  may  be  long,  short,  or  neutral  at  any  me  herea er  regardless  of  the  ini al 


recommenda on.  The author of this report has obtained all informa on contained herein from sources believed to be accurate and reliable and has included references where available and prac cal. However, such informa on is presented 


“as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. The author of this report makes no representa on, express or implied, as to the accuracy,  meliness, or completeness of any such informa on or with regard to the results to 


be obtained from its use. Forward looking statement and projec ons are inherently suscep ble to uncertainty and involve many risks (known and unknown) that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. All expressions 


of opinion are subject to change without no ce, and the author does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the informa on contained herein. Prescience Point LLC is not a broker/dealer or financial advisor and nothing 


contained herein should be construed as an offer or solicita on to buy or sell any investment or security men oned in this report. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to 


securi es covered herein,  including, but not  limited to,  the suitability of any transac on to your risk tolerance and  investment objec ves and consult your own tax, financial and  legal experts as warranted. READ THE  IMPORTANT LEGAL 


DISCLAIMER ON THE NEXT PAGE. 


IW appears to be Infla ng its Revenues and Misleading both the SEC and Investors  


 At the heart of IW’s revenue shenanigans are its misapplication of gross vs. net accounting. We have reviewed its 
customer and supplier agreements, and conclude IW’s revenue recognition policy is a blatant violation of GAAP principles


as corroborated by a 3rd party accounting expert. IW bears no inventory risk as it never takes title to goods, and makes 


suppliers provide a full warranty for its products. This directly calls into question if IW is the “primary obligor” in the 


transaction and carries “inventory risk,” which are foundations of its argument for applying gross revenue accounting. 


 The SEC already issued a comment letter in Oct. 2012 which questioned, among other things, the company’s use of gross 
revenue accounting. Our findings will be of interest to both the SEC and IW’s creditors. IW has borrowed money from 


banks on the basis of its financials being stated in accordance with GAAP, which, based on our research, is not the case. 


IW Mischaracterizes its Market Opportunity and Uses Murky Accoun ng for its Acquisi on Roll‐up Strategy 


 IW lures investors with its “huge” opportunity to crack the “$500bn” printing market. We believe IW’s addressable 
market figures are as inflated as its revenues and neglect to consider the impact of print capacity. 


 Most of IW’s revenue has been acquired through aggressive deal structures that contain little upfront cash payments, 
and earn‐outs paid over 3‐4yrs to retain and motivate owners/salesmen. This allows IW to artificially boost current 


earnings, by moving significant deal costs away from the income statement and deferring them into future periods 


through the cash flow statement. Furthermore, IW can manipulate its earnings by setting targets very high and booking 


income for failing to achieve targets. IW’s deals are becoming more desperate as evidenced by the acquisition of 


Productions Graphics, a European firm of questionable quality acquired in late 2011, that already is struggling. 


Follow the Money:  IW’s Financial State Looks Increasingly Fragile 


 Looking beyond IW’s above market revenue growth, we find a company with declining gross margins and free cash flow. 
IW just lost business from its largest customer, yet the CEO began selling stock a few weeks after IW announced an 


“expanded” relationship with the same customer. Where there’s smoke, there’s fire. IW had two directors resign  


and two decide not to run for reelection in 2012 (3 were on the audit committee). 


IW’s Founder Has a History of Over‐Promising and Under‐Delivering to Shareholders 


 IW’s founders have used the same playbook of over‐promising their ability to disrupt a big market opportunity with a 
proprietary technology in the past.  As detailed previously by both Barron’s and Fortune articles, IW’s founder Eric 


Lefkofsky (also a co‐founder of Groupon) has a history of burning investors with failed expectations. One of his prior 


ventures, Starbelly.com, promised to transform the apparel industry, but rapidly went into bankruptcy. Fraud lawsuits 


followed claiming its software never worked as promised. Ironically, IW touted its PPM4 technology, which has been 


quietly swept under the rug. However, a recently disclosed patent lawsuit could cost the company up to $56m. 


Sell‐Side Analysts Are Seeing None of These Major Issues and Incorrectly Valuing IW’s Stock  


 Sell‐side analysts incorrectly believe IW’s stock price is worth $16.00, indica ng 45% upside. They are incorrectly 
evalua ng IW’s revenue growth and market opportuni es, and overlooking the numerous red flags we will highlight. 


 Given these risks, we believe IW should be valued closer to its commercial prin ng/diversified business products and 
services peers at 8‐12x 2013 earnings and 5x‐7x 2013 EBITDA, which would result in a stock price closer to $5.00/share. 


InnerWorkings, Inc. | Nasdaq: INWK 


Conclusion:        Strong Sell 


Current Price:           $11.00 


Price Target:             $5.00 


Downside:              ~55% 


 


Ticker:               INWK 


Exchange:            Nasdaq 


Basic shares o/s             50.7 


Op ons/RSUs                    2.7 


Fully Dil. Shares            53.3 


Market Cap:         $586.6 


Unrestricted Cash:       $17.2 


Current Debt:          $65.0 


Enterprise Value:      $634.4 


Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 


$ in millions 


Street Est.    2012A  2013E  2014E    


Sales               $797   $917   $1,070 


Adj. EBITDA     $45     $50       $66 


Adj. EPS        $0.37  $0.49    $0.65 


 


Valua on      2012E  2013E  2014E  


EV/Sales          0.8x     0.7x      0.6x 


EV/EBITDA     14.0x   12.6x    9.6x 


P/EPS              30.0x   22.7x  17.1x 


P/Tg. Book      NM 


 
 


April 30, 2013
www.presciencepoint.com 
3 


Legal Disclaimer: 


This research report expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are based upon publicly 


available information, and all of which are set out in this research report.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete 


loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible 


loss or gain. Any information contained in this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, and projections.  You should 


assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Prescience Point LLC’s 


control.  This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Prescience Point LLC’s research is at your own risk.  You 


should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. 





You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point LLC (possibly along with or through our 


members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks 


(and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without limitation InnerWorkings Inc. (“IW” or “IWNK”), 


and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any report or 


letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter 


regardless of our initial recommendation.  





This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 


jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  Prescience Point LLC is not registered as 


an investment advisor. 





To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to 


state material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources 


we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise 


owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of 


information to Prescience Point LLC.  However, Prescience Point LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the 


possession of InnerWorkings, Inc. or other insiders of InnerWorkings, Inc. that has not been publicly disclosed by InnerWorkings, Inc. 


Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  Prescience 


Point LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or 


with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.
www.presciencepoint.com 
4 


Table of Contents 
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................................................................5 


InnerWorkings’ Financials Are “Grossly” Misleading ........................................................................................................6 


IW’s Revenue Recognition Policy Violates GAAP Principles, Overstates Revenue ................................................................... 6 


All Aboard the Hype Train! IW May Be Mischaracterizing and Overstating its Market Opportunity .................................... 10 


Questionable Roll-up Strategy and Potential Problems with Contingent Payment Accounting ............................................ 13 


Many Other Red Flag Clues That IW’s Revenues Don’t Add-Up ............................................................................................ 16 


Follow the Money: Deteriorating Margins, No Cash Flow, Increased Borrowing, and Insider Sales ..................................... 20 


Misaligned Incentives:  Egregious Management Awards tied to Revenue and EBITDA Inflation .......................................... 21 


The Inner Workings of InnerWorkings:  All Guts, No Glory ............................................................................................. 22 


Background on InnerWorkings Today .................................................................................................................................... 22 


Chasing “Huge Opportunities” With Allegedly Misleading Claims of “Proprietary Technology” .......................................... 23 


What Happened to IW’s Proprietary, Industry-Changing PPM4 Technology? ....................................................................... 25 


Competition Stiffening Just as Barriers to Entry… Disappear?............................................................................................... 26 


Management Churn and Rapid Director Departures in 2012 Should Be a Concern For Investors ........................................ 27 


Related Party Dealings and Other Governance Concerns...................................................................................................... 28 


IW Has Fooled Analysts Into Thinking There’s 45% Upside In the Stock .......................................................................... 30 


IW Has Canvased the Street to Find Some Supporting Analysts ............................................................................................ 30 


Our Valuation Incorporates a Realistic View of IW’s Business Model ................................................................................... 30 


Price Target and Conclusion ................................................................................................................................................... 32 


Appendix I:  IW’s 2008 Supplier Contract ....................................................................................................................... 33 


Appendix II:  IW’s 2013 Supplier Contract ...................................................................................................................... 34 


Appendix III:  IW’s Recent Customer Quotation and Terms and Conditions ..................................................................... 36 


Appendix IV:  Terms and Conditions (From Customer Credit Extension Agreement) ........................................................ 38 


Appendix V:   IW’s New Enterprise Client Press Releases and Disclosures ....................................................................... 39 


Appendix VI:   IW’s Quotes on “Huge” Market Opportunity ........................................................................................... 40 


Appendix VII:  IW’s Trading Comparables ...................................................................................................................... 42
www.presciencepoint.com 
5 


Executive Summary 
 


We believe shares of InnerWorkings, Inc. (Nasdaq: INWK or “IW”) are grossly overvalued and poised to collapse by as much as 55%. We believe the 


company is inflating its revenues in violation of GAAP principles by misapplying gross revenue accounting, placing it in violation of its credit agreement. 


The SEC has inquired about IW’s gross revenue treatment, and we believe management’s response was incomplete and/or misleading. We note that 


Groupon (Nasdaq: GRPN) – which has many connections with IW, including a common cofounder, former board members, and the same auditor in Ernst 


& Young, Chicago – violated GAAP principles in the same way and was forced to restate its revenues. Similarly, we believe IW will be forced to restate its 


historical financial results. Furthermore, IW shares many of the same bad qualities we profiled in our previous reports on The Active Network (Nasdaq: 


ACTV or “Active”) and Boulder Brands (Nasdaq: BDBD or “Boulder”). Similar to Active, we note IW was also formed through dozens of questionable 


acquisitions – but IW structures them with opaque contingent payment terms that artificially boost EBITDA and EPS, even when its deals fail! To be clear, 


we believe IW has been able to inflate its EBITDA and EPS by converting acquisition earn-out payables to earnings.  Similar to Boulder, where we spotted 


prior failures of management and trouble at the Board level with numerous departures, we note that IW had 4 out of its 7 board members either resign 


or decide not to run for reelection in 2012. IW also appears to be overstating its revenue opportunity: our research shows that IW has penetrated 25% 


of its North American market opportunity (80% of revenue), while having claimed a penetration rate <1% – a harbinger of waning organic growth. Follow 


the $$: IW’s gross margins and free cash flow have been declining for several years and its CEO is selling stock!   





Given our concerns that IW’s financials fail to represent the company’s true financial condition, that it will be forced to restate its historical financials, 


that its true prospects are obscured by management over-promotion, and that it should be valued closer to its commercial printing/diversified 


business products and services peers, we believe IW’s stock has an intrinsic value today of $5.00 per share, ~55% below current levels. 





In this report, we detail numerous red flags that warrant investors to peer beyond the headline revenue and earnings growth numbers, including: 
 


 IW lures investors with its “huge” opportunity to crack the “$500bn” global printing market. We believe IW is both mischaracterizing the market 


opportunity and its revenues. IW persistently touts its revenue growth, which has largely been achieved through an opaque and aggressive 


roll-up strategy that uses accounting tricks to defer costs to future periods, while artificially boosting current EBITDA and EPS. 


 At the heart of IW’s revenue shenanigans are its misapplication of gross vs. net accounting. We have had its customer and supplier documents 


reviewed by a 3rd party accounting expert, and conclude IW is blatantly violating GAAP. IW has no inventory risk as it never takes title to goods, 


and makes suppliers provide a full warranty for its products. This directly calls into question if IW is the “primary obligor” in the transaction 


and carries “inventory risk,” which are foundations of their argument for applying gross revenue accounting. 


 The SEC is already hot on IW’s tail and issued a comment letter in October 2012 which questioned, among other things, the company’s use of 


gross revenue accounting. Our findings will be of interest to both the SEC and IW’s creditors. IW has borrowed money from banks on the basis 


of its financials being stated in accordance with GAAP. Our results imply it is currently violating its credit terms. 


 We believe that behind all the charades, IW is clearly struggling, and not growing nearly as fast as it is reporting. IW recently announced the 


loss of a major source of revenue from SuperValu, its largest enterprise customer. However, we believe IW’s problems are worse than 


advertised, and likely started years ago. IW’s gross margins are continually declining and cash from operations has been stagnate for at least 5 


years. Furthermore, the company has artificially created much of its cash flow by squeezing terms to its suppliers. Adjusting its cash flow for 


capex and contingent payment requirements, we will illustrate that IW is nothing more than a money losing operation. 


 As an additional indication that IW’s domestic growth is not as advertised, we note that the company expanded into Europe through the 


acquisition of Production Graphics in 2011. IW made aggressive use of an earn-out to acquire this terrible business, which has allowed it to 


keep costs from appearing on its income statement, while booking income as the aggressive earn-out targets are not achieved.  


 Investors should have been spooked in 2012 when two directors resigned, while two others decided not to stand for reelection. Three of these 


directors served on the company’s audit committee. However, IW’s stock price continued to march higher without much thought behind these 


departures, or why the company mysteriously increased the size of its credit facility in April 2012 by 50% to $150 million. Abrupt director 


resignations aren’t our only governance concerns. We will illustrate egregious management salaries, and several related-party transactions 


with other Nasdaq listed companies such as Echo Logistics (“ECHO”) and Groupon pointing to a web of inaccuracies.   


 IW’s founders have used the same playbook of over-promising their ability to disrupt a big market opportunity with a proprietary technology.   


As detailed previously by both Barron’s and Fortune articles, IW’s founder Eric Lefkofsky (also a co-founder of Groupon) has a history of 


burning investors with failed expectations. One of his prior ventures, Starbelly.com, promised to transform the apparel industry, but rapidly 


went into bankruptcy, and incited fraud lawsuits claiming its software never worked as promised. Ironically, IW touted its PP4M technology, 


which has been quietly swept under the rug. However, a remaining patent lawsuit could cripple IW’s financial condition. 


 IW has worked hard to convince sell-side analysts that it is a revenue growth machine, worthy of a higher stock price. We note that IW has 


presented at no less than thirteen different broker-hosted investment conferences in the past few years. Their hard work has paid off, with 


four brokers claiming IW is a “Buy” with 45% upside from the current price. 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000000000012059118/filename1.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420410041947/v192181_ex10-1.htm

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=756921

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=617544

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024152/v310534_8k.htm

http://online.barrons.com/article/SB116864725853275703.html

http://tech.fortune.cnn.com/2011/06/10/groupon-eric-lefkofsky/
www.presciencepoint.com 
6 


InnerWorkings’ Financials Are “Grossly” Misleading 
 
Since being founded in 2002, IW has reportedly grown its revenues at a blistering pace, and is now guiding investors to expect nearly 


$915m of global revenues in 2013, while still having a “huge” global market opportunity of $505bn. Since inception, the company has 


reported a revenue compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 61.3%, which has been achieved through a combination of acquisitions 


and large enterprise contract wins. The charts below are taken from IW’s current investor presentation. The “Revenue Momentum” slide 


is conveniently and prominently placed at the beginning of the document for investors to see their success growing revenue. The 


“Revenue Guidance Build” illustrates that a substantial majority of IW’s growth in 2013 will come from “New Global Enterprise Growth.” 


We note these slides were made before the company cut its 2013 guidance due to a loss of business from its largest customer. 





In the following sections we will deconstruct IW’s financial model, and expose, what we believe, are significant problems with IW’s 


reported revenue. We will closely scrutinize IW’s revenue recognition policies, which the SEC began questioning in October 2012. We 


believe the company’s responses are inadequate, and have provided documentary evidence to suggest that IW has dramatically 


overstated its revenues. We believe IW has also dramatically inflated its market opportunity, which is nowhere close to $500 billion, and 


substantially understated its competition.  We will illustrate that IW has been built on a shaky foundation of exaggerated market 


opportunity, overstated revenues, opaque acquisitions and shaky contract wins. We will follow IW’s money trail and piece together 


various clues to suggest holes are being plugged in a sinking ship. IW’s management is reaping enormous compensation boosting its 


revenues and EBITDA while gross margins and cash flow decline. However, IW has had no issues quietly going back to its bankers and 


asking for more credit. The pressure appears to have gotten too high for its Board to handle. In 2012 four out of seven members either 


resigned or did not stand for reelection. Three members sat on the Audit Committee. Finally, in early 2013, IW announced an abrupt 


modification of a contract with its largest customer, yet its CEO started selling stock just after the contract was first announced.  





IW’s Revenue Recognition Policy Violates GAAP Principles, Overstates Revenue 
 


We are not the only skeptics of IW’s reported revenue growth. In October 2012, the SEC issued a comment letter that asked for 


expanded disclosures, and justification for IW’s revenue recognition. In particular, the SEC asked for a detailed analysis of how 


management evaluated each of the criteria for determining gross versus net revenue reporting under ASC 605-45-45. For a concise 


summary of relevant gross vs. net revenue conditions, please see Grant Thornton’s Revenue Recognition Guide (page 184).  


Our readers will recall that Groupon, a company with significant ties to IW’s founder and Board, was forced to restate its revenues after 


it liberally booked gross revenues. The restatement cut their revenues in half! IW uses Ernst & Young (Chicago office) as its auditor, the 


exact same auditor Groupon used to bless its gross revenue accounting. To illustrate the shenanigans being played, consider the 


following example where Groupon sells a $10 coupon for $5 to a customer, and has to remit a certain percentage to its merchants. 


Groupon was booking the full $5 as revenue, even though a certain percentage of that would have to be paid to its merchant partners as 


a cost of good sold. The merchants are fully responsible for fulfilling the coupon, not Groupon, so it is not a primary obligor of the 


transaction and never has title or risks/rewards associated with the underlying product/service that the merchant has sold. 



http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/INWK/2399379873x0x545282/BBB694C0-BFAE-418D-8792-BA70C07F0E9E/InnerWorkings_Conference_Presentation.pdf

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=756921

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000000000012059118/filename1.pdf

http://www.grantthornton.com/staticfiles/GTCom/Audit/Assurancepublications/New%20Development%20Summaries/NDS%202010/Revenue-Recognition-2010.pdf

http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903791504576589211214409214.html
www.presciencepoint.com 
7 


We will demonstrate that the situation faced by Groupon and its merchant partners is 100% analogous to IW and its relationships 


with its suppliers. Through its network of more than 10,000 global suppliers, IW offers its customers a range of print, fulfillment and 


logistics services that allows it to procure printed products. At the moment, when a customer order is placed, IW reaches out to its 


supplier network to fulfill the order, and books the entire purchase order amount as revenue.  At the heart of the debate, is whether or 


not IW is a primary obligor, has title and inventory risk, and bears the risks and rewards of its transactions.  


IW’s arguments and response to the SEC is here, and shortly after the SEC issued a follow-up response. IW’s final response to the SEC is 


here. We have pasted the company’s justification for applying gross revenue accounting below and will present our evidence that 


suggests that IW has not been transparent about its business practices. We have underlined areas we want to emphasis in our analysis.  


IW’s Response to SEC Question on Gross Revenue Accounting 
 


We recognize revenue on a gross basis upon delivery to the customer within contract terms in accordance with ASC 605-45-45, 
including transactions where we have arranged for products to be shipped directly from our suppliers to our customers. These 
arrangements allow us to deliver product to our customers without requiring us to physically hold the inventory at our 
warehouses, thereby increasing efficiency and reducing costs. In making this decision, we considered various factors and 
indicators set forth in the guidance provided with the following key indicators supporting a gross revenue reporting treatment: 
 
The Company is the Primary Obligor in the Arrangement 


We are directly responsible to the customer for providing the product or service desired by the customer including order 


fulfillment and incur the risks and rewards as principal in the transaction. Once a customer orders a product, we determine at 


our discretion the best supplier to fulfill the customer order and contract with the supplier directly. Suppliers do not attend our 


sales presentations to clients and potential clients, nor do suppliers participate in our general marketing activities. Accordingly, 


fulfillment obligations are our sole responsibility legally and from our customers’ perspective. Our customers and suppliers do 


not have interaction with each other during the course of a transaction.  Upon fulfillment by the supplier, we are responsible for 


paying the supplier, which is independent of our receipt of payment from our customer. In addition, our contract sales terms 


further support a gross revenue reporting treatment as they are solely between us and our customer, binding us as the primary 


obligor in the arrangement. Furthermore, our customer contracts do not specify a print manufacturer to be used. 


The Company has General Inventory Risk 


We have general inventory risk in our transactions because we are responsible for products which do not meet customer 


specifications or quality standards. We do not have rights to return unsold products to our suppliers, and we do not receive 


inventory price protection from our suppliers. 


The Company has Latitude in Establishing Price 


We have latitude in establishing the sales price directly with the customer based on several economic factors. The supplier does 


not set the contractual terms with our customers. 


The Company has Discretion in Supplier Selection 


We have printer vendors for a product and we have discretion over which printer we select, which is typically based on a 


number of factors including price, service quality, production equipment, capacity and location. 


The Company has Credit Risk 


We assume 100% of all customer credit risk and must pay the amount owed to the supplier regardless of whether the product is 


accepted by our customer or our sales price is fully collected from our customer. 


The Company is Involved in the Determination of Product Specifications 


Our print production managers work closely with our customers to determine their required product specifications. We then 


select, at our discretion, from our supplier network a printer that will allow us to achieve the best economic value and service 


that meet the customer’s needs. 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412060114/filename1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000000000012061929/filename1.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412064021/filename1.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
8 


Our Analysis of IW’s Supplier Contracts indicates that the Suppliers Take All the Risk 


A critical assumption underlying gross revenue accounting is that IW is “the primary obligor” of its transactions and “bears the risks and 


rewards as principal in the transaction.” Based on our review of two of IW’s supplier agreements from 2008 and 2013, we believe the 


company has changed its policies to shift a predominance of the risks to suppliers.  IW claims that it has general inventory risk, does not 


have return rights to suppliers, and does not receive inventory price protection from suppliers. However, our review of the contracts 


indicate new fees imposed on suppliers (an alternative form of price protection), full warranty requirements, and title/risk provisions are 


in place that put substantially all the inventory risk on suppliers. The company appears to force its suppliers to accept this risk until the 


customer pays.  We have provided complete copies of the contracts in Appendix I and II. Key terms and changes from 2008 to 2013 are 


summarized in the table below. 


Key Provision Current Supplier Agreement (2013) Supplier Agreement (2008) Who benefits? 


Fees to suppliers Certification and Technology Fee amounting to 3% 
of total annual invoice 


NONE Increases revenue to INWK and reduces 
their risk; No disclosure of this practice in 
company SEC filings 


Audit Supplier agrees to permit INWK and its designated 
agents to audit Supplier’s compliance with this 
Agreement and any PO, including unannounced on-
site inspections of manufacturing facilities and 
employer-provided housing; reviews of books and 
records including employment files; and private 
interviews with employees.  


NONE New onerous provision placed on suppliers   


Payment Terms 3.5% 10 days, net 60 days 2% 15 days, net 60 days INWK benefits by taking a bigger payment 
discount to suppliers  


Title and Risk Risk of loss and title remain with Supplier until the 
goods arrive at the shipping point specified in the 
purchase order 


Risk of loss and title remain with Supplier until the 
goods arrive at the shipping point specified in the 
purchase order, even if freight is paid by the buyer. 
Also specifies title may pass if accepted by INWK 
into storage (whether owned by supplier or not) 


Substantially the same language except for 
the elimination of the storage provision, 
but makes clear the supplier carries the 
bulk of the risk throughout the process 


Quantity Variation/ 
Substitutions/ 
Transportation 


Specified allowances for “overs/unders” provided 
in each purchase order; no changes without INWK’s 
consent; cost of expedited freight expenses borne 
by supplier 


Specified allowances for “overs/unders” provided 
in each purchase order; no changes without INWK’s 
consent; cost of expedited freight expenses borne 
by supplier 


Substantially the same language. INWK 
receives protections for cost overruns at 
the expense of suppliers  


Warranty Supplier expressly warrants all (i) goods delivered 
under each PO shall be free from defects in 
material and workmanship and of the quality, size, 
and dimensions ordered and (ii) work performed 
under each PO will be in conformity with all plans, 
specifications, and other data incorporated as part 
of the PO.  
 


Supplier expressly warrants all (i) goods delivered 
under this PO to be free from defects in material 
and workmanship and to be of the quality, size and 
dimensions ordered and (ii) work performed under 
this PO to be in conformity with all plans, 
specifications and other data incorporated as part 
of the PO. These express warranties shall not be 
waived by reason of acceptance or payment by 
INWK.  


Substantially the same language. Full 
warranty placed on supplier reduces risk to 
INWK 


Indemnification/ 
Hold Harmless  


Supplier agrees to indemnify, defend and hold 
harmless INWK and its clients from any and all 3rd 
party claims that may result directly or indirectly 
from Supplier’s production or supply of goods and 
services pursuant to a PO or Supplier’s negligence 
or breach of this Agreement 


From and after the date of this PO, the supplier 
agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless 
INWK and its clients from any and all claims, 
regardless or by whom such claim or claims may be 
asserted, for personal injury, including death, or 
property damage or otherwise that may result 
directly or indirectly from the use, possession or 
ownership of the goods or from the services 
provided by supplier pursuant to this PO 


Substantially the same language. Full 
indemnification in favor of INWK 





Our Analysis of IW’s Customer Quote, Terms and Conditions, and Customer Credit Agreement Also Confirms Our Conclusion 


In Appendix III we’ve provided a recent Formal Quotation (“FQ”) from a recent customer inquiry. At the bottom of the FQ, there is a 


reference link to IW’s Terms and Conditions (“T&C”). A copy of the T&C document is also provided in Appendix III.  Under the “Risk of 


Loss” section, it states that “risk of loss shall pass to the Customer F.O.B. Printer’s printing facility.” The “Passage of Title” section states 


further, “Title to finished goods shall pass to Customer upon the earlier of Printer’s delivery to carrier or postal service, or delivery into 


storage, regardless of whether the transport medium or storage facilities are owned and/or operated by Printer.”   


 



http://www.inwk.com/tc/TC.pdf
www.presciencepoint.com 
9 


Both customer and supplier agreements make clear that IW never takes title to the product and, therefore, has no risk of loss. Since the 


suppliers are substantially responsible for fulfilling the orders and taking the risks, it appears that IW cannot claim to be the “primary 


obligor.” The primary obligor condition is the most critical in determining the applicability of gross revenue accounting. Without 


satisfying this condition, IW is in clear violation of GAAP. Lastly, we have provided a copy of the Terms and Conditions listed in the 


company’s Application for Credit in Appendix IV, which can also be accessed via the following link. The company requests that customers 


sign this document for the extension of credit. We note that this document contains slightly different language that gives the 


appearance that IW has risk of loss by saying “Unless shipping has been contracted for directly by Customer, title and risk of loss of 


finished work shall pass to the Customer upon InnerWorkings’ delivery of the Work to the delivery location designated by Customer in the 


Purchase Order.” However, at this point, we’ve clearly illustrated that the suppliers are delivering the work, not IW. 





IW Revised its Revenue Recognition Language in its Recent Annual Report:  Is it Correct?  You be the Judge! 





Revenue Recognition Disclosure (Pre-2012) Revised Revenue Recognition Disclosure  
(2012 Annual Report) 


Revenue is recognized when title transfers, which occurs when the product is 
shipped either from a third party to the customer or shipped directly from our 
warehouse to the customer. Unbilled revenue relates to shipments that have 
been made to customers for which the related account receivable has not yet 
been billed. 
  
In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 605-45-45, 
Revenue Recognition, Principal Agent Considerations and Other Presentation 
Matters, the Company recognizes revenue on a gross basis, as opposed to a net 
basis similar to a commission arrangement, because it bears the risks and 
benefits associated with revenue-generated activities by: (1) acting as a principal 
in the transaction; (2) establishing prices; (3) being responsible for fulfillment of 
the order; (4) taking the risk of loss for collection, delivery and returns; and (5) 
marketing the products, among other things 


We recognize revenue upon meeting all of the following revenue recognition 
criteria, which is typically met upon shipment or delivery of our products to 
customers: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists through our 
customer contracts, (ii) the customer takes title and assumes the risks and 
rewards of ownership which occurs at shipment, (iii) the sales price charged is 
fixed or determinable as evidenced by customer contracts, and (iv) collectability 
is reasonably assured. Unbilled revenue relates to shipments that have been 
made to customers for which the related account receivable has not yet been 
billed. 
  
In accordance with ASC 605-45, Revenue Recognition – Principal Agent 
Considerations, we account for all of our revenue that meet the following criteria 
on a gross basis: (i) we are the primary obligor in the arrangement, (ii) we have 
general inventory risk before the customer order is placed and upon customer 
return, (iii) we have latitude in establishing price, (iv) we have discretion in 
supplier selection from our existing network, and (v) we have credit risk with 
customer payments. Accordingly, all revenue billed to customers which meets 
these criteria is classified as revenue and all corresponding supplier payments are 
classified as cost of goods sold. 
  
We recognize revenue for services provided to our customers which may be 
delivered in conjunction with the procurement of printed materials at the time 
when delivery and customer acceptance occur and all other revenue recognition 
criteria are met. We recognize revenue for services provided on a stand-alone 
basis upon completion of the service. Service revenue has not been material to 
our overall revenue to date. 





Other Points to Consider 


We also note that the SEC comment letter asked IW to separately state revenues and costs of sales for products and services  on the face 


of the income statement in accordance with Rule 5-03(b)(1) of Regulation SX, or explain why it should not be required to do so. In light 


of the clear evidence that IW is now charging “certification and technology” fees to suppliers, we wonder how and where this is being 


accounted for? IW’s response made no mention of this service fee in their SEC response letter. Lastly, we note that the SEC comment 


letter also asked for greater disclosure on other critical accounting policies. We observe that IW used this opportunity to expand its 


discussion of Contingent Purchase Consideration and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We will air our concern about IW’s Contingent 


Consideration accounting more completely later in this report. 





 



http://www.inwk.com/IWCreditApplication.pdf
www.presciencepoint.com 
10 


All Aboard the Hype Train! IW May Be Mischaracterizing and Overstating its Market Opportunity 
 


IW’s management is not only exaggerating and inflating its revenues, but also its potential market opportunity. Just as the revenue 


problem has persisted for years, so has management’s claims that it has a “huge” and “once-in-a-life-time” opportunity in the print 


management industry. The company’s mischaracterization of its market opportunity is directly linked to its false-belief that it should be 


booking revenues as gross, and not on a net basis.   


IW’s management has told investors that its eligible market opportunity is defined by the size of the commercial print markets of the 


geographies in which it operates. So, for example, on IW’s Nov 7, 2007 earnings call – when IW operated exclusively in the US – former 


CEO Steven E. Zuccarini stated, “Our target market opportunity in this $170 billion U.S. printing industry is roughly a $130 to $140 billion 


(downward adjustment presumably due to IW’s limited product offering at the time).” More recently, at a company conference 


presentation on March 11, 2013 – with IW now operating globally – CEO Eric Belcher stated, “We believe our eligible market 


opportunity is about $0.5 trillion,” the amount of revenue generated by the global commercial print markets according to IW’s recently 


filed 10-K.  


We believe IW is patently wrong – and that management is potentially misleading – in claiming its market opportunity is equivalent to 


the size of the entire print market. IW is a broker of print services, not a printer; >75% of the revenue IW generates is pocketed by 


outside affiliates, primarily its suppliers. IW’s egregious misstatements would be tantamount to a securities brokerage firm like Goldman 


Sachs claiming its total market opportunity in equities is the daily value of all stocks that traded in the world, or in the multi-trillions of 


dollars. Clearly, this cannot be true because it only collects pennies on each transaction and cannot have a competitive edge in every 


single market around the world.  


Based on the slide in Figure 1 below, IW claims the size of the market opportunity for its North America segment is $150bn. If we were 


to agree with management that IW’s market opportunity is indeed related to the size of the North American commercial print markets 


and that IW, as a broker, keeps 25% of the price of each transaction, then its market opportunity is only 25% of the size of the print 


market, or $37.5bn (25% of $150bn). But we believe that even this figure vastly overstates IW’s market opportunity. 


Based on the slide in Figure 2 below, only “~2% of all print in North America is currently run through a print management channel,” 


which we understand to mean that only 2% of North American commercial print market revenues are directed toward brokers like IW. 


This requires a further reduction of our estimate of IW’s true market potential, as follows:  If the entire North American print industry 


generates $150bn, and (based on Figure 2) we assume that only 2% of those revenues goes to brokers, IW’s available North American 


market opportunity is only $3bn (2% of $150bn), on a gross basis. Further, if we assume, as we did in the preceding paragraph, that 


brokers as an industry keep 25% of the gross revenues they generate, then IW’s available North American market opportunity is only 


$750m, on a net basis. 


IW management has guided for $915m in 2013 gross revenue. If we assume that 80% is generated in North America, IW will generate 


$732m in gross and ~$183m in net North American revenue, implying it has already penetrated ~25% of its $750m North American 


market opportunity and is likely faced with rapidly waning organic growth in its primary end market (80% of revenue).  In spite of 


management continually claiming having penetrated <1% of an enormous North American market opportunity, the truth is  between the 


lines of the company’s aggressive expansion into Europe in the middle of that continent’s economic depression. 


 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420413012104/v333768_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420413012104/v333768_10k.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
11 


Figure 1: Misguiding Investors by Exaggerating  
Available Market Opportunity? 


Figure 2: Claimed “Huge” Market Opportunity 


                               
Source: InnerWorkings Investor Presentation, 2013 


            
Source: InnerWorkings Investor Day Presentation, Feb 22 2010 





Figure 3: Latest Slide Touts  
“Big Data” Buzz Word 


Source: InnerWorkings Investor Presentation, 2013 





We dug through the company’s conference call transcripts to see if any investors had previously questioned management about 


potentially misunderstanding its own market opportunity.  Specifically, we searched for words related to ‘market opportunity,’ and have 


displayed the results below. We should note that in general, management adores the word ‘opportunity’ (which is said so many times on 


this company’s calls that we chose to ignore it in most instances), and CEO Eric Belcher has a strong tendency to use the word ‘massive’ 


or say the phrase ‘once-in-a-lifetime’ prior to saying ‘market opportunity.’   


We found that the topic had been brought up on most of the company’s calls, but seemingly always by IW management, in conjunction 


with the making of some bold proclamation. They pushed IW’s definition of market opportunity so many times that we wondered if 


there were some concerted effort by management to control that conversation, potentially misguiding investor perceptions about the 


company’s growth prospects.  As a matter of fact they have a tendency to emphasize the enormity of this market opportunity (“$500bn 


global opportunity”), to remind investors that IW has barely begun to penetrate this mammoth opportunity (“We’re actually less than 


1% of what we consider to be just our eligible domestic market opportunity”), that IW is the pioneer in its field with a track record of 



http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/INWK/2399379873x0x545282/BBB694C0-BFAE-418D-8792-BA70C07F0E9E/InnerWorkings_Conference_Presentation.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000119312510036236/dex991.htm

http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/INWK/2399379873x0x545282/BBB694C0-BFAE-418D-8792-BA70C07F0E9E/InnerWorkings_Conference_Presentation.pdf
www.presciencepoint.com 
12 


success and undeniable prospects. Below are some recent promotional quotes by management. In Appendix VI we have a complete 


record of quotes from management tracing back to 2007. 


 
Company Conference Presentation: 3/11/2013 


 Eric Belcher:  Now, we believe we are just getting started. I showed earlier that we delivered almost $800 million in revenue last year. And that is just the 


drop in the bucket versus what we believe is our eligible market opportunity  of about $0.5 trillion. So, what I would like to do is spend a few minutes on our 


growth engines, how we see ourselves penetrating that $500 billion market opportunity  going forward, and then a little bit about our financial performance… 


So, what gets us out of bed in the morning is we all truly believe that we are on top of the once in the lifetime opportunity in our careers. A market of this size 


with a solution this novel, and now a track record as substantial as ours, doesn’t come around every day and we intend to capitalize on it. We think we are 


just getting started. We have grown up a little bit. We have gotten a little bit bigger, but we are still a very, very small company in relation to our aspirations 


and in relation to what we believe the market will allow… the way we look at that $500 billion opportunity is the market opportunity  in front of us mirrors 


the business that we currently have. Meaning we don’t look at it as though we need to expand into any new product categories beyond the ones that we are 


in. And now that we are in every major economy, we believe that’s an eligible $500 billion eligible market opportunity for us. We are not looking at growth 


from the industry overall.  


Analyst/Investor Day: 2/22/2013 


 Eric Belcher:  As we march toward -- if we were to add 2013 on our way to and through a $1 billion and yet stack that chart up, that bar up against 


what we think our eligible market opportunity is, of at least $500 billion a year globally, we wouldn't even see this year's chart, we wouldn't see the 


bar… Now one of the main reasons, aside from the size of the market opportunity  and the fact that we've got, we believe, the solution for the 


future in our space, one of the main reasons why we're so confident in where the business is headed is that we've got a very clear and very simple, 
elegant, I believe, growth strategy. There are 3 pillars to our growth strategy, none of which are untested or have any sort of doubt in our minds, 
create any sort of doubt in our minds, as to whether or not we can successfully implement it… So my last comments before your questions. We are 
thinking big. We view ourselves as a very small company with a huge opportunity in front of us and it's inevitable that the industry is going to 
transform and adopt a solution like ours. What's not obvious or what's not been determined at this stage is who is going to capitalize on that. Is it 
going to be some of the print manufacturers that Andy interacts with? Is it going to be a massive corporation that decides to enter our market in a 
meaningful way or maybe an advertising agency or a BPO consulting firm? Or is it going to be us? And we think, we are right now, with the clear 
leadership in this space, undeniable at this stage, that InnerWorkings is the pioneer. It is the company with the track record, with the momentum. 
It's undeniable at this stage. We need to fight for that every day, but we think this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, for us as a leadership team, 
and we feel that all the way through the company and through our geographies, that we really have found ourselves in a very fortunate space and 
we don't intend to give up on that.  
 





Because InnerWorkings is a print broker, and not a printer, we believe that any discussion of market opportunity is irrelevant absent a 
focus on excess industry capacity, the primary driver of its profitability. According to IW’s own words, it is in the business of capitalizing, 
“on imbalances between supply and demand in the print industry by obtaining favorable pricing terms from suppliers in our network 
with excess capacity.” 1 According to IW’s 10-K, the primary driver of its profitability are the rates its suppliers charge it, not the levels of 
customer spend: “Our profit margin and profitability are largely a function of the rates that our suppliers charge us compared to the 
rates that we charge our clients. If our suppliers increase the price of our print orders, and we are not able to find suitable or alternative 
suppliers, our profit margin may decline.”   


It stands to reason that a direct relationship exists between a supplier’s levels of unused capacity and the prices it charges IW. In its 10-
K, IW states, “We believe that the most competitive prices we obtain from our suppliers are offered by the suppliers with the most 
unused capacity.” Clearly, for InnerWorkings, the more the better: The company’s 2012 10-K states clearly, “Reduced excess capacity in 
the print industry generally, and in our supplier network specifically, could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business 
strategy and on our business results and growth prospects.” 


As such, IW’s business strategy, results, and growth prospects are all dependent on the existence of excess capacity in the commercial 
print industry, and more specifically, on changes in levels of that excess capacity.  IW’s market opportunity is primarily a function of 
capacity utilization in the commercial printing industry NOT how much money is SPENT in the print industry.  If industry capacity 
utilization begins to turn, we can imagine a scenario where IW’s market opportunity begins to shrink in unison with improving levels of 
print spend:  To focus on geographic industry sales levels  – which management pushes investors to do – is likely to leave investors in 
the dust. We guess that from management’s perspective, it’s sexier to sell people on a $100bn+ print market than the company’s 
dependency on a struggling industry that will eventually land on its feet. For the past several years the U.S. commercial print industry 


                                                           
1 InnerWorkings 2012 10-K.
www.presciencepoint.com 
13 


has experienced significant levels of excess capacity.  One must wonder what consequences a post-rationalization industry recovery will 
have bear on this company. 





Print Market Sales in Secular Decline Number of Companies and Employees in Secular Decline 


       Source: NAPL State of the Industry Report, Nov 15 2012  





Questionable Roll-up Strategy and Potential Problems with Contingent Payment Accounting 
 


Time and time again, we’ve found problems with companies that tout their “superior” M&A abilities and a “large fragmented market” as 


justification for undertaking a roll-up strategy. We’ve previously written about The Active Network (ACTV) and Student Transportation 


(STB), as examples of companies that have failed to achieve any synergies or valuation creation to shareholders after completing 40 and 


47 acquisitions, respectively. We believe that both of these companies have gone through great length to obscure their acquisition 


failures through opaque disclosures and murky accounting. 


IW shares many of the same hallmarks of a poorly constructed roll-up. Collectively, they appear to have succeeded in quickly building 


revenue and rewarding management’s bonuses, but have done nothing to accrete free cash flow to shareholders. According to the 


company’s latest investor presentation (slide 20) entitled “Track Record of Success,” IW has completed 29 acquisitions from 2006 – 2012 


with a purchase price > $1 million. The company has paid an average EBITDA of 5.7x, but a realized multiple of 3.9x. IW does not define 


what it considers to be a realized EBITDA multiple.   Overall IW touts a number of impressive sounding statistics and baits investors with 


comments that they have a pipeline of deals consisting of “over 5,000 companies in total” and “over 2,000 that we have had a dialogue 


with in the past.”  


We believe IW has been particularly opaque with their M&A strategy, and may be using aggressive accounting for contingent payment 


(earn-outs) to artificially boost its earnings. In the table below, we’ve analyzed every announced and SEC reported deal by IW. We 


observe that the company has discussed 16 deals since 2006, acquired ~$315m in revenue, and paid ~35% of their total deal values in 


upfront cash payments (note: The investor presentation says average down payment of 50%). In other words, of the $260m of 


announced deals, $170m or ~65% have been structured as contingent payments to be made in future periods (up to 4 years), and 


subject to the acquired company reaching certain milestones. 



http://www.presciencepoint.com/uncategorized/active-network-inc-actv-oct-2012/

http://www.presciencepoint.com/reports/student-transportation/

http://www.presciencepoint.com/reports/student-transportation/

http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/INWK/2399379873x0x545282/BBB694C0-BFAE-418D-8792-BA70C07F0E9E/InnerWorkings_Conference_Presentation.pdf
www.presciencepoint.com 
14 








We believe there are numerous problems here that investors should consider. First, the company does not disclose the exact formulas or 


milestones that drive the contingent payments. In certain instances, the company has disclosed that the target will be EBITDA, revenues, 


or gross profits, but in general we do not know how aggressive or conservative IW is setting the financial targets to be achieved. 


Secondly, investors are not being given a clear picture as to who is receiving the payments (owners, sales reps, or both). Earn-outs are 


typically structured to align and reduce risks between the buyers of a business and the target company’s selling shareholders.  The 


Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) defines contingent consideration as “an obligation of the acquirer to transfer additional 


assets or equity interests to the former owners of an acquiree as part of the exchange for control of the acquiree if specified future events 


occur or conditions are met.” We believe that many of these smaller companies are being acquired predominately for their owners, sales 


reps and relationships, and not for their technology, proprietary processes, or hard assets. IW obscures its discussion of employee 


retention by claiming in their investor presentation that “82% of Entrepreneurs Are Retained.” Are entrepreneurs owners or salesmen? 


IW’s current accounting method for earn-outs may be artificially boosting its earnings. Under ASC 805, the company is currently 


estimating the future liability from earn-out payments based on the present value of the potential contingent purchase price, and 


accruing a liability on the balance sheet. Changes in the fair value estimate are recorded through the income statement, and ultimate 


payments go through the cash flow statement.  If the owner/salesmen are being retained and paid strictly on an earn-out basis, we 


believe this method serves to remove ordinary operating expenses from the income statement and boost current earnings.  


A recent study conducted by Duff & Phelps in 2012 on Contingent Consideration gives some instructive guidance for us to consider. They 


note that determining whether contingent payments to the selling shareholders should be classified as contingent consideration or post-


combination compensation expense depends on a number of factors and can sometimes be a challenging exercise. However, they say 


authoritatively that, “contingent payments made to shareholders who will continue as employees post-acquisition and that are tied to 


retention of those employees are often considered payments for future performance and classified as compensation expense.”  


We have one prime example to illustrate IW’s aggressive accounting.  In October 2011 IW acquired Productions Graphics (“PG”) in 


Europe for $94.5m with an enormous 92% of the deal value, or $86.9m, coming in the form of an earn-out structure. The company’s 


deal announcement and Share Purchase Agreement noted that “As part of the acquisition, CEO Christophe Delaune has agreed to a long 


term contract to remain with InnerWorkings.”  


So there you have it in black and white:  PG was IW’s largest M&A deal ever, they locked-up its owner with a retention contract, 


structured and enormous earn-out, and saw none of the cost go through the income statement! 


The PG deal appears to be a particularly bad deal for IW’s shareholders, and symptomatic of the problems the company is facing, which 


we’ll explore more completely in the coming sections. IW has repeatedly told investors they have a $150 billion market opportunity in 


InnerWorkings' Announced M&A Targets
$ in millions


LTM Upfront Cash Cash Total Deal Deal Value/ Earnout Financial Employees/


Announced Target Business Region Revenues Value Earnout Value Revenues Maturity Targets Sales Reps


4/16/2013 DB Studio POP displays and retail fixtures US $20.0 -- -- -- -- -- -- --


9/11/2012 Mechandise Mania Corporate promo merchandising UK $9.6 -- -- -- -- -- -- 33


10/25/2011 Productions Graphics Int'l Print Mgmt. Firm Europe $22.0 $7.6 $86.9 $94.5 4.3x 4yrs EBITDA 70


2/4/2011 CPRO Print Management Latam $22.0 -- -- -- -- -- -- 50


10/6/2008 Origen Partners Point of Purhcase Displays US $36.0 $7.4 $14.0 $21.4 0.6x 4yrs N/A 35


8/11/2008 Mikam Graphics Managed Print / Promos US $30.0 $13.0 $14.1 $27.1 0.9x 3yrs N/A 17


7/1/2008 Marketing-Out-Box Print Services US -- $6.9 $5.8 $12.7 -- 3yrs N/A N/A


7/1/2008 MediaLink Creative Print Services US -- $7.4 $4.8 $12.2 -- 3yrs N/A N/A


5/12/2008 etrinsic Print Mgmt/Marketing Svcs Europe $44.0 $6.9 $5.9 $12.8 0.3x 3yrs N/A 100


12/3/2007 Corporate Edge Promo Products Distributor US $59.0 $18.0 $15.0 $33.0 0.6x 3yrs N/A 145


11/12/2007 Graphic Resource/DFMS Print Procurement Services US $14.0 $6.1 $5.8 $11.9 0.9x 2yrs EBITDA 10


7/9/2007 Brown+Partners Print Mgmt Services US $17.0 $0.6 $5.0 $5.6 0.3x 1.5yrs N/A 25


3/8/2007 Spectrum Printing Print Procurement Solutions US $12.9 $3.6 $2.5 $6.1 0.5x 2yrs EBITDA 5


10/11/2006 Applied Graphics Print Mgmt Solutions US $29.0 $7.0 $4.9 $11.9 0.4x 1yr Gross Pft/EBITDA 35


9/1/2006 CoreVision Group Marketing Solutions US -- $1.1 $2.5 $3.6 -- 3yrs Gross Pft. 15


5/31/2006 Graphography Ltd Print outsourcing US -- $4.5 $3.0 $7.5 -- 4yrs Revenue 5


Total $315.5 $90.0 $170.2 $260.3


% of Total 35% 65% 100%


Source: Company filings; press releases



http://www.duffandphelps.com/SiteCollectionDocuments/Reports/DUF_0008_Contingent%20Consideration%20Study8%2020.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420411059099/v237972_ex99-1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420411059099/v237972_ex10-1.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
15 


North America, yet the company moved aggressively into Europe in the middle of the continent’s economic depression. The financial 


filings of PG, quietly filed as an amended 8-K a few months after the deal was announced, illustrates a company of questionable financial 


quality. PG’s income statement indicates they were producing an annualized run-rate EBITDA of ~$500,000. If we consider that IW paid 


EUR 5.8m (US$7.6m) upfront in cash/stock and assumed US$5.1m of debt, then the implied Enterprise Value to EBITDA multiple equates 


to 25.6x, which is dramatically higher than what IW claims to pay for its acquisitions at 5.7x EBITDA.   





Productions Graphics Minimal EBITDA or Net Income Book Value of Just $70,000 








The PG deal is perhaps the only deal where IW has filed a Share Purchase Agreement with details about the earn-out mechanics. The 


earn-out structure also illustrates the incentives IW has for setting high financial targets, and the resulting consequences for failing to 


attain them. To illustrate, consider that by the fifth year measurement period, there are mechanisms to pay the seller if EBITDA exceeds 


Eur 7.2m or is between Eur 5.7m and Eur 7.2m. These are aggressive EBITDA targets relative to PG’s 2011 performance of approximately 


Eur $0.5m (1,052% – 1,340% growth).  If PG fails to obtain these lofty targets, then IW can write-down the value of their contingent 


payment liability and book income from the resulting fair value change.   


We already have indications that the PG deal is a big bust. We note that the company mentioned in their 2012 earnings results that, 


“Due to the softness in Europe, some of the applicable performance measures were not met in the fourth quarter of 2012, and as a 


result, the Company recorded a net benefit to release a portion of its contingent consideration obligations.” IW does not specify where 


on its income statement this non-cash gain rests, but we suspect it is being included in the large SG&A account. The cash flow statement 


correctly removes this non-cash accounting gain.  





Income Statement Overstates Earnings By Including Gains 
from Change in Contingent Consideration 


Cash Flow Statement Removes Non-Cash Effect 








 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412001399/0001144204-12-001399-index.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420411059099/v237972_ex10-1.htm

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=740183
www.presciencepoint.com 
16 


Many Other Red Flag Clues That IW’s Revenues Don’t Add-Up 
 


Pure Play Global Competitor’s Revenues Show Abysmal Organic Growth 


Williams Lea, owned by Deutsche Post, is perhaps the closest pure-play competitor to IW. As illustrated in the chart below, Williams Lea 


operates a global business in Europe, Asia, North and South America, and Australia, and according to their website, is a BPO with 10,000 


employees. Fortunately, Deutsche Post breaks out Williams Lea’s revenue results in their annual reports. In the second quarter of 2008, 


Deutsche Post increased its stake in Williams Lea from 66 % to 96%, so we can analyze fully consolidated financial results from 2009 


onward. The chart below illustrates the company’s increasing revenues in the past four years, but rapidly declining growth rate. We note 


that Williams Lea’s organic revenue growth rate in 2012, adjusted for the acquisition of Tag and currency effects, was a dismal -4.3%. To 


be perfectly fair, we do not know what percentage of their revenue comes from Europe, which is clearly struggling. However, we note 


that IW currently has 20% of their revenues from international markets including Europe, Latin America and Asia.  





Other Peer Comparisons Call Into Question IW’s Reported Revenue 


In the charts below we have benchmarked IW’s revenues against a set of industry peers. Broadly speaking, IW’s business is a 


combination of printing, marketing and business process outsourcing services. On the left, we have measured, by industry group, the 


revenue productivity per full time and contractor employees. IW appears as a dramatic outlier in this analysis. On the right, we have 


charted, by industry group, the annual reported revenue growth in the past 5 years. We also note that IW has consistently grown its 


revenues at a rate much faster than industry peers. In light of our previous concerns, and discussion later in this report about IW’s use of 


gross revenue accounting, we believe IW’s reported revenue growth is highly suspicious. 








Euro in millions


Source: Deutsche Post Annual Reports Source: Williams Lea


Williams Lea Global PrescenceWilliams Lea Declining Organic Revenue Growth Rate


20.5%


15.3%


9.8%11.8%


-4.3%


-10.0%


-5.0%


0.0%


5.0%


10.0%


15.0%


20.0%


25.0%


$0


$200


$400


$600


$800


$1,000


$1,200


$1,400


$1,600


2009 2010 2011 2012


Revenues   % growth   % organic growth


Source:  Company financials Note: Industry growth composities comprised of reported peer revenue growth rates


IW's Annual Revenue Growth Consistently Outperforms


 Peer Industry Revenue Growth Rates
IW's Revenue Per Employee is Way Out of Line


-20.0%


-10.0%


0.0%


10.0%


20.0%


30.0%


40.0%


50.0%


2008 2009 2010 2011 2012


BPO Commercial Printing Marketing Services INWK Williams Lea


$0


$100,000


$200,000


$300,000


$400,000


$500,000


$600,000


$700,000


G IGTE EXLS WNS RRD QUAD CGX CVO WPP IPG OMC VPRT WL INWK


BPOs Commercial Pr inting Marketing Serv ices Print Mgmt


2008 2009 2010 2011 2012


Williams Lea


InnerWorkings 
Dwarfs Peers



http://www.williamslea.com/en-GB/Pages/default.aspx

http://www.williamslea.com/en-GB/oursolutions/Pages/Whywe'redifferent.aspx

http://www.dp-dhl.com/en/investors/financial_reports/annual_reports.html

http://www.williamslea.com/en-GB/about%20us/Pages/WilliamsLeaacquirestheworld%E2%80%99slargestindependentmarketingexecutionandproductionagency,Tag.aspx
www.presciencepoint.com 
17 


IW’s Career Website Shows Limited Employee Growth to Support Ambitious Objectives 


IW’s revised guidance is to grow 2013 revenues to between $900 -$930m (13% - 17% yoy) and 2013 EPS from $0.41c to $0.45-$0.50c 


(10.0% - 22.0%). At the company’s February 2013 Investor Day, IW guided investors to assume that same customer spending growth will 


be zero, to assume no new acquisitions, and that inside sales is going to drive a majority of the growth. Therefore, we’ve decided to put 


these assumptions to the test with some of our own stress tests! From the company’s career website, we observe that just 34 job 


openings currently appear. Overall, the company ended 2012 with 1,379 employees (including 400 account managers). Assuming no 


employee churn, IW appears to believe it can grow its revenue by ~15% with its total employee count growing by just 2.3%.  





Just 34 Job Opening on IW’s Career Website - 4/22/13 





The relationship between IW’s reported revenue growth and total employee growth is remarkably high with a statistical correlation 


close to 98%. We’ve highlighted the relationship in the table on the following page. The notion that IW is going to dramatically grow 


revenues and earnings in 2013 without a material investment in new sales people, account executives, and production managers should 


be viewed as a “prove it to me” story. Assuming the historical employee/revenue relationship held, IW would need to hire over 200 


people to hit their revenue growth target.  


Simply stated, IW is a sales driven business. To illustrate further, we note that IW used to state in 10-K filings prior to 2008 that: 


 “Commissions paid to our account executives are a significant component of our operating expenses. The commissions we pay to our 


account executives are based on the gross profit we collect from the clients.” 


However, post-2007 IW completely stopped disclosing its sales commissions. Even worse, in 2011 the company stopped providing detail 


on enterprise and middle market clients. We believe this is a clear sign of an attempt to cover-up slowing growth. In Appendix V we have 


provided a list of all announced enterprise customer wins, and the historical disclosures which point to increasing obfuscation.   











 



http://investor.inwk.com/eventdetail.cfm?eventid=123959

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000104746908002900/a2183567z10-k.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
18 





With no ability to follow trends in sales commissions, or client counts in its main businesses, IW’s revenues have become harder to 


reconcile.  The combination of these material omissions cast further doubt on the reliability of the company’s reported revenues. 














$ in mi l l ions


2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012


Revenue $160.5 $288.4 $419.0 $400.4 $482.2 $633.8 $797.7


  % growth 108.7% 79.7% 45.3% -4.4% 20.4% 31.4% 25.9%


Sales Commissions $8.8 $16.4


  % of revenue 5.5% 5.7%


# of Suppliers 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 8,000 9,000 10,000


  % growth -- 20.0% 16.7% 14.3% 0.0% 12.5% 11.1%


# of Enterprise Clients 92 116 143 172 195


  New additions 23 24 27 29 23


  % growth 33% 26% 23% 20% 13%


# of Middle Market Clients 2,228 4,584 5,776 4,828 4,805


  New additions 1,561 2,356 1,192 -948 -23


  % growth 234.0% 105.7% 26.0% -16.4% -0.5%


# of Total Clients 2,320 4,700 5,919 5,000 5,000 6,000 7,000


  % growth 215.2% 102.6% 25.9% -15.5% 0.0% 20.0% 16.7%


On-Site Managers 21 38 56 77 96 180 249


Total Production Managers 109 250 336 250 260 500 682


Account Executives 153 221 280 295 300 400 400


Corporate Staff 50 96 145 122 183 134 297


Total Employees 312 567 761 667 743 1,034 1,379


  % growth 102.6% 81.7% 34.2% -12.4% 11.4% 39.2% 33.4%


Avg Revenue/Total Employee $514,423 $508,697 $550,612 $600,370 $649,007 $613,004 $578,461


Avg Revenue/Acct Executive $1,049,020 $1,305,118 $1,496,486 $1,357,447 $1,607,373 $1,584,615 $1,994,245


Avg Revenue/Middle Mkt Client $21,611 $23,910 $26,116 $28,200 $29,103 -- --


Avg Revenue/Enterprise Client $1,221,196 $1,541,614 $1,875,316 $1,536,599 $1,755,746 -- --


Avg Revenue/Client $69,181 $61,368 $70,792 $80,089 $96,442 $105,641 $113,957


Acct Executives/Clients 15 21 21 17 17 15 18


Production Mgrs/Clients 21 19 18 20 19 12 10


Source: Company filings


No Longer Disclosed


No Longer Disclosed
www.presciencepoint.com 
19 


Glassdoor Internal Reviews Indicate Limited Inside Sales Opportunities 


As additional evidence that IW’s growth story may not be as advertised, we visited Glassdoor.com for an insider’s view. There are 


currently 40 reviews, with approximately 70% of the ratings between “Neutral” to “Very Dissatisfied.” Ironically, the most recent posts 


from April 2013 are from members of the inside sales team warning about a lack of sales opportunities. The employees’ views 


contrast markedly with management’s claim that inside sales is going to drive the bulk of 2013 revenue and earnings performance. 


Other recent posts from insider sales personnel echo a recurring theme that IW does not have a blue sky sales career potential.   














Source: Glassdoor.com


Very Recent Glassdoor.com Reviews Paint a Troubling Picture



http://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/InnerWorkings-Reviews-E41183.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
20 


Follow the Money: Deteriorating Margins, No Cash Flow, Increased Borrowing, and Insider Sales 
 


IW touts its stellar revenue growth, while conveniently ignoring any discussion about its free cash flow. The charts below profile the true 


picture of the company’s fragile financial state. Declining gross margins indicate that the company is acquiring lower margin business to 


keep revenues growing. Cash from operations is struggling to grow, so in 2011 the company appears to have extended its payables to 


suppliers in order to generate a majority of its cash flow. IW’s has not been able to compensate by shrinking its days sales outstanding 


(DSO) in the past few years. As a result, the company has steadily increased its borrowing facility, most recently in April 2012 to $150m 


at the same time directors were leaving the company (sound similar to Active and Boulder?). Debt is increasing too, and when factoring 


in the maximum cash liability associated with deal earn-outs, IW’s gross leverage is deceptively higher than advertised.  Lastly, we note 


IW’s COE just instituted a 10b5-1 trading plan on Nov. 14, 2012 just weeks after IW announced its expanded relationship with SuperValu! 











$ in mi l l ions


* Adjusted 


* Adjusted for acquis i tions  and contingent payments


IW's Explosive Revenue Growth and Anemic Cash Flow
IW's Gross Margins are In Persistent Decline / 


Limited DSO Improvement in the Past 3 years


($100)


$0


$100


$200


$300


$400


$500


$600


$700


$800


$900


2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012


Revenue Cash from Ops Free Cash Flow Adj Free Cash Flow*


65.0x


70.0x


75.0x


80.0x


85.0x


90.0x


22.0%


22.5%


23.0%


23.5%


24.0%


24.5%


25.0%


25.5%


26.0%


2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012


Gross Margin Days Sales Outstanding


$ in millions


Source: 2012 Annual Report


IW "Generates" Cash Flow By Not Paying Suppliers on Time IW Has Continued to Increase its Credit Facility


$46.4 $47.4 
$60.0 $65.0 


$28.6 


$52.6 
$40.0 


$85.0 


$0.0


$20.0


$40.0


$60.0


$80.0


$100.0


$120.0


$140.0


$160.0


2009 2010 2011 2012


Borrowings Outstanding Unused Capacity


$ in millions


IW's Adjusted Leverage For Contingent Payouts 


$40.6 $31.8 


$111.7 $101.2 


$46.5 $47.4 
$60.0 $65.0 


0.00x


0.50x


1.00x


1.50x


2.00x


2.50x


3.00x


3.50x


4.00x


4.50x


5.00x


$0.0


$20.0


$40.0


$60.0


$80.0


$100.0


$120.0


$140.0


$160.0


$180.0


$200.0


2009 2010 2011 2012


Borrowings Max Deal Payouts Adj Debt/EBITDA



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024152/v310534_8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412068533/xslF345X03/v330482_form4.xml

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=715364
www.presciencepoint.com 
21 


Misaligned Incentives:  Egregious Management Awards tied to Revenue and EBITDA Inflation 
 


“Senior Management worries more about lining their pockets rather than helping you earn money” – Glassdoor, April 14, 2013 





We have gone through great length to illustrate how management likes to portray their strong revenue growth, and make aggressive use 


of gross revenue accounting. We don’t believe this is by accident, but rather by design, and to compensate management heavily for their 


efforts.  Below we have included management’s “Target Award Opportunities” from the 2011 Proxy Statement. 


“The 2011 target opportunities under the Annual Incentive Plan were approved by the Compensation Committee on February 17, 2011. 


The 2011 management bonus award opportunities were based on the following criteria: 40% on adjusted EBITDA performance (100% 


pay-out based on reaching an EBITDA, less stock based compensation, of $35.8MM), 40% on revenue growth (100% pay-out on reaching 


$600MM of revenue) and 20% based on non-financial performance, which includes goals such as client retention rate of 98% or higher, 


growing the middle market segment, international expansion and improved ROIC results).”   


So there it is in black and white: management gets paid the most for worrying about revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA. We also 


observe that management is paid 20% based on non-financial performance metrics that are loosely defined, and are never disclosed to 


shareholders in the company’s financial reporting. Therefore, investors have no way of tracking how management is being evaluating 


and performing against these criteria.  


How much compensation does management have at stake for achieving their goals? The answer is an incredibly material amount to 


shareholders! In the table below, we illustrate management’s total compensation in relation to GAAP net income and cash from 


operations.  For 2011, management’s all-in compensation amounted to a staggering 45% of cash provided from operations. What’s even 


more egregious is that total compensation has grown 285% from 2009 – 2011, while cash from operations has grown just 26% over the 


same time period.  





We do not place too much faith in the Company’s Compensation Committee to look after shareholder’s best interests. We 


note that, for competitive benchmarking purposes, the committee has chosen a peer group that reflects nothing of IW’s 


current business. The peer group includes many unrelated companies such as: Accretive Health (AH), IHS Inc. (IHS), 


Corporate Executive Board (CEB), Huron Consulting (HURN), Navigant Consulting (NCI), and Resources Connection (RECN). 


We observe that almost 60% of IW’s supposed peers are actually consulting/professional service firms, which has nothing to 


do with print management or marketing services!  





Compensation of InnerWorkings' Top Executives


2010 2011 2012 CAGR


Base Salary $1,150,000 $1,168,270 $1,443,942 12%


Cash Incentive Bonuses $241,000 $1,100,000 $1,090,000 113%


Option Awards -- $1,090,000 $850,000 --


Stock Awards $669,600 $1,090,000 $850,000 13%


Perks $99,228 $262,791 $101,191 1%


Total Compensation $2,159,828 $4,711,061 $4,337,145 42%


 % cum growth 118% 254%


GAAP Net Income $11,210,489 $16,393,007 $19,111,888 31%


Cash From Operations (CFO) $8,352,524 $27,830,536 $10,536,440 12%


 % cum growth 233% 26%


Management Compensation


  % of GAAP Net Income 19% 29% 23%


  % Cash From Operations 26% 17% 41%


Souce: IW's Proxy Statement



http://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Employee-Review-InnerWorkings-RVW2559673.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024961/v310690_def14a.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
22 


The Inner Workings of InnerWorkings:  All Guts, No Glory 
 


Background on InnerWorkings Today 
 


InnerWorkings (“IW” or “the company”) provides outsourced print procurement solutions for corporate clients. The company acts as a 


broker, matching the 10,000 printers and their equipment profiles (IW owns no printing equipment) in its database with customer 


orders; by leveraging buying power, workflows and pricing records into operating efficiencies, IW says it is able to pass along print 


savings of 10%-25% to clients.  


Since its IPO in 2006, the company has grown its revenues from ~$160m in 2006 to ~$800m in 2012. It generates 80% and 20% of 


revenue from its North American (US and Canada) and International segments (United Kingdom, continental Europe, the Middle East, 


Latin America and Asia), respectively; the company has pushed in the last couple of years to expand from a national to a global focus 


with acquisitions in Latin America and Europe. IW’s largest customer accounted for 8% and its top ten clients accounted for 32% of 2012 


revenue. 


IW serves both enterprise and middle market customers. It enters into contracts with enterprise clients to provide some or all of their 


printed products, typically on a recurring basis. Contracts with enterprise clients are generally for a 3-5 year term with a termination 


right ranging from 90 days to 12 months. Enterprise clients accounted for 75% of 2012 revenue. Middle market clients account for the 


remaining 25%. IW provides products to these clients on transactional basis.  


IW was founded in 2001 by Bill Heinsle and Eric Lefkofsky, who is perhaps better known for also co-founding Groupon. Based on their 


public history together, they appear to be shrewd businessmen who have rolled-up mature, low-margin businesses and used highly 


effective spin to cast them as fast-growing, high margin technology companies with leverageable, “proprietary” technology. 


InnerWorkings fits this mold.  


The company is a consolidator of print brokers and, having completed 29 acquisitions from 2006-2012, shares many of the same 


hallmarks of a poorly constructed roll-up: While the company has succeeded in quickly building revenue and issuing rewarding 


management bonuses, it has performed poorly in accreting free cash flow to shareholders. Yet the company positions itself as a 


technology company. Investor materials imply having designed a “killer app” for efficient print procurement and claim the development 


of a “game-changing technology” that is disrupting the print market, “for the benefit of its customers and shareholders” of course. 


InnerWorkings Investor Day Presentation, Feb 2010
www.presciencepoint.com 
23 


We believe IW offers a commodity service, operating in an industry with very low barriers to entry in spite of the company’s claims. 


Today, it is capitalizing on excess capacity left by a deteriorating print market. Over time, that capacity is being rationalized as printers 


exit the market or consolidate. Numerous larger, and better funded companies have also entered the market, and are eroding IW’s early 


mover advantages.  


Furthermore, in light of having researched the backgrounds of IW’s founders, having identified potential shareholder misdirection 


emanating from IW’s promotional management team, and conducted a thorough analysis of IW’s accounts, we feel we know how this 


story is set to unfold.  Who’s holding the bag? 


Chasing “Huge Opportunities” With Allegedly Misleading Claims of “Proprietary Technology” 
 


Lets start having fun... lets get funky... let's announce everything... let's be WILDLY positive in our 


forecasts... lets take this thing to the extreme... if we get wacked on the ride down-who gives a shit... 


THE TIME TO GET RADICAL IS NOW... WE HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE... 


    Lefkofsky’s email to employees while COO of a failing public company Ha-Lo Industries 


To better understand IW and the choices management has made as a public company, we sought to identify behavioral trends in its key 


personnel – in this case, the man behind the company and who by some accounts has controlled all aspects of the business, co-founder 


Eric Lefkofsky. 2 3  Our background search resulted in many articles that praise Lefkofsky for his admirable successes and charitable 


doings, and many others that allude to his failures as a leader and knack for self-serving decision-making. Based on our research, 


Lefkofsky’s career has consisted of chasing the hot trend of the moment and betting the house – other’s people’s money – in hopes of 


riches.  


Lefkofsky has left behind two bankrupt companies and a managerial track record that appears to bear certain hallmarks: promises of 


“proprietary” technologies that will transform brick and mortar businesses, rapid revenue growth accompanied by big losses, aggressive 


accounting, a penchant to sell stock early on, and lawsuits filed by investors, lenders or customers who feel they have been wronged.  4    


His first venture, right out of law school, was the takeover of sports apparel manufacturer Brandon Apparel in 1994.  The city of 


Columbus, WI backed him in this endeavor, loaning the company $750,000, allegedly on promises he would create jobs using 


“proprietary software”. 5 The company rapidly grew its revenue from $2 million to $20 million, but failed to grow fast enough to support 


the weight of its debts. "We over-leveraged the company and it eventually crumbled under the weight of that debt," Lefkofsky wrote. 


Columbus was forced to write off the loan. "They basically bailed out of Columbus, and that seems to be their ongoing tactic," 


Columbus's city attorney said at the time. Brandon Apparel's downfall resulted in a series of lawsuits. The former owner of 


Brandon reportedly sued the company, as did National Football League Properties and Major League Baseball Properties. Its lender, 


Johnson Bank, sued Lefkofsky and won a default judgment of $11 million; the bank also alleged that Lefkofsky and his partner used 


Brandon’s resources to nurture their next venture, Starbelly. 6 


In 1999, at the height of the dot com craze, Lefkofsky co-founded Starbelly.com, a B2B procurement website.  There, again, Lefkofsky 


allegedly promised investors he had “proprietary software” that would revolutionize the way the marketplace worked. 7  A little over a 


year later, Starbelly was acquired by Ha-Lo Industries for $240m. Lefkofsky and other Starbelly officers assumed key executive positions 


within Ha-Lo. But a little more than a year later, the business flopped; Ha-Lo wrote off Starbelly entirely and filed for bankruptcy 


protection in July 2001.  


                                                           
2 Sports Publishing v. Lefkofsky et al. US District Court Central District of Illinois. 2008.Court House News. Web. 31 Mar. 2008. 
3 Alpert, Bill, “The Inner Workings of InnerWorkings,” Barron’s, 2007 January 15. 
4 Kelleher, Kevin, “The Checkered Past of Groupon’s Chairman,” Fortune Magazine, 2011 June 10. 
5 Sports Publishing v. Lefkofsky et al. US District Court Central District of Illinois. 2008.Court House News. Web. 31 Mar. 2008. 
6 Kelleher, Kevin, “The Checkered Past of Groupon’s Chairman,” Fortune Magazine, 2011 June 10. 
7 Sports Publishing v. Lefkofsky et al. US District Court Central District of Illinois. 2008.Court House News. Web. 31 Mar. 2008. 



http://www.courthousenews.com/2008/04/01/SportsvLefkofsky.pdf

http://www.lefkofsky.com/blog/post.php?s=2012-09-21-when-you-dont-know-what-to-say

http://www.chicagobusiness.com/article/20000923/ISSUE01/100015036/ha-los-internet-stars-cant-shake-old-economy-feuds

http://adage.com/article/news/starbelly-founders-face-flurry-lawsuits/56783/

http://statecasefiles.justia.com/documents/illinois/court-of-appeals-first-appellate-district/1061432.pdf

http://statecasefiles.justia.com/documents/illinois/court-of-appeals-first-appellate-district/1061432.pdf
www.presciencepoint.com 
24 


Securities fraud and bankruptcy litigation against Lefkofsky and Ha-Lo quickly followed. One class action suit alleged that Ha-Lo's top 


officers and directors "knowingly, or at least recklessly, made grossly inaccurate statements concerning its agreement to acquire 


Starbelly.com" and they, "repeatedly highlighted the extraordinary benefits of the acquisition," although it led, at least in part, to Ha-Lo's 


bankruptcy.   


Discovery in those cases exposed reckless emails Lefkofsky had sent to his employees (one of which has been pasted as the introduction 


to this section), in which he appears to be encouraging employees to be deceptive in communications with his shareholders and/or 


creditors. According to Ha-Lo documents discovered in subsequent shareholder suits, a due diligence investigation by Ernst & Young had 


even warned Ha-Lo that Starbelly's software was not as proprietary -- or even as functional -- as Starbelly claimed. 8 9  


Lefkofsky’s next venture would be InnerWorkings. Barron’s writer Bill Alpert wrote a scathing article about InnerWorkings and Lefkofsky 


in 2007 that almost prefigured the concerns surrounding Groupon’s IPO (a subsequent Lefkofsky venture). He called InnerWorkings "a 


glorified broker of print jobs," and argued that Lefkofsky "has a history of busting investors after promising to radically transform bricks-


and-mortar industries." He also called to question InnerWorkings’ “proprietary” software, known as PPM4: 





Eerily like Starbelly, there's less than meets the eye to the company's touted "PPM4" software, say some InnerWorkings ex-


employees. In the weeks before Morgan Stanley's eagle-eyed due diligence team toured InnerWorkings for its August 2006 initial 


underwriting, workers stayed late padding the company's off-the-shelf FileMaker Pro database with an impressive-looking list of 


suppliers. Then they dummied up some screen-shots of the software for the inside cover of the prospectus (pictured below)… 


Numerous ex-employees of InnerWorkings told me that its vaunted software also doesn't work as claimed. 10 





Sexy Pre-IPO Look of PPM4 from Prospectus PPM4 2 Years Later, 2008 Investor Presentation 


 
Source: InnerWorkings Prospectus, May 2006  








Source: InnerWorkings Investor Day Presentation, Nov 2008           





After founding InnerWorkings, Lefkofsky co-founded two other firms which are now public, Echo Global Logistics (ECHO) and Groupon 


(GRPN).  When ECHO went public in 2009, its management – as one would expect – touted its “proprietary” Web-based platform that 


manages a network of thousands of transportation providers.  Groupon encountered major issues in going public and subsequent to its 


IPO – mainly related to Lefkofky & Co. being over-promotional during its pre-IPO quiet period, violations of GAAP accounting standards, 


                                                           
8 Sports Publishing v. Lefkofsky et al. US District Court Central District of Illinois. 2008.Court House News. Web. 31 Mar. 2008. 
9 Alpert, Bill, “The Inner Workings of InnerWorkings,” Barron’s, 2007 January 15. 
10 Ibid. 



http://www.gilardi.com/pdf/halo1not.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000119312507001761/ds1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000119312508240015/dex991.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
25 


and being forced to restate its revenues.  Later in the report, we will profile the web of related dealing among ECHO, GRPN, and IW, and 


our evidence that IW is also at high risk of having to restate its revenues. 





What Happened to IW’s Proprietary, Industry-Changing PPM4 Technology? 
 


During its IPO process, in almost every investor presentation, and in every 10-K filing since coming public, management has touted its 


reliance on the company’s ‘proprietary’ software program, PPM4. The technology was pushed as a “killer app” and a “revolutionary,” 


“game-changing” technology. More importantly, the patent-protected software was said to give the company a leg up on the 


competition, was an essential component of IW’s competitive advantage, and it was said to have created significant barriers to entry. 








Strangely, aside from a paragraph devoted to discussing a legal proceeding brought against the company, PPM4 has been dropped from 


mention in the company’s 2012 10-K. Furthermore, we have noticed interesting changes in language in comparing previous 10-K’s with 


the 2012 filing, specifically in reference to the company’s patents.  


Every 10-K filed since IW IPO’ed, contained an Intellectual Property disclosure with language resembling the following, excerpted from 


the 2011 filing:  “As of December 31, 2011, we have been issued one US Patent and have seven patent applications pending related to 


our proprietary sourcing methods. We expect to apply for additional patents in the future.”  This language was completely dropped from 


the 2012 filing.  


Similarly, we noted the subtle removal of the word ‘patent’ in one of the company’s risk disclosures: 


 2011 Risk Disclosure: “If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors could replicate our 


proprietary technology in order to offer similar services and harm our competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, 


trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary technology.” 


 2012 Risk Disclosure: “If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors could replicate our 


proprietary technology and offer similar services, which would harm our competitive position. We rely primarily on a 


combination of trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary 


technology.” 





And as stated, the only mention of PPM4 was found in the following disclosure of a new patent infringement suit brought against the 


company: 





Patent-Protected PPM4 Creates Barriers to Entry PPM4 Described as a “Killer App”, Game Changer 


              Source: InnerWorkings Investor Day Presentation, Nov 2008              Source: InnerWorkings Investor Day Presentation, Feb 2010 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412013589/v303700_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420413012104/v333768_10k.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
26 


In December 2010, e-Lynxx Corporation filed a complaint against the Company and numerous other defendants for patent 


infringement in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. As to the Company, the complaint 


alleges, among other things, that certain aspects of the Company’s PPM4TM technology infringe on two patents owned by e-


Lynxx purporting to cover a system and method for competitive pricing and procurement of customized goods and services, and 


seeks monetary damages, interest, costs, attorneys’ fees, punitive damages and a permanent injunction. In February 2013, e-


Lynxx asserted that the monetary damages it seeks from the Company are in the range of $22 million to $56 million for the 


period from May 2009 through December 2011; e-Lynxx has not yet specified damages sought for 2012 and future periods. The 


Company disputes the allegations contained in e-Lynxx’s complaint and intends to vigorously defend this matter. Specifically, the 


Company contends that the patents at issue are invalid and not infringed, and, therefore, e-Lynxx is not entitled to any relief and 


the complaint should be dismissed. Further, even if e-Lynxx could establish liability, the Company contends that e-Lynxx is not 


entitled to the excessive monetary relief it seeks. A trial of this matter is currently scheduled in July 2013. The Company believes 


that an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible but not probable, and therefore, no reserve has been recorded for a 


potential loss. The loss that is reasonably possible cannot be estimated. 





Frankly, we are baffled as to why a company that intends to defend itself vigorously in a patent infringement suit appears to have dropped 
claim of the patent in question.  We find it alarming that no announcement was made pertaining to the potential loss of a technology 
platform thought to be an integral part of IW’s business.  In light of these peculiarities, and the size of the asserted monetary damages, 
we wonder whether the escalation of this suit led to the company increasing the size of its credit facility in April 2012 by $50m.  





Competition Stiffening Just as Barriers to Entry… Disappear? 
 


For the time being, while excess capacity remains high in the commercial printing industry, many will see a potential profit opportunity 
to be had for building scale and full service solutions. As previously discussed, we believe there is nothing special about how IW 
operates, and that print brokerage is a commodity business with low barriers to entry. That said, the competitive landscape has already 
begun to worsen and, with time, attractive broker spreads are likely to be competed away.   
 
In reading through IW’s SEC filings, we get the sense that management has dramatically understated the competitive landscape. The 
company cited only Williams Lea, Logicsource, Cirqit, Noosh, RR Donnelly and Quad/Graphics as competitors. However, we believe IW 
also competes against several other, better-capitalized industry heavyweights such as Xerox, Pitney Bowes, Cannon, HP, DST Systems, 
Consolidated Graphics, ADP, and Merrill Corp.  The table below, copied from a March 2013 RR Donnelly presentation, demonstrates how 
an incumbent leader views IW from a competitive threat standpoint...dead last at the very bottom! 
 








Quad acquired Vertis 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024152/0001144204-12-024152-index.htm

http://www.williamslea.com/

http://www.logicsource.com/#home

http://www.noosh.com/

http://www.rrdonnelley.com/

http://www.qg.com/

http://www.consulting.xerox.com/

http://www.pb.com/services/Customer-Communications-and-Marketing/print-outsourcing.shtml

http://www.cbps.canon.com/print-services/print-procurement.aspx

http://h71028.www7.hp.com/enterprise/downloads/HP%20Enterprise%20Production%20Print%20Solutions_4AA0-5738ENW.pdf

http://www.dstsystems.com/

http://www.cgx.com/Home-3.html

http://www.adp.com/

http://www.merrillcorp.com/print-fulfillment-services_417.htm

http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/RRD/2422284981x0x450519/ee64ef47-8d3e-4e1f-83e4-e3aa6e6b2dbb/CS_Conference_031511_-_RRD.pdf
www.presciencepoint.com 
27 


As a final thought, we observe that even IW’s CEO recognizes the competitive landscape has intensified. Commenting in a recent article 


on the increasing competition, he said, “It's inevitable. I'm a little surprised it hasn't happened faster.” This might explain IW’s rationale 


for announcing the acquisition of DB Studios at the same time it lost a significant portion of business from its largest customer SuperValu. 


DB Studios is a California-based distributor of permanent POP displays and retail fixtures, whose clients include major retail and consumer 


package goods brands. The acquisition provides IW with creative, design, engineering, and prototyping capabilities, which are critical in 


the permanent display world.  


DB Studios appears to be in a totally unrelated area to IW’s core business, and we don’t expect IW to break ground on dominating this 


market any time soon. Just months earlier, industry heavyweight Quad/Graphics announced it would acquire all the assets of Vertis out 


of bankruptcy. The combination of Quad/Graphics and Vertis appears to be a natural and strategic fit. The complementary capabilities of 


the two businesses in retail advertising inserts, direct marketing and in-store marketing will further strengthen and expand its offerings, 


and will allow it to better serve its clients 


Management Churn and Rapid Director Departures in 2012 Should Be a Concern For Investors 
 


In our previous report on Boulder Brands, we noted how the abrupt resignations of three directors and the CFO after the acquisition of 


Glutino should have been a serious red flag to investors.  In similar fashion, IW’s shareholders appear to have completely ignored the 


major changes with management and at the Board level in 2012. Moreover, we note that a majority of the Board turnover in March 


2012 came not long after IW acquired Productions Graphics in late 2011 and expanded its credit facility.  


In light of all our concerns about the IWs revenue recognition, technology, increasing competition, and over-promotion, we think 


investors should see the disturbing pattern of turnover at the management ranks in the past few years. We observe that every major 


role at IW has turned over since the IPO. Management’s actions speak much louder than their words.  


 Date of Resignation Individual / Title or Board Role 


Executive 
Management 


Jan 1, 2008 Scott Risoni / EVP of Sales 


Nov 17, 2008 Steven Zuccarini / Chief Executive Officer 


July 1, 2008 Nicholas J. Galassi / Chief Financial Officer 


Jan 13, 2009 Neil P. Graver / Chief Technology Officer (demotion to VP Technology) 


June 30, 2010 Jan J. Sevcick / Chief Information Officer 


Jan 19, 2011 Jonathan Shean / SVP of Operations 


Board of  
Directors 


October 26, 2012 Eric Lefkofsky (Comp, Governance) 


April 30, 2012 Sharyar Baradaran (Audit, Comp, Governance) 


April 30, 2012 Peter Barris (Audit, Comp, Governance) 


March 2, 2012 John Walter / (Chairman, Audit, Comp, Governance) 





The Board level changes are even more disturbing. According to the 2012 proxy statement filed on April 30, 2012, both Mr. Sharyar 


Baradaran and Mr. Peter Barris decided not to stand for reelection. We note that both individuals served on the company’s Audit 


Committee in 2011. Mr Barris’ decision not to stand for reelection is particularly troublesome considering that he represented a 9.4% 


ownership position of New Enterprise Associates (“NEA”), which at the time was one of the largest shareholders. However, according to 


a recent SEC 13G filing, NEA has completely exited its investment after Mr. Barris’ departure. Mr. Baradaran, a board member since 


2006, was also a 1% shareholder at the time of his resignation. Both individuals also served on the Compensation and Corporate 


Governance Committees. 


Perhaps a more mysterious resignation was John Walter’s departure on March 2, 2012. Instead of filing a typical 8-K with the SEC, IW 


quietly slipped his resignation notice into item 9B of their 2011 10-K filing. Mr. Walter had served as the non-executive Chairman of the 


Board since 2004 and was also on the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Compensation and Corporate Governance Committees. So 


there you have three board departures, with all members having served on the Audit and Corporate Governance committees . Can 


there be any clearer signs of a potential cover-up at IW? Adding insult to injury, later in October 2012 co-founder Eric Lefkofsky also 


resigned from the Board. He had served on the Board since 2008 and sat on the Compensation and Corporate Governance Committees. 


According to the latest filings, Mr. Lefkofsky owns 6.4% of the company.  



http://www.chicagobusiness.com/article/20130323/ISSUE01/303239978/for-innerworkings-next-chapter-will-be-a-real-page-turner

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=756921

http://dbstudios.com/

http://www.qg.com/news/quad_news_detail.asp?NewMessageID=38769

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000110465908003342/a08-1879_18k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000119312508238596/dex991.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000119312508148165/d8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000119312509005247/d8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420410035886/v189506_8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420411003693/v208682_8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412058362/v326869_8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412058362/v326869_8k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024961/v310690_def14a.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024961/v310690_def14a.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024961/v310690_def14a.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024961/v310690_def14a.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412013589/v303700_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412013589/v303700_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412024961/v310690_def14a.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1243094/000107261313000115/innerworkings-sch13ga_17462.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412013589/v303700_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420412058362/v326869_8k.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
28 


Related Party Dealings and Other Governance Concerns 


 
The executives and Board members of IW also have ties to other public companies such as Groupon and Echo Logistics. Each company 


also has Ernest & Young (Chicago Office) as its auditor. Moreover, Mr. Joseph Del Preto has served as the financial controller for each 


company at some point in time. This can be easily seen from his public LinkedIn profile page. We observe that all of the related 


individuals have distanced themselves from InnerWorkings at the current time.  





Individual Groupon InnerWorkings Echo Logistics 
Andrew Mason Co-Founder, former CEO Mr. Mason worked as a 


computer programmer with 
InnerWorkings 





Eric Lefkofsky Co-Founder, Executive 
Chairman 


Co-Founder, former Board 
Member (resigned in Oct 12) 





Peter J. Barris Board member since 2008 Former Board member, does 
not run for re-election in 2012 


Board member since 2009 


Joseph M. Del Preto II Chief Accounting Officer 
since April 2011 


From January 2006 to March 
2009, Mr. Del Preto served as 
Controller of InnerWorkings 


Controller and Vice President, 
Finance of Echo Global 
Logistics, Inc from April 2009 to 
December 2010. 


Bradley A. Keywell Co-Founder, Current 
Director 


 Co-Founder and Board 
member 


John Walter Former Board member Former Board member, 
resigned in Mar 12 


Board member since 2006 





We have also scoured each company’s financial disclosures, and have found a web of insider dealing and inconsistencies that would 


make any prudent investor think twice about owning shares of IW. First (1), consider that in 2011 IW said it billed Groupon $1.6m, and in 


the next year’s filing changed the figure to $2.46m. Secondly (2), we observe that IW abruptly terminated an agreement with Groupon 


for corporate procurement cards in March 2012. This was right around the time IW’s three board members departed. Furthermore, 


Groupon never disclosed this procurement relationship. There is not enough detail to understand what exactly corporate procurement 


cards are for in the context of IW’s business. Thirdly (3), we observe inconsistencies between the amounts billed, and revenue reported 


between IW and ECHO (i.e. 2010 IW said the amount was $5.7m vs. ECHO reporting $6.82m). Lastly (4), we note that ECHO has 


disclosed a “rebate program” that was in place through Q4 2010 with IW, however, IW did not disclose this to its shareholders. 


Interestingly enough, this rebate program was terminated shortly after ECHO’s COO resigned, and its controller, Mr. Del Preto, left the 


firm in December 2010. 





Company 2011 10K Disclosure 2012 10K Disclosure 
InnerWorkings Groupon 


During 2011, we provided promotional product procurement 
services to Groupon. The total amount billed for such services 
during the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately 
$1.6 million 


 
During Q2 2010, we entered into an agreement with Groupon 
related to corporate procurement cards. The agreement allows 
Groupon to obtain corporate procurement cards under our 
existing credit arrangement. Under the agreement, we billed 
Groupon $64,000 and $88,000 during the years ended Dec. 31, 
2010 and 2011. 
 
 
 


Groupon 
During 2011 and 2012, the Company provided promotional 
product procurement services to Groupon. The total amount 
billed for such services during the years ended December 31, 
2011 and 2012 was approximately $2,461,188 and $905,489, 
respectively 
 
During Q2 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with 
Groupon related to corporate procurement cards. The 
agreement allows Groupon to obtain corporate procurement 
cards under the Company’s existing credit arrangement. Under 
the agreement, the Company billed Groupon $64,000, $88,000 
and $32,000 during the years ended Dec. 31, 2010, 2011 and 
2012. This agreement was terminated on March 31, 2012 





(1)


1) 


(2)


1) 



http://www.linkedin.com/pub/joe-del-preto/13/7a/73a

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1426945/000144530510000877/echo201063010q.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
29 


 
Echo Logistics 
We provide print procurement services to Echo. The total 
amount billed for such print procurement services during the 
years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 were ~$68,000, 
$60,000 and $83,000, respectively. In addition, Echo has 
provided transportation services to us. As consideration for 


these services, Echo billed us ~$3.6m, $5.7m and $8.7m 
for the yrs ended Dec. 31, 2009, 2010, 2011 


 
Echo Logistics 
We provide print procurement services to Echo. The total 
amount billed for such print procurement services during the 
years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 were ~$60,000, 
$83,000 and $102,482, respectively. In addition, Echo has 
provided transportation services to the Company. As 
consideration for these services, Echo billed the Company 
~$5.7m, $8.7m and $10.8m for the yrs ended Dec. 31, 2010, 
2011, 2012. 


Groupon During 2011, the Company transacted with InnerWorkings, Inc. a 
company co-founded by the Company's co-founder and 
Executive Chairman of the Board, for promotional services. 
Amounts paid in advance to InnerWorkings for services which 
had not yet been expensed totaled $1.3 million, which was 
recorded in “Prepaid expenses and other current assets” on the 
consolidated balance sheet. 


During 2011, the Company engaged InnerWorkings, Inc. to 
provide marketing services. The Company's Executive Chairman, 
Eric Lefkofsky, is a former director and significant stockholder of 
InnerWorkings. The Company recognized $1.1 million of expense 
under its agreement with InnerWorkings for the year ended 
December 31, 2012. The Company also paid InnerWorkings $1.3 
million during 2011 for gift cards that the Company sells to 
customers. 


Echo Logistics The Company provides transportation and logistics services to 
InnerWorkings. The Company recognized revenue 
of $4.19m, $6.82m and $8.76m for the years 
ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, from 
InnerWorkings. In 2009 and 2010, the Company also had a 


rebate program in place with InnerWorkings in 
association with the transportation and logistics 


services provided. The rebate agreement was terminated in the 
fourth quarter of 2010. InnerWorkings also provides print and 
procurement services to the Company. 


 
As of Dec. 31, 2010 and Dec. 31, 2011, the Company had a net 
receivable due from INWK  $941,669 and $1,800,181, 
respectively. The Company had accounts payable of 
$184,803 and $148,443 due to InnerWorkings as of Dec. 31, 
2010 and Dec. 31, 2011, respectively, as a result of the rebate 
agreement in 2010 as well as the print and procurement 
services. 


The Company provides transportation and logistics services to 
InnerWorkings. The Company recognized revenue of $10.46m, 
$8.76m and $6.82m for the years ended December 31, 2012, 
2011 and 2010, respectively, from InnerWorkings. In 2010, the 
Company also had a rebate program in place with InnerWorkings 
in association with the transportation and logistics services 
provided. The rebate agreement was terminated in the fourth 
quarter of 2010. InnerWorkings also provides an immaterial 
amount of print procurement services to the Company. 
 
 
As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the Company 
had a net receivable due from InnerWorkings of $2,583,949 and 
$1,800,181, respectively. The Company had accounts payable 
of$53,347 and $148,443 due to InnerWorkings as of December 
31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, as a result of the 
print procurement services provided by InnerWorkings. 

















[ Page Intentionally Blank ] 








(3)


1


) 


(4)


1


)
www.presciencepoint.com 
30 


IW Has Fooled Analysts Into Thinking There’s 45% Upside In the Stock 
 


IW Has Canvased the Street to Find Some Supporting Analysts 
 
IW has worked hard to convince sell-side analysts that it is a growth machine, worthy of a higher stock price. We note that IW has 


presented at thirteen different broker-hosted investment conferences in the past few years. Their hard work has paid off, with four 


brokers claiming IW is a “Buy” with 40% upside from the current price.  





Investor Presentation Rating/Price Link         


Credit Suisse   http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=746701  


Barrington Research Buy: $16.00 http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=746702  


JP Morgan   http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=717500  


CL King   http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=703546  


Jefferies, Craig-Hallum, Benchmark Buy: $16.00 http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=669241  


Morgan Stanley, Sidoti Buy: $19.00 http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=649452  


Needham   http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=635147  


William Blair Outperform http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=630203  


Morgan Keegan   http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=595551  


Morgan Joseph   http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=475399  





Our Valuation Incorporates a Realistic View of IW’s Business Model 
 


Analysts seem to be justifying inflated stock price targets with the assumption that management’s projections will come to fruition, and 


IW is the fastest growing company in business services. We believe IW is nothing more than a provider of print brokering services, and 


should be viewed closer to its commercial printing, marketing and business process outsourcing (BPO) peers. IW’s financial profile is so 


weak that its EBITDA and Free Cash Flow margins are at the very bottom of its peers.  








LTM EBITDA MarginLTM Free Cash Flow Margin


0%


5%


10%


15%


20%


25%


C
G


X


C
V


O


R
R


D


Q
U


A
D


V
P


R
T


IP
G


O
M


C


W
P


P
G


Y


W
N


S G


E
X


L
S


IG
T


E


H
P


Q


X
R


X


C
JJ


P
B


I


IN
W


K


Printing Marketing BPOs Diversified IW


-2%


0%


2%


4%


6%


8%


10%


12%


14%


C
V


O


R
R


D


C
G


X


Q
U


A
D


IP
G


V
P


R
T


W
P


P
G


Y


O
M


C


IG
T


E


W
N


S


E
X


L
S G


C
JJ


H
P


Q


X
R


X


P
B


I


IN
W


K


Printing Marketing BPOs Diversified IW


Average


Average


Only company with 
negative FCF



http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=746701

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=746702

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=717500

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=703546

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=669241

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=649452

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=635147

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=630203

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=595551

http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=475399
www.presciencepoint.com 
31 


We’ve benchmarked IW’s valuation next to a wide variety of commercial printing, marketing service, business process outsourcing 


(BPO), and diversified business service companies. Many of these companies are dramatically larger with dominant global footprints, 


and are better capitalized. See Appendix VII for a complete list of comparable companies. 


In the top left chart, we observe that IW’s estimated revenue growth is the highest amongst all its peers. IW’s valuation premium, 


therefore, appears to be a direct result of the false belief that its revenue growth is properly accounted for, and that its targets will be 


achieved.  

















Source: CapitalIQ, Company filings


2013-2014E Sales Growth


Price / 2013E EPS Ent. Value / LTM Cash From Operations


Ent. Value / 2013E EBITDA


0.0x


5.0x


10.0x


15.0x


20.0x


25.0x


30.0x


35.0x


C
V


O


R
R


D


Q
U


A
D


C
G


X


W
P


P
G


Y


O
M


C


IP
G


V
P


R
T


IG
T


E


E
X


L
S G


W
N


S


H
P


Q


X
R


X


P
B


I


C
JJ


IN
W


K


Printing Marketing BPOs Diversified IW


0.0x


10.0x


20.0x


30.0x


40.0x


50.0x


60.0x


70.0x


C
G


X


Q
U


A
D


R
R


D


C
V


O


V
P


R
T


O
M


C


W
P


P
G


Y


IP
G


W
N


S


E
X


L
S G


IG
T


E


H
P


Q


X
R


X


C
JJ


P
B


I


IN
W


K


Printing Marketing BPOs Diversified IW


0.0x


2.0x


4.0x


6.0x


8.0x


10.0x


12.0x


14.0x


R
R


D


Q
U


A
D


C
V


O


C
G


X


W
P


P
G


Y


O
M


C


IP
G


V
P


R
T G


IG
T


E


E
X


L
S


W
N


S


H
P


Q


C
JJ


X
R


X


P
B


I


IN
W


K


Printing Marketing BPOs Diversified IW
-4%


-2%


0%


2%


4%


6%


8%


10%


12%


14%


16%


18%


Q
U


A
D


R
R


D


C
G


X


C
V


O


IP
G


O
M


C


W
P


P
G


Y


V
P


R
T


W
N


S


IG
T


E G


E
X


L
S


H
P


Q


P
B


I


X
R


X


C
JJ


IN
W


K


Printing Marketing BPOs Diversified IW


Average


Average


Average


Average
www.presciencepoint.com 
32 


Price Target and Conclusion 
 


IW’s revenues are being incorrectly accounted for, and its market opportunity is dramatically less than advertised. These problems are 


causing the market to assign and irrationally high growth rate to the company’s revenues, and premium valuation to IW’s stock price.  


We believe IW should trade at the low range of its peers for the following reasons: 


1. Revenues stated on a gross basis are in violation of GAAP, which places the company in current violation of their credit 


agreement and at above average risk of the SEC opening a formal investigation, and compelling a restatement 


2. Declining financial disclosures surrounding enterprise/middle market client counts and sales commissions that make 


reconciling reported revenue growth challenging  


3. Potential global market opportunity of “$500bn” dramatically lower than advertised, rendering IW’s growth opportunities 


much lower than they appear 


4. Business features more closely aligned with a slow growth commercial printing/business process outsourcing firm, in a highly 


competitive space crowded with better-capitalized players such as HP, Xerox, Pitney Bowes, Williams Lea and others 


5. Increased risk exposure to foreign markets; notably Europe where the company committed significant resources through an 


aggressively structured deal  


6. Weakening financial model that indicates declining gross and free cash flow margins and increased reliance on borrowing  


7. Corporate governance concerns as illustrated by related-party dealings, unexplained director departures, unusually high 


management compensation, and recent insider sales shortly before a large enterprise contract failure 





Given our grave concerns about the condition of their business, and high degree risk of a financial restatement or SEC enforcement, 


we believe IW should be valued closer to its commercial printing/diversified business products and services peers at 8x-12x 2013 


earnings and 5x-7x 2013 EBITDA, which would result in a stock price closer to $5.00 per share (~55% downside)
www.presciencepoint.com 
33 


Appendix I:  IW’s 2008 Supplier Contract
www.presciencepoint.com 
34 


Appendix II:  IW’s 2013 Supplier Contract
www.presciencepoint.com 
35
www.presciencepoint.com 
36 


Appendix III:  IW’s Recent Customer Quotation and Terms and Conditions 
 


This recent job quote contains a link to IW’s key Terms and Conditions. The Terms and Conditions document further 


illustrates passage of title from printer to customer, and the warranty being provided by the printer
www.presciencepoint.com 
37
www.presciencepoint.com 
38 


Appendix IV:  Terms and Conditions (From Customer Credit Extension Agreement)
www.presciencepoint.com 
39 


Appendix V:   IW’s New Enterprise Client Press Releases and Disclosures 


 
We observe new enterprise win press releases declined in 2012 (none issued yet in 2013), while IW stopped disclosing customer counts in 2010. 





Comparison of years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 (2012 10-k, page 21) 


2012 compared to 2011. Our revenue increased by $163.9 million, or 25.9%, from $633.8 million in 2011 to $797.7 million in 2012.  North America 


revenue increased by $108.4 million, or 20.0%, from $540.7 million in 2011 to $649.1 million in 2012. This increase in revenue is driven primarily by 


organic new enterprise and middle market account growth. International revenue increased by $56.8 million, or 60.7%, from $93.5 million in 2011 to 


$150.3 million in 2012. This increase is primarily due to a full year of revenue in 2012 after our expansion into Latin America and continental Europe 


through the acquisitions of CPRO and Productions Graphics, respectively, during 2011, in addition to various European tuck-in acquisitions of 


independent brokers. 


2011 compared to 2010. Our revenue increased by $151.6 million, or 31.4%, from $482.2 million in 2010 to $633.8 million in 2011. North America 


revenue increased by $96.1 million, or 21.6%, from $444.6 million in 2010 to $540.7 million in 2011. This increase in revenue is driven primarily by 


organic new enterprise and middle market account growth, as well as several tuck-in acquisitions of independent brokers. International revenue 


increased by $55.8 million, or 147.9%, from $37.7 million in 2010 to $93.5 million in 2011. This increase is primarily due to our expansion into Latin 


America and continental Europe through the acquisitions of CPRO and Productions Graphics, respectively, during 2011. 


Comparison of years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (2010 10-k, page 20) 


 Our revenue increased by $81.8 million, or 20.4%, from $400.4 million in 2009 to $482.2 million in 2010. The increase in revenue reflects an increase in 
both our enterprise and transactional business. Our revenue from enterprise clients increased by $75.8 million, or 28.6%, from $265.4 million in 2009 


to $341.2 million in 2010.  This increase in revenue is due to the addition of 23 new enterprise clients under contract as of December 31, 2010. Our 


revenue from transactional clients increased by $6.0 million, or 4.4%, from $135.0 million in 2009 to $141.0 million in 2010.   This increase in revenue is 


largely the result of our growth initiatives in the areas of an outbound call center and internet sales and efforts to hire or acquire experienced sales 


executives with existing books of business, which helped, in turn, drive this transactional business growth. 


Comparison of years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (2019 10-k, page 23) 


Our revenue decreased by $18.6 million, or 4.4%, from $419.0 million in 2008 to $400.4 million in 2009. The decrease in revenue reflects a decrease in 


both our enterprise and transactional business. Our revenue from enterprise clients decreased by $2.3 million, or 0.9%, from $267.7 million in 2008 to 


$265.4 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had 172 enterprise clients under contract compared to 143 enterprise clients under contract as of 


December 31, 2008. The decline in enterprise revenue is comprised of $51.6 million of new account revenue offset by same customer declines due to 


poor macroeconomic conditions in 2009. Our revenue from transactional clients decreased by $16.2 million, or 10.7%, from $151.3 million in 2008 to 


$135.0 million in 2009. The decline in transactional revenue is due to poor macroeconomic conditions in 2009. 


Date Company Term Financial Terms Reference Link


10/23/2012 Fortune 100 Grocer (Expansion) "Multi-Yr" No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=715364


9/25/2012 National Wildlife "Multi-Yr" No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=709265


9/10/2012 Gannett 5yr No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=705682


4/12/2012 PNC Financial Services Group "Multi-Yr" No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=663826


9/28/2011 "Undisclosed Non-Profit" No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=603986


6/28/2011 MoneyGram Int'l "Multi-Yr" "Multi-Million" http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=587648


6/2/2011 Morningstar No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=582516


4/29/2011 Willis Group Holdings No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=573176


4/8/2011 Walgreen (Extension Contract) 3yr No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=569744


11/10/2010 William Grant & Sons No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=529693


11/4/2010 Realogy Corp "Multi-Yr" No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=527077


11/2/2010 Merial Limited No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=526366


9/23/2010 National Grid "Multi-Yr" No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=510025


7/19/2010 Rent-A-Center No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=489428


4/27/2010 Junior Achievement No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=463819


2/19/2010 Unilever "Multi-Yr" No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=445834


12/18/2009 Party City No "Multi-Million" http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=431402


12/1/2009 The Scotts Company No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=427280


10/7/2009 InterContinental Hotels Group "Multi-Yr" "Multi-Million" http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=414506


3/30/2009 Samsung "Multi-Yr" "Multi-Million" http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=373960


12/17/2008 Anchor Blue No "Multi-Million" http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=354748


11/19/2008 Sun-Times News Group 2yr No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=348697


10/29/2008 Nicor Gas 5yr No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=343750


6/4/2008 Modell's Sporting Goods No "Multi-Million" http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=318227


5/6/2008 Xerox (Extension Contract) No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=308621


4/10/2008 Group O Inc. No No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=304168


11/26/2007 Navistar 3yr No http://investor.inwk.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=276841


Source:  InnerWorking's Website Press Releases



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000114420413012104/v333768_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000135038111000006/form10k123110.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1350381/000119312510051118/d10k.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 
40 


Appendix VI:   IW’s Quotes on “Huge” Market Opportunity 
 


Earnings call: 9/8/2012 


 Joe Busky: We’re nowhere near to having -- tapping out on what the market opportunity in this space is. I mean there are billions and 
billions and billions of dollars being spent just in the U.S. alone every day -- I mean not every day, every year in this segment.  





Earnings call: 8/10/2012 


 Eric Belcher:  I’m really pleased with our start to the year, and more importantly, the way in which the business is capitalizing on the bigger 
picture We have now generated record revenue for the seventh quarter in a row and our operating profitability continues to grow even 
while we are making a number of meaningful investments designed to capitalize on the huge market opportunity in front of us… But we 
aren’t doing so at the expense of the bigger picture massive growth opportunity we find in front of us today… So wrap up, as you might 
imagine, I am pleased with the results for the first half of the year, and more importantly the way in which the business is capitalizing on 
the bigger picture opportunity in front of us. The chance to revolutionize one of the oldest and largest supply chains in the world is once in 
a lifetime and we’re not going to let this opportunity pass us by. 
 


Earnings call: 5/3/2012 


 Eric Belcher:  I’m really pleased with our start to the year, and more importantly, the way in which the business is capitalizing on the bigger 
picture opportunity in front of us…  I do think that the company’s doing a very good job of not shortchanging this massive market 
opportunity we have in front of us by cutting back on investments in the near term, but yet also being responsible with the way in which 
we utilize our shareholders’ money in the short term. It’s a nice balance. It’s a nice blend. 
 


Earnings call: 9/3/2011 


 Eric Belcher: Kevin, there was an extensive sale cycle involved and as of right now everything is progressing exactly as we had planned with 
the implementation as the client had planned and there will be meaningful savings for this client next year and in the years ahead and so 
we said all along that we’re quite confident that there is a large market opportunity for us with our BPO solution as we’ve grown and 
therefore have become more qualified to handle increasingly larger amounts of spend and this is just one step along the path of signing 
increasingly larger contracts. 
 


Earnings call: 8/4/2011 


 Eric Belcher: We InnerWorkings generated record revenue for the third consecutive quarter and the operating profitability of the business 
continues to grow even while we are investing to take advantage of the immense opportunity offered by the global print supply chain… We 
believe it’s the right thing to do to capitalize on this large market opportunity.  
 


Earnings call: 5/5/2011 


 Joe Busky: This year our forecast calls for 45% to 60% increases in EPS and we expect to see meaningful growth in EPS in 2012 and beyond 
too, all the while taking advantage of a massive once in a lifetime global market opportunity. 
 


Earnings call: 2/15/2011 


 Eric Belcher: Looking forward, we’re well positioned to capitalize on the massive market opportunity that is out there for the taking… 


We’re actually less than 1% of what we consider to be just our eligible domestic market opportunity…  In other words, we don’t see 


ourselves spending any less energy focusing on growing our business in the United States, which of course is a wide open green 


field market opportunity for us still today.  





Earnings call: 8/5/2010 


 Eric Belcher: We could if we chose, remove 10% to 20% of our workforce tomorrow and significantly increase our near-term earnings, but 
that’s not the investment thesis, that’s not the value maximizing share strategy we believe and so we are keeping our focus on ensuring 
that we capitalize on the market opportunity in front of us. 
 


Earnings call: 5/6/2010 


 Steven E. Zuccarini: As we have outlined on past calls, we see tremendous opportunity in this 170 billion and growing US printing industry. 
In terms of market share, our penetration remains less than 1%. 


 Eric Belcher: We’ll most likely grow around the globe over time and with existing clients, where the relationship began in North America, 
but we are primarily focused in the U.S. and the UK marketplace where we have a reputation established and a very large market 
opportunity in front of us.
www.presciencepoint.com 
41 


Earnings call: 8/11/2008 


 Steven E. Zuccarini: So, these are expenses that we believe are necessary for the long term maximization of shareholder value and we will 
continue to make investments as we see fit, as most important for us is to take advantage of this massive market opportunity that we have 
in front of us right now. 





Earnings call: 5/8/2008 


 Steven E. Zuccarini: As we have outlined on past calls, we see tremendous opportunity in this 170 billion and growing US printing industry. 
In terms of market share, our penetration remains less than 1%. 


 Eric Belcher: These seasoned new additions bring with them exceptional sales backgrounds and experience navigating the executive 
hallways of corporate America. In some cases, we have been pursuing these talented individuals for some time, but only recently secured 
their services as they came to fully appreciate our massive market opportunity, the benefits of our compensation structure, and the 
established credibility of our brand. 





Earnings call: 2/21/2008 


 Steven E. Zuccarini: The good news for our shareholders is we have barely scratched the surface of our opportunity. As we’ve talked about 


on our past calls and at our recent Analyst Day, we see our target market opportunity of $130 to $140 billion and this $170 billion in 


growing US print industry. Thus, in terms of market share, our penetration still remains less than 1%. 


 Eric Belcher: It’s important to note that this talent comes to us under a variable compensation plan and in most cases these executives left 


positions where they were highly compensated to join us. What they see in InnerWorkings is what we see, a massive market opportunity in 


front of us and a great place to build the career. 


Earnings call: 11/7/2007 


 Steven E. Zuccarini: I want to remind all of you that despite our outstanding track record of success, we still capture less than 20% of the 


available print universe within our existing client base. And furthermore, our target market opportunity in this $170 billion U.S. printing 


industry is roughly a $130 billion to $140 billion, with the company's penetration of this market well under 1% market share.
www.presciencepoint.com 
42 


Appendix VII:  IW’s Trading Comparables 
 





($ in millions, except per share figures)


Stock % of '13E-'14E LTM Enterprise Value /


Price 52-wk Ent.  Revenue EPS Gross EBITDA FCF P / E EBITDA Revenue LTM Cash 


Name Ticker 4/26/2013 High Value Growth Growth Margin Margin Margin LTM 2013E 2014E LTM 2013E 2014E LTM 2013E 2014E from Ops.


Commercial Printing


RR Donnelley RRD $12.32 93% $5,486 -0.3% 0.0% 22.6% 11.9% 4.4% NM 7.5x 7.5x 4.5x 4.8x 4.8x 0.5x 0.5x 0.5x 8.5x


Quad/Graphics QUAD $21.35 87% $2,374 -1.4% 21.0% 22.2% 13.8% 6.1% 18.9x 10.2x 8.4x 4.2x 4.0x 3.9x 0.6x 0.5x 0.5x 6.7x


Cenveo CVO $2.20 70% $1,316 1.4% 31.9% 18.7% 11.3% 1.7% NM 4.7x 3.5x 6.5x 5.9x 5.7x 0.7x 0.7x 0.7x 25.3x


Consolidated Graphics CGX $35.16 79% $482 -0.1% 2.5% 23.3% 9.9% 6.1% 21.1x 11.1x 10.8x 4.7x 4.0x 4.0x 0.5x 0.5x 0.5x 4.5x


Max 1.4% 31.9% 23.3% 13.8% 6.1% 21.1x 11.1x 10.8x 6.5x 5.9x 5.7x 0.7x 0.7x 0.7x 25.3x


Average -0.1% 13.8% 21.7% 11.7% 4.6% 20.0x 8.4x 7.6x 5.0x 4.7x 4.6x 0.6x 0.6x 0.6x 11.2x


Min -1.4% 0.0% 18.7% 9.9% 1.7% 18.9x 4.7x 3.5x 4.2x 4.0x 3.9x 0.5x 0.5x 0.5x 4.5x


Global Marketing Services


WPP WPPGY $16.05 99% $24,585 4.9% 9.8% 21.4% 16.9% 6.4% 16.9x 13.2x 12.0x 9.2x 8.6x 8.1x 1.6x 1.5x 1.4x 16.7x


Omicom OMC $60.00 99% $17,881 4.7% 11.2% 26.8% 14.7% 7.1% 16.4x 15.3x 13.7x 8.5x 8.3x 7.9x 1.2x 1.2x 1.2x 14.4x


Interpublic Group IPG $13.98 97% $6,793 4.1% 25.9% 37.2% 11.8% 2.7% 15.2x 16.4x 13.1x 8.2x 7.2x 6.6x 1.0x 1.0x 0.9x 19.0x


VistaPrint VPRT $42.44 98% $1,613 7.2% 27.4% 65.7% 9.5% 3.8% 48.2x 19.2x 15.1x 14.9x 10.3x 8.6x 1.4x 1.3x 1.2x 13.1x


Max 7.2% 27.4% 65.7% 16.9% 7.1% 48.2x 19.2x 15.1x 14.9x 10.3x 8.6x 1.6x 1.5x 1.4x 19.0x


Average 5.2% 18.6% 37.8% 13.2% 5.0% 24.2x 16.0x 13.5x 10.2x 8.6x 7.8x 1.3x 1.2x 1.2x 15.8x


Min 4.1% 9.8% 21.4% 9.5% 2.7% 15.2x 13.2x 12.0x 8.2x 7.2x 6.6x 1.0x 1.0x 0.9x 13.1x


Business Process Outsourcing


Genpact G $18.65 96% $4,492 13.5% 13.7% 39.1% 17.7% 12.0% 23.9x 18.3x 16.1x 13.3x 11.7x 10.2x 2.4x 2.1x 1.8x 14.5x


iGate IGTE $16.70 84% $1,893 8.4% 15.5% 39.0% 22.7% 6.4% 17.8x 9.9x 8.6x 7.7x 7.3x 6.3x 1.7x 1.7x 1.5x 18.9x


ExlService EXLS $31.91 73% $929 13.9% 16.6% 38.6% 18.8% 10.6% 25.3x 17.6x 15.1x 11.2x 9.4x 8.3x 2.1x 1.9x 1.6x 14.1x


WNS Holdings WNS $14.44 96% $728 8.3% 31.6% 32.3% 16.6% 7.8% 35.2x 27.2x 20.7x 9.5x 8.5x 7.5x 1.6x 1.5x 1.4x 12.7x


Max 13.9% 31.6% 39.1% 22.7% 12.0% 35.2x 27.2x 20.7x 13.3x 11.7x 10.2x 2.4x 2.1x 1.8x 18.9x


Average 11.0% 19.3% 37.3% 19.0% 9.2% 25.6x 18.3x 15.1x 10.4x 9.2x 8.1x 1.9x 1.8x 1.6x 15.0x


Min 8.3% 13.7% 32.3% 16.6% 6.4% 17.8x 9.9x 8.6x 7.7x 7.3x 6.3x 1.6x 1.5x 1.4x 12.7x


Diversified


Hewlett Packard HPQ $19.97 79% $54,439 -1.5% 2.3% 23.5% 12.1% 7.1% 5.0x 5.7x 5.6x 3.8x 4.0x 4.1x 0.5x 0.5x 0.5x 4.6x


Canon CAJ $36.27 77% $34,827 2.4% 8.5% 47.4% 16.7% 2.2% 18.8x 13.4x 12.4x 5.9x 4.7x 4.4x 1.0x 0.9x 0.9x 7.8x


Xerox XRX $8.33 89% $18,123 2.1% 15.3% 31.1% 13.5% 9.6% 9.1x 7.5x 6.5x 6.0x 5.6x 5.3x 0.8x 0.8x 0.8x 7.2x


Pitney Bowes PBI $15.90 89% $6,925 -0.3% 0.0% 50.4% 20.2% 9.9% 7.4x 8.2x 8.2x 7.0x 7.0x 7.2x 1.4x 1.4x 1.4x 10.5x


Max 2.4% 15.3% 50.4% 20.2% 9.9% 18.8x 13.4x 12.4x 7.0x 7.0x 7.2x 1.4x 1.4x 1.4x 10.5x


Average 0.7% 6.5% 38.1% 15.6% 7.2% 10.1x 8.7x 8.2x 5.7x 5.3x 5.2x 0.9x 0.9x 0.9x 7.5x


Min -1.5% 0.0% 23.5% 12.1% 2.2% 5.0x 5.7x 5.6x 3.8x 4.0x 4.1x 0.5x 0.5x 0.5x 4.6x


InnerWorkings INWK $11.00 70% $629 16.6% 33.0% 23.2% 5.7% -0.2% 29.7x 22.7x 17.1x 13.9x 12.5x 9.5x 0.8x 0.7x 0.6x 59.9x


Source: Company financials, CapitalIQ calendarized estimates.
