Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








Terms of Service: 


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service.  You agree that use of Muddy 
Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect 
trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.  You represent to Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment 
sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site.  You further agree that you will not communicate the 
contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  If you download or 
receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and 
bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to 
continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be 
long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from 
any person through this site or reports on this site.  Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of:  (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) 
high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through our due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion.  All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the 
information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the 
downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any manner other than by download from 
that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute 
arising from your use of this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the 
personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction 
or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right 
or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is 
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the 
parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in 
particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or 
cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or 
cause of action arose or be forever barred.  


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1
Muddy Waters, LLC 
www.muddywatersresearch.com 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 


Olam International: Strong Sell 
September 2, 2013 


 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq.  


 
Not Changing the Old Ways 


 
We continue to believe that, in a world where capital is allocated to maximize economic 
efficiency, Olam’s shares have no value.  The Company has simply borrowed too much 
money, and then invested in projects that will not generate sufficient returns to repay its 
debt obligations.  In this note, we will only briefly comment on Olam’s FY 2013 results.  
(Numerous analysts have already done so.)  Instead, we will focus on qualitative points 
that cause us to believe Olam is not really turning over a new leaf. 
 
Olam’s FY 2013 results display the pathologies we noted in November 2012: 
 


• Adjusted return on average assets was only 1.8%.  (We adjusted net income to 
S$261.8 million by excluding from Olam’s operational profit after tax all 
biological gains and changes in measurement of derivatives.1  For an explanation 
of how and why we make adjustments to Olam’s net income, see our initial report 
dated November 26, 2012.) 
 


• Allowance for doubtful accounts more than halved from S$22.6 million to S$9.6 
million, which made FY 2013 a less unfavorable a comparison to FY 2012. 


 
• Inventory write-downs were only S$115,000, versus S$15 million last year, which 


also made FY 2013 a less unfavorable comparison to FY 2012. 
 


• Free cash burn was S$800.4 million, and Olam spent S$1.1 billion on acquisitions 
and investments in FY 2013. 


 
The big picture issue is that we are skeptical Olam will operate differently in the future. 
 


• There have been no changes to the board since our initial report.  This board had 
been complacent, at best, as Olam went on its borrowing and spending binge.  It 
was evidently more concerned with the messenger than the message when we first 
spoke critically of the Company.   


 
Olam’s board has ossified.  The average tenure of Olam’s independent directors is 
11.4 years.  Olam’s IPO was only eight years ago.  Only one independent director 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 We do not ignore asset impairment charges because we see these as a likely understated, and recurring 
function of Olam’s business. 


Page 2
has been appointed since Olam’s IPO, and that was five years ago.  These 
gentlemen have become too vested in Olam’s mistakes to deal with them 
effectively. 
 


• CEO Sunny Verghese said nothing during the call, which might be interpreted as 
the Company transitioning to a future without Mr. Verghese.  However, what 
would really change if Mr. Verghese were no longer CEO?  Olam has a tightknit 
– probably insular – core of top managers who have worked together for many 
years.  Were the Company’s new leadership to come from the existing pool of top 
management, which seems to lack diversity of views, what would really change?   


 
• Olam continued to essentially invent its own performance metrics in a 


continuation of past less-than-best practices.  For the FY 2013 results, Olam 
altered its definition of free cash flow, thereby excluding cash interest, taxes, and 
certain working capital account changes.  (Our initial report explains the 
irrelevance of Olam’s invented gross and net contribution metrics.) 


 
• Olam was asked what its average cost of debt is, and Mr. Anatharaman did not 


answer the question with any specificity. 
 


• More birds in the bush are better than one in the hand.  Olam steadfastly refuses 
to provide real transparency into the Gabon fertilizer project.  Reading between 
the lines, Tata Chemicals (“TCL”) is highly unlikely to participate in the project.  
Rather than acknowledging this, Olam stated that it is happily looking for more 
possible partners who are willing to buy in (so that Olam can sell down).  We 
believe the reality is that TCL no longer views the project as attractive (if it ever 
did).  Our recommendation is that Olam fall on the sword, admit to investors it 
wasted significant money on dredging, and terminate the project. 


 
• This brings up perhaps the most significant point: Despite Olam’s new strategic 


plan that calls for capital spending to be curtailed (notwithstanding the Company 
responding to our initial criticism by defiantly pledging to increase capex and 
investment), Olam has not admitted having had a problem.  In other words, the 
Company has not acknowledged that it made a number of investments that will 
not “gestate” into returns in excess of their costs.  It is well settled that the road to 
any recovery begins with an acknowledgement that a problem exists.  We have 
yet to hear anything of this sort from Olam. Investors really need to understand 
why this problem exists, and how the Company proposes to fix it.  Lacking this 
transparency, investors have no basis to form opinions as to whether the Company 
is likely to improve its performance. 


Page 3
