1	
  


Note: You should assume we have a short position in FMCN as of this report – prior to reading this report 
see important disclaimer on the last page (page 12). 


 
Muddy Waters, LLC 


December 9, 2011 
 


Is “Independent” Verification in China Better than Toilet Paper? 
 
No.  Although independent verification reports in China and toilet paper are often 
intended to hold the same substance, our research indicates that investors are much better 
off sticking with 2-4 ply toilet paper in the bathroom.1   
 
Introduction 
 
In response to Muddy Waters’s disclosure in our November 21, 2011 report that FMCN’s 
LCD commercial display network media kits show far fewer screens than FMCN claims 
to have in its filings, FMCN announced that it would commission independent 
verification of its network size. FMCN claims that it is in the process of engaging two 
“reputable” firms to verify its LCD commercial display network screen count.2  Although 
we do not know which firms FMCN will engage, the notion of having reputable firms 
verify FMCN’s screen network size conjures up the Ghost of LCD Screen Frauds Past, 
CTR Market Research.   
 
CTR is regarded, including by FMCN, as one of China’s premier independent market 
research firms.3  Yet CTR’s research was integral in selling the China MediaExpress 
Holdings, Inc. (OTC: CCME) fraud to investors.4  CTR shows us that a client can 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 Toilet paper generally has fewer chemicals than paper printed with laser toner. 
2 http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1330017/000119312511325160/d262965dex991.htm, p. 3. 
3 CTR shares this opinion – its website reads in part “As the foremost marketing information and insight 
provider in China, CTR provides...”  See: http://www.ctrchina.cn/ctrwebsite/en/WeAretCTR-wearedo.php  
4 Lest anybody be confused about whether CCME is a fraud, the following is an excerpt from the 8-K 
CCME filed when its auditor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, resigned: “DTT has informed the Company in its 
resignation letter that it was no longer able to rely on the representations of management and that it had lost 
confidence in the commitment of the Board and the Audit Committee to good governance and reliable 
financial reporting. Prior to its resignation, DTT raised the following issues (some of which may be 
considered to be disagreements) encountered during the audit, including: issues related to the authenticity 
of bank statements; a loss of confidence in bank confirmation procedures carried out under 
circumstances which DTT believed to be suspicious; issues concerning the validity of certain advertising 
agents/customers and bus operators (including with respect to certain of the Company's top ten 
customers); concerns over possible undisclosed bank accounts and bank loans; information on file with the 
State Administration of Industry and Commerce as to certain subsidiaries appearing to be inconsistent with 
comparable financial information provided to DTT; the verification of the validity of a sampling of tax 
invoices issued in connection with certain large transactions; the verification of certain subsidiary tax 
payments with the local office of the State Administration of Taxation; the verification of salary payments 
made in cash directly to employee bank accounts; the verification of the production process for advertising 
programs; and the potential double counting of a certain number of buses…DTT's letter also stated that 
these issues may have adverse implications for the prior periods' financial reports, including the Company’s 
consolidated financial statements for 2009 and DTT’s report thereon, and that in the absence of the further 
investigatory procedures that DTT requested, DTT was unable to determine whether the prior periods' 
financial statements are reliable, and accordingly whether continuing reliance should be placed on these
2	
  


essentially get whatever result it wants from “independent” verifications in China – 
particularly when it comes to confirming the existence tens of thousands of LCD screens.  
After FMCN announces that the two independent firms have verified within two weeks5 
all 178,382 screens in over 100 cities FMCN claims to have in its LCD commercial 
network, we look forward to it addressing our more substantive concerns.   
 
FMCN has left open a number of critical issues from our reports, including issues 
associated with the phantom acquisitions, its consistent overpayments for acquisitions, 
and management self-dealing that continues to this day.  If FMCN still wants to talk 
about screens, then it should explain why it previously claimed to have 17.6x more movie 
theaters under contract in its theater network than actually existed in China.6  That’s an 
independent verification FMCN can’t game. 
 
Whose Research Can Investors Trust? 
 
Although much of this report focuses on CTR’s farcical research for CCME, the point is 
not about CTR.  Much independent research in China can produce similarly inaccurate 
results.7  There are clear red flags regarding at least two other research providers 
commonly cited by US-listed companies, iResearch and Sinomonitor International.  To 
be clear, we do not see this as an issue of whether research companies are Chinese or 
foreign-owned.  We believe that the conflicts and private sector corruption often present 
in China business will include most to all foreign firms that offer similar services. 
 
We have concerns about China internet sector research produced by iResearch, which is 
owned by former FMCN subsidiary Allyes.8  We counted 27 Chinese internet companies 
that have cited iResearch in their SEC filings in the past year.  iResearch is a heavily 
conflicted provider of industry research.  First, its direct owner, Allyes, is a major China 
internet advertising agency.  During the time FMCN owned Allyes, there existed an even 
greater conflict of interest for iResearch because of the strong venture capital presence on 
FMCN’s board.  That conflict is greater if anything now because large venture capital 
firm SilverLake now owns Allyes.  Most troubling is that iResearch actually makes 
venture investments in Chinese companies itself.  It should therefore come as no surprise 
that iResearch consistently issues rosy research in support of the China internet industry 
and iResearch’s clients.   
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
financial statements or on DTT’s report on the Company’s 2009 financial statements.”  See: 
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1399067/000114420411017875/v215688_8ka.htm 
5 FMCN stated that it expected the verification of its network to take two weeks during its November 22, 
2011 call. 
6 MW November 29, 2011 report on FMCN, pp. 3-4. 
7 CCME offers another case study in support of this proposition – after being ordered de-listed following its 
auditor’s resignation, CCME commissioned a credit rating from a Chinese credit rating agency and was 
given AAA status. See: http://www.zerohedge.com/article/china-mediaexpress-holdings-gets-coveted-aaa-
credit-rating  
8 Shanghai Allyes Advertising Company (上海好耶广告有限公司) owns 50% of iResearch Marketing 
Consulting Company (上海艾瑞市场咨询有限公司) and an Allyes subsidiary, and Shanghai Quanshi 
Advertising Company(上海诠释广告有限公司), owns the remaining 50%.
3	
  


Sinomonitor International is another firm that publicly traded Chinese companies cite in 
support of their business models.  Sinomonitor International performed research for 
Tudou Holdings Ltd. (NASDAQ: TUDO) that concludes TUDO is “the most valuable 
online brand in China” and Tudou.com is the “most favored and recommended online 
video website” in China.9  Yoku.com (NASDAQ: YOKU), TUDO’s direct competitor, 
might dispute Sinomonitor International’s research.  YOKU’s market cap is 6x that of 
TUDO.10  FMCN has cited Sinomonitor International in the past to support is claims 
regarding penetration of the poster frame market.11  However, Sinomonitor International 
is a joint venture between a Chinese firm and global advertising agency Dentsu.12  Dentsu 
is also former joint venture partner of FMCN.13 
 
Private sector conflicts of interest – and outright private sector corruption – are too 
significant in China for investors to put any faith in market research commissioned by 
research subjects – it is anything but independent. 
 
Anatomy of Fecal Grade “Independent” Verification of an LCD Network – CCME 
and CTR 
 
Muddy Waters has direct experience with independent research that significantly inflated 
the size of a digital out-of-home advertising LCD network.  When we wrote our initial 
report on CCME, we showed that the research CCME had commissioned CTR to provide 
on CCME’s LCD network was utterly useless.  Note that FMCN is a fan of CTR’s 
research – in its 2010 20-F, FMCN wrote: 
 


We also purchase or commission studies containing relevant market study data 
from reputable third-party market research firms, such as Nielsen Media 
Research, CTR Market Research and Sinomonitor.14 


 
Further, FMCN has previously used CTR to verify the scope of FMCN’s LCD network.15 
 
CTR’s research erroneously confirmed two bus operators CCME fraudulently claimed 
were in its LCD network.  In fact, neither of these two operators ever had CCME screens 
on any of their buses.  (Ironically, CCME had claimed that one of these companies was 
the largest operator in its network.)  In instances in which CCME actually did business 
with operators, CTR often grossly overstated the numbers of buses the companies 
operated and the numbers of LCD screens.  In several of these cases, quick searches of 
the operators’ websites would have revealed greatly numbers greatly different than those 
CTR calculated.  CTR’s research on CCME’s LCD network was worthless, and we 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
9 TUDO August 2011 prospectus, p. 1. 
10 Bloomberg DES function. 
11 See FMCN January 2006 prospectus, p. 117. 
12 See http://www.docstoc.com/docs/53202483/Dentsu-Announces-Development-of-VextMiner-DENTSU-
editionChinese, pp. 3-4. 
13 See MW November 21, 2011 report on FMCN, pp. 36-38. 
14 FMCN 2010 20-F, p. 42. 
15 FMCN January 2006 prospectus, p. 63.
4	
  


expect nothing more from the companies that FMCN commissions to verify the size of its 
LCD network. 
 
CTR warranted that its research on CCME’s bus-based LCD network was “actual, 
reliable”:
5	
  


CTR stated that CCME’s LCD network had 2,127 buses in Shanghai with 5,114 screens.  
In reality, CCME had no more than 296 buses with 315 screens in Shanghai. 
 


 
 
CTR stated that CCME had two Shanghai-based bus operators in its network; however, in 
reality CCME never had contracts with either of these operators.  CTR and CCME 
purported that one of the companies, Shanghai Ba-Shi, was the largest operator in 
CCME’s network.  These companies’ buses are based in Shanghai, and any researcher 
who boarded a bus belonging to either of these two operators would have immediately 
noted that CCME’s equipment had not been installed.
6	
  


Despite the ease of discovering that CCME did not have agreements with either of these 
operators, CTR’s research concluded that both operators are in CCME’s network, and 
represented 2,127 buses with 5,114 CCME LCD screens.
7	
  


CTR concluded bus operator Beijing Long Xiang A-er-sha had 428 buses and 928 LCD 
screens in CCME’s LCD network. 
 


 
 
Beijing Long Xiang A-er-sha’s website showed that it only owned 58 buses.
8	
  


CTR concluded Beijing A-er-sha owned 207 buses and 439 LCD screens in CCME’s 
LCD display network. 
 


 
 
Beijing A-er-sha’s website showed that it only owned 20 buses.
9	
  


CTR concluded Fujian San-Fu Passenger Express owned 128 buses with 268 CCME 
LCD screens. 
 


 
Fujian San-Fu’s website showed it owned 32 buses.
10	
  


CTR concluded that Fujian Min-shen-fa Express Passenger Transportation owned 50 
buses with 104 LCD screens. 
 


 
Fujian Min-shen-fa’s website showed it owned nine buses.
11	
  


CTR concluded that Tianjin A-er-sha owned 122 buses with 252 CCME LCD screens. 
 


 
 
Tianjin A-er-sha’s website stated it owned only 50 buses.
12	
  


Disclaimer: 
 
Use of Muddy Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk. You should do your own 
research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to 
securities covered herein. You should assume that as of the publication date of any report 
or letter, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, 
affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a 
short position in the stock (and/or options of the stock) covered herein, and therefore 
stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of stock declines. Following 
publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities 
covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of 
our recommendation. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any 
security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in 
which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Muddy 
Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor. To the best of our ability and 
belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained 
from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary 
duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as 
is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC 
makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 
completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its 
use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, 
LLC does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information 
contained herein. Before viewing the contents of this report, you agree that any dispute 
arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You 
knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction 
of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any 
other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in 
California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or 
provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You 
agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action 
arising out of or related to use of this report or the material herein must be filed within 
one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.
