Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 










Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1
Muddy Waters, LLC 
www.muddywatersresearch.com 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 


Olam International: Strong Sell 
September 2, 2013 


 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq.  


 
Not Changing the Old Ways 


 
We continue to believe that, in a world where capital is allocated to maximize economic 
efficiency, Olam’s shares have no value.  The Company has simply borrowed too much 
money, and then invested in projects that will not generate sufficient returns to repay its 
debt obligations.  In this note, we will only briefly comment on Olam’s FY 2013 results.  
(Numerous analysts have already done so.)  Instead, we will focus on qualitative points 
that cause us to believe Olam is not really turning over a new leaf. 
 
Olam’s FY 2013 results display the pathologies we noted in November 2012: 
 


• Adjusted return on average assets was only 1.8%.  (We adjusted net income to 
S$261.8 million by excluding from Olam’s operational profit after tax all 
biological gains and changes in measurement of derivatives.1  For an explanation 
of how and why we make adjustments to Olam’s net income, see our initial report 
dated November 26, 2012.) 
 


• Allowance for doubtful accounts more than halved from S$22.6 million to S$9.6 
million, which made FY 2013 a less unfavorable a comparison to FY 2012. 


 
• Inventory write-downs were only S$115,000, versus S$15 million last year, which 


also made FY 2013 a less unfavorable comparison to FY 2012. 
 


• Free cash burn was S$800.4 million, and Olam spent S$1.1 billion on acquisitions 
and investments in FY 2013. 


 
The big picture issue is that we are skeptical Olam will operate differently in the future. 
 


• There have been no changes to the board since our initial report.  This board had 
been complacent, at best, as Olam went on its borrowing and spending binge.  It 
was evidently more concerned with the messenger than the message when we first 
spoke critically of the Company.   


 
Olam’s board has ossified.  The average tenure of Olam’s independent directors is 
11.4 years.  Olam’s IPO was only eight years ago.  Only one independent director 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 We do not ignore asset impairment charges because we see these as a likely understated, and recurring 
function of Olam’s business. 


Page 2
has been appointed since Olam’s IPO, and that was five years ago.  These 
gentlemen have become too vested in Olam’s mistakes to deal with them 
effectively. 
 


• CEO Sunny Verghese said nothing during the call, which might be interpreted as 
the Company transitioning to a future without Mr. Verghese.  However, what 
would really change if Mr. Verghese were no longer CEO?  Olam has a tightknit 
– probably insular – core of top managers who have worked together for many 
years.  Were the Company’s new leadership to come from the existing pool of top 
management, which seems to lack diversity of views, what would really change?   


 
• Olam continued to essentially invent its own performance metrics in a 


continuation of past less-than-best practices.  For the FY 2013 results, Olam 
altered its definition of free cash flow, thereby excluding cash interest, taxes, and 
certain working capital account changes.  (Our initial report explains the 
irrelevance of Olam’s invented gross and net contribution metrics.) 


 
• Olam was asked what its average cost of debt is, and Mr. Anatharaman did not 


answer the question with any specificity. 
 


• More birds in the bush are better than one in the hand.  Olam steadfastly refuses 
to provide real transparency into the Gabon fertilizer project.  Reading between 
the lines, Tata Chemicals (“TCL”) is highly unlikely to participate in the project.  
Rather than acknowledging this, Olam stated that it is happily looking for more 
possible partners who are willing to buy in (so that Olam can sell down).  We 
believe the reality is that TCL no longer views the project as attractive (if it ever 
did).  Our recommendation is that Olam fall on the sword, admit to investors it 
wasted significant money on dredging, and terminate the project. 


 
• This brings up perhaps the most significant point: Despite Olam’s new strategic 


plan that calls for capital spending to be curtailed (notwithstanding the Company 
responding to our initial criticism by defiantly pledging to increase capex and 
investment), Olam has not admitted having had a problem.  In other words, the 
Company has not acknowledged that it made a number of investments that will 
not “gestate” into returns in excess of their costs.  It is well settled that the road to 
any recovery begins with an acknowledgement that a problem exists.  We have 
yet to hear anything of this sort from Olam. Investors really need to understand 
why this problem exists, and how the Company proposes to fix it.  Lacking this 
transparency, investors have no basis to form opinions as to whether the Company 
is likely to improve its performance. 


Page 3
