Muddy Waters, LLC 
 
July 6, 2010 


 
Two Points to Frame the ONP Debate 


 
As the battle over ONP continues this week, and investors continue to evaluate the two opposed 
views (e.g., ONP is worth less than $1 vs. ONP is worth $15+), Muddy Waters LLC suggests 
returning to two points that we raised in our initial report.  These facts upon which we make these 
points are indisputable – the information is in ONP’s own filings, thus it is part of our “open 
secret” theme about this company. 
 
First, ONP was not forthright with investors for over 16 months about not actually owning 
HBOP.  Second, it is suspicious that ONP’s 2009 top 10 customer list changed 80% of the 
companies from the 2008 list, while keeping the threshold to make the list constant, and yet 
generated a 56.5% sales increase. 
 
Lack of Forthrightness about Lack of Ownership 
 
ONP never has owned any equity in HBOP – whether directly or through a holding company. 
Thus, until ONP created Bao Ding Sheng De Paper Co. Ltd. in June 2009, investors in ONP 
owned nothing inside of China.  Even if HBOP’s results were what ONP claimed during this 
time, it had no basis to consolidate the results.  However, from October 30, 2007 until May 15, 
2009, ONP described its relationship to HBOP as that of complete ownership.  (See Exhibit 1.)  
Thus, ONP was incorrectly stating in its filings that it owned HBOP, and it was impermissibly 
consolidating HBOP’s claimed results. 
 
When ONP did begin stating in its filings that it did not own equity in HBOP, it seemed to take 
pains to make this point obscure.  Moreover, it did not issue any press release, or otherwise make 
any attempt to correct the prior record of its statements about owning HBOP.  Exhibit 2 contains 
the section from the Q1 2009 Form 10-Q in which ONP first disclosed that it did not actually own 
HBOP.  We can picture investors’ eyes glazing over as they read through the section, and thus 
missing (likely by design) the key point.  Thus, the first disclosure that ONP does not own its 
China operating company was made in an obscure manner. 
 
When it first began stating that it did not own HBOP, ONP claimed that there existed a “trust 
agreement” between it and HBOP’s shareholders (led by Chairman Liu).  (See Exhibit 2.)  
However, on June 30, 2009, ONP began characterizing the trust as one that was “deemed” to be a 
trust – it does not make it clear who, or what body of law, “deemed” there to be a trust.  
Moreover, ONP does not correct its past statement about there being a trust agreement.  Almost to 
this day, ONP states that it “deems” there had been a trust – see the December 31, 2009 Form 10-
K.  (Interestingly, the Q1 2010 Form 10-Q is back to the “trust agreement” language, which may 
be a holdover from the prior year’s form.)  ONP has difficulty explaining how and to what extent 
there is a trust agreement governing HBOP’s ownership. 
 
Investors should consider ONP’s lack of forthrightness, along with what seems to be attempts to 
conceal information in an “open secrets” manner, when evaluating which side in this debate is 
telling the truth. 
 
The 2009 Top 10 Customer List is Suspicious
ONP’s 2009 top 10 customer list shows that it replaced 80% of the 2008 customers.  The strange 
item is that the minimum level needed to enter the top 10 lists stayed constant at around $2.1 
million.  In other words, one could reasonably expect that almost all of the companies who did 
$2.1 million or more in business with ONP in 2008 should do at least as much in 2009.  But this 
was not the case, as eight of the 2008 top 10 customers disappeared.  Yet, ONP did not lose any 
revenue.  It grew by 56.5%.   
 
The paper manufacturing business in China is highly competitive.  First you have to make the 
product.  Then you then have to sell it.  “If you make it, they will come” is no less realistic in 
China than in the United States.  Particularly when the product is highly commoditized – such as 
paper is.   
 
For a company to lose most of its top 10 customers and not have sales decline requires significant 
effort by all throughout the organization.  To lost most of its top 10 customers and still grow the 
company at 56.5% is a remote possibility.  If investors are inclined to believe the company in this 
battle, they should first come up with a satisfactory explanation for how ONP achieved this feat.  
We caution investors not to take a “this is China – it must be possible” mentality when trying to 
answer this question.  China is not fantasyland – it is a difficult market with large opportunities 
for companies that get it right. 
 
Below are the 2009 and 2008 top 10 lists.
Exhibit 1 – Verbiage Used the first 16 Months after the RTO1 
 


Item 1. Description of Business.   
 
Background         
 
On October 29, 2007, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the "Merger 
Agreement") with (i) its own wholly subsidiary, CARZ Merger Sub, Inc., (ii) Dongfang Zhiye 
Holding Limited ("Dongfang Holding") and (iii) each of Dongfang Holding shareholders 
(Zhenyong Liu, Xiaodong Liu, Chen Li, Ning Liu, Jie Liu, Shenzhen Huayin Guaranty & 
Investment Company Limited, Top Good International Limited, Total Giant Group Limited, Total 
Shine Group Limited, Victory High Investment Limited, Think Big Trading Limited, Huge Step 
Enterprises Limited, and Sure Believe Enterprise Limited) (the "Dongfang Holding 
Shareholders"). Zhenyong Liu is the president and sole director of Dongfang Holding.                                           
 
The transaction described in the Merger Agreement is referred to as the "Merger Transaction." A 
summary of the Merger Transaction, as well as the material terms and conditions of the Merger 
Agreement, are set forth below, but such summary is qualified in its entirety by the terms and 
conditions of the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 2, 2007. 
 
Dongfang Holding is a holding corporation with no operations and was formed on November 13, 
2006 under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. Dongfang Holding owns all of the issued and 
outstanding stock and ownership of Hebei Baoding Orient Paper Milling Company Limited 
("Hebei Paper"). [emphasis added] Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Dongfang Holding 
merged with CARZ Merger Sub, Inc., with Dongfang Holding as the surviving entity. As a result 
of the Merger Transaction, Dongfang Holding became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the 
Company, which, in turn, made the Company the indirect owner of Dongfang Holding's operating 
company subsidiary, Hebei Paper. 
 
Under the Merger Agreement, in exchange for their shares in Dongfang Holding, the Dongfang 
Holding Shareholders received an aggregate of 29,801,987 newly-issued shares of the Company's 
common stock, $.001 par value, which shares were distributed pro ratably among the Dongfang 
Holding Shareholders in accordance with their respective ownership interests in Dongfang 
Holding.  
 


                                                        
1 Orient Paper, Inc., December 31, 2008 Form 10-K, pp. 3-4.
Exhibit 2 – the Ephemeral Trust Agreement2 
 


(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
 
Basis of Presentation and Organization 
 
Orient Paper, Inc. (“Orient Paper” or “the Company”) was incorporated under the laws of the 
State of Nevada on December 9, 2005, under the name of Carlateral, Inc. Carlateral, Inc. started 
its business by providing financing services specializing in subprime title loans, secured primarily 
using automobiles (and also boats, recreational vehicles, machinery, and other equipment) as 
collateral. 
 
Hebei Baoding Orient Paper Milling Company Limited (“HBOP”) was organized on March 3, 
1996, under the laws of the PRC. HBOP engages mainly in the production and distribution of 
products such as copy paper, uncoated and coated paper, digital-photo paper, corrugated paper, 
plastic paper, craft paper, graphic-design paper, antifraud-thermal-security paper, and other paper 
and packaging-related products. HBOP uses recycled paper as its primary raw material. 
 
Dongfang Zhiye Holding Limited (“DZH Limited”) was formed on November 13, 2006, under 
the laws of the British Virgin Islands, and is a holding company. As such, DZH Limited does not 
generate any financial or operating transactions. On July 16, 2007, DZH Limited acquired all 
of the issued and outstanding stock and ownership of HBOP and placed such shares in trust 
with Zhenyong Liu, Xiaodong Liu, and Shuangxi Zhao, pursuant to a trust agreement 
executed as of the same date. [emphasis added] Under the terms of the trust agreement, Mr. Liu, 
Mr. Liu and Mr. Zhao (the original shareholders of HBOP) would exercise control over the 
disposition of DZH Limited’s shares in HBOP on DZH Limited’s behalf until DZH Limited 
successfully completed the change in registration of HBOP’s capital with the relevant PRC 
Administration of Industry and Commerce as the 100% owner of HBOP’s shares. 
 
On October 29, 2007, Orient Paper entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (see Note 7) 
with (i) Orient Paper wholly owned subsidiary, CARZ Merger Sub, Inc., (ii) DZH Limited, and 
(iii) each of DZH Limited shareholders (Zhenyong Liu, Xiaodong Liu, Chen Li, Ning Liu, Jie 
Liu, Shenzhen Huayin Guaranty & Investment Company Limited, Top Good International 
Limited, Total Giant Group Limited, Total Shine Group Limited, Victory High Investment 
Limited, Think Big Trading Limited, Huge Step Enterprises Limited, and Sure Believe Enterprise 
Limited). 
 
Pursuant to the agreement and plan of merger, DZH Limited merged with CARZ Merger Sub, 
Inc. via a share exchange, with DZH Limited as the surviving entity. In exchange for their shares 
in DZH Limited, the DZH Limited shareholders received an aggregate of 29,801,987 newly-
issued shares of Orient Paper’s common stock, $.001 par value, which were distributed pro 
ratably among the DZH Limited shareholders in accordance with their respective ownership 
interests in DZH Limited. 
 
As a result of the merger transaction, DZH Limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Orient Paper, which, in turn, made Orient Paper the indirect owner of DZH Limited’s 
operating company subsidiary, HBOP, pursuant to the terms of the trust agreement. 


                                                        
2 Orient Paper, Inc., March 31, 2009 Form 10-Q (filed May 15, 2009), p. F-6.
HBOP, the entity through which the Company operates its business currently has no 
subsidiaries, either wholly- or partially-owned. [emphasis added] 
 
Prior to the completion of the reverse merger, Orient Paper only had limited operations (since its 
incorporation on December 9, 2005). On December 21, 2007, the name of the Company was 
changed from Carlateral, Inc. to Orient Paper, Inc. in order to better reflect the current business 
plan subsequent to the reverse merger. 
 
Given that DZH Limited is considered to have acquired Orient Paper by a reverse merger through 
an Agreement and Plan of Merger (see Note 7), and its stockholders currently have voting control 
of Orient Paper, the accompanying financial statements and related disclosures in the notes to 
financial statements present the financial position as of March 31, 2009, and 2008, and the 
operations for the three months ended March 31, 2009, and 2008, of DZH Limited and its 
subsidiary HBOP under the name of Orient Paper. The reverse merger has been recorded as a 
recapitalization of Orient Paper, with the consolidated net assets of DZH Limited and its wholly 
owned operating subsidiary HBOP, and net assets Orient Paper brought forward at their historical 
bases. The costs associated with the reverse merger have been expensed as incurred.
DISCLAIMER 
 


 
As of the publication date of this report, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or 
through our members, employees, and / or consultants) has a short position in the stock 
(and / or options of the stock) covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant 
gains in the event that the price of the stock declines.  Following publication of this report, 
we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered herein, and we may be long, 
short, or neutral at any time hereafter.  
 
Muddy Waters, LLC   has obtained all information contained herein from sources we 
believe to be accurate and reliable.   However, such information is presented "as is," 
without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  Muddy Waters, LLC makes 
no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any 
such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  All expressions 
of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not 
undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein.
