Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








  


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1
Muddy Waters, LLC 
September 6, 2013 


Maintaining Strong Sell 
 


AMT’s / GTP: We’re More Skeptical than Ever 
 
AMT’s $4.8 billion acquisition of Global Tower Partners is astoundingly expensive – the 
2014 EBITDA multiple appears to be about 19x.  AMT expects that its net leverage ratio 
will be 5.8x after the acquisition.  Management says that they expect to rapidly de-lever 
afterward.  We question how rapidly AMT can de-lever when it is paying 19x EBITDA.   
 
Listening to the call, we get the impression that management was less than conservative 
in their modeling assumptions.  Management was asked to provide detail on their 
projected IRR.  However, management failed to provide a specific answer, and referred 
instead to historical practice of looking for high single digit to 10% returns in the US.   
 
Management also sounded cagey when discussing the discount rate it used for the DCF. 
They were asked whether their discount rate factors in a higher cost of debt due to rising 
rates.  The answer was strangely circuitous and equivocal, leading us to believe that they 
might have used more aggressive assumptions elsewhere in the discount rate or model to 
offset higher cost of debt assumptions.  We believe this management is prone to bend 
models to their desired outcome. 
 
When a company pays such a high price for an acquisition, we always think about 
possible ulterior motivations.  We have observed that when some companies see organic 
growth starting to decelerate, they make significant acquisitions (in number, size, or both) 
because this tends to obscure the organic growth picture.  In our report, we opined that 
US tower industry revenue growth rates are at peak.  Might AMT management, which 
certainly has a record of being less than transparent about its overseas business, be 
desperate to augment its tower base by 25% in order to obscure organic growth going 
forward, and to maintain the optics of 20% dividend growth at any cost?  
 


Page 2
