5/18/2018 FAB Universal Media Kiosks: A Fundamental Misunderstanding? - FAB Universal Corp. (NYSEMKT:FU) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1902391-fab-universal-media-kiosks-a-fundamental-misunderstanding 1/18


FAB Universal Media Kiosks: A Fundamental Misunderstanding?
Dec. 17, 2013 8:39 AM ET43 comments
by: Alfred Little


Editors' Note: This article covers a stock trading at less than $1 per share and/or with less
than a $100 million market cap. Please be aware of the risks associated with these stocks.


After an unnecessarily long delay, on 12/10/13 FAB Universal (NYSEMKT:FU) finally
responded, in part, to the numerous issues raised by others and myself. FAB admitted that
one of their Chinese "VIE" subsidiaries sold $16.3 million in Chinese bonds without
disclosing the issuance to the SEC and U.S. shareholders in violation of numerous
Federal securities laws.


The illegal bond issuance was first exposed on 11/15/13. On 11/19/13 FAB CEO Chris
Spencer acknowledged receipt of an email from me that contained a copy of the bond
prospectus, clearly showing that FAB's VIE subsidiary was the issuer. Even though Chris
had evidence in hand that proved the bonds were issued, he nevertheless authorized a
press release the following day containing a "vehement denial" of all the allegations.


Chris's reckless behavior lured investors into buying millions of more shares of FAB before
trading was finally halted two days later.


In today's report, I challenge FAB's response point by point, showing:


1. FAB has failed to take the most basic step allowing investors to verify the existence of
its media kiosks.


2. FAB does indeed guarantee a minimum return on franchisees' investments.
3. FAB has failed to acknowledge its removal of pirated content from its media kiosks.
4. FAB's cash confirmations are meaningless.
5. FAB's independent directors have yet to agree to meet with me to review the evidence.


Kiosk Business Misunderstanding?


In its response, FAB again failed to provide the locations of its media kiosks, the existence
of which I continue to challenge. Instead, FAB asserts that:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FU

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20131210006189/en/FAB-Universal-Responds-Allegations

https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6460311-unemon1/2408712-fu-its-really-a-fabulous-debt

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20131120005446/en/FAB-Universal-Reiterates-Denial-Allegations
5/18/2018 FAB Universal Media Kiosks: A Fundamental Misunderstanding? - FAB Universal Corp. (NYSEMKT:FU) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1902391-fab-universal-media-kiosks-a-fundamental-misunderstanding 2/18


"The short sellers have a fundamental, but understandable, misunderstanding of the
economics of the Company's business. FAB does not buy, sell or own kiosks.
Instead, it sells licenses to operate Intelligent Media kiosks and to use the software
to run the kiosks through 40 independent regional agents who are responsible for
signing up licensees, deploying the kiosks and reporting the number of installed
kiosks."


I do not see where there is any misunderstanding. FAB's SEC filings are reasonably clear
about the operation of the kiosk business, as shown below.


According to FAB's 6/1/12 Proxy, the FAB licensing program binds FAB and "each small
investor" (the franchisee) as follows [Note: Spelling and grammar errors in the original]:


"FAB licensing program is a merchant program that binds the FAB and each small
investor or vendor. Under this program and associated contract, both licensor and
lincensee take their joint-business obligations as follows:


1. The licensee pays for FAB Kiosk and other equipment and fixtures while the
licensor (FAB Media) is responsible for the complete set-up of each FAB outlet
from the location selection to construction or conversion, remodeling and
equipment installation.


2. All FAB outlets will be owned by the licensee, but supervised by a designated
management company - Beijing Huzhong Culture Co., Ltd ("Huzhong Culture") in
accordance with FAB's distinctive business formats.


3. FAB kiosks are linked to the server station through the internet to remain
updated. Such maintenances are operated by Huzhong Culture."


Furthermore, FAB's 2012 10-K contains a warning that:


"Our ability to generate revenues from Kiosks depends largely upon our ability to
provide licensees networks of Kiosks in desirable locations throughout major urban
areas in China. This, in turn, requires that we develop and maintain business
relationships with real estate developers, landlords, property managers,
hypermarkets, retailers, and other businesses and locations in which we are
provided space for our facilities."


The indisputable points from FAB's SEC filings regarding its kiosk business are:


1. FAB selects and maintains the locations.



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1074909/000101041213000061/f10kv10clean.htm
5/18/2018 FAB Universal Media Kiosks: A Fundamental Misunderstanding? - FAB Universal Corp. (NYSEMKT:FU) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1902391-fab-universal-media-kiosks-a-fundamental-misunderstanding 3/18


2. FAB builds out and installs the kiosks at the locations FAB selects.
3. FAB, via Huzhong, supervises the kiosks in operation.


Critically, the FAB Chinese bond prospectus disclosed that Chairman Zhang controls
Huzhong. FAB's SEC filings failed to make this same disclosure.


Thus the franchisees (or licensees, as FAB also calls them) are merely investors. It is
therefore not surprising to see that FAB in the Proxy mentioned above, actually refers to
the franchisee as a "small investor."


As I have explained before, given FAB's control over the kiosk location selection, build-out,
and operation of each kiosk, FAB management should be well aware of the precise
locations of each of the purported 16,820 media kiosks actively deployed. Publishing a list
of the 3,954 Beijing media kiosk locations should be as simple as making a PDF of a
spreadsheet, assuming the kiosks exist. There is no need to translate the Chinese
addresses since an English list would be harder to verify.


Rather than printing out and publishing the list of media kiosk locations, FAB's Board has
wasted a lot of time reviewing franchisee-licensing agreements:


"As part of its preliminary review, the Board has examined data concerning the
licenses to operate kiosks entered into by the Company as of September 30, 2013,
and has re-verified 12,866 licenses. Verification of the remaining licenses will
continue until all licenses have been reviewed."


What was the point of verifying licensing agreements, when the physical existence of the
media kiosks is in question?


FAB should simply publish the locations and let investors perform their own verifications.
FAB's continued delay in publishing the locations only allows Chairman Zhang more time
to cover-up his fraud.


3,954 Beijing Media Kiosks: No More and No Less?


FAB's response asserts that the company has deployed 3,954 media kiosks in Beijing as
of 9/30/13. FAB has claimed to have precisely 3,954 media kiosks in Beijing since at least
2011, when FAB disclosed this exact same number in an 8/9/11 press release filed as an
8-K.



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1074909/000101041211000398/pressreleasewizzardacquiredf.htm
5/18/2018 FAB Universal Media Kiosks: A Fundamental Misunderstanding? - FAB Universal Corp. (NYSEMKT:FU) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1902391-fab-universal-media-kiosks-a-fundamental-misunderstanding 4/18


Therefore for the past two years, FAB would like investors to believe that its purportedly
wildly profitable kiosk business in Beijing has not grown or declined by a single unit. This
seems highly unlikely since FAB has an office in Beijing where FAB's Director of
Franchisee Sales, Wang Lirong, promotes FAB's kiosk business to potential franchisees.
As part of her sales pitch, she pointed out that she franchised a kiosk, herself, in March
2013, participating in FAB's Beijing media kiosk deployments this year. Even so, FAB's
Beijing media kiosk count somehow remains stuck at 3,954.


Minimum Guarantee Shenanigans


Regarding the minimum guaranteed return FAB promises on Franchisees' investments,
FAB responded:


"To date, the Company has completed a review of 75% of the license contracts and
has not identified any instances of a minimum guarantee. FAB maintains that it has
never entered into any agreement with an agent or licensee for a minimum return
guarantee or stock payment by the Company. Any communication to the contrary
was unauthorized and is unenforceable."


Therefore FAB seems to be saying that the sales brochure provided by FAB's Director of
Franchisee Sales to my investigators was not approved by FAB. Neither was FAB's
Chinese bond issuance approved by FAB. That does not mean that promises of
guaranteed minimum returns were not made.


The guaranteed minimum return is clearly spelled out in FAB'S franchisee sales brochure.
FAB promises that a franchisee's investment of 80,000 RMB to buy a media kiosk will be
worth at least 90,000 RMB after two years, regardless of the profitability of the kiosk.


FAB's response does not mention whether the FAB Board reviewed the operating
agreements that accompany the franchising agreements. The operating agreement that
my investigators reviewed clearly states that Huzhong guarantees the franchisee's
investment of 80,000 RMB per kiosk. Recall, again, that Chairman Zhang controls
Huzhong, according to the Chinese bond prospectus.


The operating agreement references an acknowledgement letter agreement that on the
surface appears to entitle the franchisee to have his/her kiosk bought back by FAB for
cash or stock at a premium to the amount originally invested, in accordance with the terms
set forth in the sales brochure. However, the acknowledgement letter contains a



http://labemp.files.wordpress.com/2013/11/franchisee-sales-brochure1.pdf
5/18/2018 FAB Universal Media Kiosks: A Fundamental Misunderstanding? - FAB Universal Corp. (NYSEMKT:FU) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1902391-fab-universal-media-kiosks-a-fundamental-misunderstanding 5/18


contradiction: the brochure promise that FAB "will" buy back the franchisee's kiosk is
replaced by the statement that FAB "can" buy back the franchisee's kiosk after two years,
creating a loophole for FAB to dishonor the promise made in its sales brochure.


Any potential franchisee who carefully reads the agreement would likely strike out the
word "can" and replace with the word "will" before signing it, to match the language of the
sales brochure. However, I wouldn't be surprised to learn that many franchisees do not
catch the change of terms. In those cases, their 80,000 RMB investment is still
guaranteed by Huzhong, according to the operating agreement, but FAB might be able to
avoid being forced to buy back the kiosk for 90,000 RMB as stated in the brochure.


Pirated Content


FAB has not acknowledged that its Beijing media kiosks contained pirated content that my
investigators caught FAB subsequently removing. In its response, FAB simply promised to
"…examine its content control processes with the assistance of the independent third
party and implement any measures deemed necessary to tighten controls."


Without the pirated content, which included recently released movies not yet available on
DVD, FAB's media kiosks will have difficulty attracting consumers. If FAB's Board
succeeds at banning the pirated content and eliminating the minimum guaranteed returns,
FAB's media kiosk business model is unlikely to attract new franchisees.


New Retail Store Prepayments


Shifting its focus going forward toward digital distribution, FAB decided to cut back new
store plans and seeks the return of $17.8 million in new store prepayments purportedly
made to third parties over the last year. Were these prepayment ever made in the first
place?


Cash Confirmations


FAB reports that it received "cash confirmations" from five bank accounts confirming its
cash. Do cash confirmations mean anything in China? Definitely not. Professor Paul Gillis
of Peking University explains why, here on his China Accounting Blog.


Additionally, FAB received a cash confirmation from the (unnamed) account where
Chairman Zhang had secretly deposited the Chinese bond proceeds. After being busted
by GeoInvesting, Zhang returned the bond proceeds to a "FAB Universal" operating
account. Since Zhang purportedly returned the proceeds, should he avoid getting charged
with fraud? Hopefully not.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/1849621-fab-universal-management-caught-red-handed-covering-up-piracy

http://www.chinaaccountingblog.com/weblog/auditing-cash-in-china.html
5/18/2018 FAB Universal Media Kiosks: A Fundamental Misunderstanding? - FAB Universal Corp. (NYSEMKT:FU) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1902391-fab-universal-media-kiosks-a-fundamental-misunderstanding 6/18


