Page 1 of 11	
  


 
Muddy Waters, LLC 


www.muddywatersresearch.com 
  info@muddywatersresearch 


Director of Research:  Carson C. Block, Esq. 
 
 
 





Terms of Service: 
By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service.  You agree that use of Muddy Waters 
LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading 
losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment 
decision with respect to securities covered herein.  You represent to Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically 
assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site.  You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other 
person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  If you download or receive the contents of this report as an 
agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or through our 
members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors 
has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and 
therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to continue transacting in the 
securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time 
hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from any 
person through this site or reports on this site.  Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of:  (a) an investment professional 
falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth 
entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through our due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and 
reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the 
stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is 
presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as 
to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report 
on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion.  All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy 
Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded 
file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any manner other than by download from that 
link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising 
from your use of this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the 
State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and 
exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, 
given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these 
Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of 
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as 
reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this 
governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out 
of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 
barred. 


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.
Page 2 of 11	
  


Muddy Waters, LLC 
October 29, 2013 


Reiterating price target <$1 
 
 


NQ’s Top Ten Lies Since Friday 
 
Muddy Waters noted numerous lies and deceptions in NQ’s responses to our October 24, 2013 
report.  This report lists the ten most egregious falsehoods we noted from the October 25th 
conference call, and Co-CEO Omar Khan’s television interviews that same day with Fox 
Business News and Bloomberg.   
 
Lie # 1: Xu Rong was a consultant who worked at NQ for about six months before she 
joined Yidatong in 2007. 
 
This is an enormous lie because it goes to the heart of our conclusion that NQ’s largest customer 
is really NQ, dressed up in a shell company called Yidatong (“YDT”) that is nominally 75% 
owned by Xu Rong. 
 
NQ wrote the below on July 31, 2013 (emphasis added): 
 


“How did Xu Rong come to own Yidatong? 
In 2007 she bought 75% of Yidatong. 
 
Did Xu Rong work at NQ? 
Yes, in 2007, when NQ was a very small company, they did not have a good person 
running marketing. They asked Xu Rong to join as an advisor directing the marketing 
of the business. She was with NQ for less than six months before leaving and buying 
her interest in Yidatong.” 


 
That was a repeat of a lie dating back at least as far as NQ’s prospectus: 
 


“The principal shareholder of Yidatong was our consultant in 2006 and 2007 and 
received certain share options and consulting fees in connection with her services. In 
addition, we provided Yidatong with an interest-free advance in order to fund Yidatong’s 
short-term liquidity needs and to further cultivate our long-term commercial relationship 
with Yidatong.”1 


 
On the conference call, NQ was forced to admit it had lied about her departure date after we had 
showed she was still with the company in 2008.  Note that Matt Mathison is now referring to her 
as an “employee”, rather than a “consultant”. 
 


Matt Mathison on conference call: “Yes, Xu Rong, I can get you the exact details, but she 
was an employee of NQ.  In fact, on a previous short report that came out, I provided a 
very detailed look at her employment.  I can give you the exact start date, end date.  I can 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 NQ IPO Prospectus, May 4, 2011, p. 20
Page 3 of 11	
  


give you all the details that you want.  If you just hold, I’ll pull that up for you, if you 
want it right now.  Just give me a moment. 
 
So, Xu Rong became an employee on September 1, 2006.  She resigned from NQ on 
December 31, 2008.  I know the report hinted at some large ownership in NQ, which was 
not true….  But when she left NQ, she became a majority owner of Yidatong and owned 
75% of that business now.” 
 


NQ was completely unrepentant about being caught in its prior lie – even when two investors 
asked for explanations on the call.  No explanation was given.  Note that there is another lie 
nested in Matt Mathison’s response on the call – the new claim that Xu Rong did not become a 
majority owner of Yidatong until after December 31, 2008.   
 
As we showed in our report, Ms. Xu became the Executive Director of YDT in February 2006, 
so YDT was clearly a related party during that time period.  It is highly likely that she was an 
owner of YDT as of February 2006; however, YDT was an undisclosed related party at those 
times (and later, as we showed in our report). 


 
Lie #2: YDT’s provision of NQ’s contact information to China Mobile does not mean NQ 
and YDT are the same company. 
 
NQ was extremely sloppy in concealing that YDT is actually NQ.  In our report, we noted 
numerous instances in which YDT provided NQ contact information to carriers and various 
Chinese government agencies (including MIIT).  YDT even uses NQ’s email server.  NQ further 
lied about this on the conference call. 
 


Matt Mathison on conference call:  “One factor of the business that the report shows clear 
lack of knowledge about is related to the relationships between the content partner and 
service provider.  NQ has a very deep and good relationship with Shenzhen and Shanghai 
carriers.  As one of the biggest content partners for Yidatong as clearly disclosed, NQ is 
required to be notified when there are customer complaints.   In order to better facilitate 
customer support via those channels we leave our contact information with the carriers, in 
addition to Yidatong.” 
 


In reality: 
 


• The MW report provides examples of NQ’s contact information being provided in place 
of, not in addition to Yidatong’s.   The first was noted in the report on pp. 14-15.  One 
such example from China Mobile’s list of service providers is below. 2  Those numbers 
are NQ’s, and are the only numbers shown for YDT. 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
2 http://www.fj.monternet.com/image/fj/ad/splist/sms12.htm
Page 4 of 11	
  





• NQ’s attempt to explain away this inconvenient listing with a carrier does not address 
several problems, including that in Yidatong’s Shanghai SAIC filing (the corporate 
registration) the contact person provided has an NQ email address (Netqin was NQ’s 
former name). 
 


 
 
Lie #3: YDT’s SAIC financials, which show revenue that is a fraction of what would be 
required for NQ to generate $20.2 million in revenue through YDT, are reported net of 
payments to NQ. 
 
Our report anticipated the lie that YDT’s financial statements show net revenue, as opposed to 
gross.  NQ was hoping that investors would not read the report clearly enough to read the proof 
that the sales number is a gross number. 
 


NQ management during Q&A on conference call: “Yidatong reports net revenues 
associated to a portion that would be earned by them for their services, and not the gross 
amount that is being passed to the carriers on behalf of the developers like NQ”. 


 
There are three ways of knowing that NQ is lying:
Page 5 of 11	
  


1) China SPs are required to pay Business Tax (i.e. the form of sales tax applicable to 
YDT’s services) on gross sales.  YDT’s SAIC file shows that it paid Business Tax 
commensurate with gross sales of only $2.9 million.   


2) YDT’s A/P balance was $3.4 million at the end of 2012.  Regardless of net or gross 
revenue recognition, the A/P balance on YDT’s books should match the $9.3 million A/R 
NQ reported from YDT at the end of 2012. 


3) PRC GAAP mandates that YDT report its gross revenue, not net.  The applicable 
standard is Accounting Standards for Enterprises No. 14 – Revenues 
(http://209.200.107.14/english/law2_disp.asp?sublawcode=SUB57585711610141610&la
wcode=LAW3544911991291514&country=China) 


 
Lie #4: NQ’s second and third largest customers are UMPay and Info2Cell, respectively. 
 
NQ was asked to provide the names of its second and third-largest customers from the 2012 20-
F, which accounted for 11% and 8% of revenue, respectively.  NQ had to translate the question 
to Chairman Lin and then translate his response.  Note that Mr. Khan did not know the answer, 
which further evidences that he is at best clueless about much of NQ’s operations.  
  


Chairman Lin via Gavin Kim stated that NQ’s second and third largest customers are 
“UNPay” and “Info2Cell”. 
 


We assume that Mr. Kim meant UMPay, which is the SP that China Mobile jointly owns, and is 
the same SP we saw for all China Mobile SIMs we tried.3  Info2Cell is an international processor 
for carrier payments.4   
 
It is clear that NQ, which has always been reluctant to disclose this information, and seemed to 
do so only because an investor put it on the spot on the conference call, lied about its second and 
third largest customers.  Based on NQ’s own disclosures, its second and third largest customers 
could not be UM Pay or Info2Cell.  NQ had to lie on the fly, and made a mistake. 
 
NQ disclosed that a total of 30.4% of 2012 revenue “were collected from wireless carriers and 
mobile payment service providers”, which is $27.9 million.5  Purported revenue from YDT was 
$20.2 million.  China Mobile accounted for $1.8 million in 2012.6  There is therefore only $5.9 
million allocable to carriers or mobile payment service providers.  The second largest 2012 
source would have accounted for $10.1 (11% of total net revenue) million by itself, which means 
it is too large to fit into this category.  The third largest 2012 source would have accounted for 
$7.3 million (8% of total net revenue), which means it is also too large to fit into this category. 
NQ was forced to quickly lie about the identities of its second and third largest customers, and it 
stated the impossible. 
 
  


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
3 http://www.umpay.com/englishumpay/overview/introduction.html 
4 http://info2cell.com/aboutus/ 
5 NQ 2012 20-F, p. 63. 
6 In the F-1/A-7 p. F-23, NQ discloses that Client “A” is China Mobile.  From there, one can track China Mobile 
through the 2011 and 2012 20-Fs.
Page 6 of 11	
  


Lie #5: Muddy Waters believes there are no problems with NQ’s SAIC financials. 
 
On pp. 32-33 and in Appendix B of our initial report, we describe in detail the numerous signs of 
fraud present in NQ’s various SAIC financial statements, including those of recently acquired 
companies FL Mobile and NationSky.  Matt Mathison attempted to revise very recent history. 
 


Matt Mathison on conference call: “[Muddy Waters] said that NQ’s SAIC filings match 
appropriately with US GAAP.  So I don’t think there’s anything to address there.” 
 


Matt Mathison should have known that what he said about our discussion of NQ’s financials was 
not accurate. 
 
Lie # 6: Chinese companies commonly classify all cash as Level 2 assets. 
 


KB Teo on conference call:  “Actually this practice of classifying some assets as Level 2. 
It’s actually – had been adopted by quite a number of Chinese companies listed in the 
U.S. from our perspective…a number of other companies have also adopted Level 2….  
Mainly those are Perfect World, Sina, and Sohu.” 
 


Barron’s exposed this statement as being false.  A Hong Kong-based accounting professor 
Barron’s consulted refuted this statement with respect to PWRD, SINA, SOHU, and QIHU 
(which NQ also cited as an example of classifying all cash as Level 2).  Management made false 
statements because it is still unable to explain why all of its cash was classified as Level 2.7,8 
 
Lie #7: NQ’s payment portal works fine. 
 
NQ rejected our statement that we had attempted to use its payment portal 59 times – all without 
success.  If NQ’s payment portal is now functioning, it is solely because NQ is trying to salvage 
its fraud. 
 


Gavin Kim on conference call:  “During our test, we’re able to successfully subscribe to 
our service using Alipay on exactly the website that Muddy Waters referred to.” 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
7 http://blogs.barrons.com/emergingmarketsdaily/2013/10/25/nq-mobile-operational-risk-high-if-cash-classified-as-
level-2-asset/?mod=BOLBlog 
8 http://blogs.barrons.com/emergingmarketsdaily/2013/10/25/contrary-to-nq-mobiles-claim-treating-cash-as-level-2-
asset-is-not-common-chinese-practice/
Page 7 of 11	
  


We have video of all 59 unsuccessful payment attempts, which we intend to share with the SEC.  
Alipay customer service was unable to pay through NQ’s payment portal. 
 
Our attempts to pay through Alipay caught NQ in another lie.  NQ has listed Alipay as a 
partner:9 


 
 
However, Alipay denied having any cooperation with NQ.  The call transcript follows. 
 
 
MW:   我在你们的一个合作商买东西但是


我每一次付款的时候付款都不成功


，所以我想查询一下他们是不是你
们的合作商户。。。 


I was trying to buy something from one of 
your vendors and every time I try to pay it 
is not successful.  So I want to check to see 
if this is really one of your vendors. 


[Alipay Customer Service requests Alipay account details, etc.] 
Alipay: 你这边现在需要我们查询什么东西


啊？ 
What is it that you are asking us to check? 


MW:  
要查询这个，就是，是你们，就是
外面的，不是淘宝上面的， 
是完全就是独立的一个公司。。。 


I want to check, that is, its your, its an 
outside vendor, its not on Taobao, it’s a 
completely independent company. 


Alipay: 那我们这边要通过你的支付宝的账
户里面查询，才能核查到对方的商
单的一个情况呢。 


We need to go through your Alipay 
account to check, only this way can we 
check the other parties details. 


[Alipay Customer Service requests Alipay account details again, asks whether purchase order 
was issued, etc.] 


Alipay: 你们这边有没有下订单？ So you do you have a purchase order? 
MW: 我这边不是下订单的形式。我就是在


他们的网上跟着他们的步骤一骤骤


来，或者是你帮我看一下他们的网
站行吗？ 


I'm not using a purchase order, I'm on their 
website, following their payment process 
step by step, or can you just help me to 
check their website? 


Alipay: 网站的话，我们。。。 Website?  We… 
MW: 你记一下pay.nq.com  Please note it, its pay.nq.com 
Alipay: 是pay 吗？ Its "pay”?  
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
9 NQ_Mobile_Investor_Presentation_20130528, p. 13
Page 8 of 11	
  


MW: 对，pay。 Yes, "pay". 
Alipay: 然后呢？ and afterwards? 
［MW provides exact website to Alipay Customer Service。 Alipay Customer Service spends 
sometime looking into her computer] 
Alipay: 不好意思小姐，这个帐户，哦，这


个公司不是我们这边的合作商户的。 
Miss, I'm sorry, this account, um, this 
company is not one of our partnering 
merchants. 


MW: 能看到什么？那个网站是显示网秦
对吧？ 


What do you see?  Is the website showing 
it is NetQin's? 


Alipay: 网站啊？ Website？ 
MW: 对网站名字，是网秦吗？ Right, the website, is it NetQin's? 
Alipay: 我这边查不到网站，前面有三个w的


吗？ 
I cannot find the website, are there three 
w's in the front? 


MW: 前面没有，是http://pay. Not in the front, the front is http://pay. 
Alipay: 哦，网秦， 


我看到。网秦不是我们这边的。 
Oh, NetQin, I see it.  NetQin is not one of 
ours. 


MW: 哦，不是合作商户，是吗？  Oh, its not one of your partnering 
merchants, is that right? 


Alipay: 这个不是合作商户。 Its not one of our partnering merchants. 
MW: 但是，就是能看到你们的logo上面，


你看你点击套餐，然后进，随便店
一个立即购买，然后在望后只能看
到你们的logo在下面。 


But, it’s just that you can see your logo on 
their page, you click "purchase packages" 
then go in, just pick one of the items, and 
then next you can see your logo on the 
bottom. 


Alipay: 那一个logo啊？ Which logo? 
MW: 就是你们支付宝的logo，你看你已经


点击进去对吧？然后你就点，点击
套餐购买，购买套餐。 


Your Alipay logo, did you already click 
through?  Afterwards you pick "purchase 
package", "buy a package" 


Alipay: 这个应该是他们自己的网站，不是
我们的业务。 


This is the company's own website, it is not 
part of our business. 


MW: 哦，对，我知道，这个跟你们一点
关系没有。。。你能顺着我的那个，在
点两步吗？就是购买套餐和立即购
买。 


Oh, yes, I know, this issue has nothing to 
do with you, just can you follow along with 
me, just click through these two steps, that 
is "purchase a package" and "buy now"? 


Alipay: 我这边点了，但没有任何反应。 I clicked it, but I don’t see any result. 
MW: 没反应，然后拉到最后，就是出现


很多网站银行支付还有其他支付的


时候，就有你们的支付宝。他不是商
户但是把logo放到网站上了? 


No result? Than go to the end, when you 
get to a lot of online banking payment and 
other payment options, then you can see 
your Alipay.  They are not your vendor but 
they have your logo on their site?
Page 9 of 11	
  


Alipay: 啊，那么应该不是我们这边呢。确实
是一个“支付宝“的，这个不是我们帐
户。 


Ah, they shouldn’t be one of ours, although 
this is our "Alipay", but this is not one of 
our accounts. 


MW: 所以说我用一个支付宝肯定是没法
付钱的，不是你们的合作商户? 


Then that’s to say using Alipay absolutely 
will not work to make a payment, they are 
not one of your partnering merchants? 


Alipay: 那是的。 That right. 
MW: 哦，我知道，谢谢。 Oh.  I understand.  Thank you. 


 
 
Lie #8: NQ Antivirus 7.0 is not Scare Ware. 
 
NQ lied about AV 7.0 and its false virus discovery messages.  The fact is that NQ’s 3-15 DNA 
permeates everything it does (as DNA has a tendency to do).  NQ is attempting to trick 
consumers into thinking its product is useful. 
 


Gavin Kim on conference call: “Next I’ll turn my attention to Virus Broadcast data.  The 
report claims that NQ is attempting to trick users by sharing the latest two viruses 
reported in a feature called Virus Broadcast.  Unfortunately, the report simply does not 
understand what the function is intended to do.  To be clear, on installation, NQ Mobile 
Security 7.0 preinstalls a virus database on the device.  With that installation, NQ also 
prepackages the latest Virus Broadcast feed which is for informational purposes as well.  
Packaging this with the installation file avoids then for the user to have to separately 
download another file after install.  This is a free service for users to see what the latest 
viruses are that have been recorded in our database globally.  It is not specific to any 
particular users’ device.  So on installation, Virus Broadcast will the show the user the 
latest two viruses in the Virus Broadcast at the point of installation.  After the database is 
updated, the Virus Broadcast will update as well with the latest information.” 


 
When a user installs NQ, the app immediately tells the user that NQ just discovered two new 
viruses on the exact date of installation.  However, its app has been broadcasting this message to 
users for months, giving them the impression that NQ’s virus analysis lab is always catching new 
viruses, and updating (paying) apps in real time.  As we discussed in our report on pp. 44-45, the 
only reports on the internet of these two viruses are from NQ press releases, leading us to 
strongly suspect that they are not real.
Page 10 of 11	
  


Lie # 9: NQ is not responsible for enormously overstating its market share. 
 
On the call, NQ fumbled quite a bit when challenged about our survey results that show it has 
only 1.4% market share.  However, it clearly tried to distance itself from the huge overstatements 
of market share.  We do not believe NQ can evade liability for these statements – it is clear to us 
that NQ deliberately materially misrepresented market share to investors, regardless of whether 
the estimates came from third parties that NQ engaged. 
 


Gavin Kim on conference call: “Now going back to your earlier question about market 
shares, currently, our company don’t make independent assessment of our market share.  
In fact, we never disclosed a single report that’s coming from the company on our market 
share.”   


 
In NQ’s prospectus, it cited a Frost & Sullivan study (that we are confident NQ paid for) as 
evidence that it had 67% market share at the time it went public.  On its Q2 2013 conference call, 
management stated that NQ’s market share of the China mobile security marketplace was 
approximately 53%.   
 
It turns out that our 1.4% market share results were pulled from three cities (one Tier 1, one Tier 
3, and one Tier 4) in NQ’s best markets.  On the conference call, NQ’s Chairman Lin revealed 
NQ’s strongest provincial markets: Guangdong, Jiangsu, Henan, and Zhejiang.  We surveyed 
Shenzhen in Guangdong, and Ningbo and Huzhou in Zhejiang.  We believe the previous market 
share misstatements alone are possibly 10b-5 violations. 
 
Omar Khan seemed unable to identify these markets, so Chairman Lin spoke through a 
translator.  Once again, Mr. Khan showed that he has no command of NQ’s core operations. 
 
Lie # 10: NQ does not own the trademark infringing domains, such as 
www.samsungsecure.com. 
 
On the call, NQ lied about not owning the six domains we identified as infringing the trademarks 
of Apple, Vodafone, NTT, HTC, Samsung, and Nokia.  This is a clear lie. 
 


Gavin Kim on conference call: “Next, I’ll return my attention to black hat search engine 
optimization.  NQ unequivocally refutes the allegations filed in the report that NQ owns 
the domain addresses referenced in the report.  NQ will share our complete list of domain 
addresses that NQ owns and uses in our business globally to those who would like to 
conduct their own due diligence on our business.  The natural question that may be asked 
then is what is for owners of these domain names to redirect traffic to NQ?  It is our 
hypothesis that individuals or companies are interested in selling these domain names to 
NQ after demonstrating that they are successfully delivering page views.” 


 
We are comfortable that NQ owns those domains for three reasons.
Page 11 of 11	
  


1. Five of the six domains were registered by the same Beijing-based registrar: Hichina 
Zhicheng Technology Ltd.  This is the same registrar NQ used for its website for the 
anonymous calling cards (unaddressed in the call), www.secretclothes.com.  (Hichina is 
located in the same district of Beijing as NQ.)  The person who registered the domains 
listed the same postal code as NQ. 
 


2. As a security company, it would be unusual for NQ to not scan for redirects and identify 
these.   


 
3. NQ would never be permitted to buy trademark infringing domains from someone trying 


to sell them.  A company that is really trying to be respected in the mobile world would 
immediately notify Samsung (or whichever company) of the sale offer, and provide all 
information it has related to the domain owner.  This process would actually be triggered 
by a routine scan that found the redirects.   


 
A final thought for the class action attorneys.  As you investigate NQ, it might be worthwhile 
to also look at Wedge Partners, Matt Mathison, Toro Investment Partners, and “Treasure Hunter” 
(SeekingAlpha.com handle).
