Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








 


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 6
Muddy Waters, LLC 
NQ: Maintaining <$1 price target 


November 12, 2013 
 


NQ’s US Veneer: Withholding Facts, Conned Men, and a Convicted Racketeer 
 


The veneer of U.S. management has been integral to taking NQ’s fraud to a one-time 
value of $1.1 billion.  Matthew Mathison, NQ’s vice president of capital markets, has 
recently led the effort to try to deflect fraud charges from both Muddy Waters and a 
China-based research firm called J Capital Research.  However, Mr. Mathison has failed 
to disclose to investors his professional history with J Capital Research.  He further 
seems not to have attempted to dispel misconceptions some investors might have about 
why he joined NQ.  At the same time, Mr. Mathison has told investors contradicting 
stories about NQ’s largest purported revenue source, and undisclosed related party, 
Yidatong.   
 
NQ has clearly needed Mr. Mathison’s aggression, as NQ’s “Co-CEO” Omar Khan has 
turned into the man who knew too little.  Perhaps Mr. Khan’s memories of the feeling of 
having almost $100 million in NQ shares drive him to stick his neck out in defense of a 
company that he clearly does not understand.     
 
However, before NQ went public and was able to offer a Samsung manager a pay 
package worth close to $100 million at peak and bring in a struggling hedge fund 
manager to inspire confidence in US investors, NQ’s US veneer was built around Justin 
Bieber, a Boca Raton, FL-based penny stock disaster, and a convicted racketeer.   
 


The Myth of Matt Mathison and What He Withholds from Investors 
 
Matt Mathison, who was appointed NQ’s Director of Capital Markets in July 2013, 
anchors NQ’s US veneer.  Based on our conversations with investors, there seems to be a 
confidence-inspiring narrative that Mr. Mathison and his former employer, Wedge 
Partners, had a keen eye for identifying China frauds; and, that Mr. Mathison shut down a 
successful hedge fund to join NQ because NQ was such a compelling opportunity.  The 
truth belies this narrative.  
 
The fraud-busting prowess ascribed to Wedge and Mr. Mathison really belonged to J 
Capital Research (“JCAP”).  Wedge and JCAP had a China research joint venture that 
broke apart in mid-2010.  JCAP provided the bulk of the fraud-spotting expertise.  Mr. 
Mathison was from the Wedge side of the house, and worked closely with the JCAP team 
during the joint venture.  We believe that Mr. Mathison excelled in his sales role, but was 
less notable as a researcher.  We understand that there was some acrimony between JCAP 
and Wedge when the joint venture broke apart.   
 
One of Mr. Mathison’s first acts upon joining NQ was to author a 12-page rebuttal to a 
July 31, 2013 report by JCAP that concluded NQ is a fraud.  Mr. Mathison excoriated the 
JCAP report, and wrote that JCAP lacked the most basic understanding of NQ’s business, 


Page 2 of 6
had done limited research, confused various metrics, and came to baseless and false 
conclusions.  At no time did Mr. Mathison publicly discuss his professional history with 
JCAP. 
 
The hedge fund that Mr. Mathison managed appears to have been struggling.  It 
commenced business in 2007, and according to its latest Form ADV (filed with the State 
of Colorado), five years later, it only had five client accounts and assets under 
management of $10.4 million.1  One wonders whether NQ was really that great of an 
opportunity, or whether Mr. Mathison just had little to lose by joining NQ.   
 
In the short time that Mr. Mathison has been with NQ, he has already managed to tell 
three contradicting versions of Rong Xu’s history with NQ:  
 


• Rong Xu consulted for NQ for less than six months in 2007, and bought 75% of 
YDT at the time she left NQ – NQ August 1, 2013 response to J Capital report. 


• Rong Xu was an employee of NQ from September 1, 2006 to December 31, 2008.  
She bought 75% of YDT after she left NQ – October 25, 2013 conference call. 


• Rong Xu was a NQ consultant from spring 2007 until the end of 2007; she was 
then a NQ employee (Director of Marketing) from December 2007 to August 
2008 – Matt Mathison November 2, 2013 narrowly circulated email. 


 
Mr. Mathison has not attempted to explain these contradictions.  These stories are 
attempts to perpetuate the lie that Yidatong is not an undisclosed related party of NQ.  
Whatever Mr. Mathison’s motivations for joining NQ and saying what he has, it is clear 
that investors should not find him credible.   
 


Omar Khan: The Man Who Knew Too Little 
 


In January 2012, Omar Khan became NQ’s US front man.  In our original report, we 
stated that Mr. Khan does not seem to be in a position to be informed about NQ’s China 
“business”.  Despite claiming to be a CEO of equals, Mr. Khan has twice demonstrated 
that he is unaware of the identities of NQ’s largest purported revenue sources (other than 
Yidatong), and of the provinces that constitute NQ’s largest markets in China.  This lack 
of knowledge was clear on the October 25, 2013 conference call in which Mr. Khan 
needed Mr. Lin to answer these questions.  (As we explain in our October 29, 2013 
update, Mr. Lin was clearly lying about the volumes these purported second and third 
largest revenue sources provide.)   
 
The same lack of knowledge was also in evidence in Mr. Khan’s November 1st interview 
with Emily Chang of Bloomberg (http://tinyurl.com/le7q32r):   
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 
http://www.adviserinfo.sec.gov/iapd/content/viewform/adv/sections/iapd_AdvIdentifyingInfoSection.aspx?
ORG_PK=144270&RGLTR_PK=50014&STATE_CD=CO&FLNG_PK=05425EB40008016D01820C200
47D6D59056C8CC0  


Page 3 of 6
Q: Within China where does NQ have the most users?  What cities, what 
provinces in China?  Where do you have the most users? 
 
Khan: We actually…we actually…we’ve actually have gone through the top five 
provinces…um…you know…including Hunan…uh…um…and um…and I can’t 
actually remember them off the top of my head, but actually well, we actually 
published those earlier this week in a r…report.  Uh…And we actually named the 
top five provinces where our customers are at…uh…and would be happy to 
provide that list to you…uh…I just, honestly, just didn’t bring it with me.  
 


 
 
Mr. Khan might as well have answered by saying “P.F. Chang”.2   
 
On the October 25th conference call, Mr. Khan was so clueless about NQ’s China 
business that Chairman Lin had to answer the same question for him.  However, 
Chairman Lin named only four provinces – not five.  Hunan was not among the provinces 
Chairman Lin named.  Mr. Khan was likely trying to recall Henan province.   
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
2 This photo is from the exact moment he was stumbling through his attempt to name NQ’s largest China 
markets. 


Page 4 of 6
Mr. Khan’s stock package was worth close to $100 million at the time we published our 
initial report.  We otherwise remain puzzled as to why Mr. Khan would continue to insist 
NQ is not a fraud at the same time he demonstrates he has no command of NQ’s inner 
workings.   


Before Omar was Conned: Anthony Sasso and the Penny Stock 
 


NQ has always been a bit player in mobile security with a tiny amount of real revenue.  
When NQ first became involved with the convicted racketeer, Anthony Sasso, in 2009 
(two years before NQ’s IPO), there is no reason that any people or companies in the US 
mobile industry would have taken NQ seriously.  Moreover, as a fraud in the making, it is 
not surprising that NQ would be dealing with convicted criminals and penny stock 
companies. 
 
Anthony Sasso was convicted of racketeering for his role in a nationwide multi-million 
dollar car theft and VIN cloning ring.3,4 Police broke up the ring in 2005.  Mr. Sasso was 
therefore a curious choice to incorporate Netqin Holdings, Inc. in Florida in May 2010 – 
only one year before NQ’s IPO.5   
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
3 
http://blogs.browardpalmbeach.com/pulp/2011/05/justin_bieber_phoneguard_options_media_group_holdin
gs_inc.php 
4 http://sheriff.org/posts/post.cfm?id=f71c3bd8-0a7b-4cbc-a5f5-1fe916c4fe25 
5 http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail/EntityName/domp-
p10000041656-c4316e96-c661-414f-be99-65250ce082ea/netqin/Page1 


Henan 
 
Hunan 
 


Page 5 of 6
NQ entered into a Master License Agreement in August 2009 with a company called 
Cellular Spyware Inc. (“CSI”) d/b/a PhoneGuard.6,7  CSI’s president, and the signatory to 
the agreement with NQ, was Anthony Sasso.  Pursuant to the agreement, NQ licensed 
cell phone antivirus software to CSI for Canada and the United States.  It appears as 
though CSI also became NQ’s licensee for Brazil.   
 
NQ and CSI lengthened the original agreement one year later, in July 2010.  The 
amendment authorized CSI to sublicense the software to Options Media Group, Inc. 
(“OPMG”).  OPMG was traded on the Pink Sheets at the time.  OPMG issued CSI and 
Mr. Sasso preferred shares convertible into common shares totaling 154.5 million shares.8 
It is unclear whether NQ or any NQ-affiliated parties received OPMG shares. 
 
OPMG now trades for less than one cent per share. 
 
In another NQ reality is stranger than fiction twist, Justin Bieber agreed to endorse 
OPMG’s Drive Safe product, which incorporated NQ’s technology.9  (For other bizarre 
aspects of the NQ fraud, see the discussion in our October 24, 2013 report discussion of 
NQ’s knockoff Segway scooter (called the NQ InMotion); NQ’s registration of domains 
that infringe the trademarks of Samsung, Apple, and other companies; and, NQ’s sale in 
China of legally questionable anonymizing calling cards.)10   
 
We are unsure of the ultimate fate of NQ’s agreement with CSI and the sublicense to 
OPMG.  (NQ’s F-1 does not mention CSI or OPMG.)  We do note that the substantial 
shares OPMG issued for the sub-license is a blueprint that NQ seems to follow with its 
repeated prodigious issuances of shares for compensation and as consideration for its 
numerous (seemingly corrupt) acquisitions.   


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
6 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1413993/000135448811001601/opmg_ex1021.htm 
7 https://www.netqin.com/en/security/newsinfo_1751_1.html 
8 OPMG 2010 10-K (filed May 17, 2011), pp. 5-6.   
9 OPMG 2010 10-K (filed May 17, 2011), p. 2. 
10 NQ has not commented on the Segway knockoff or the anonymous calling cards.  We believe NQ has 
particular sensitivity regarding the anonymous cards.  In our Oct. 29, 2013 update, we showed that NQ’s 
claim it does not own the infringing domains is yet another lie.  


Page 6 of 6
