Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








  


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 3
Muddy Waters, LLC 
NQ: Maintaining Fraud Rating 


June 4, 2014 
 
 


NQ Admits Widespread Data Tampering, but Claims it is not a Fraud 
 


(Committee to NQ: During the course of our fraud investigation, we caught you trying to defraud us.) 
 
NQ admitted widespread tampering with data reviewed during the investigation.  The 
press release reads:  
 


“Despite the Investigation Team’s extensive review of documents and data 
provided by sources both within and outside the Company, the Investigation 
Team could not verify that the devices it collected and copied contained all 
responsive information at the time the copies were made.  On many devices, the 
Investigation Team observed indications that some information might be missing, 
and the Company’s management and staff were unable to provide a credible 
explanation for what the Investigation Team observed.” 
 


This disclosure is reminiscent of the final report delivered by Sino-Forest’s 
“independent” committee.  The Sino-Forest directors’ conclusion was that they could find 
no evidence to support Muddy Waters’s fraud allegations.1  Sino-Forest’s exculpatory 
press release read: 
 


“The Independent Committee report verifies the Company’s stated cash balances, 
confirms registered title or contractual rights to the Company’s stated timber 
assets, as well as the book value of these assets, reconciles reported total revenue 
and refutes the allegation that Yuda Wood is a subsidiary of the Company. We 
can categorically say Sino-Forest is not the ‘near total fraud’ and ‘Ponzi scheme’ 
as alleged by Muddy Waters.” 
 


With a couple of name substitutions, the above statement would mirror that put out by 
NQ.  Unlike NQ, Sino-Forest did release a redacted version of the directors’ report.  That 
report alluded to the evidence tampering that Sino-Forest management undertook, which 
appears similar to that undertaken by NQ.2  It cited problems, including: 
 


• “data on some servers in China appearing to have been deleted on an irregular 
basis, and there is no back-up system;”  


• “lack of full cooperation/openness in the ICs examination from certain members 
of Management.” 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sino-forest-announces-findings-of-the-independent-
committee-133859828.html 
2 See November 13, 2011 “Interim Report of the Independent Committee of Directors of the Sino-Forest 
Corporation” 


Page 2 of 3
The Sino-Forest committee’s conclusion that it could find no evidence of fraud has now 
been thoroughly discredited.  The Ontario Securities Commission is suing the former 
management for fraud.  Just two weeks ago, Sino-Forest’s creditors filed suit against its 
former chairman Allen Chan for $3 billion.  In the complaint  (available to download at 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/wp-
content/uploads/2014/06/SFC_Litigation_Trust_v_Chen_Claim.pdf), the plaintiff 
dismisses the independent directors’ conclusion, and cites the data tampering as evidence 
of fraud.  It is a sad commentary on how insulated corporate directors are from 
responsibility that they can publicly conclude there is no evidence of fraud after 
conducting an investigation in which management was caught defrauding the 
investigators.  
 
This press release took seven and a half months to come out.  Given that there was data 
tampering during an investigation that dragged on far longer than should have been 
allowed, it is clear that management was able to stay a step ahead of the investigation by 
changing and deleting data. 
 
Muddy Waters offered to pay for well-regarded investigative accounting firm Plante & 
Moran PLLC to write an evaluation report of the investigation, which we would publish.  
The committee declined the offer.  
 
There are far more questions posed than answered by NQ’s press release.  The admission 
of data tampering was undoubtedly the result of a negotiation between the advisors and 
the company, and which despite making it clear that the tampering was widespread, 
almost certainly understates the severity of the problem.  Unless NQ chooses to provide 
the level of transparency that Sino-Forest did and release the actual report, we are 
unlikely to ever learn details about the tampering because the work is shrouded by 
attorney-client privilege. 
 
 


Page 3 of 3
