5/21/2018 Oceanica Dying Fast: Mexico Senate Attacks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2345235-oceanica-dying-fast-mexico-senate-attacks 1/11


Oceanica Dying Fast: Mexico Senate Attacks
Jul. 28, 2014 8:30 AM ET21 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Summary


Mexican Senator Ricardo Barroso Agramon formally calls for Oceanica's mining
concession to be revoked to avoid ecological effects.


Legislature: "There is already a large onshore phosphate deposit in Baja California
Sur that produced 1.7 million tonnes in 2012 making this project unnecessary".


The site where OMEX claims to plan to begin phosphate mining is the Gulf of Ulloa,
an area highly productive fisheries.


Appears doubtful that EIA will ever be filed now, OMEX trying desperately to raise
money based on false hope with just a few weeks of cash in the bank.


We continue to receive communications from locals in Baja, Mexico about the status of
Odyssey Marine Exploration (NASDAQ:OMEX)'s Oceanica underwater phosphate mining
project and have posted our research online in our last article.


Things have just taken a dramatic turn for the worse today for Oceanica with formal
communications in the Senate calling for Oceanica's mining concession to be revoked.


Articles below translated from Google Translate to English (links to original articles in
Spanish):



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2333645-oceanica-looks-dead-in-the-water-environmental-opposition
5/21/2018 Oceanica Dying Fast: Mexico Senate Attacks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2345235-oceanica-dying-fast-mexico-senate-attacks 2/11


Prevent the exploitation of minerals in the seabed of Baja California Sur: Senator Ricardo
Barroso
Friday, July 25, 2014 13:36



http://comunicacion.senado.gob.mx/index.php/periodo-ordinario/boletines/14335-evitar-la-explotacion-de-minerales-en-el-fondo-marino-de-baja-california-sur-senador-ricardo-barroso.html
5/21/2018 Oceanica Dying Fast: Mexico Senate Attacks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2345235-oceanica-dying-fast-mexico-senate-attacks 3/11


Agramon Senator Ricardo Barroso warned the risk to the fisheries in the state of
Baja California Sur, on the pretense of private companies to initiate exploration and
exploitation of phosphates in the seabed of the Gulf of Ulloa.


In this situation, Agramont Barroso appeared before the Standing Committee on
Point Agreement which calls on the Ministry of Economy that are canceled, revoked,
canceled or permits for the operation of rock phosphate or other minerals that are
granted are to be collected seabed of Baja California, to avoid ecological effects. In
its argument, the legislature stated that according to the Mexican Center for
Environmental Law project is unworkable and unnecessary because the entity
already exists a very large exploitation of phosphates. "El only producer of
phosphate status in our country is Baja California Sur, the production of this mineral
in 2012 was 1 million seven hundred twenty-four thousand six hundred sixty-two
tonnes, representing a value of 1,240,000 pesos, "he revealed. senator highlighted
the need for PRI proposition because, he said, it is certain that the activities on
marine mining can produce serious adverse effector to the marine environment,
which will affect the fishing industry in the area. "In the time it widespread mineral
extraction at sea, the consequences would be severe for fisheries, as the chemicals
become toxic when the concentration thereof.


Article 2:


Senator Warns damage fishing seabed mining



http://www.unomasuno.com.mx/advierte-senador-danos-en-pesca-por-mineria-en-lecho-marino/
5/21/2018 Oceanica Dying Fast: Mexico Senate Attacks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2345235-oceanica-dying-fast-mexico-senate-attacks 4/11


Posted 3 hours ago


Agramon Senator Ricardo Barroso warned the risk to the fisheries in Baja California
Sur, on the pretense of private companies to initiate exploration and exploitation of
phosphates in the seabed of the Gulf of Ulloa.


At one point of agreement submitted to the Standing Committee requested the
Secretariat of Economy (NYSE:SE) that are canceled, revoked, canceled or permits
for the operation of rock phosphate or other minerals extracted from the area
intended to be granted.


The paper, published in the Parliamentary Gazette, the PRI legislator argued that
according to the Mexican Center for Environmental Law project is unworkable and
unnecessary because the entity already exists a very large exploitation of
phosphates.


Companies that want to conduct marine extraction and mining, mainly phosphates,
are Oceanic Explorations, S de RL de CV; Phosphorites Pacific SD, SA de CV;
Phosphoric Corporation and Mexicana, SA de CV, said.


The site where the affiliate Odyssey Marine Exploration plans to begin phosphate
mining is the Gulf of Ulloa, an area highly productive fisheries, explained.


Furthermore, the entity exists and phosphate mining greatly, so it is also
unnecessary, since Baja California Sur and has sufficient exploitation of this mineral.


"The only producer of phosphate status in our country is Baja California Sur.
Domestic production of phosphorite in 2012 was 662 million 724 thousand tons, 2
percent higher compared to 2011, "he added.


Phosphate exports in 2012 reached $ 234 per seven thousand only three tons; in the
period 2005 to 2007 showed an average annual growth rate of 54.5 percent, while
from 2008 to 2012 reported an annual decrease of -43.2 percent.


Mexican exports of that mineral are primarily sent to the Netherlands and the United
States.


PRI senator stressed the need to adopt this point of agreement, because it is certain
that mining activities can result in serious adverse effector marine environment,
which will affect the fisheries sector.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SE
5/21/2018 Oceanica Dying Fast: Mexico Senate Attacks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2345235-oceanica-dying-fast-mexico-senate-attacks 5/11


"At the time that the extraction of minerals in the sea widespread, the consequences
for fisheries to be serious, as the chemicals become toxic when the concentration of
the same," he explained.


Article 3:


Alert Deputy Ricardo Barroso of risk to fisheries in Baja California Sur


July 25, 2014


Senator Agramont Barroso stressed that it is certain that activities relating to
mining can cause serious adverse effects to the marine environment.


fishing in Baja California Sur


By Bertha Becerra C / El Sol de Mexico


Mexico City -. A day that was voted on in the Senate package of secondary
legislation in the energy field, including the Mining Law, the PRI Senator Agramont
Ricardo Barroso warned the risk to the fisheries in Baja California South, by the
claim of private companies to initiate exploration and exploitation of phosphates in
the seabed of the Gulf of Ulloa.


Sudbajacaliforniano legislator said that according to the Mexican Center for
Environmental Law project is unworkable and unnecessary because the entity
already exists a very large exploitation of phosphates.


"The only phosphate producing state in the country is Baja California Sur. Production
of this mineral in 2012 was 1.7 million tonnes, worth 1.24 billion pesos," he said.


In this situation, presented to the Standing Committee a point of agreement, which
calls on the Ministry of Economy that are canceled, revoked, canceled or permits for
the operation of rock phosphate or other minerals that are tried are granted
extracted from Baja California seabed to avoid ecological effects.


Senator Agramont Barroso stressed that it is certain that activities relating to mining
can cause serious adverse effects to the marine environment, which will affect the
fishing industry in the region.


"At the time that the extraction of minerals in the sea widespread, the consequences
would be severe for fisheries, as the chemicals become toxic when the
concentration thereof.



http://www.oem.com.mx/elsoldemexico/notas/n3480007.htm
5/21/2018 Oceanica Dying Fast: Mexico Senate Attacks - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2345235-oceanica-dying-fast-mexico-senate-attacks 6/11


