5/21/2018 Snatching Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory: HMS Freedom Of Information Act UK - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk 1/11


Snatching Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory: HMS Freedom Of
Information Act UK
Dec. 2, 2013 5:56 AM ET15 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Odyssey Marine Exploration (NASDAQ:OMEX) claims they have three business lines that
could each provide significant upside. We aim to shed light on each of these using expose
public information.


1) Historical Shipwrecks: OMEX claims the potential to have a large one time find like
the "Black Swan" or HMS Sussex. The only specifically mentioned active project is HMS
Victory.


2) Commodity Shipwrecks: OMEX claims $50mm+ of 5,000+ tons of commodity non-
bullion metal such as copper or tin that are "under contract" per recovery with four in the
pipeline.


3) Undersea Mining: OMEX claims to have a "World Class" reserve of undersea minerals
through either Neptune (30% owned) or Oceanica (~50% owned).


This article focuses on OMEX's HMS Victory project. We have written two other in-depth
investigative reports on Oct 31 and Nov 15 that can be found at www.omextruth.com.


By utilizing the UK Freedom of Information Act, we have confirmed that there is an
active government investigation in the UK regarding OMEX's activities at the HMS
Victory site where they may have acted without a license or prior consent from the UK
Secretary of State for Defence. The Company has not disclosed this to investors as a
material risk factor in their most recent SEC filings. Based on the adverse outcome with
the "Black Swan" case with Spain, and the lack of updates on the HMS Victory, we believe
that Odyssey will not profit from their contract with the Maritime Heritage Foundation to
salvage the HMS Victory.


Full FOI Response dated Nov 19, 2013: relevant excerpt below:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

http://www.omextruth.com/

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/ATI603_Response.pdf
5/21/2018 Snatching Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory: HMS Freedom Of Information Act UK - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk 2/11


I feel it is important to note that the Marine Management Organisation (MMO) is
responsible for regulating licensable marine activities within the UK marine area in
accordance with the provisions of Part 4 of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009
and other associated secondary legislation. This responsibility involves ensuring that
any licensable marine activity (as defined in Section 66 of the Act) is properly
undertaken in accordance with a marine licence and any associated conditions. It
also involves taking enforcement action where such activity occurs without a marine
licence or other consent.


In line with the above responsibility, we are currently undertaking an
investigation into alleged activity in relation to the site of HMS Victory 1744.


As this investigation is currently ongoing we are unable to release any further details
relating to the investigation


The investigation has the potential for serious repercussions if violations occurred,
as it could potentially result in imprisonment:


As stated in the FOI request, the MMO is responsible for Part 4: Marine Licensing of the
Act which can be found here. The section on enforcement details potential for "fine or to
imprisonment" - this ability to imprison upon "breach of requirement for, or conditions of, a
license" implies a potentially criminal (as opposed to civil) offense.


Part 4: Marine Licensing; Chapter 3: Enforcement; Section 85: Breach of Requirement for,
or conditions of, a license:



http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2009/23/part/4
5/21/2018 Snatching Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory: HMS Freedom Of Information Act UK - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk 3/11


85Breach of requirement for, or conditions of, a licence


(1) A person who-


(NYSE:A) contravenes section 65(1), or


(NYSE:B) fails to comply with any condition of a marine licence,


commits an offence.


(2) A person who is bound by a condition of a licence by virtue of section 71(5) is not
to be taken as having failed to comply with the condition unless the requirements of
subsection (3) are satisfied.


(3) The requirements are that-


the appropriate licensing authority has served the person with a notice under this
subsection which specifies the condition together with a period (which must be a
reasonable period, in all the circumstances of the case) within which the person
must comply with the condition, and


the person has failed to comply with the condition within that period.


(4) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) is liable-


on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding £50,000;


on conviction on indictment, to a fine or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years or to both.


Rather than disclose this ongoing investigation to investors, the latest update from
Odyssey Nov 12th in their press release was:


HMS Victory: Odyssey continues to cooperate with the Maritime Heritage
Foundation and the UK Government on the project and is awaiting instructions from
the Foundation to continue work on the site. Odyssey is the archaeological
contractor of the Maritime Heritage Foundation, owner of the wreck site following a
gift from the Ministry of Defence in January 2012.


What is the Maritime Heritage Foundation?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/A

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/B
5/21/2018 Snatching Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory: HMS Freedom Of Information Act UK - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk 4/11


The back story of the HMS Victory discovery and attempted salvage with by Odyssey
Marine under contract to the Maritime Heritage Foundation is highly controversial in the
UK. In addition to failing to disclose this ongoing investigation, we believe OMEX is:


1) Misrepresenting OMEX's influence over the project, which is in fact dictated by the
MOD.


2) Deliberately and consistently misspelling the name "Balchin" to misrepresent their
relationship to the descendants of Admiral Sir John Balchen, who captained HMS Victory.


Summary:


1) April-June 2010: OMEX and Lord Lingfield (aka "Sir Robert Balchin") roughly
simultaneously submit proposals to the UK government suggesting that a charity be set up
to hold the HMS Victory site.


2) October 2010: The "Sir John Balchin Maritime Heritage Foundation" is founded by Lord
Lingfield (aka "Sir Robert Balchin"), who does not appear to have had any prior
experience or interest in maritime archaeology.


3) March 2011: Foundation Renamed to "The Maritime Heritage Foundation" ("MHF"),
removing the "Sir John Balchin" name after the true descendants of the Admiral protested
that Lord Lingfield and Odyssey misrepresented Lord Lingfield as a descendent of Admiral
Sir John Balchen - he is NOT.


a. The charity appears to have zero activity in 2010 or 2011 and in March 2012 only has
total donations of £43,716.


b. An active consultant for the charity appears to be Dr. Sean Kingsley of Wreck Watch
International; we believe his primary client base since at least 2008 has been for OMEX or
clients working with OMEX.


4) January 2012: Lord Lingfield requested the Ministry of Defence accept Odyssey's
definition of personal property from the wreck which would have led to his own charity
paying Odyssey 80% commission instead of 50% on the commercial salvage contract
which he negotiated with Odyssey.


a. Why would Lord Lingfield, negotiating on behalf of MHF, ask for even better terms for
Odyssey?



https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/MHFaccounts.pdf
5/21/2018 Snatching Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory: HMS Freedom Of Information Act UK - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk 5/11


5) January 2012: MHF became the legal owners of the Victory wreck by Deed of Gift with
restrictions so that that ultimately the MOD controls all actions and the MHF/OMEX may
NOT undertake any works on the wreck site without the consent of the UK Secretary of
State for Defence.


The UK Press has picked up on this situation and questions how an individual with no
apparent prior maritime archaeology experience could set up a charity that appears to
have no operations, and receive the concession of one of the greatest historical
shipwrecks in UK history requiring sensitive and complex project management.


Q: Is the Maritime Heritage Foundation just a front for OMEX? Will the UK people
stand for this?


The Actual Descendants of Sir John Balchen Protest


The actual descendants of Sir John Balchen, the famous fighting Admiral who went down
with his Flagship and her entire crew of over one thousand officers and men, have worked
hard to clarify the fact that Lord Lingfield is in fact NOT a descendant of the Admiral and
have set up a public document (with references) to set the record straight.


The descendants appear to have done this as a response to profiteers trying to make
misrepresentations to piggy back off of the Balchen name. For example on Feb 2, 2009,
OMEX appears to have deliberately and consistently misspelled the name of Balchen to
"Balchin" (e vs i) to match Lord Lingfield's name, who is in fact NOT a descendant of
Admiral Sir John Balchen.


OMEX persists with this misleading "Balchin" misspelling today.


The UK Press Investigates the HMS Victory Situation


While reading the details of this and factoring in any UK-specific bias you may believe to
exist, consider what a Florida Judge, on Odyssey's home turf, says of OMEX officially in
court:


"Odyssey's cynically deploying a few random nodes of truth to the end of evading
the acknowledgement of an over-arching and regnant truth." -Judge Steven D.
Merryday in the Sept 25, 2013 'Black Swan' ruling against Odyssey1[1]


There is a much more detailed and thorough investigation into this overhyped
connection in the Heritage Daily, a UK periodical:



https://sites.google.com/site/adsirjohnbalchendescendant/

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/798528/000119312509015806/dex991.htm

http://www.shipwreck.net/hmsvictory.php
5/21/2018 Snatching Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory: HMS Freedom Of Information Act UK - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk 6/11


July 2012: Cameron Appointed Peer, MOD and Odyssey Colluded over Balchen's
HMS Victory


August 2012: Odyssey Marine and Cameron Peer Out of Control on HMS Victory


A second article based on correspondence with the Ministry of Defence and Freedom of
Information Requests, revealed that OMEX had been preparing cannon for lifting before
any consent for this work had been given by the UK Secretary of State for Defence. We
believe this potential breach of the strict terms of the Deed of Gift is also under
investigation by the Ministry of Defence and its advisors in parallel with the investigation
by the Marine Management Organization.


Ministers Jeremy Hunt and Philip Hammond are in the firing line as the Ministry of
Defence admits Odyssey Marine Exploration is already preparing to cash in on HMS
Victory … without the permission of the Government.


In a major and disturbing development in the growing HMS Victory scandal, the Ministry of
Defence has been forced to admit that the flagship of American commercial salvage
company Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. the Odyssey Explorer, has been actively
preparing to recover artefacts from the wreck site of HMS Victory, the flagship of Admiral
Sir John Balchen, lost with all hands in October 1744, even before permission has been
given by Government Ministers Jeremy Hunt and Philip Hammond to permit the recovery
of artefacts from the ship.


Most recently, an article in the Independent newspaper in the UK also confirmed that the
Marine Management Organization investigation into Odyssey's conduct on the HMS
Victory site was ongoing and was reviewing video evidence from the Television series
"Silver Rush" UK Title "Billion Dollar Wreck Hunt," which showed the apparent discovery of
a human skull on the wreck site.


[1] CASE NO. 8:07-cv-614-T-23MAP - Docket 364, p12, sentence starts with "Odyssey's
characterizing her as a "vessel . . . assigned to transport mail, private passengers, and
consignments of merchant goods and other cargoes" is a splendid and representative
example of...Odyssey's…"


Disclosure: I am short OMEX. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


 Like this article



http://www.heritagedaily.com/2012/07/cameron-appointed-peer-mod-and-odyssey-colluded-over-balchens-hms-victory/46034

http://www.heritagedaily.com/2012/08/odyssey-marine-and-cameron-peer-out-of-control-on-hms-victory/49961

http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/in-too-deep-warship-wreck-bounty-hunter-under-scrutiny-from-britains-marine-watchdog-8906374.html

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/omexblackswan364.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX
5/21/2018 Snatching Defeat From The Jaws Of Victory: HMS Freedom Of Information Act UK - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1870501-snatching-defeat-from-the-jaws-of-victory-hms-freedom-of-information-act-uk 7/11


