employees during our surveillance.3  In contrast, Chairman Guo claimed that there are 580 
employees at the Langfang factory as of March 2011.4  (Note the 580 production employees is a 
decrease from the 813 workers stated in DGW’s F-1.)5  Moreover, Chairman Guo claimed that 
170 employees (of the 580) work the night shift.  We saw no workers come or go for a night 


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
2 Thanks to Roddy Boyd for coining this term in his description of China MediaExpress Holdings’ (NASDAQ: 
CCME) corporate office, which also served a primary function of furthering stock fraud.  See 
www.thefinancialinvestigator.com - CCME: Fiction’s End. 
3 We are confident that most of DGW’s workers live outside of the factory.  Were they living at the factory, there 
would be food deliveries made two to three times per day.  Our surveillance shows that this is not the case. 
4 DGW March 23, 2011 conference call to discuss Q4 and fiscal 2010 results (Q&A portion). 
5 DGW F-1, p. 102.
!


!


)!


shift, and the factory and its grounds were completely dark from 6 pm onward.  Unless the 170 
workers wear night vision goggles, it would be very difficult for them to work.   
 
In conversations with DGW employees, we learned that most of the office workers are recent 
college graduates.  They are apparently paid average wages for the area, but accepted the offer 
from DGW because they had no alternatives.  It seems that many of the employees are searching 
for jobs elsewhere. 
 
During our three tours of the factory, we witnessed minimal production activity.  There was 
much work in progress laid out on display, but few workers and tools around it, and little noise 
or material movement.  The production equipment we saw was not particularly sophisticated; 
rather, it was typical of Chinese manufacturers, involving lower-end Chinese made equipment 
and relying on labor-intensive (versus machine intensive) production practices.  More 
importantly, results of the multi-million dollar capital investment projects and upgrades DGW 
claims to have undertaken were conspicuously absent (see DGW Shows Little Evidence of Using 
Investor Funds for Capital Expenditures).    
 
Beijing – Little to Nothing Doing 
 
We obtained the 2009 Annual Inspection report for Beijing, which shows that it generated 
revenue of RMB 3.3 million in 2009.  The Annual Inspection report is derived from the SAIC 
financials.  This number likely consolidates some – if not all – of DGW Langfang’s revenue.  
We think it likely consolidates all of DGW Langfang’s revenue because if we assumed that 
Beijing generates 25% of actual revenue (the same as its proportion of reported revenue), then its 
2009 revenue would have been RMB 0.8 million (US$0.1 million), giving the Company a total 
2009 revenue base of RMB 3.1 million (US$0.4 million). 
 
We visited DGW’s Beijing headquarters on two occasions – once to call on DGW as a potential 
client, and once to inquire about renting office space.  DGW occupies a small portion of the 
building, and had only four employees (and many empty desks) in the office when we visited.  
Contrary to disclosures in DGW’s SEC filings, companies with no affiliation to the Duoyuan 
Group rent the majority of the space in the building.  Despite DGW’s claim that its founder / 
chairman / CEO, Wenhua Guo, devotes most of his time to running DGW,6 two Beijing office 
employees stated that Chairman Guo is rarely in the office. 
 
There are Major Errors in DGW’s Audit, Showing Inattentiveness and Providing 
Management the Opportunity to Perpetuate the Fraud. 
 
There are four clear indications that DGW’s auditor, Grant Thornton Hong Kong,7 was 
inattentive during its audits of DGW.   
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
6 DGW 2009 20-F, p. 15. 
7 Grant Thornton’s Hong Kong office merged with the Hong Kong office of BDO International in November 2010.  
This follows the October 2009 disappearance of GT Hong Kong’s managing partner amid allegations that he stole 
over $12 million from friends and clients.  (http://www.cfoinnovation.com/content/commentary-when-accountant-
disappears)  These events raise serious questions about the culture of GT’s Hong Kong office, and may partly
!


!


*+!


• The auditor failed to detect that DGW is claiming to make rent payments to a landlord 
when DGW actually owns the building in which it claims to lease space.  We question 
where the purported rent payments really go.   


• The auditor failed to see that DGW’s financial statements accounted for the purported 
land transfer in a way that improperly boosted 2008 operating cash flow.   


• The auditor also failed to see that the loan Chairman Guo repaid to DGW in 2008 also 
improperly boosted 2008 operating cash flow.  These combined misclassifications 
boosted operating cash flow by RMB 88.3 million (US$12.9million), or 57.6%.   


• Our manufacturing experts believe that it is impossible for DGW to have zero work in 
process inventory as of December 31, 2008 and 2009 while generating anything close to 
the sales volumes and growth it claims.  We believe that an attentive auditor would have 
found the lack of work in process to be a significant issue – in fact, the SEC’s Corporate 
Finance division flagged it as a potential problem in September 2010.8 


 
The Property Swap that Wasn’t 
 
DGW claims that in 2008 it swapped its Beijing office building at 3 Jinyuan Road for a factory at 
6 Xiangyundao Road in Langfang owned by a non-public entity controlled by Chairman Guo, 
Duoyuan Information Terminal Manufacturing (Langfang) Co. Ltd. (“Terminal”).9,10  In reality, 
Terminal was wound up by March 2008 – prior to DGW’s IPO – and merged into DGW 
Langfang.  By virtue of the merger, the property that Terminal owned was also merged into 
DGW Langfang.  However, DGW Beijing, which owned the office building that was purportedly 
swapped for Terminal’s property, never transferred ownership of the building to Terminal (in 
which case it would have reverted to DGW Langfang because of the merger).  Our attorney 
viewed the current building ownership record, which show that DGW Beijing has remained the 
owner. 
 
DGW’s SEC filings claim that the value of each property was approximately RMB 75 million at 
the time of the swap (approximately $11 million).11  We believe that the values of both 
properties were nowhere near that level – particularly Terminal’s factory.  Terminal’s factory 
requires local government approval to be transferred because it was likely purchased with a 
government subsidy.  Therefore, this land is inherently less valuable than freely alienable land.  
Further our inquiries in Langfang indicate that Terminal was a troubled business by 2007, thus 
Chairman Guo had nothing to lose by merging Terminal into DGW. 
 
It is difficult to say with certainty why DGW used the purported swap as a mechanism to transfer 
in ownership of Terminal’s factory, and why it never completed the outbound transfer.   The best 
explanation we have developed is that Chairman Guo wanted to inflate the size of DGW’s 
balance sheet as much as possible in preparation for its 2009 IPO, and that he was able to do so 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
explain the deficiencies in DGW’s audits.  Following the merger, DGW has engaged BDO’s Hong Kong office as 
its auditor. 
8 http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1465317/000000000010057876/filename1.pdf 
9 20-F, p. 42. 
10 Note that DGW’s filings sometimes refer to this entity as Duoyuan Facsimile, which is incorrect. 
11 DGW F-1 (filed January 11, 2010), p. 123.
!


!


**!


by “paying” in kind. We think that the reason Chairman Guo never transferred out the DGW 
Beijing property is that the transfer taxes DGW would have to pay would show that the office 
building (and therefore Terminal’s factory) were worth nowhere near their purported values. 
 
Auditor Sloppiness Regarding DGW’s Purported Rent Payments 
 
The auditor evidently has not detected any irregularities in the rent that DGW purports to pay to 
Terminal, despite 1) Terminal having been wound up and merged into DGW in 2008, prior to 
DGW’s IPO, and 2) DGW’s never having transferred to Terminal the office building that DGW 
purports to lease.  This rent totaled RMB 1.1 million (US$160,000) in 2009.12 Had the auditor 
realized that DGW is not actually paying rent to Terminal, it is likely that investors would have 
asked a number of pointed questions of DGW sooner. 
 
DGW’s sister company, Duoyuan Printing, Inc. (“DYP”) also purports to have paid US$0.2 
million in rent to Terminal in fiscal 200913 for space in the same building.  We question where 
this money really goes (along with the rent that DGW pays).  Further, our fieldwork indicates 
that the vast majority of the Beijing office building is rented out to parties unaffiliated with the 
Duoyuan companies, which undermines DGW and DYP’s contentions that that they each rent 
substantial portions of the building.  We estimate the rent that is collected on the building 
annually to be approximately RMB seven million (US$1.0 million).    
 
Auditor Failing to Detect Incorrect Classification of the Purported Property Transfer on the 
Cash Flow Statement 
 
DGW’s auditor was clearly inattentive in not seeing that DGW had misclassified property 
deposits in the cash flow statement in a way that artificially boosted its pre-IPO year operating 
cash flow.  DGW purports to have agreed to acquire Terminal’s property for RMB 75.6 million 
cash, and having paid a deposit of RMB 44.5 million (US$6.5 million) in 2007 prior to engaging 
in the swap.  DGW further purports that after agreeing to the swap with Terminal, Terminal 
returned the deposit in 2008.14  Because these payments relate to the purchase of capital assets, 
they should be classified on the cash flow statement as investing activities.  However, DGW 
recorded them as operating cash flow items.15  The effect was to bump up 2008 operating cash 
flow (the fiscal year prior to the IPO) by RMB 44.5 million.       
 
Auditor Failing to Detect Incorrect Classification on the Cash Flow Statement of the Loan 
Chairman Guo Repaid in 2008 
 
DGW shows a related party loan repayment as a cash flow from operations, improperly boosting 
2008 operating cash flow by RMB 43.8 million (US$6.4 million) in preparation for DGW’s IPO.  
Chairman Guo repaid in 2008 RMB 43.8 million in loans DGW made to two entities Guo 
controls entirely: Beijing Huiyuan Duoyuan Digital Printing Technology Institute (“Huiyuan”) 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
12 DGW 2009 20-F, p. F-25. 
13 DYP Fiscal 2009 10-K, p. 28. 
14 Supra FN 10. 
15 See DGW 2009 20-F, p. 25 and F-1, p. F-15.
!


!


*"!


and Huanan Duoyuan Water Supply Co. Ltd.16  DGW shows the repayment of the loan as an 
operating cash flow in its 2008 (again, the year before its IPO) financial statements. 
 
The proper classification of the loan repayment is a cash flow from financing activities, rather 
than cash flow from operations.  Neither company is a supplier or customer of DGW, although as 
we discuss infra in DGW Engages in Improper Undisclosed Related Party Transactions that 
Transfer Money to Chairman Guo, the relationship between Huiyuan and DGW is improper and 
most likely detrimental to DGW shareholders’ interests.  Because neither company is a customer 
or supplier of DGW, then the repayment should not be classified as a cash flow from operations.  
 
Auditor Credulous of No Work in Process at Year End – We Are Not 
 
Grant Thornton has made an obvious error in its audit by not taking issue with DGW’s claims of 
having no work in process as of December 31, 2008 and 2009.  Interestingly, the genuine 2009 
PRC audit report for DGW Langfang facility shows work in process of RMB 3.3 million 
(US$0.5 million) as of December 31, 2009.17   The forged audit report even shows work in 
process of RMB 1.7 million (US$0.2 million) as of December 31, 2008 (it shows no work in 
process as of December 31, 2009).  Muddy Waters’ manufacturing experts believe that it would 
be impossible for DGW to have no work in process as of year-end 2008 and 2009 were it 
generating anywhere close to the level of revenue and year-over-year growth it claims.  In a 
manufacturing operation engaged in regular production of a variety of standard and custom 
manufactured parts, work in process would typically range between 20% to 40% of current 
orders.18  Further, DGW proudly states it utilizes an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) 
system.  One of the basic benefits of an ERP system for a manufacturer is that it allows for real-
time monitoring of raw material, work in process, and inventory levels so that management can 
monitor the business’s performance on an ongoing basis without a disruption or stopping 
production.  We emailed DGW’s CFO to ask a) why the PRC audit report for Langfang 
disagrees with the US GAAP audit with respect to work in process, and b) why the work 
stoppage to facilitate the inventory count is necessary when DGW has an enterprise resource 
planning system.  He responded that he would speak with the Company to clarify. 
 
The SEC flagged the lack of work in process as an issue in September 2010.19  DGW responded 
to the SEC query by stating that starting in 2008, the Company “elected to complete production 
of then existing work in process and suspend manufacturing of all further work in process prior 
to the inventory count cutoff dates” in order to perform a complete physical inventory;20 
however, this explanation does not hold water.  The negative impact from a major, long-term, 
company-wide disruption in production and business would far outweigh the benefit of 
facilitating an inventory count and valuation.  Again, the ERP system would make this entirely 
unnecessary. 
 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
16 DGW F-1, p. F-15. 
17 Genuine 2009 DGW Langfang PRC Audit Report, Notes to Financial Statements p. 6. 
18 Interviews with US and Chinese manufacturers, Feb and March 2011. 
19 Supra FN 8. 
20 http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1465317/000095012310097028/filename1.htm, p. 3.
!


!


*#!


Because DGW claims that it is experiencing consistently expanding sales revenues, it would be 
impossible to stop all production on 90 products and take a count of completed products without 
having any significant impact on company performance.  To do as DGW claims would mean to 
halt all incoming orders, and slowly push out all current orders until 100% of all production is in 
a completed state.  (Stopping new production in a factory generating revenue comparable to that 
DGW claims may be possible in a situation where the company is only engaged in plastic 
injection molding or making another short production cycle product.)  However, the production 
cycle of most of DGW’s equipment and products should be approximately 30 days or more.21  If 
DGW’s claims were true, it would be halting production on new orders sometime in late 
November or early December in order to clear the schedule of existing production and prepare 
for the year end count of all inventory.  With the timing of Chinese New year, at which time 
most Chinese factories halt production, DGW would be planning for major, back to back 
disruptive events, thus requiring it to either refuse new orders in November or force customers to 
wait until sometime in late February (at the earliest) to receive their shipments.  In other words, 
DGW would be delaying or refusing new orders for a period of approximately three months.  
Based on our discussions with competitors, this would be atypical for the industry. 
 


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
21 Our interviews with DGW’s competitors indicate that the typical production cycle for DGW’s products is 30 to 60 
days.
!


!


*$!


Nevertheless, to illustrate the improbability of having no work in progress at any time, Muddy 
Waters photographed two competitors’ operations.  The below photographs show that the 
accumulated work in process throughout the factories is extensive:
!


!


*%!


DGW claims to have an ERP system to manage its manufacturing processes.  The ERP system 
supposedly tracks all materials and orders, and “integrate(s) all … data and processes into a 
unified system and use a centralized database to store information.” 22  Such a system should be 
able to rapidly calculate work in process without a significant disruption or even a temporary 
stoppage of production. 
 
Different Flowers from the Same Garden: DGW and DYP. 
 
We express no opinion on DGW’s troubled sister company, DYP, other than to note we 
uncovered that the land DYP claims to own actually belongs to a similarly-named entity 100% 
owned by DGW / DYP Chairman Guo (by way of an intermediary entity).23  DGW has five 
characteristics in common with DYP that we believe are important to DGW’s fraud. 
 
Both companies claim to sell through networks of independent distributors, which can make it 
easier to control the customer verification process during the audit.  DYP claims to have over 85 
distributors in 28 provinces of China.24  DGW claims to have over 80 distributors in 28 
provinces of China.25  Book cookers tend to like purporting to sell to distributors more than to 
end users because 1) it is easier to get confirmation of receivables and revenue (the response rate 
tends to be high when selling through a largely invented distribution network), and 2) there is no 
need to come up with new customers to support increasing sales.   
 
Both companies have (or had in the case of DYP) CFOs who had no China experience and who 
do not speak Chinese.  DGW’s CFO, Stephen Park, is an American-born Korean.  DYP’s former 
CFO, William Suh, is also an American-born Korean.  Both were hired from the United States, 
and neither speaks Chinese.  Muddy Waters is inherently suspicious of companies that hire CFOs 
without China experience or Chinese language skills.  In such situations, it is easy for the 
chairman to wall off the CFO, then commit fraud and steal money without the CFO’s 
knowledge.   
 
Both companies formed numerous subsidiaries after going public and raising money.  DGW and 
DYP formed their subsidiaries in Beijing and Langfang, Hebei, which have been their bases of 
operation; therefore, these subsidiaries have not served to expand the companies’ geographic 
reaches.  While the ostensible purpose of forming the subsidiaries is to enter new lines of 
business and increase existing production capacity, we are skeptical. 
 
On the other hand, forming numerous subsidiaries can make it easier to drain shareholders’ 
money from the companies.  More subsidiaries creates greater complexity, particularly when 
combined with the undisclosed related-party transactions in which DGW engages (see DGW 
Engages in Improper Undisclosed Related Party Transactions that Transfer Money to Chairman 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
22 20-F, p. 35 
23 The entity that owns the land is Langfang Duoyuan Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (廊坊多元数码技术有限公司), 
which Chairman Guo likely intended to be confused with Duoyuan Digital Printing Technology Industry (China) 
Co. Ltd. (多元数码印刷技术产业（中国）有限公司） 
24 DYP 2009 10-K, p. 2. 
25 20-F, p. 36.
!


!


*&!


Guo).  In other words, the complex structure enables the chairman to play a shell game with 
money.  Further, companies with less capitalization receive less scrutiny in the PRC, which 
makes it easier to fool the local regulators.  
 
Both companies announced aggressive capital expenditure programs after going public.  As we 
state infra, we believe that much of DGW’s reported and planned capital expenditures are 
illusory.  We cannot opine on those of DYP, but we invite readers to form their own inferences. 
 
Both companies misrepresent property transactions in their public filings.  Because property is a 
high priced asset, it is at the center of much corporate malfeasance in China.  DGW 
mischaracterizes how its Langfang subsidiary obtained a portion of its property.  As discussed 
supra, DGW claims that it obtained the land via a swap with another company that Chairman 
Guo owns; however, this is untrue.  DYP claims to own land underlying its factory that it does 
not.  One of Chairman Guo’s own companies, Langfang Duoyuan Digital Technology Co., Ltd., 
owns the land.  Note that the Chinese and English names for this company are quite similar to 
those of a subsidiary of DYP.  We doubt that the similarity of the names is coincidental; we 
believe that the names are intended to confuse. 
 
DGW Shows Little Evidence of Using Investor Funds for Capital Expenditures 
 
We are skeptical that funds raised have been used for their intended purposes – particularly with 
respect to capital expenditures.  DGW has raised a net total of US$170.2 million from investors 
since going public in June 2009.  As of December 31, 2009, DGW purported to be in the process 
of capital investments (excluding land purchases and development) of US$18.0 million.  On our 
three visits to the factory, we have seen little evidence of capital investment in machinery.  Many 
of the processes we observed were performed manually, whereas in a well-managed and well-
capitalized factory, we would have found automation instead.   
 
DGW has acquired land in Daxing as it has announced, and DGW is building on it.  However, 
we are skeptical regarding how funds will actually be used for this project.  It is clear that DGW 
has no need for additional capacity.  Therefore any such investment is likely to be a financial 
black hole. 
 
DGW’s Claimed Distribution Network is a Sham. 
 
DGW claims to sell its product to over 80 distributors in 28 provinces26.  In reality, its 
distribution network is barely existent at best.  As we discuss supra, many book cookers consider 
claiming to use a distributor business model advantageous to committing fraud.  We posed as a 
potential customer and met with DGW’s marketing manager.   He was unable or unwilling to 
identify any distributors.  DGW’s SAIC files indicate that DGW created sales offices around the 
country several years ago; however, we were unable to locate any at their previously advertised 
addresses.  We believe that the sales offices no longer exist.  We received contact information for 
one distributor from an investor who performed due diligence on DGW in 2009.  When we 


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
26 Supra FN 25.
!


!


*'!


contacted this distributor, he expressed that DGW’s primary business is in the stock market, and 
thus he does not sell DGW much product any more. 
 
We met with DGW marketing manager Liu Huanzhen attempting to buy water treatment 
equipment.  He informed us that we would have to place orders through one of DGW’s 
distributors.  He did state that DGW has 80 distributors.  We asked him for a referral to a 
distributor, and he refused to provide any names or contact information.  In other words, it 
appears to be impossible to become a DGW client.  In a separate inquiry we made to a DGW 
sales employee, we specifically inquired as to whether there was a sales office or distributor in 
the greater Shanghai with which we could work.  The employee told us that DGW had neither in 
the Shanghai area.  This would be highly unusual for a company of appreciable scale in China, 
and directly contradicts the map of DGW’s purported distribution contained in its 20-F27 and F-1 
in which Shanghai and its neighboring provinces have 23 distributors. 
 


 
 
 
 
 
Referring to the SAIC files, we searched online for DGW sales offices in various cities.  We 
found websites and listings on B2B sites, including Alibaba, for purported DGW sales offices.  
We then called ten of the offices we found through these sources.   The numbers either were 
disconnected or the people answering the telephones had never heard of DGW.  We provide 
screen shots of the 10 webpages with the contact information for the sales offices as a download 
from our website at:  
 
www.muddywatersresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/DGWSalesOffices.pdf  
 


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
27 Courtesy of DGW’s 2009 20-F, p. 36.
!


!


*(!


We have posted a video of our attempts to call DGW’s sales offices on You Tube at the 
following URL:  
 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uDSlymgaH_g  
 
We contacted one real distributor of DGW product.  The information came from an investor who 
performed due diligence on DGW in 2009.  The distributor is based in northeast China.  His 
comments were: 
 


• DGW’s prices are too high. 
• Few customers request DGW’s product.  
• DGW is not competitive, and does a poor job of marketing and promotion.  
• DWG products make up a tiny portion of his sales. 
• DGW’s main focus is on making money on stocks.  


 
To create and then dismantle a sales network, replacing it with a loosely controlled distribution 
network upon which the Company becomes completely dependent defies conventional business 
wisdom.  It only makes sense if the objective is to create opacity and obfuscate actual business 
performance. 
 
DGW Engages in Improper Undisclosed Related Party Transactions that Transfer Money 
to Chairman Guo. 
 
DGW Langfang’s audit report shows that it is transferring money in undisclosed transactions to a 
company owned by Chairman Guo, Beijing Huiyuan Duoyuan Digital Printing Technology 
Institute (“Huiyuan”).   
 
Huiyuan, a sole proprietorship, is a special type of legal entity that is particularly opaque, and 
therefore well-suited for draining money from DGW.  Guo established Huiyuan in 2000 as a sole 
proprietorship with registered capital of RMB 30,000 (approximately US$3,600 in 2000).  Sole 
proprietorships do not pay enterprise income tax, are not audited, and thus receive less scrutiny 
from the tax bureau and SAIC.  Shareholders of sole proprietorships are deemed to be the legal 
owners of the proprietorships’ assets.28   
 
According to the genuine 2009 audit report for DGW Langfang, DGW Langfang had improper 
payables owed to Huiyuan as of December 31, 2009.  (We show the page from the audit report 
listing these payables in Appendix A.)  In the audit report, we see Chairman Guo attempting to 
obscure this information.  The audit report lists different payables to Huiyuan using different 
Chinese characters (but having the same pronunciation) for Huiyuan’s name.29  We have 
searched for the alternate entity, but there is none.  Thus, both names refer to the same entity, 
which Chairman Guo solely owns. 
 


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
28 There is no limitation on liability for sole proprietorship shareholders. 
29 Huiyuan was alternately written in the genuine 2009 audit report as 慧元研究所 and 惠元研究所.
!


!


*)!


The 2009 Annual Audit Report of DGW Langfang showed an account payable balance of RMB 
26.2 million (US$3.8 million) to Huiyuan at year-end.  The payable grew 434% during 2009.  
This payable is unusual because (among other reasons) the payable is far more than the revenue 
DGW Langfang generates.  Further, Huiyuan is in the printing business (if it has a business other 
than tunneling cash out of DGW) – we cannot conceive of a justification for DGW to be doing 
business with Huiyuan.  Most importantly, DGW does not disclose these related party 
transactions in its SEC filings.   
 
Despite Huiyuan’s equity capital being de minimus, and recording no revenue in 2009 according 
to its SAIC file, it has managed to make investments totaling at least RMB 30.5 million (US$4.5 
million) in other entities over the years.   
 
DGW’s Internal Review 
 
On September 28, 2010, DGW announced that its board of directors had engaged Skadden, Arps, 
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP to conduct a review of DGW’s internal controls.30  We understand 
that the review has taken longer than originally expected.  Given our findings, Muddy Waters 
expects the review to identify material deficiencies. 
 
Estimated Value 
 
We estimate DGW’s value at less than $1.00 per share.  Muddy Waters, LLC believes that DGW 
is the biggest fraud we have encountered so far in terms of revenue overstatement.  We are 
unable to determine how much cash is left in the Company, and we believe that the book values 
of assets are overstated.  Unfortunately we believe that shareholders will ultimately be able to 
recover very little of value from the Company.   
  


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
30 http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1465317/000095012310089367/h04504e6vk.htm
!


!


"+!





Appendix A 
Genuine 2009 DGW Langfang PRC Audit Report, Notes to 
Financial Statements page 8 (showing Accounts Payable to 


Huiyuan)
Dilong Zhao





Dilong Zhao
