Why BPT Should Get Cut In Half Again... And Then Again
Mar. 14, 2016 11:41 AM ET67 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


BPT has recently disclosed that it expects its royalty stream to end in 2020.


Furthermore, it disclosed that its undiscounted estimated future royalty cash flows
equate to only $11.59 per share (or 40% below Friday’s close).


These disclosures are based on an oil price of $50.28.


However, if we model these cash flows based on the oil’s forward pricing curve, we
believe that the downside to fair value exceeds 70%.


Over a three-day period last week the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust (NYSE:BPT) lost
nearly half of its value after a bearish investment manager issued a press release which
did little more than highlight language from the Trust's recently filed Form 10-K. The
highlighted disclosures include the Trustee's expectation that the Trust's royalties would
end after 2020 and that the remaining estimated future cash flows to the Trust were only
$248.1M or $11.59 per unit.


Subsequently, a contributor to another financial news outlet, while calling for caution,
suggested that this "was probably the worst case scenario" (Source). Given the differing
views, we thought it was worthwhile to delve into the Trust's structure and the recent 10-K
in more detail and explain why, even after the recent drop, we believe the units of the trust
remain significantly overvalued.


Royalty Trusts


Royalty trusts are typically owned by income-oriented investors as well as those seeking
to express a view on the underlying drivers of the trust's income stream, which in the case
of BPT is the price of oil. As with all income oriented investments, it is important to
consider the size, certainty and duration of the distribution stream and, as is typical with



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BPT

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/due-to-the-recent-fall-in-oil-prices-trustee-of-bp-prudhoe-bay-royalty-trust-bpt-attributes-no-proved-reserves-to-the-bp-prudhoe-bay-trust-past-2020-300233119.html

http://www.fool.com/investing/general/2016/03/10/these-5-oil-stocks-are-getting-slammed-today-heres.aspx
structured investment vehicles such as trusts, the devil is often in the details. These
details are particularly relevant when a trust is nearing its end as this is the point in time
when it is most dangerous to equate a high current yield with a high asset value. To
illustrate this concept, you need only consider the appropriate yield for a trust with only
one distribution remaining. In the case of BPT, we believe that these factors are not
reflected in the market price of the units and we suspect that they are not understood by
many of the unitholders. In short, we believe that BPT is neither a good source of income
nor an attractive way to express a bullish view on oil.


BPT's Structure


BPT receives royalty revenues from BP's interest in oil produced at Prudhoe Bay. These
royalty revenues are not derived from the actual price that BP receives for its oil or the
actual cost that it incurs to produce the oil. Rather, they are based on a formula that was
determined at the time that the Trust was created. We will summarize each of the
components of this formula and then describe how we believe this information can be
used to assess the value of the Trust. The full details are available in the Trust's Form 10-
K and we highly recommend that any current or potential investor in BPT review this filing
in full.


Oil Price: The daily price for West Texas Intermediate Crude as published in the Wall
Street Journal, Reuters or by Platts.


Volume: A fixed percentage of the daily production attributable to BP's working interest in
the Prudhoe Bay field capped at 90,000 barrels per day.


Chargeable Cost: The chargeable costs are determined based on an escalating schedule
that was established at the time the Trust was created which is then adjusted by an
inflation factor based on the CPI.


Production Taxes: The Production Taxes are calculated in a manner that is intended to
mimic Alaska's tax code while reflecting the theoretical revenues and costs described
above. The complexity of the code is outside the scope of this article, however the
minimum tax per barrel, which is applicable under current market conditions, is set at 4%
of the per barrel wellhead price.


A bit of history



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/850033/000119312516484604/d102077d10k.htm
In the chart below we show each of these components for the most recent 5-years as
disclosed in the 2015 Form 10-K as well as the average WTI price for each period.


The difference between the WTI price and the top of each column represents the per
barrel royalty for each period. This amount, when multiplied by the production volume for
the period determines the royalty revenue for the Trust which, after paying the Trust's
administrative costs, is distributed to the unitholders.


A glimpse into the future


In the chart below we project these costs in the future. To do so we had to make only two
assumptions. First, we assumed that inflation, as measured by the CPI, would be 0%
going forward. Holding all else equal, if the actual rate of inflation is higher than this, the
actual per barrel cost will be higher and thus the per barrel royalties will be lower. The
second assumption relates to production taxes as they are dependent on the WTI price.
For this we used the WTI forward curve as of March 10, 2016.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/3/959452_14579638500923_rId11.png
The most obvious characteristic of this chart is that the chargeable costs begin to increase
at a rapid pace beginning in 2018. As stated earlier, the chargeable costs are not BP's
actual costs; rather they are based on the cost schedule that was agreed at the time the
Trust was created. While I suspect that this cost schedule was intended to reflect the
increase in unit costs that are typical near the end of the life of a field, the particular
rationale is not relevant to BPT's value.


What is relevant is that while E&P companies around the world are rapidly reducing their
development and production costs to help cope with low commodity prices, BPT has no
ability to do so and instead is contractually tied to a rapidly increasing cost burden.


Implied future per barrel royalties


Now that BPT's costs are understood, we consider two oil price scenarios. First we
consider the SEC price of $50.28 as this is the price used to value the Trust's reserves in
its 2015 reserve report (again, please see the most recent 10-K for more detail). Second,
we use the WTI forward curve (as of 3/10/2016).



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/3/959452_14579638500923_rId12.png
The SEC price is based on the 12-month average WTI price for 2015 using the closing
price for the first day of each month. Under this assumption, as disclosed in the 10-K and
as evident from the chart above, royalty payments would continue through 2020 and be
zero thereafter. In the 10-K, the undiscounted estimated future cash flows to the Trust
were disclosed to be $248.1M or $11.59 per share. The 10-K also disclosed that the net
present value of these cash flows when discounted at 10% is $214.5 which equates to
only $10.02 per unit.


The second price scenario is the based on the forward curve which is represented by the
blue line above (the WTI price for Q1 2016 reflects an average closing spot price for dates
the through March 10, 2015 and the relevant forward price for the remainder of the
period). As can be seen, even after the recent rally, the forward curve is significantly below
the SEC price. In fact, the sum of the per barrel royalties based on the forward curve is
approximately 60% of that using the SEC price. This suggests that the undiscounted per
share value of the estimated cash flow to the Trust is only about $6.93 or significantly less
than half of the current stock price.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/3/959452_14579638500923_rId13.png
Our view


For the purpose of the analysis above, we have made only two assumptions: that inflation
will be zero and that the WTI price would either be flat at $50.28 or follow the forward
curve (as of 3/10/2016). Everything has been either explicitly drawn from data contained in
the Trust's filings with the SEC or directly derived from it (for example the 60% factor used
in the preceding paragraph or converting aggregate values to per share values). In our
own investment analysis, however, we have taken a slightly different approach. While we
continue to rely on the forward curve, we assume a 1.0% rate of inflation, a 1.5% annual
rate of decline for production, we include estimated Trust administration costs, and we
discount the cash flows at 10%. Under these assumptions we calculate the per unit value
of BPT to be $5.39. Basically, we believe that the price of the Trust would need to be cut in
half and then nearly cut in half again before it reached fair value as our estimate of fair
value is 72% below the Trust's closing price of $19.17 on Friday.


Disclosure: I am/we are short BPT. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


