BLUE ORCA 


CAPITAL 
 
“Primary research is crucial and not as many people do it as you think.”  
                                                                                                                         -Jim Chanos 
 























On July 31, 2018, we published our investment opinion (the “Report”) on GDS Holdings Limited (NASDAQ: GDS) 


(“GDS” or the “Company”) a US-listed developer and operator of data centers in China. On August 1, GDS issued a 


response (the “Response”), a two-page press release of boiler plate denials almost devoid of details.   


While the Company’s Response failed to address the substance of our report or the independent evidence presented 


therein, it appears as though the Company has given a more detailed response in private conversations with sell-side 


analysts.  


It should be an immediate red flag that GDS is afraid to publish a detailed response which we and other market 


participants could scrutinize.  Rather, the Company is hiding behind the plausible deniability of private conversations 


with analysts who duly repeat such claims to the market. In this Rebuttal, we will address not only the Company’s 


tepid Response but also the Company’s claims published second-hand to the market through duly pliant sell-side 


analysts. 


1. Inflating the Purchase Price of Undisclosed Related Party Acquisitions.  
 


In our Report, we presented SAIC filings and other publicly available records in the PRC which indicate (in our 


opinion) that in 3 of GDS’s 4 major post-IPO transactions, GDS not only acquired data centers from undisclosed 


related parties, but overstated the purchase price of such acquisitions in its SEC filings.  


On this topic, GDS’s Response contained three lines of boiler plate denial.  Without addressing any of the evidence 


or analysis put forth in our investment opinion, the Company said that such SAIC filings reflected only a portion of 


the consideration and that the acquired entities were not undisclosed related parties.  


Behind closed doors (and away from the scrutiny of the markets), the Company apparently provided more detail 


because certain sell-side analysts published notes with various, sometimes contradictory explanations or excuses.   


We can group these explanations into two types of responses: (a) that the acquired entities were not undisclosed related 


parties, and (b) that the structure of the acquisitions was such that there was an off-shore element to the acquisition 


which was not reflected in the SAIC filings.  We will address each in turn.   


a) Related Parties 
 


Only one sell-side analyst directly addressed the multitude of related party connections between GDS and the acquired 


entities discussed in our Report, and in doing so only addressed one such transaction.   


To recap, in June 2017, GDS supposedly purchased Shenzhen Yaode Data Services (“Shenzhen Yaode”), which 


operates a Shenzhen datacenter (“SZ5”), for RMB 312 million from a “third party.”  However, publicly available 


SAIC filings show that prior to the acquisition, two individuals served as the acquisition target’s (Shenzhen Yaode’s) 


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS.  We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is GDS. So are the banks that 


raised money for the Company. If you are invested (either long or short) in GDS, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong.  Use 


BOC Texas, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This report and its contents are not intended to be and do not constitute or contain any financial product 


advice.  Because this document has been prepared without consideration of any specific clients’ investment objectives, financial situation or needs, and no information in 


this report should be construed as recommending or suggesting an investment strategy. Investors should seek their own financial, legal and tax advice in respect of any 


decision regarding any securities discussed herein.  You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions, including with respect 


to the securities discussed herein.  We have a short interest in GDS’s stock and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instrument 


declines. Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 





COMPANY:  GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS 


INDUSTRY:  Telecommunications Infrastructure 



https://www.blueorcacapital.com/
2 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


director and supervisor.  SAIC filings state these same two individuals also served as the financial controller and 


supervisor for GDS subsidiary Guangzhou Shi Wan Guo Yun Lan Data Technology Co. Ltd. (“WGYL”).   


Guggenheim’s analyst note alleged that we got it wrong because WGYL and GDS share two of the five Chinese 


characters and thus have “similar names.”  This, according to Guggenheim, led to “confusion” although “WGYL and 


its employees were in no way related to or a subsidiary of the GDS organization.”   


 
Source: Guggenheim Note on GDS, 8-2-2018 


If the Guggenheim analyst note is to be believed, GDS is now denying that WGYL is a subsidiary or in “any way 


related” to the GDS organization.   


But this is ridiculous and directly contradicted by GDS’s SEC filings.  In exhibit 8.1 of its FY 2017 20-F, GDS listed 


Guangzhou Shi Wan Guo Yun Lan Data Technology Co., Ltd. (WGYL) as one of its subsidiaries.  The Company 


even included the Chinese characters of WGYL (广州市万国云蓝数据科技有限公司) in its 20-F, ensuring there is 


no ambiguity.   


 
Source: GDS FY 2017 20-F 


Not only does GDS admit that WGYL is a subsidiary in its SEC filings, but just to be sure, we reviewed WGYL’s 


SAIC filings using the Chinese characters disclosed by the Company in its 20-F.   


Sure enough, GDS’s Chairman’s signature appears in WGYL’s SAIC filings! 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1526125/000110465918021281/a18-3780_1ex8d1.htm
3 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


Huang Wei Signed as Director on WGYL Internal Document 


 
Source: WGYL SAIC Filings 


A basic check of WGYL’s SAIC filings reveals documents containing the Chairman’s signature.  Furthermore, 


according to the SAIC website, WGYL is 100% owned by RDTJ, a Hong Kong entity that GDS also listed as its 


subsidiary in its SEC filings.  


 
Source: http://www.gsxt.gov.cn 


There is no ambiguity that WGYL is a subsidiary of GDS.  There is also no ambiguity regarding the individual who 


worked for GDS subsidiary WGYL and acquisition target Shenzhen Yaode (prior to the acquisition).  A registration 


record of a housing lease contract in WGYL’s SAIC registration showed that Zeng Jialin leased a unit in the G2 



http://www.gsxt.gov.cn/
4 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


building in the Guangzhou Innovation Park.  The record provided Zeng Jialin’s ID number, which ended in 3920.  ID 


numbers are like social security numbers in China, and each citizen over the age of 16 has one.  These numbers are 


unique for each citizen and critical for China’s bureaucracy to track its people.   


Lease Record From WGYL SAIC File 


 
Source: WGYL SAIC Filings 


The Same Zeng Jialin Was Also Shenzhen Yaode’s Supervisor 


 
Source: Shenzhen Yaode Registration 


The same individual with the same name and the same ID number (ending in 3920) who is listed as the financial 


controller of WGYL also appears in Shenzhen Yaode’s registration filings as its supervisor.  There might be two 


different individuals sharing the same name, but no one shares the same ID number.  


In our opinion, the records show unambiguously that GDS’s WGYL employed two individuals in key positions who 


at the same time worked for the target company, Shenzhen Yaode, prior to the acquisition.  These two individuals 


were on both sides of the deal (buyer and target).  We believe that such overlapping connections clearly demonstrate 


that the SZ5 acquisition was an undisclosed related party acquisition.   


It is also notable that GDS has been silent on the other multitude of overlapping connections between GDS and the 


other acquisitions and sellers identified in our Report, including common registered phone numbers and email 


addresses.  Entities with the same registered email addresses and phone numbers, in our view, are likely connected 


through common ownership or control; and such connections indicate that the acquisition was an undisclosed related 


party transaction.     


 



https://www.scmp.com/tech/article/2129957/look-chinas-push-national-digital-id-cards
5 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


b) Overstating Purchase Price of Undisclosed Related Party Transactions 
 


In our Report, we also highlighted publicly available SAIC filings which indicated that GDS inflated the purchase 


price of post-IPO datacenter acquisitions.  


In its boiler plate two-page Response, GDS made the excuse that such SAIC filings reflected only a portion of the 


consideration.  Again, it was only behind the veil of plausible deniability through conversations with sell-side analysts 


that the Company appears to have provided more detailed, apparently contradictory explanations.   


For instance, Citi’s analyst note suggests that according to GDS, the SAIC filings only reflect the acquisition 


consideration for the assets.  Additional consideration, Citi implies, is paid to a hold-co offshore because of the VIE 


structure.    


 
Source: Citi Research Note on GDS, August 2, 2018 


According to Citi, SAIC filings should reflect only the value of the acquired assets.   


But this is directly contradicted by Guggenheim’s sell-side note, which says that according to GDS, SAIC filings only 


reflect the license-co part of the deal.  So apparently GDS told Guggenheim that the asset-co is purchased by a 


foreign entity (often based in Hong Kong), while the license-co is purchased by a Chinese entity.
6 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 





Source: Guggenheim Note on GDS, 8-2-2018 


First, it is notable that either the analysts misinterpreted the Company’s explanation or GDS is telling different analysts 


contradictory things.  Citi reported that the assets were held on-shore at a PRC entity and that the SAIC filings reflected 


the purchase price of this asset-co entity.  Guggenheim, meanwhile, said the opposite: that SAIC filings reflected the 


purchase price of the license-co and that assets were held by an off-shore company.   


In our opinion, both explanations are wrong as there is little to support the bifurcation of acquired assets/IDC licenses 


between on-shore and off-shore entities other than the Company grasping for some narrative to explain why the black 


and white documents in SAIC filings state that the purchase price was considerably less than GDS claimed in its SEC 


filings.   


For example, in October 2017, GDS acquired Guangzhou Weiteng Network Technology (“Weiteng Network”), which 


operated a data center in Guangzhou (“GZ2”), supposedly for RMB 234 million.  Yet Weiteng Network’s SAIC filings 


state that it was sold to GDS for only RMB 72 million, indicating that GDS inflated the reported value of the 


acquisition in its SEC filings by 3.25x.   


If the analyst notes are to be believed, GDS is telling them behind closed doors that the SAIC filings reflect only the 


purchase price of the license, not the assets (or vice versa), and that this bifurcation of the license from the assets 


requires the purchase of an off-shore entity.   


Yet evidence indicates that prior to the acquisition, Weiteng Network owned both the IDC license and the physical 


assets, which directly undermines GDS’s flimsy excuse that licenses and assets must be separated into two acquired 


entities.  


In the PRC, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the People's Republic of China (“MIIT”) provides 


an online database for any investor to check if a data center operator has obtained a cross-provincial IDC permit.1  


According to the MIIT database, Weiteng Network has a cross-provincial IDC permit to operate a data center.  


According to GDS’s 20-F, MIIT’s IDC licenses must be renewed every 5 years.  Weiteng Network’s license to operate 


a data center expires in August 2020, implying it was granted in August 2015, prior to Weiteng Network’s acquisition 


by GDS.   


                                                           
1 The MIIT database lists cross-provincial IDC permits, not local intra-provincial licenses.  Provincial licenses are searchable in 


this database: http://www.miit.cc/telecom-search/. 


 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1526125/000110465918021281/a18-3780_120f.htm

http://shenpi.miit.gov.cn/

http://www.miit.cc/telecom-search/
7 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


 
Source: MIIT Website 





Clearly Weiteng Network, which operates the GZ2 data center, carried an IDC license from the MIIT, even though it 


was an on-shore PRC entity.  This undermines any excuse that the license needed to be acquired from some off-shore 


entity.   


Yet Weiteng Network is also the “Asset-co” that leases the building and reports the physical assets on its balance 


sheet.  PRC records show that up until a few weeks before its acquisition by GDS, Weiteng Network was 51% owned 


at that time by Shenzhen Ningguanghong Technology (“SNT”), whose shares are traded OTC in China on the NEEQ 


board.  In September 2017, SNT released an Asset Sales and Material Asset Restructuring Report (the “Restructuring 


Report”) in which it stated Weiteng Network was the lessee of the building which houses the data center.   





SNT Disclosed Weiteng Network Leased GZ2 Data Center 





 
Source: Assets Sales and Material Assets Restructuring Report, September 8, 2017 


As of report date, Weiteng Network is leasing these properties:


No. Lessor Location Lease Area (sqm)  Lease Term 


1 822 4/1/2015 - 7/14/2029


2 15,468.5 7/15/2014 - 7/14/2034


Guangzhou South China 


Advanced Materials 


Innovation Park Co., Ltd.


Guangzhou South China 


Advanced Materials 


Innovation Park Co., Ltd.


#102, G2 building in South 


China Advanced Materials 


Innovation Park, No.31 


Kefeng Road, Science City, 


Guangzhou High-Tech 


Industrial Development Zone


G3 building in South China 


Advanced Materials 


Innovation Park, No.31 


Kefeng Road, Science City, 


Guangzhou High-Tech 


Industrial Development Zone



http://shenpi.miit.gov.cn/resultSearch?wd=%E6%B7%B1%E5%9C%B3%E8%80%80%E5%BE%B7%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E6%9C%8D%E5%8A%A1%E6%9C%89%E9%99%90%E5%85%AC%E5%8F%B8&categoryTreePid=&categoryTreeId=302

http://www.szngh.com/

http://www.neeq.com.cn/disclosure/2017/2017-09-08/1504870645_945691.pdf

http://www.neeq.com.cn/disclosure/2017/2017-09-08/1504870645_945691.pdf
8 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


SNT’s Restructuring Report also showed that Weiteng Network’s balance sheet included the property, plant and 


equipment of the acquired data center, which it valued at RMB 167.6 million as of June 30, 2017. 


Fair Value of Weiteng Network on June 30, 2017 (Reported by SNT) 


 
Source: Assets Sales and Material Assets Restructuring Report, September 8, 2017 


Records show that Weiteng Network held an IDC license and carried the assets on its balance sheet (and was the lessee 


for the building).  This directly contradicts the Company’s explanation that the acquired entities we identified in our 


Report only held title to either a license or assets (but not both).   


SAIC filings state that GDS acquired Weiteng Network, which owns and operates the GZ2 data center, for only RMB 


72 million, not RMB 234 million as the Company claims in its SEC filings.  That Weiteng Network held both an IDC 


license and the assets on its balance sheet supports our investment opinion that the Company inflated the purchase 


price of the acquired asset.   


SZ5 


In June 2017, GDS supposedly purchased Shenzhen Yaode Data Services (“Shenzhen Yaode”), which operates a 


Shenzhen datacenter (“SZ5”), for RMB 312 million from a “third party.”  As discussed in our Report, publicly 


available SAIC filings in China indicate that the actual purchase price of the transaction was only RMB 500,000, not 


RMB 312 million as the Company stated in its SEC filings.   


If the Guggenheim analyst note is to be believed, the purchase price in the SAIC filings was only reflective of the cost 


of purchasing an IDC license, and the assets were held at another entity.   


But GDS admitted in its 20-F that Shenzhen Yaode did not have such a license.   


 
Source: GDS FY 2017 20-F, p. 54 


A search of the MIIT database confirms that Shenzhen Yaode possessed no such license.   



http://www.neeq.com.cn/disclosure/2017/2017-09-08/1504870645_945691.pdf

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1526125/000110465918021281/a18-3780_120f.htm
9 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


MIIT Database Shows Shenzhen Yaode Do Not Own IDC Permit 


 
Source: MIIT Website 





In our view, this evidence debunks the narrative that the purchase price in the SAIC filings reflected only the cost of 


the licenses.  Evidence for one acquisition, GZ2, shows that the acquired entity held both an IDC license and the 


related PP&E.  In the case of another, Shenzhen Yaode (SZ5), by the Company’s own admission the acquired entity 


possessed no such license in the first place.     


2. Area in Service and Utilization of a Flagship Data Center. 
 


In our Report, we tested the Company’s claims in a market where it purports to be strongest.  GDS claims that its 


Guangzhou 1 data center (“GZ1”) fully occupies the entire service area of the G6 data center building in the 


Guangzhou Innovation Park.  GDS claims that 100% of the space in the G6 building is “committed” and 94% is 


currently utilized, making it one of GDS’s flagship data centers in one of GDS’s strongest markets.   


Yet we spoke with two different independent companies which claim to be operating data centers (including installing 


and leasing cabinets) in the same building.  One operator, GZIDC told us it leased out 1.5 floors of the G6 building 


and operated at ~60% utilization.  GZIDC followed up our inquiry by sending a quote offering to rent us a significant 


amount of space in the very same data center GDS claims to exclusively operate at 94% utilization.  GZIDC also, at 


our request, sent us pictures of rows of empty cabinets in the G6 building.   


The Company’s Response on this point was evasive and ambiguous.  GDS stated that it is currently “receiving revenue 


for 94% of the total committed space of GZ1 from these two customers, which is in line with the Company’s definition 


of ‘area utilized.’”  GDS said that two operators referenced in the Report are leasing the capacity from one of the 


above customers. 


First, the Company’s Response suggests that its definition of utilization is somehow different from a common sense 


understanding of the term.  The Company does not dispute that there is empty floor space in the G6 building or that 


another operator is in the market offering to rent out a material amount of cabinet space.  We think it is too cute by 


half for the Company to claim, as they now appear to do, that such space is utilized, even though it contains empty 


cabinets without servers.  What is the point of disclosing occupancy metrics to the market if the Company can claim 


empty rows of cabinets as utilized space?  


Second, the admitted arrangement seems to undermine GDS’s purported position in the data center value chain.  


GZIDC and Big One, the two data center operators we contacted, both said that they installed the racks, provided 


value added services, and built their portion of the data center themselves.  GZIDC still advertises the G6 data center 


as one of its self-developed data centers on its website.  Both GZIDC and Big One also have licenses to operate data 


centers, according to the MIIT database.    



http://shenpi.miit.gov.cn/resultSearch?wd=%E6%B7%B1%E5%9C%B3%E8%80%80%E5%BE%B7%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E6%9C%8D%E5%8A%A1%E6%9C%89%E9%99%90%E5%85%AC%E5%8F%B8&categoryTreePid=&categoryTreeId=302

https://www.gzidc.com/idc.php

https://www.gzidc.com/FrontIndex/idc_advantage.html
10 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


Big One Owns Cross Provincial IDC Permit 


 
Source: MIIT Website 


GZIDC Owns IDC Permit in Guangdong Province 


 
Source: http://www.miit.cc/telecom-search/ 


GZIDC told us that they lease empty space from China Mobile and put cabinets in the G6 building.  If GDS’s value 


proposition is to lease the empty space to China Mobile so that China Mobile could rent the empty space to other data 


center operators, who install the racks themselves, provide valued added services and operate under their own license, 


we question whether the Company is providing as much value to the process as the market believes.  It also raises the 


question of whether GDS could generate its reported 2,858 MSR (monthly revenue per square meter in RMB) with 


this business model.   


We investigated the GZ1 data center, but the Company also owns the GZ2 data center in the same innovation park.  


According to Big One’s marketing presentation, GZ1 and GZ2 have a similar floor plan and service area.  GDS says 


both buildings have close to the same utilizable area (6,521 vs 6,131 square meters).    



http://shenpi.miit.gov.cn/resultSearch?wd=%E5%B9%BF%E5%B7%9E%E5%A4%A7%E4%B8%80%E4%BA%92%E8%81%94%E7%BD%91%E7%BB%9C%E7%A7%91%E6%8A%80%E6%9C%89%E9%99%90%E5%85%AC%E5%8F%B8&categoryTreePid=&categoryTreeId=302

http://www.miit.cc/telecom-search/
11 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


GZ2 was built by SNT, the previous owner of Weiteng Network.  In a Restructuring Report issued by SNT prior to 


its sale of the asset, SNT stated that GZ2 was fully completed, operational and fully utilized as of October 2016, prior 


to its acquisition by GDS.  SNT even forecasted Weiteng Network’s sales expense to be zero because it was fully 


occupied by one customer, China Mobile.  





 
Source: Assets Sales and Material Assets Restructuring Report, September 8, 2017 





SNT reported that Weiteng Network generated RMB 31.9 million of revenues in the first half of 2017.  SNT also 


forecasted that the data center would generate only RMB 31.9 million of revenues in the second half of the year, 


confirming that the facility was already fully operational and fully leased to China Mobile.  GZ2 has a service area of 


6,131 sqm, which means it generated RMB 868 of monthly revenue per square meter, 68% less than reported the 


Company’s reported blended MSR.   


  
Source: Assets Sales and Material Assets Restructuring Report, September 8, 2017 





Based on SNT’s disclosures of the data center next door, the revenues appear to be much lower than the Company’s 


reported blended MSR.  Obviously, pricing is variable across geographic jurisdictions, but this revenue comparison 


suggests that the Company’s value proposition is considerably worse than commonly understood, which we would 


expect if other data center operators are the customers of GDS’s customers.    


Interestingly, this could explain why GDS’s margins are well below its peers.  GDS guides that its margins will 


increase as its portfolio matures, which in turn encourages a higher valuation in anticipation of future growth.   


Weiteng Network (GZ2) Generated Low MSR


RMB'000


Reported Revenue 1H 2017 31,935        


Forecasted Revenue 2H 2017 31,935        


Reported Service Area (sqm) 6,131          


MSR (Monthly Revenue/Sqm/RMB) 868             


Reported MSR Q2 17 2,750          


Difference -68%



http://www.neeq.com.cn/disclosure/2017/2017-09-08/1504870645_945691.pdf

http://www.neeq.com.cn/disclosure/2017/2017-09-08/1504870645_945691.pdf
12 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 





Source: RBC Capital Markets Report, “Datacenter Download,” June 29, 2018 


But if our findings are at all indicative of wider practices at GDS, then we think GDS’s lower margins have as much 


to do with its lower value offering than the stage of its growth.  In which case, investors have little reason to expect 


these margins to increase significantly in the future.   


According to Citi’s analyst note, GDS claimed that such subleasing to other operators accounted for less than 1% of 


the Company’s total area in service.  But based on our conversations with Big One and GZIDC, if they are subleasing 


at least two and half floors of the GZ1 data center, then this alone would be 3,260.5 square meters, which is already 


more than 1% of the Company’s total reported area in service of 103,475 square meters. 


 
Source: GDS Public Filings, Presentations, Citi Note on GDS, 8-2-2018 





We focused our due diligence on the GZ1 data center because it made a good case study to test the Company’s claims. 


It was a mature asset, it was not under construction (meaning empty space could not be accounted for by expanding 


capacity), it was in a market where the Company claims to have greater than 50% of the market share, and the data 


center had high reported utilization (94%) and commitment (100%).  GDS does not own the building, they lease it.  If 


in this one example, we found substantial proportion of data center space effective sub-leased to other licensed 


operators, what are the odds that this is the only instance?    


Ultimately, we continued to view the GZ1 example as a canary in the coal mine, and we think the Company’s Response 


raises more questions than answers regarding its utilization metrics, subleasing arrangements, reported MSRs and its 


place in the data center value chain.   


3. Serial Capital Raising and Crushing Debts for Offshore Cash?   
 


In our Report, we highlighted that since its IPO, GDS has been a serial capital raiser, issuing equity and debt despite 


ample cash on its balance sheet.  GDS claims to need such money to grow.  Yet GDS discloses that it keeps over 65% 


of its cash balance off-shore (and only 24% of its total cash in RMB), where it would be essentially useless if the 


purpose of raising such cash was to buy and build data centers in China.  We asked why does a business that operates 


exclusively in China keep 65% of its cash off-shore? Why does GDS borrow at interest rates up to 9.7% in China, 


only to have most of its cash sit in foreign currencies earning less than 0.6% interest?  


Subleasing Area > 1%  Area in Service


sqm


Total area in service Q1 18 103,475     


GZ1 service area 6,521         


Service area per floor 1,304         


# of floor occupied by GZIDC & Big One 2.5             


Subleasing area 3,261         


% of subleasing 3%
13 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


In GDS’s response, it claimed that it can only remit monies from offshore to onshore as approved by the PRC State 


Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”).  GDS claims that it holds its cash offshore until such time as there is 


a specific need, and the onshore capital injection is completed. 


First, if the Company did not need the cash which now sits idly off-shore earning less than 0.6% interest, then why 


did it dilute shareholders to issue equity or incur crushing levels of debt to raise such cash in the first place?  As of Q1 


2018, GDS’s interest costs exceed its gross profits.  If the Company only repatriates cash when it needs it, then why 


not wait until such time (or even close to such time) to raise such funds?  Investors should remember that in June 


2018, the Company raised an additional $250 million through convertible notes.  If the Company did not need the 


cash it already held off-shore, then why issue more debt?  


GDS only operates in China.  It claims to keep a massive cash balance off-shore until such time as it needs cash in the 


PRC.  But why would the Company ever need such a large balance off-shore to begin with? Other than making interest 


payments on off-shore debt, why would it need such material amounts of cash in locations and currencies where it 


does not operate?  As we noted in our Report, we believe that off-shore cash is convenient for insiders siphoning off 


money in undisclosed related party acquisitions, but essentially useless for a business that operates exclusively in 


China.     


Second, the Company’s explanation seems non-sensical from a cash management standpoint.  The Company admits 


that it borrows heavily on-shore in the PRC, at interest rates up to 9.7%.  If the Company did not need the cash that 


sits idly off-shore, why not repatriate it to refinance or pay off its more expensive on-shore debt?  


Third, the Company’s explanation contradicts the intuitive understanding of capital flows into and out of the PRC.  


By reputation, Chinese bureaucrats happily allow off-shore money into China but instill strict capital controls to 


prevent money from leaving the country.   


4. Mounting Balance of Unbilled Receivables. 
 


In our Report, we flagged that in FY 2017, GDS reported that “unbilled receivables” comprised 70% of its accounts 


receivables and 16% of total sales.  It is a significant red flag, given that GDS’s proportion of unbilled receivables 


has almost doubled since its IPO.  To our knowledge, no other publicly traded IDC comp discloses such material 


balances of unbilled receivables in the ordinary course of business, making GDS a significant outlier.  In our opinion, 


this mounting balance corroborates other evidence of overstated revenues, because such unbilled receivables are more 


difficult to audit and verify. 


In its Response, GDS stated that the higher proportion of “unbilled accounts receivable reflect[s] the shift in GDS’ 


customer profile to large cloud customers, primarily major Chinese internet companies.”   


But this does not explain why GDS appears to be an outlier among publicly listed IDC providers.  Other IDC providers, 


such as 21Vianet (NASDAQ: VNET), also provide data center services to major Chinese internet companies, yet do 


not report such a material balance of unbilled receivables.  VNET’s customers include, iQIYI (Baidu), Eleme 


(Alibaba), Qunar (Baidu) and Tencent.   





Source: VNET 20-F, page 51 


VNET even disclosed in a March 2018 conference call that it “strengthened [its] cooperation with both AliCloud and 


Tencent Cloud by building out direct fiber lines between certain 21Vianet data centers and those of Alibaba and 


Tencent.”  We doubt that GDS’s mounting balance of unbilled receivables since its IPO can be explained by its 


relationship with big Chinese Internet companies when VNET operates the same business with many of the same 


customers and reports no such material balance.   



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1508475/000119312518115533/d516208d20f.htm
14 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


5. Mounting Balance of Payables.   
 


In our Report, we also highlighted that since going public, the Company’s reported days payable outstanding have 


ballooned from 205 to 470 days.  To put that in context, if GDS’s financials are true, on average it takes the Company 


almost 16 months to pay its suppliers.  This strains credulity.  


GDS’s response on this point was that the way GDS calculates payables, it includes capital expenditures in the 


denominator, which make its payables appear more reasonable.  But any calculation can be made to appear more 


reasonable if the Company simply changes the variables to make it appear more reasonable.   


If GDS wants to add capex to its payables calculation, then this should be done for the other IDC providers as well.  


In our view, calculated by the same, generally accepted methodology, GDS’s payables appeared highly unusual both 


on an absolute but especially on a relative basis.  


VALUATION 





We suspect that many investors who bought into the GDS narrative are investing by analogy.  Google and Amazon 


have been amazing stocks for the past decade.  If Baidu and Alibaba are the Google and Amazon of China, investors 


buy BIDU and BABA in the hopes that as China grows, so will its leading internet companies.  The same likely holds 


true for GDS.  TMT investors made fantastic returns investing in U.S. data center providers Equinix (EQIX) and 


Interxion (INXN).  So the same investors (or the ones who missed out on EQIX and INXN) look for the Chinese 


analogue, in the hopes that GDS will be positioned to take advantage of anticipated capital expenditures from China’s 


growing internet companies.  





But just because some company is likely going to become a premier data center operator in China, does not necessarily 


mean that it will be GDS.  Our investment thesis purposely eschewed a discussion about the broader data center market 


in China because even if the industry grows, shareholders will not benefit if they invest in the wrong management 


team. 





Investors fond of analogies should consider VNET, which is listed in the U.S. and like GDS, operates carrier-neutral 


data centers exclusively in China.  VNET is subject to the same disclosure requirements as GDS, has a similar 


customer profile and largely operates a similar business.   





Analysts justify GDS’s nosebleed valuation because of its supposedly robust growth.  Setting aside the evidence 


presented in our Report suggesting such growth is illusory, investors should ask themselves why GDS can report such 


strong growth figures when its closest analogue, VNET, is supposedly shrinking?  Shouldn’t VNET and GDS be 


subject to the same secular forces in the PRC data center market?  





VNET is also beset by corporate governance concerns, highlighted by market commentator Trinity Research in a 121-


page report detailing evidence of overstated utilization and certain undisclosed related party transactions.  VNET 


trades at 8.7x EV/2018 EBITDA, which the market considers an appropriate multiple for a U.S.-listed operator of 


carrier-neutral data centers in China with significant corporate governance concerns.   





GDS, even at today’s price, continues to be an expensive stock of a Company laden with debt.  In our valuation, we 


applied a forward multiple of 20x EBITDA, which is hardly cheap.  We apply a corporate governance discount to our 


valuation, which we continue to believe is appropriate given GDS’s boiler plate Response, the contradictory statements 


apparently given to sell side analysts, and its complete failure to meaningfully address most of the evidence presented 


in our Report.  We stand by our investment opinion.    



https://www.valuewalk.com/2014/09/trinity-researchmassive-fraud-at-21vianet-group-inc-vnet/
15 





GDS Holdings Limited│ NASDAQ: GDS                                    www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


DISCLAIMER 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is GDS. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If you are invested 


(either long or short) in GDS, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like everyone else, are entitled to our 
opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the publication of our opinions about the public companies 


we research is in the public interest.  


 
You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of GDS stock declines. This report and all statements 


contained herein are solely the opinion of BOC Texas, LLC, and are not statements of fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based 


them upon publicly available evidence, which we set out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based 
on public information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of 


evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making 


any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law.  
 


As of the publication date of this report, BOC Texas, LLC (a Texas limited liability company) (possibly along with or through our members, 


partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or 
possibly other options or instruments) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains if the price of such instrument 


declines. Use BOC Texas, LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment 


decision with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be construed 
as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  





This report and its contents are not intended to be and do not constitute or contain any financial product advice as defined in the Australian 
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). Because this document has been prepared without consideration of any specific clients investment objectives, 


financial situation or needs, no information in this report should be construed as recommending or suggesting an investment strategy. Investors 


should seek their own financial, legal and tax advice in respect of any decision regarding any securities discussed herein.  At this time, because of 
ambiguity in Australian law, this report is not available to Australian residents.  Australian residents are encouraged to contact their lawmakers 


to clarify the ambiguity under Australian financial licensing requirements.   


 
Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at 


any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security 


be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the 
best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to 


be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty 


or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an 
effort to ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to support 


our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any 


kind– whether express or implied.  
 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing BOC Texas, LLC research and materials on behalf of: 


(A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government 


or local authority, or international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  


 
This report should only be considered in its entirety.  Each section should be read in the context of the entire report, and no section, paragraph, 


sentence or phrase is intended to stand alone or to be interpreted in isolation without reference to the rest of the report.  The section headings 


contained in this report are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in conjunction with the detailed statements of opinions in their 
respective sections.  





BOC Texas, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with 
regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and BOC Texas, LLC does not 


undertake a duty to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you 


knowingly and independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the 


superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that BOC Texas, LLC 
is a Texas limited liability company that operates in Texas; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of 


action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action 


arose or be forever barred. The failure of BOC Texas, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a 


waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless 


agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this 


disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
