1 








“Don’t bet on science – bet on management.” 


- Motto of Michael Pearson, CEO of Valeant 
Pharmaceuticals 
























































THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS.  We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is CORT. So are the banks that 


raised money for the Company. If you are invested (either long or short) in CORT, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong.  
Use BOC Texas, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This report and its contents are not intended to be and do not constitute or contain any financial product 
advice.  Because this document has been prepared without consideration of any specific clients’ investment objectives, financial situation or needs, and no information in 


this report should be construed as recommending or suggesting an investment strategy. Investors should seek their own financial, legal and tax advice in respect of any 


decision regarding any securities discussed herein.  You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions, including with respect 
to the securities discussed herein.  We have a short interest in CORT’s stock and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instrument 


declines. Please refer to our full disclaimer on the last page of this report. 


COMPANY:  Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT 


INDUSTRY:  Biotechnology  


PRICE (AS OF CLOSE 
2/4/19) 


$10.20 
 
MARKET CAP: 


$1.17 BILLION 
 
30 DAY AVG 
VOLUME: 


1.8 MM SHARES 


 
BLUE ORCA 
VALUATION 


$5.42 PER SHARE 
 





Corcept Therapeutics (NASDAQ: CORT) (“Corcept” or the “Company”) is a pharmaceutical company 


which derives 100% of its revenues from a single drug, Korlym.  The active ingredient in the drug is 


mifepristone, colloquially known as the ‘abortion drug’ because of its effectiveness in terminating 


pregnancies.   


Although mifepristone was discovered in France, Corcept garnered FDA approval to use the compound 


to treat a small subset of patients suffering from endogenous Cushing’s syndrome, an extremely rare 


disease. Based on the incidence rate of Cushing’s reported in academic literature (1-2.4 per million), an 


American is almost as likely to get struck by lightning (~500 per year/1.5 per million) than fall into the 


category of newly diagnosed Cushing’s patients for whom Korlym is appropriate.   


On January 25, 2019, Roddy Boyd’s Southern Investigative Reporting Foundation published a report on 


Corcept focusing on the questionable efficacy of Korlym, the notable flaws in the Phase III study (e.g., 


no placebo or control group), Corcept’s history of price gouging, and most notably, the suspicion that 


Corcept engages physicians in pay-for-play.  SIRF highlighted that many physicians who frequently 


prescribed Korlym also received nebulous honaria payments directly from the Company.  Such payments 


are not illegal.  But they raise the specter that Corcept is inappropriately incentivizing physicians to 


prescribe an expensive drug of questionable efficacy beyond the extremely narrow set of circumstances 


for which Korlym was approved.  


We do not want to rehash these arguments because we present new evidence showing Corcept has a 


much bigger problem.   









































• 99% of Corcept’s revenues are derived from sales of Korlym through its sole and exclusive specialty pharmacy, Optime Care 
(“Optime”).  


• Not only does Optime appear to be a captured specialty pharmacy, deriving most if not substantially all of its revenues from Corcept, 
but when we called Optime, its representative told us over a recorded phone call that Corcept and Optime were one and the same.  


We were then transferred to a second representative, introduced as a specialty pharmacy care coordinator, who reiterated that we 


had reached Corcept.   We placed a recording of the call on YouTube (here) for any interested investor to listen.    


• We believe, based on this evidence, that Corcept’s sole specialty pharmacy and exclusive distributor is an undisclosed related 
party.  If Optime’s employees believe that Corcept and Optime are one and the same, then it creates the material risk that the 


Company is using its captured pharmacy to boost sales, hide losses or engage in other financial shenanigans.  We can’t know for 


sure because Optime’s financials are not publicly available.   


• At a minimum, if Corcept’s ties to Optime are so close that Optime’s representatives believe the companies are one and the same, 
then we believe that Corcept must restate its financials to consolidate its specialty pharmacy.   


• This is reminiscent of Valeant, whose collapse was precipitated by revelations of undisclosed ties between Valeant and its 
supposedly independent specialty pharmacy, Philidor.  Although not a perfect comparison, in some ways this is more material.  


Philidor accounted for only $80 million of Valeant’s $2.8 billion sales, whereas here, 99% of Corcept’s revenues are derived from 


Korlym sales through Optime. 


•  



https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2016/06/the-valeant-meltdown-and-wall-streets-major-drug-problem

https://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm111323.htm

https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2012/202107s000lbl.pdf

http://sirf-online.org/2019/01/25/corcept-therapeutics-the-company-that-perfectly-explains-the-health-care-crisis/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C0ktvZiZiYc&feature=youtu.be

https://www.ft.com/content/dbc52fa8-f0d6-11e5-9f20-c3a047354386

https://citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Valeant-Philador-and-RandO-final-a.pdf

https://www.ft.com/content/dbc52fa8-f0d6-11e5-9f20-c3a047354386
2 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


Furthermore, if Corcept has control over Optime, this raises the distinct possibility that a captured pharmacy is under 


undue pressure to inappropriately facilitate the prescription of Korlym in situations where insurance companies, PBMs 


or Medicare/Medicaid would not otherwise approve the drug.  Once payers get wise, we would expect them raise the 


bar, making it harder to get Korlym approved in the future.  


There is market precedent indicating that scrutiny of the relationship between a drug company and a captured specialty 


pharmacy of questionable independence should have a negative effect on future prescription volumes and drug sales.  


In 2016, Horizon Pharma’s (NASDAQ: HZNP) shares fell precipitously when it disclosed a subpoena from the U.S. 


attorney’s office questioning its patient access program and the independence of its specialty pharmacies.  Horizon 


was never charged (to our knowledge), civilly or criminally, with any wrongdoing, but because of heightened scrutiny 


on its pharmacy and patient access program from regulators, PBMs and payers, revenues from two of Horizon’s drugs 


which appear to be subject of the inquiry declined at a CAGR of -20% and -41%, respectively, in the two years 


following the subpoena.   


We found a similar trend with respect to Valeant, which used its influence and control over undisclosed related 


specialty pharmacy, Philidor, to aggressively push the growth of two drugs: Jublia, a toenail fungus treatment, and 


Solodyn, an acne treatment.  Prescription volumes for Jublia and Solodyn declined at a CAGR of -29% and -11%, 


respectively, in the two years following the revelations of Valeant’s relationship with its specialty pharmacy.  


Corcept is in many ways more vulnerable than either Valeant or Horizon, because 100% of its revenues are from one 


drug, 99% of which is distributed exclusively through a specialty pharmacy which appears, at least according to 


Optime’s employees, to be an undisclosed related party.   


Like Horizon and Valeant, we predict that once Corcept’s relationship with its specialty pharmacy comes under 


scrutiny, Optime will be far less aggressive in pushing prescriptions and payers and PBMs should make it more 


difficult to fill prescriptions, which together will lead to a contraction in Corcept’s revenues.   


Accordingly, we project a decline in Korlym revenues of -22% in 2019 and -15% in 2020, which would be in line 


with the rate of decline in prescription volumes incurred by the two Horizon and two Valeant drugs in the two years 


following either a subpoena or revelations questioning the independence of their respective specialty pharmacies. 


We may have just seen the canary in the coal mine suggesting that such a decline has already begun.  Corcept’s stock 


fell as much as 13.7% on February 1, 2019, after it announced Q4 results revealing it missed Korlym revenue targets 


by 6%.  More notably, Corcept’s initial guidance for FY 2019 was only $300 million, well below the consensus street 


estimates of $328 million for this year.  This miss was so significant that previously bullish sell-side analysts Cantor 


Fitzgerald and B. Riley downgraded their price targets by 30% and 45%, respectively. 


Our model values Corcept at $5.42 per share, based on the sell side valuation of its pipeline at $3.00 per share1 and 


our DCF analysis of Korlym, which values the drug at $2.42 per share.  Our DCF of Korlym is driven by our 


expectation of a significant contraction in revenues from Corcept’s only drug.  Our predicted rate of drug revenue 


decline would be consistent with the contraction experienced by other drug companies whose relationship with their 


specialty pharmacy became the focus of investor or regulatory scrutiny. 


                                                           
1 Bank of America Merrill Lynch Analyst Note on Corcept, October 23, 2018. 



https://www.wsj.com/articles/horizon-pharma-shares-fall-on-disclosure-of-government-subpoena-1456766232

https://www.fool.com/investing/2019/02/01/heres-why-corcept-therapeutics-fell-as-much-as-137.aspx

https://www.fool.com/investing/2019/02/01/heres-why-corcept-therapeutics-fell-as-much-as-137.aspx
3 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


 
Source: Blue Orca 


Note: See detailed model and DCF calculation at the end of this report. 





Ultimately, we feel this valuation is conservative given the multitude of governance concerns we identified and the 


material risk of financial restatements to consolidate sales through a specialty pharmacy we believe is not independent.  





NPV of Korlym cash flows $97.3


Plus: net cash at 4Q18 $206.8


Korlym value $304.1


Shares out 125.7


Korlym value per share $2.42


Pipeline value per share $3.00


(BofA estimate)


Blue Orca target price $5.42
4 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


SPECIALTY PHARMACY APPEARS TO BE UNDISCLOSED RELATED PARTY 


Corcept is a pharmaceutical company which derives 100% of its revenues from a single drug, Korlym.  The active 


ingredient in the drug is mifepristone, colloquially known as the ‘abortion drug’ because of its effectiveness in 


terminating pregnancies.  Although discovered in France, Corcept garnered FDA approval to use mifepristone to treat 


a small subset of patients suffering from endogenous Cushing’s syndrome, an extremely rare disease.  Based on the 


incidence rate of endogenous Cushing’s reported in academic literature (1-2.4 per million), an American is almost as 


likely to get struck by lightning (~500 per year/1.5 per million) than fall into the category of newly diagnosed 


Cushing’s patients for whom Korlym is appropriate.2   





On January 25, 2019, Roddy Boyd’s Southern Investigative Reporting Foundation published a report on Corcept 


focusing on the questionable efficacy of Korlym, the notable flaws in the Phase III study (e.g., tiny sample size and 


no placebo or control group), Corcept’s history of price gouging, and most notably, the suspicion that Corcept engages 


physicians in pay-for-play.  SIRF pointed out that many of doctors who most frequently prescribe Korlym to Medicare 


patients also receive nebulous honaria payments directly from Corcept.  Such payments are not illegal.  But they raise 


the specter that Corcept is inappropriately incentivizing physicians to prescribe an expensive drug of questionable 


efficacy beyond the extremely narrow set of cases for which Korlym was approved.    





We do not want to rehash these arguments because in our view, Corcept has a much bigger problem.  99% of Corcept’s 


revenues are derived from sales of Korlym through its sole and exclusive specialty pharmacy, Optime Care 


(“Optime”).  Not only does Optime appear to be a captured specialty pharmacy, deriving most if not substantially all 


of its revenues from Corcept, but when we called Optime its representative told us over a recorded phone call that 


Corcept and Optime were one and the same.     





1) From Dohmen to Optime: Corcept Trades Down 
 


Because the active ingredient in Korlym is an abortifacient (a drug used to terminate pregnancies) and its use is closely 


regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), Corcept distributes its drug through a specialty pharmacy.  


Specialty pharmacies play a unique and important role for drugs like Korlym because the drug is expensive and 


approved for use in only a very narrow set of circumstances, meaning payers require a lot of tests and paperwork in 


order to authorize a prescription.  Moreover, the drug is typically prescribed for a chronic illness, meaning patients 


require extensive support over time.3   


In 2013, Corcept contracted Dohmen Life Science Services (“Dohmen”) to serve as its specialty pharmacy and 


exclusive distributor. Dohmen is a legitimate specialty pharmacy with hundreds of employees and which was recently 


sold to JLL Partners and Water Street for over $385 million.  Dohmen serves more than 300 of the industry’s top 


pharmaceutical and medical device companies. 


Even though Corcept renewed its distribution agreement with Dohmen in 2016, Corcept soon had a change of heart.  


In July 2017, Corcept moved to terminate the contract, alleging material breach.  Dohmen denied it was in breach and 


sued Corcept arguing that the alleged breach was a fabricated pretext for Corcept to switch to Optime.4  The parties 


sued each other for breach of contract, and although the litigation is sealed, each party’s initial complaint is available 


under Bloomberg’s law function.  Corcept and Dohmen settled, the terms of which are not publicly disclosed.    


                                                           
2 Cushing’s syndrome is a horrible disease, but thankfully it is quite rare.  Academic literature states that Cushing’s has an incidence 


rate of only 0.7-2.4 per million of the population per year and a prevalence rate of 39.1 cases per million. Surgery is the first line 


treatment, effective in 60-90% of cases.  See Sharma ST, Nieman LK, Feelders RA et al: Cushing’s syndrome: epidemiology and 


developments in disease management. Clinical Epidemiology 2015:7 281-293.   


Korlym was only approved for Cushing’s patients who are diabetic (hyperglycemic) and for whom surgery was ineffective or is 


inappropriate.  Corcept, unsurprisingly, would like investors to believe the market for its drug is much broader, but we have found 


no evidence in the academic literature to support such self-serving claims.   


3 Initial Complaint, Corcept Therapeutics vs. Dohmen Life Science Services, Case 1:17-cv-01332-JEJ, filed September 28, 2017. 
4 Initial Complaint, Dohmen Life Science Services v. Corcept Therapeutics, Delaware Chancery Court 2017-0567-TMR, filed 


August 10, 2017. 



https://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm111323.htm

https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2012/202107s000lbl.pdf

http://www.nws.noaa.gov/om/hazstats/light08.pdf

http://sirf-online.org/2019/01/25/corcept-therapeutics-the-company-that-perfectly-explains-the-health-care-crisis/

https://www.pehub.com/2018/02/water-street-jll-buy-dohmen-life-sciences-services/

https://www.pehub.com/2018/02/water-street-jll-buy-dohmen-life-sciences-services/

https://www.pehub.com/2018/02/water-street-jll-buy-dohmen-life-sciences-services/

https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2012/202107s000lbl.pdf
5 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


We see two potential narratives.  One is that Dohmen wasn’t fulfilling its duties under the contract, which is of course 


possible.  The other potential narrative, however, is far less charitable: that Dohmen was unwilling to push for approval 


of an increasingly expensive drug only appropriate in a tiny set of circumstances, and Corcept wanted to replace 


Dohmen with a bucket shop pharmacy completely dependent on Korlym and thus more vulnerable to the Company’s 


influence in facilitating the proliferation of the drug.   


Even from the limited publicly available filings, the Dohmen lawsuits reveal interesting details to support our 


suspicion that switching from Dohmen to Optime was driven by Corcept’s desire to increase its influence and control 


over its specialty pharmacy.   


In its complaint, Corcept alleged that Dohmen lacked sufficient information management systems to maintain 


“accurate and reliable financial reporting” and “key accounting controls.”5 Corcept also alleged that Dohmen failed 


in its duty to provide accurate and reliable reporting on inventory, billing and receivables.  Corcept claimed that it was 


forced to make over $350,000 in negative adjustment to its financial records due to Dohmen’s reporting errors.    


Corcept Lawsuit Allegations 





Source: Initial Complaint, Corcept Therapeutics vs. Dohmen Life Science Services, Case 1:17-cv-01332-


JEJ, filed September 28, 2017. 





Dohmen vigorously denied these accusations, and alleged that Corcept was simply fabricating a pretext to switch to 


Optime.  Dohmen alleged in its complaint that Corcept was Optime’s first ever customer, and that Corcept had 


worked behind the scenes with Optime for some time to design Optime’s claims and inventory reporting systems.6  


The odd thing is that Dohmen was a medium-sized enterprise with hundreds of employees, a roster of over 300 


pharmaceutical and medical device customers, and a valuation of over $385 million.  By comparison, Optime looks 


like a bucket shop.   





Note: *Dohmen here refers to Dohmen Life Science Services (DLSS), which as Centric Health 


Resources was acquired by the Dohmen Company in 2011. DLSS was sold to JLL Partners and 


Water Street Healthcare Partners in 2018. 


Sources: https://www.biztimes.com/2018/industries/banking-finance/dohmen-completes-sale-of-


life-science-services-division/ 


https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20110809006224/en/Dohmen-Company-Acquires-St.-


Louis-Based-Centric-Health 


                                                           
5 Initial Complaint, Corcept Therapeutics vs. Dohmen Life Science Services, Case 1:17-cv-01332-JEJ, filed September 28, 2017. 
6 Amended Complaint, Dohmen Life Science Services v. Corcept Therapeutics, Delaware Chancery Court 2017-0567-TMR, filed 


September 27, 2017. 


Dohmen vs. Optime


Dohmen* Optime Care


Date of incorporation 2004 2015


Years in business at time of switch 13.0 2.0


Start of CORT relationship 2013 2017


Employees on LinkedIn 329 32


Dohmen/Optime Care 10.3x



https://www.biztimes.com/2018/industries/banking-finance/dohmen-completes-sale-of-life-science-services-division/

https://www.biztimes.com/2018/industries/banking-finance/dohmen-completes-sale-of-life-science-services-division/

https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20110809006224/en/Dohmen-Company-Acquires-St.-Louis-Based-Centric-Health

https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20110809006224/en/Dohmen-Company-Acquires-St.-Louis-Based-Centric-Health
6 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


If Dohmen’s internal systems were antiquated, how could a small specialty pharmacy like Optime afford the 


appropriate reporting systems?  If Optime was formed to serve Corcept, and Corcept allegedly helped design 


Optime’s systems, how did Optime get the money to build such systems?  Did Corcept or parties connected to 


it fund the initial investment? 


Perhaps the counterargument is that Optime, with one customer, could devote the necessary time and attention to 


better manage the prescription process and to better serve Corcept, patients and payers.  But this relies on the 


presumption that a startup specialty pharmacy could invest in better systems than a much bigger business (Dohmen) 


with more employees, experience and relationships.   


There is circumstantial evidence to support our thesis that Optime was far more pliable to push prescriptions at the 


margins than Dohmen.   


The growth rate in Corcept revenues, driven exclusively by Korlym prescriptions, accelerated significantly in Q3 and 


Q4 2017, immediately following the switch from Dohmen to Optime, which formally took place in August 2017.     





 
Source: Corcept Annual and Quarterly Reports 


In our view, this acceleration in sales growth is suspicious.  Corcept will no doubt argue that the growth was 


attributable to increasing popularity of its drug among physicians, and Optime’s superior efficiency and level of 


service.  But this data could also support the competing narrative, that Optime was a captured pharmacy that was so 


dependent on Corcept that it was significantly more aggressive in pushing Korlym through the approval process.   


Quarterly Growth in Corcept Revenues


1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 1Q18


Revenue $16,061 $19,724 $21,725 $23,811 $27,599 $35,559 $42,763 $53,280 $57,659


% yoy 59.0% 65.0% 63.8% 59.1% 71.8% 80.3% 96.8% 123.8% 108.9%
7 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


In its complaint, Dohmen described the claims approval process for Corcept as “exacting and intense.”  This process 


was only getting harder because PBMs and relevant payers were imposing “increasingly complex requirements” for 


approval.7 


If payers and PBMs were making it harder to approve Korlym, how did revenue growth accelerate so materially when 


Optime took over? Was Optime that much better than Dohmen?  


The crux of the short case against Corcept, as outlined by SIRF, is that Corcept is financially incentivizing physicians 


with direct payments to prescribe Korlym beyond the narrow set of circumstances for which the drug was approved 


and in which the drug is appropriate.  This is extremely costly to the health care system, in part because Corcept has 


raised prices on Korlym since FDA approval.  Yet pay-for-play with physicians is only half the thesis, because such 


prescriptions have to clear an increasingly high bar set by PBMs and payers.   


That is why the specialty pharmacy is so important.  A specialty pharmacy like Dohmen with hundreds of clients and 


a large book of business would have no incentive to push Korlym through the approval process in situations where 


the drug would not be appropriate or merited.  But the same cannot be said of Optime, whose first and we think only 


major client is Corcept and thus has direct financial incentive to match the Company’s aggressive tactics.   


Notably, right before Corcept switched from Dohmen to Optime, the Company increased guidance substantially.8   


 
Source: Corcept Earnings Releases 


We think this is evidence that Corcept knew Optime would be far more aggressive in pursuing claim approvals.   


Again, the narrative could be that Optime did a better job of record keeping and working with physicians and payers, 


which may explain the growth in prescriptions.  But the alternative explanation could be that Optime was willing to 


do whatever Corcept asked to get prescriptions filled.  To us, it comes down to whether Optime is sufficiently 


independent.  Our due diligence shows that, in our opinion, it’s not.     


2) Optime’s Questionable Independence 
 


On paper, Optime and Corcept may be separate.  Without access to Optime’s shareholder records or formation 


documents, we do not know Optime’s shareholder structure or whether it ever received capital or investment from 


Corcept or any of its directors or officers.  However, our research indicates that in practice, the two companies appear 


far from independent.   


In order to examine the independence of Optime, we dialed Optime’s main phone number (888-287-2017) to ask about 


the pharmacy’s relationship with Corcept.  The following is a transcript.  Note that we called Optime, not Corcept, 


yet according to Optime’s representatives, Corcept and Optime are one and the same.   





                                                           
7 Amended Complaint, Dohmen Life Science Services v. Corcept Therapeutics, Delaware Chancery Court 2017-0567-TMR, filed 


September 27, 2017. 
8 Corcept formally switched to Optime on 8/10/2017.   


FY guidance


Date Event Low Mid High Change in mdpt from previous


3/6/2017


4Q16 results; FY guidance increased to 120-130MM 


from 115-125MM $120.0 $125.0 $130.0 $5.0


5/1/2017 1Q17 results; FY guidance increased to 125-135MM $125.0 $130.0 $135.0 $5.0


8/1/2017 2Q17 results; FY guidance increased to 145-155MM $145.0 $150.0 $155.0 $20.0


11/2/2017 3Q17 results; FY guidance increased to 157-162MM $157.0 $159.5 $162.0 $9.5


2/22/2018 4Q17 results; FY18 guidance to 275-300MM $275.0 $287.5 $300.0


5/8/2018 1Q18 results; reaffirmed guidance $275.0 $287.5 $300.0 $0.0


8/9/2018 2Q18 results; guidance reduced to 250-270MM $250.0 $260.0 $270.0 ($27.5)


11/1/2018 3Q18 results; reaffirmed guidance $250.0 $260.0 $270.0 $0.0
8 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


Due Diligence Phone Call: January 2019 


Optime Representative: Optime Care, this is XXXX. 


Blue Orca: Hi, I’m looking for Corcept Therapeutics please. 


Optime Representative: Yes, you have reached it, is there anyone in particular you need to speak 


with.  


Blue Orca: I’m a physician, an endocrinologist in the Austin area, and I was wondering if there was 


a Corcept sales representative that covered the area?  


Optime Representative: Um yep, hold on, I will let you speak with the director of the Spark program 


and they can certainly tell you.  Okay?  


Blue Orca: Thank you.  


Optime Representative: You’re welcome. 


…. (on hold) 


Optime Representative: Sir, I’m going to transfer you over to XXX and XXX is one of our care 


coordinators and he can find a sales rep in your area for you.  


… (call transferred internally) 


Optime Representative #2: Thank you for holding, this is XXX, how can I help you?  


Blue Orca: Hi, is this Corcept?  


Optime Representative #2: It is.   


Blue Orca: Ok, great. I’m a physician endocrinologist in the Austin Texas area and I was actually 


wondering if there was a sales rep that covers this area to learn more about the Korlym Treatment?  


Optime Representative #2: Yeah, let me find out who your sales rep would be for that area… 


… 


Optime Representative #2 places us on hold, then retrieves the Corcept sales representative’s 


number for the Austin area.   


We placed a recording of the call on YouTube (here) for any interested investor to listen.  


This simple phone call, in our opinion, is nothing short of a bombshell.  Optime is supposed to be an independent 


third-party pharmacy, yet when we called Optime and asked for Corcept, an Optime representative told us that 


Optime and Corcept were one and the same.   


To confirm, we asked the second representative, introduced as a specialty pharmacy care coordinator, if we had 


reached Corcept?  He replied, “it is.” 


In our opinion, this phone call indicates that far from being an independent third party, Corcept’s only distributor and 


specialty pharmacy is an undisclosed related party.  After all, Optime’s representatives believe the two companies are 


one and the same.  We think this creates a massive problem for Corcept, for three reasons: (a) related parties must be 


consolidated, meaning Corcept should, in our opinion, restate its financial statements; (b) payers and PBMs who 


question the independence of the specialty pharmacy should raise the bar for future prescription approvals, and (c) 


there is an enhanced risk of regulatory scrutiny of the relationship between the drug company and its specialty 


pharmacy.     


 



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C0ktvZiZiYc&feature=youtu.be
9 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 





a. Restating Financials Because Sole Distributor is an Undisclosed Related Party   
 


If Optime’s employees believe that Corcept and Optime are one and the same, then it creates the material risk that the 


Company is using its captured pharmacy to boost sales, hide losses or engage in other financial shenanigans.  We can’t 


know for sure because Optime’s financials are not publicly available.   





At a minimum, we think Corcept must restate its financials to consolidate Optime, raising the possibility that there are 


significant off-balance sheet liabilities or receivables.9     





Related party transactions are subjected to a higher degree of scrutiny by auditors and investors because the lack of 


independence between company and distributor creates a much higher risk of financial impropriety.10  In this case, we 


think this risk is multiplied because 99% of Corcept’s revenues are derived from sales through a pharmacy whose 


representatives are acting as if the two companies are one and the same.   





Citron called out Valeant for improperly inflating sales through Philidor, an entity Citron correctly identified as an 


undisclosed related pharmacy.  Although the comparison is not perfect, in some ways this is more material.  Philidor 


accounted for only $80 million of Valeant’s $2.8 billion sales, whereas here, 99% of Corcept’s revenues are derived 


from Korlym sales through Optime.   





But it’s not just the specter of inflated sales and hidden liabilities.  It’s also profitability.  Corcept reports a 98% gross 


margin and, in 2017, a 33% operating margin.  How could its profitability not be impacted, if as we believe, its 


undisclosed related party pharmacy is consolidated?  Of course, without insight into Optime’s financials, which we 


don’t have, it’s hard to know.  But we suspect that the Company’s purported financial performance would look 


substantially less attractive once it properly consolidates its sole distributor.   





b. Pushback from Payers  
 


Second, it raises questions about the pharmacy’s role in getting prescriptions approved.  According to Dohmen and 


confirmed by our expert calls, it has become increasingly difficult to get Korlym approved because of the drug’s high 


and increasing cost.  This makes sense because Cushing’s syndrome is a very rare disease and even among those 


patients, Korlym is only approved for use in a very narrow set of circumstances.  


But PBMs and insurance companies rely on Optime to manage the prescription process.  If Optime is not truly 


independent, then PBMs and insurance companies should question whether Corcept exercises undue influence over 


the approval process.  This influences how investors think about both Corcept’s past and its future.   


With respect to the robust growth it has reported in the past, if its specialty pharmacy was not truly independent, then 


we think it calls into question the propriety of prescriptions, especially at the margin.     


Our suspicion is that Corcept has used direct financial incentives to encourages doctors to over-prescribe Korlym even 


when its appropriateness is questionable.  This is a significant cost to payers and the health care system.  The pharmacy 


is a critical independent gate keeper facing payers and patients.  But if the pharmacy is not independent, then we think 


it raises the material risk that prescriptions were, at the margins, pushed to approval in circumstances that may not 


warrant the drug.   


We believe there is certainly a very narrow limited place for Korlym.  The question is whether the Company’s growth 


is driven by an expanding patient universe, or as we believe, questionable Company behavior which is by definition 


unsustainable.   


                                                           
9 Under the Distribution Services Agreement (“DSA”) between Corcept and Optime, Corcept provides Korlym to Optime for 


dispensing to patients.  Optime does not take title to the product.  Rather title passes directly from Corcept to patients at the time 


the drugs are received by patients.   


10 We have no visibility into Optime’s financials, so we cannot say definitively that any such shenanigans are taking place.   



https://www.ft.com/content/dbc52fa8-f0d6-11e5-9f20-c3a047354386

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1088856/000156459017021314/cort-ex101_392.htm
10 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


But this also raises questions about Corcept’s future.  If Optime is not truly independent, then PBMs and insurance 


companies should subject the approval process to even greater scrutiny.  If payers like PBMs and insurers raise the 


bar, we would expect a significant decline in prescription volumes and pricing.   


c. Regulatory Risk 
 


Third, there are regulatory implications.  Although we are by no means experts, we see parallels with other drug 


companies whose share price reflected growing investor concerns over undisclosed related party ties with supposedly 


independent specialty pharmacies.  


The most famous case is Valeant, which was first subject to scrutiny for acquiring antiquated but life-saving drugs 


and jacking up their prices.  Akin to Valeant, Corcept did not discover the active compound in its drug.  But that has 


not stopped Corcept from raising prices an estimated 106% since FDA approval.11   


But the similarities do not end there.  A good summary of the Valeant timeline can be found here, but the first investor 


to publicly mention Philidor was actually Bronte Capital’s inimitable John Hempton. After a comprehensive series of 


posts scrutinizing Valeant’s accounting, Hempton put up a cryptic post (his words) referencing the film The Graduate 


and the word “Philidor.”  After more great work by Roddy Boyd and Citron, it was revealed that Philidor was an 


undisclosed related party, a captured specialty pharmacy which was controlled by Valeant.   


The relationship between specialty pharmacies and drug companies is clearly in the crosshairs of politicians and 


regulators alike, particularly in cases like Corcept where a Company has raised drug prices rapidly.  Undisclosed ties 


have clearly been a potential regulatory issue for other drug companies, and we think they could be an issue here.   








                                                           
11 Based on wholesale cost of prescriptions as reported by Symphony Health.  



http://fortune.com/2015/10/22/valeant-accounting-problems/

http://brontecapital.blogspot.com/2015/10/a-cryptic-post-no-comments-will-be.html

http://brontecapital.blogspot.com/2014/08/valeant-pharmaceuticals-part-xii.html

http://sirf-online.org/2015/10/25/the-kings-gambit-accepted-the-annals-of-fraud/
11 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


VALUATION: SCRUTINY OF PHARMACY RELATIONSHIP LEADS TO REVENUE DECLINE 


There is market precedent indicating that scrutiny of a relationship between a drug company and a specialty pharmacy 


of questionable independence should have a negative impact on prescriptions and drug sales.  


In 2016, Horizon Pharma (NASDAQ: HZNP)’s stock dropped significantly when it announced that it received a 


subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting documents and 


information related to its patient access programs and its relationships with its specialty pharmacies.  Horizon was 


never charged (to our knowledge), civilly or criminally, with any wrongdoing, but the subpoena and scrutiny had a 


noticeable impact on sales of its drugs which were likely the focus of the inquiry.  


According to securities litigation, the two drugs under scrutiny for Horizon’s links to specialty pharmacies and patient 


access programs were Duexis and Vimovo.12  Notably, Horizon’s revenues from these two drugs declined at a CAGR 


of -20% and -41% respectively in the two years following the subpoena.    


 
Source: Symphony Health Prescription Data; Horizon Annual Reports 


Horizon’s two drugs Duexis and Vimovo, which we believe were the focus of scrutiny from federal prosecutors and 


securities lawyers, showed a marked drop off in sales in the two years after falling under scrutiny.  This was driven in 


both cases by an immediate and significant contraction in retail prescription volumes and a significant drop in drug 


pricing. 


                                                           
12 Rayos was also named in the securities litigation as a focus of inquiry, but sales volumes were so small that we excluded it.  


We focused on Duexis and Vimovo, which because of their maturity make for a better comparison to Korlym. 


2015 2016 2017  CAGR


HZNP


TRx count at retail


Duexis 643,542 558,275 537,626 -8.6%


Vimovo 486,835 345,141 281,054 -24.0%


TRx count at retail %yoy


Duexis -13.2% -3.7%


Vimovo -29.1% -18.6%


Product revenue


Duexis $190,357 $173,728 $121,161 -20.2%


Vimovo $166,672 $121,315 $57,666 -41.2%


Product revenue %yoy


Duexis -8.7% -30.3%


Vimovo -27.2% -52.5%


Implied yoy px change


Duexis 5.2% -27.6%


Vimovo 2.7% -41.6%


Horizon Drug Price and Prescription Volume Declines in 


Years Following Subpoena



https://www.wsj.com/articles/horizon-pharma-shares-fall-on-disclosure-of-government-subpoena-1456766232

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1492426/000156459018027742/hznp-10q_20180930.htm

https://www.wsj.com/articles/horizon-pharma-shares-fall-on-disclosure-of-government-subpoena-1456766232

https://www.rosenlegal.com/media/casestudy/546_Web_Complaint.pdf
12 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


 
Source: Horizon 2017 Annual Report 


We think that there are two reasons that Horizon’s revenues declined for the two drugs presumably at the epicenter of 


the inquiry.  First, because of the scrutiny regarding Horizon’s patient access program and the independence of its 


specialty pharmacy, we suspect that its pharmacies were likely far less aggressive in pushing prescriptions through 


the approval process.  Second, we suspect that once PBMs and payers were alerted by the subpoena to the potential 


conduct of patient access programs and specialty pharmacies, they more thoroughly scrutinized the approval process 


or aggressively renegotiated pricing and rebates.   


We found a similar trend with respect to Valeant, which used its influence and control over undisclosed related 


specialty pharmacy, Philidor, to aggressively push the growth of two drugs: Jublia, a toenail fungus treatment, and 


Solodyn, an acne treatment. 


Sales of Solodyn had been declining for years as generics entered the market but jumped 56% in Q1 2015 as Valeant 


pushed sales through Philidor.  Sales of Jublia were up 188% that quarter (compared to Q1 the previous year).13 


Yet this growth was unsustainable.  When Valeant fell under scrutiny for its ties to Philidor, prescriptions volumes 


for the two drugs fell at a CAGR of -10.6% and -28.9%, respectively, in the two years following the revelations. 





 
Source: Symphony Prescription Data Available through Bloomberg 


                                                           
13 We have seen no evidence that Corcept is engaged in a kickback scheme to increase prescriptions, so Valeant is therefore not a 


perfect comparison.  But Valeant remains illustrative in showing what happens to prescription volumes and drug sales when the 


relationship between a specialty pharmacy and a drug company comes under scrutiny for questionable independence, which we 


believe will happen with Corcept and Optime.   



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1492426/000156459018003661/hznp-10k_20171231.htm
13 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


 
Source: Symphony Prescription Data Available through Bloomberg 


Valeant and Horizon are illustrative because both cases show a material decline in prescription volumes following 


scrutiny from the markets (and regulators) of the drug company’s relationship with its specialty pharmacy.   


Corcept is in many ways more vulnerable than either Valeant or Horizon, because 100% of its revenues are from one 


drug, of which 99% is distributed exclusive through a specialty pharmacy which appears, at least according to 


Optime’s representatives, to be an undisclosed related party.   


In our model, we therefore predict that Korlym will see a similar decline in prescription volumes in the next two years.  


We predict that once the relationship comes under scrutiny, Optime will be far less aggressive in pushing prescriptions 


and payers and PBMs should make it more difficult to fill prescriptions, which together will lead to a contraction in 


Corcept’s revenues.   


Neither Valeant nor Horizon were able to maintain pricing once their respective relationships with specialty 


pharmacies came under scrutiny.  We would expect the pricing of Korlym to come under similar pressure from payers 


and PBMs. 


Accordingly, we project a decline in Korlym revenues of -22% in 2019 and -15% in 2020, which would be in line 


with the rate of decline in prescription volumes incurred by the two Horizon and two Valeant drugs in the two years 


following either a subpoena or revelations questioning the independence of their respective specialty pharmacies. 


We may have just seen the canary in the coal mine suggesting that such a decline has already begun.  Corcept’s stock 


fell as much as 13.7% on February 1, 2019, after it announced Q4 results revealing it missed Korlym revenue targets 


by 6%.  More notably, Corcept’s initial guidance for FY 2019 was only $300 million, well below the consensus street 


estimates of $328 million for that year.  This miss was so significant that previously bullish sell-side analysts Cantor 


Fitzgerald and B. Riley downgraded their price targets by 30% and 45%, respectively. 


With respect to Korlym, our DCF uses the only sell-side estimates for sales in 2022 and 2023, when competition from 


generics is expected to drive down revenues.  Our model makes other assumptions favorable to Corcept, including the 


exclusion of research and development costs which presumably will be incurred for Relacorilant.   











2015 2016 2017  CAGR


VRX


TRx count at retail


Solodyn 535,345 566,883 428,311 -10.6%


Jublia 955,123 727,535 483,420 -28.9%


TRx count at retail %yoy


Solodyn 5.9% -24.4%


Jublia -23.8% -33.6%


Valeant: Drug Price and Prescription Volume Declines in 


Years Following Subpoena



https://www.fool.com/investing/2019/02/01/heres-why-corcept-therapeutics-fell-as-much-as-137.aspx

https://www.fool.com/investing/2019/02/01/heres-why-corcept-therapeutics-fell-as-much-as-137.aspx
14 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


 
Source: Blue Orca model and calculations 


Note: Model values Korlym cashflows and excludes costs of Relacorilant R&D  


Our model values Corcept at $5.42 per share, based on the sell side valuation of its pipeline at $3.00 per share14 and 


our DCF analysis of Korlym, which values the drug at $2.42 per share.  Our DCF of Korlym is driven by our 


expectation of a significant contraction in revenues from Corcept’s only drug.  Our predicted rate of drug revenue 


decline would be consistent with the contraction experienced by other drug companies whose relationship with their 


specialty pharmacy became the focus of investor or regulatory scrutiny.    


But there are reasons to believe that this valuation is too generous to the Company.  Notably, the Company’s Chief 


Medical Officer, Dr. Fishman, announced his resignation in November 2018.  He had been CMO for three years.  Dr. 


Fishman was leading Corcept’s drug development pipeline, so his resignation is hardly a vote of confidence in the 


Company’s future, especially at the beginning of its critical Phase III trial for Relacorilant.     


We believe that at a minimum, Corcept must restate its financials to consolidate Optime.  This brings the material risk 


of off-balance sheet liabilities, revenue recognition pitfalls and ballooning receivables.   


Pharmaceutical companies with undisclosed ties to specialty pharmacies are a hot button issue for investors and 


regulators, especially when such relationships accompany price gouging like it does here.  Concerns regarding 


Corcept’s governance and potential restatements of the Company’s financials may therefore warrant a much lower 


valuation.  





                                                           
14 Bank of America Merrill Lynch Analyst Note on Corcept, October 23, 2018. 


Blue Orca DCF B. Riley rev estimates 


(MM) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023


Korlym revenue $251.2 $194.7 $165.5 $157.2 $69.3 $10.4


-22% -15% -5% -56% -85%


Gross margin 98% 98% 98% 98% 98% 98%


Gross profit $246.2 $190.8 $162.2 $154.1 $67.9 $10.2


SG&A excluding R&D $80.7 $86.3 $103.6 $109.8 $129.5


for Relacorilant (sell side)


EBITDA $110.1 $75.9 $50.5 ($41.9) ($119.4)


Changes in WC ($2.0) ($2.0) ($2.0) ($2.0) ($2.0)


Estimated Korlym FCF $108.1 $73.9 $48.5 ($43.9) ($121.4)


NPV at 16% Bloomberg WACC $93.1 $54.8 $31.0 ($24.1) ($57.5)


NPV of Korlym cash flows $97.3


Plus: net cash at 4Q18 $206.8


Korlym value $304.1


Shares out 125.7


Korlym value per share $2.42


Pipeline value per share $3.00


(BofA estimate)


Blue Orca target price $5.42



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1088856/000119312518329608/d653070d8k.htm

https://ir.corcept.com/news-releases/news-release-details/corcept-therapeutics-appoints-robert-s-fishman-md-chief-medical
15 





Corcept Therapeutics│ NASDAQ: CORT                 www.blueorcacapital.com 


.com 


DISCLAIMER 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is CORT. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If you are 


invested (either long or short) in CORT, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like everyone else, 


are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the publication of our opinions 


about the public companies we research is in the public interest.  





You are reading a short-biased opinion piece published by BOC Texas, LLC. Obviously, we will make money if the price of CORT stock 


declines. This report and all statements contained herein are solely the opinion of BOC Texas, LLC, and are not statements of fact. Our 


opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we set out in our research report to 


support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a manner that any person could have done if 


they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this 


report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support 


everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law.  





As of the publication date of this report, BOC Texas, LLC (a Texas limited liability company) (possibly along with or through our members, 


partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or indirect short position in the 


stock (and/or possibly other options or instruments) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains if the 


price of such instrument declines. Use BOC Texas, LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence 


before making any investment decision with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not 


investment advice nor should they be construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  





This report and its contents are not intended to be and do not constitute or contain any financial product advice as defined in the Australian 


Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). Because this document has been prepared without consideration of any specific clients investment objectives, 


financial situation or needs, no information in this report should be construed as recommending or suggesting an investment strategy. 


Investors should seek their own financial, legal and tax advice in respect of any decision regarding any securities discussed herein.  At 


this time, because of ambiguity in Australian law, this report is not available to Australian residents.  Australian residents are encouraged 


to contact their lawmakers to clarify the ambiguity under Australian financial licensing requirements.   





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or 


neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, 


nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws 


of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained 


from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or 


who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, 


we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and 


accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, 


however, all such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing BOC Texas, LLC research and materials on 


behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value trust) falling within Article 49 of 


the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a 


financial institution, government or local authority, or international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  





This report should only be considered in its entirety.  Each section should be read in the context of the entire report, and no section, 


paragraph, sentence or phrase is intended to stand alone or to be interpreted in isolation without reference to the rest of the report.  The 


section headings contained in this report are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in conjunction with the detailed 


statements of opinions in their respective sections.  





BOC Texas, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or 


with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and BOC Texas, 


LLC does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and 


opening this report you knowingly and independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material 


herein shall be governed by the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal 


and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or 


applicable law, given that BOC Texas, LLC is a Texas limited liability company that operates in Texas; and (iii) that regardless of any 


statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be 


filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of BOC Texas, LLC to exercise or 


enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer 


is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to 


the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in 


particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
