Citron Exposes Elder 
Abuse Within Inogen’s


Sale Tactics 


Price Target $46


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
2


Last week, respected short seller Carson Block put out a insightful 27 page report detailing how Inogen management has 
misled the market with its wildly overstated claims on TAM.  These TAM estimates originated from an obscure research firm 
that Muddy Waters referred to as “amateurish”.  We recommend all shareholders read the Muddy Waters piece and its 27 
pages of detail on how Inogen is deceiving the market.  


http://d.muddywatersresearch.com/content/uploads/2019/02/MW_INGN_20190208.pdf


While the original Citron report on valuation and the recent MW report on TAM are interesting, they are nothing 
compared to what you will read in this presentation.  


Whenever a new medical device is released (e.g., portable oxygen concentrators), the potential for abuse and fraud increases 
exponentially.  No one will deny that portable oxygen concentrators are a great advancement for people suffering from COPD.  
Citron will acknowledge that Inogen was the first company to capitalize on this growing market. 


However, we are now unveiling the dirty secrets that we have discovered through months of 
research.  In this report, we will expose Inogen’s dirty reseller network, the systematic abuse of 
elders by Inogen and resellers, and why the stock will quickly rerate lower to $46.


Background


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com



http://d.muddywatersresearch.com/content/uploads/2019/02/MW_INGN_20190208.pdf
3


Whereas most people think of elder abuse as a physical act it is more often than not a financial crime that preys on the 
vulnerabilities of an age group that is more trusting and less internet savvy than the next generation.


Elder Abuse is defined in the Older Americans Act of 2006 as:


“The fraudulent or otherwise illegal, unauthorized, or improper act or process of an individual, including a caregiver or 
fiduciary, that uses the resources of an older individual for monetary or personal benefit, profit, or gain, or that results in 
depriving an older individual of rightful access to, or use of, benefits, resources, belongings, or assets.”


It is important to note, that elder abuse is most commonly committed through acts that are technically legal.


As stated on the Medicare website:


"Elder financial abuse is big business. It’s estimated that older adults lose more than $36 billion every year to scams, fraud and 
exploitation.¹ It’s even more alarming that almost half of that money is lost due to tactics that – while deceptive in nature –
are technically legal."


In the following presentation Citron will show how Inogen along with its distribution network through legal and illegal tactics 
are committing elder abuse to sell portable oxygen concentrators for the highest price without proper disclosure of benefits to 
seniors at the most vulnerable time of their life. 


Exploiting Elders for Financial Gain


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com4


For a company that sells a product to a customer whose 
average age is 75+ and on the lower end of the socio-
economic scale, what % of total revenue would you expect 
to be derived from Medicare?


Why is this surprising?  
Because Medicare covers 80% of the cost as long as they are 
65+.


The Disturbing Truth Why Medicare 
Revenue is Low For Inogen?


90% ? 60% ?


Less than 10% 


30% ?
5


Inogen’s domestic B2B business has accounted for about half of the 
company’s revenue growth since its IPO.  Last quarter, the domestic B2B 
business accounted for about one third of total revenue.


This network has driven a material portion of the company’s growth.


Citron believes that Inogen has conspired with the reseller network to 
dominate Google listings and used tactics to deceive the sick elderly.  


Citron exposes that the top reseller of Inogen products is secretly controlled 
by a convicted felon who was recently released after 5 years in federal prison 
for deceptive internet marketing practices. 


Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
6


The Largest Distributor of Inogen Products


1st Class Medical claims to be the 
largest distributor of Inogen 
products in the world.  They are 
listed at the top of Inogen’s
authorized internet resellers list on 
Inogen’s website.


https://www.inogen.com/internet-
resellers


A Google search for anything related 
to portable oxygen concentrators 
will bring you to the top paid ads of 
1st Class Medical who also owns LPT, 
The COPD, and SpryLyfe.


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com



https://www.inogen.com/internet-resellers/
7


1st Class Medical Rep: Hello, thank you for visiting.  Can I help you in 
any way?


Potential Customer: hello


1st Class Medical Rep : Hi there


Potential Customer : i would like to get a portable oxygen machine


1st Class Medical Rep : Ok any idea which one?


Potential Customer : can I go through Medicare with you


1st Class Medical Rep : No they do not cover these.  They cover the 
bottles and tanks.


Citron has proof through many transcripts that 1st Class Medical is lying to the elderly about their Medicare benefits to 
make a sale.  This allows Inogen to record higher margins through B2B sales at the expense of the elderly who are lied to 
about their Medicare benefits.  Every conversation we’ve had goes something like this.


The Scheme


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
8


Obviously, these “oxygen specialists” are not aware of Medicare code E1392 for a portable oxygen 
concentrator.


Effective January 1, 2017, the Medicare allowable for stationary oxygen rentals (E1390) ranges from $66.53 to $77.16 
per month and the OGPE rentals (E1392) ranges from $36.14 to $41.91 per month. These are the two primary codes 
that we bill to Medicare and other payors for our oxygen product rentals.– Inogen 10-K


https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1294133/000156459018003518/Inogen-10k_20171231.htm


This action is done intentionally when patients/customers are at their weakest point in life.


Citron can’t expect the Medicare system to buy Google search ads to save seniors from the tactics of 1st Class 
Medical and its owner Gary Luckner… Gary Luckner?  


The Scheme


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1294133/000156459018003518/ingn-10k_20171231.htm
9


1st Class Medical, the largest Inogen online distributor, 
claims on its website that it is owned and operated by 
Caleb Umstead.


However, Caleb’s LinkedIn profile notes that he works in 
“customer education” at the company.


https://www.linkedin.com/in/calebumstead/


In reality, the 1st Class Medical / Inogen scheme is 
operated by Gary Luckner who was recently sentenced to 
90 months in prison for running a fraudulent online 
operation.  


https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leaders-colorado-based-
vending-machine-fraud-sentenced-prison


Who 1st Class Medical Wants You to Think Runs the 
Company


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com



https://www.linkedin.com/in/calebumstead/

https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/leaders-colorado-based-vending-machine-fraud-sentenced-prison
10


The Real Founder of Inogen’s Largest Distributor


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


The following videos prove by self admission that Gary owns and operates 1st Class Medical.


Click here to watch Click here to watch



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijVWAmXbKnA

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kgdhlte2fgQ

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijVWAmXbKnA-

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kgdhlte2fgQ

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijVWAmXbKnA

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kgdhlte2fgQ
11


Below is a video of Inogen’s largest reseller bragging about how his son bought a G-Wagon… from deceiving 
the sick elderly.


The Real Founder of Inogen’s Largest Distributor


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


Click here to watch



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m9iR1qS-DHM

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m9iR1qS-DHM

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m9iR1qS-DHM
12 © Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


The Deception Doesn’t End With 1st Class Medical


One of the top search results for oxygen concentrators is a 
website called https://seniorsreviews.com/, a lead gen for Pure 
Medical.


Pure Medical runs a review site for seniors.  The volume of rave 
reviews that never mention the word “Medicare” is presented as 
a way to deceive seniors and most importantly keep the word 
“Medicare” out of the conversation.  


We remind the reader that the use of fake reviews is fraudulent 
and was part of the case that sent Gary Luckner to prison. 


Inogen’s distribution channel has become a collection of rogue 
operators whose business is based on deception.



https://seniorsreviews.com/
13


What Citron found to be most appalling came from a 
company called Main Clinic Supply, which is listed at the top 
of Inogen’s authorized internet resellers list on Inogen’s
website.


https://www.inogen.com/internet-resellers/


The top paid ad for portable oxygen claims “Beware of 
Cheap Machines”.  This is a tactic used to scare the sick 
elderly from utilizing their Medicare benefits, which cover 
these “cheap machines”. 


Needless to say this site is also riddled with fraudulent 
reviews, which get posted daily.


All of the disturbing tactics of authorized internet resellers 
have resulted in higher revenue at the expense of the well-
being of senior citizens and the law. 


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com



https://www.inogen.com/internet-resellers/
14


The Inogen scheme doesn’t stop with its distributors.  DTC is Inogen’s
highest margin channel, which is why the sales force has been 
trained to upsell Medicare patients to cash pay.  


While competitors have invested in R&D (e.g., ResMed’s recent 
investment in remote patient monitoring), Inogen has invested in its 
sales force. 


https://hme-business.com/Articles/2018/12/06/resmed.aspx


“the [advertising] spend will continue to ramp as we hire new people. 
So we’ve always kind of matched our spend to our sales capacity. So 
as we hire more reps, you’ve got to have more leads, or else you 
choke the reps off and starve them”


Inogen CEO Q1 2018 earnings call


Through a 4 month investigation and numerous conversations with 
Inogen reps, Citron believes that these multiple sales reps steer 
Medicare patients away from enforcing their benefits through 
evasive and deceptive tactics .


Inogen’s DTC Business is Running Out of Air


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com



https://hme-business.com/Articles/2018/12/06/resmed.aspx
15


Inogen has previously capitalized on its position as the 1st DME for Medicare patients in many areas.  Inogen 
would take these leads from Medicare to convert them into cash sales.  However, the competitive bidding 
process has changed as we read in a new risk factor in its 10Q.


“On July 11, 2018, CMS released a new proposal to change the payment rules for Durable Medical Equipment 
Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supplies (DMEPOS), including our portable oxygen concentrators. This includes a 
proposal that when the current competitive bidding contracts expire December 31, 2018, beneficiaries can 
obtain DMEPOS items from any enrolled Medicare supplier. ”


Now that any DME can offer you a portable oxygen concentrator,  Inogen will get much fewer Medicare leads 
that can be turned into cash sales.


Inogen’s DTC Business is Running Out of Air


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
16


Inogen’s Tactics Have Not Been Lost on the Employees


“This company is very unethical and they do 
everything they can to try to get over on senior 
citizens by harassing them to buy this portable 
oxygen concentrator for $3000 to $5000 and most 
of these people see the crooked advertisement 
saying the machine is covered by Medicare.” –
Former Employee (August 16, 2018)


“I could no longer work here because the 
company is severely unethical.” – Former 
Employee (December 12, 2018)


“I would just say that it seems the company is overly obsessed with pumping up 
their stock price and being considered a ‘hyper growth’ company.” – Current 
Employee (January 9, 2019)


“Lots of rules that don’t get followed except what to say to Medicare 
shoppers.” – Current Employee (January 2, 2019)


“They have been investigate by medicare 2 times in the last 3 years, and 
currently still are doing many things that violate medicare guidelines.” – Current 
Employee (June 4, 2018) 


“Medicare should take long hard look at the business practice. Advice to any patient, 
read the small print. The call objective is to switch from what consumer has seen in 
advertisement to CASH purchase” – Current Employee (October 18, 2017)


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
17


Inogen’s Scheme Can be Found in Customer Reviews


“These people prey on sick and generous folks, it’s inconceivable that a company in medical industry would be so 
unprofessional.” – Customer (January 17, 2019)


“This company is suppose to cater to the elderly to me they rip off the elderly.” – Customer (August 13, 2018)


“FRAUD by salesperson: Before buying a $2500 portable oxygen unit from Inogen I asked the sales rep if Medicare 
covered such equipment and he said no. This was blatantly deceptive. I discovered the truth when the unit I 
purchased from Inogen with my credit card for $2500 in December 2017 failed. My oxygen level dipped into the 
70s and I am still having health issues (lethargy, fatigue, etc.) from the failure. I talked to another equipment 
provided who assured me that Medicare indeed covered the equipment. That company got me another unit and 
Medicare paid. My daughter, Valerie Mills, phoned Inogen and complained that I had been defrauded. The rep 
confirmed that Medicare does pay for the units but Inogen is not an authorized provider in my area. The rep 
deliberately withheld that information from me to make the sale.” – Customer (August 7, 2018) 


“I was intending to use my Medicare benefits to help with the purchase of the device… it is fairly easy to 
understand what's going on. It's what is referred to as the old "bait an switch". – Customer (November 21, 2017)


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
18


The whole bull case is predicated on a 
TAM number that was derived from 
WinterGreen Research, which 
management touts in presentations 
and conferences.


While Carson wrote 27 pages ripping 
apart WinterGreen and the TAM, 
Citron will show just one picture.


Here is a photo of the WinterGreen
Research headquarters.


The Whole Bull Case of Inogen


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
19


A Copy of This Report Has Been Sent to:


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


CFPB’s Office for Older Americans


Federal Trade Commission


U.S. Department of Justice


National Institute of Justice


Elder Financial Protection Network


National Adult Protective Services Association


National Center on Elder Abuse


National Committee for the Prevention of Elder Abuse
How can a company who sells portable oxygen concentrators to the elderly only get a 
mid-single digit% of its sales from Medicare? 


By pushing a carefully crafted pitch to distributors that is both unethical and often illegal and is designed to 
deceive the sick and elderly.  While this tactic has proven profitable for Inogen, it certainly cannot be 
considered a trend.  Whether it be competition, oversight, or increasing customer awareness, Inogen’s
margins and growth trajectory will contract and eventually its lack of R&D will leave it as an inferior player 
in the increasingly competitive COPD market.  


Citron estimates that Inogen sells about 90% of its POC units vs. only renting about 10% through Medicare.  
Assuming 40% of POC units were rented through Medicare, Inogen’s revenue would decline by about 20% 
while EPS would decline by about 80% due to the negative mix shift to Medicare’s much lower margins.  
Evidently, the multiple would see meaningful contraction as well.  


Citron jumps into muddy waters and assigns a conservative $46 target on Inogen. 


20


Conclusion


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
21


These reports have been prepared by either Citron Research (“Citron Research”) or 
Citron Capital, LLC (“Citron Capital”). Citron Research and Citron Capital are referred 
to collectively as “Citron” and each individually as a “Citron Entity.” Each report 
specifies the publisher and owner of that report. All reports are for informational 
purposes only. Under no circumstances should any of these reports or any 
information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments.


Citron Research produces research reports on publicly traded securities, and Citron 
Capital is an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of 
Business Oversight. The reports are the property of the applicable Citron Entity that 
published that report. The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are 
solely attributable to the applicable Citron Entity and are not attributable to any 
Citron Related Person (defined below) (other than the Citron Entity that published the 
report).


By downloading, accessing, or viewing any research report, you agree to the 
following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research presented in any report is 
at your own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold 
harmless Citron Research, Citron Capital and each of their affiliates and related 
parties, including, but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, 
members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Citron Related 
Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) attributable to 
any information in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and 
due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities of the 
issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments 
that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You 
represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the 
information, analysis and opinion presented in any Citron report. You further agree 
that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials made 
available by Citron to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by 
these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports 
or other materials on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these 
Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports or 
other materials as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to 
these same Terms of Use.


You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Citron report, Citron Related 
Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, 
and/or consultants), Citron Related Persons clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors have a position (long or short) in one or more of the 
securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related 
to one or more of these securities), and therefore may realize significant gains in the 
event that the prices of a Covered Issuer’s securities decline or appreciate. Citron 
Research, Citron Capital and/or the Citron Related Persons may continue to transact 
in Covered Issuers’ securities for an indefinite period after an initial report on a 
Covered Issuer, and such position(s) may be long, short, or neutral at any time 
hereafter regardless of their initial position(s) and views as stated in the Citron 
research. Neither Citron Research nor Citron Capital will update any report or 
information to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Citron Related 
Person.


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither 
Citron Research nor any Citron Related Person (including Citron Capital) are offering, 
selling or buying any security to or from any person through any Citron research 
reports. Citron Research is affiliated with Citron Capital. Citron Capital is an exempt 
reporting adviser filed with the California Department of Business Oversight and is 
not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Citron Capital does not 
render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client 
relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that 
Citron Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does 
not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your 
financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and Citron Capital has 
no such knowledge about you.


The research and reports made available by Citron reflect express the opinion of the 
applicable Citron Entity as of the time of the report only. Reports are based on 
generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through 
the applicable Citron Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the 
applicable Citron Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, is not material non-public information, and has been obtained 
from public sources that the applicable Citron Entity believe to be accurate and 
reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or 
who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to 
the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). However, such information is presented “as 


is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. With respect to their 
respective research reports, Citron Research and Citron Capital makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 
any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 
Further, any research report contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. 
All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Citron does not 
undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis 
and opinion contained in them.


In no event shall Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons be 
liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or 
in any way connected with any information presented in any Citron report. This 
limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of 
Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons. You accept all risks in 
relying on the information presented in any report.


You agree that the information in any Citron research report is copyrighted, and you 
therefore agree not to distribute this information in any manner without the express 
prior written consent of the applicable Citron Entity. If you have obtained Citron 
research reports in any manner other than as provided by Citron, you may not read 
such research without agreeing to these Terms of Use. You further agree that any 
dispute between you and Citron and their affiliates arising from or related to this 
report or viewing the material presented herein shall be governed by the laws of the 
State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. The failure of 
Citron Research or Citron Capital to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these 
Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree that 
each Citron Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these Terms of Use. If any 
provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be 
invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect 
to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other 
provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any 
statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related 
to Citron report or related material must be filed within one (1) year after the 
occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or 
such claim or cause of action be forever barred.


Cautious Investing to All


© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com
