Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 1 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


 
 April 27, 2017 
 


 
Citron Exposes the Dirty Illegal Secrets of 


FleetCor.  Also, Proof the Company is 
Already in Cover-Up Mode. 





Short Term Price Target = $80 











In our first report Citron referred to FleetCor (NYSE:FLT) as “FeeCor” and 
“FleeceCor”.  The bulls defended the company, claiming FleetCor's 
customer fees are legal, not egregious, and most of all are sustainable.  
 


In this report Citron clarifies the illegality of FleetCor's corporate practices, 
and the lengths the analyst community goes to in defending them.
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 2 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 





1) No need for an "Internal Investigative Review"... 
We Did One, and This is What we Found.   
 


After interviewing over 25 former employees, Citron now knows that 
FleetCor has developed a deep learning algorithm to intentionally cheat its 
customers with “junk” fees.  
 


No two customers are billed exactly alike, yet all customers are fitted into a 
profile / classification based on how many fees can be extracted without 
complaints.  FleetCor classifies “Red”, “Yellow” and “Green” customers 
based on its internal algorithmic analysis of how vulnerable the customers 
are to this type of gouging without detecting it or complaining. 
 


Citron believes that federal and state regulators and state attorneys 
general will be laser-focused on the computer system operating at 
FleetCor, which pro-actively discriminates against their own customers.  
 


This includes the government and non-profits. 
 


The internal systems at FleetCor are designed to deceive their customers.  
The company acts as though they believe they are protected by small print 
in their contracts.  That verbiage will eventually hold no weight in the civil 
and potential criminal lawsuits that we believe will inevitably follow. 
 


Through our extensive interviews we have heard the tales of:  
 


 Placing wrong dates on payments 


 Not checking mail on timely schedule 


 Stealing rebates from customers 


 Double-billing for the same service 


 Intentionally bad customer service 


 Blaming "computer problems"  


 A corporate culture underpinned by deceit   
 


No reason for some bullshit internal review.   Even your analysts 
understand the corruption.  The question is when will it stop.   
Morgan Stanley's investment thesis is basically  "You can't catch them".
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 3 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 





So it's a risk factor that the FTC might interview former employees?   
 


What is this, the Sopranos???  
 


Yes Investors, Laws and Regulations Do Apply   
Many of the bullish analyst reports on FleetCor rest on the myth that 
FleetCor can skirt the particulars of FTC regulation because its main product 
is not a “credit card”.  The argument goes that this product lives outside the 
scope of regulation.  Yet in FleetCor's own words (10-K) we read: 
 
 





Federal Trade Commission Act: 


All persons engaged in commerce, including, but not limited 


to, us and our bank sponsors and customers are subject to 
Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act 


prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices… 
Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies 
including the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), Consumer 


Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) and the state 
attorneys general have authority to take action against 


businesses, merchants and financial institutions that 
engage in UDAAP or violate other laws, rules and 


regulations. If we violate such laws, rules and regulations, 
we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result, 


may incur losses and liabilities that may impact our 
business.  





 “The FTC is more concerned with consumer protection than B2B (e.g. 
the Truth in Lending Act doesn't apply)” 


 “FTC is more interested in broad industry practices rather than an 
individual company” FTC's decision to "work with" FLT or go straight 
to a formal CID (or worse, a federal search warrant) depends on the 
perceived legitimacy of the business, 


 “A bear case might include FLT terminating employees, which ... 
might stimulate further interest and prompt the FTC to interview the 
terminated employees for details on firm practices.” 


 
"
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 4 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


Citron presents the obvious conclusion that FleetCor’s operations -- in 
particular its fee-generating computer programs, result in clear, systemic 
violations of the FTC’s Section 5 “Unfair Practices”.   
 








After reading this report, we challenge anyone to reasonably conclude that 
regulators or customers will allow FleetCor's purposeful, organization-wide, 
systemic, deceptive fee generation practices to continue. 
 


 
 
Up until two weeks ago all of FleetCor's  Fuelman Credit Cards were 
marketed to governmental agencies as: 
 


“Pay No Fees- No Set Up, Transaction, or Annual Fees”  
 


…as shown in the page below. Thank you, Wayback machine! 


Deceptive Practices: 
An act or practice is deceptive where  


• a representation, omission, or practice misleads or is likely to 
mislead the consumer;  


• a consumer’s interpretation of the representation, omission, or 
practice is considered reasonable under the circumstances; and  


• the misleading representation, omission, or practice is material. 
 





Unfair Practices  


An act or practice is unfair where it  


• causes or is likely to cause substantial injury to consumers;  
• cannot be reasonably avoided by consumers; and  
• is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or to 


competition.  





 



https://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/supmanual/cch/ftca.pdf
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 5 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 





https://web.archive.org/web/20170404224933/http://www.fuelman.com/government-agencies.aspx 
 


Since the Citron Report published the egregious details of FleetCor’s 
aggressive fee-charging strategy, FleetCor tried to remove all the “no fee” 
language from the Fuelman marketing material.   
 
FleetCor’s government website no longer claims that the government will  
“Pay No Fees”. 


http://www.fuelman.com/government-agencies.aspx 
 


http://www.fuelman.com/fuelman-advantage-mastercard-details.aspx 
 


For FleetCor to change such a core piece of their marketing pitch on their 



https://web.archive.org/web/20170404224933/http:/www.fuelman.com/government-agencies.aspx

http://www.fuelman.com/government-agencies.aspx

http://www.fuelman.com/fuelman-advantage-mastercard-details.aspx
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 6 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


own website could be the sign of either: 
 


 Impending Government Probe of their Fees 


 Attorney General Investigations 


 FTC Inquiry/Investigation into deceptive marketing 
 


Yet this effort is too little too late, as the internet is still riddled with 
marketing material saying “no fees” …..like this 
 


 
http://www.fleetcardsusa.com/faq.aspx?productID=15#faq_126 





This of course is total deception!  It will be especially fun watching the 
company remove this one soon ... but it will remain on archive.org! 
 


What is their cockamamie internal review going to say about that?  
 


The question to ask yourself is:  If FleetCor is willing to deceive its own 
government agency customers, imagine what they are willing to do to 
mom and pop business customers… 
 





From the FAQ on Fuelman Public Sector Fleet Card 
 


Are there any usage fees? 
 


The Fuelman Public Sector fleet card has no set up, card or membership 
fees.  If applicable, there is a 1% tax filing fee that will cover the cost of 
your tax administration. " 
 



http://www.fleetcardsusa.com/faq.aspx?productID=15%23faq_126
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 7 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


3)  What is FleetCor Hiding in the Fine Print? 
 


 
FleetCorp has built its business on systematically deceiving its own 
customers for years.  It is now so bad it has become IMPOSSIBLE to use its 
product without being subject to random escalating fees.  
 


Unlike other card companies, FleetCor customers do not receive terms and 
conditions when they apply for the card; instead they receive this small 
print brochure.  Here is a PDF link to the actual size of these disclosures, 
which are so small they might as well be written in invisible ink. 
 


 
Click to see what this looks like in real-life full size print! 


/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/Fuelman-Scan-of-actual-size.pdf 
 


Other credit card companies’ terms and conditions are available upon 
application and are printed to be legible in a reasonable sized font. 
 


https://www.onlinecreditcenter6.com/eapplygen2/load.do?cHash=38521181415&subActionId=
1000&langId=en&intcmp=chevrontexacoapplyplcc 



/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/Fuelman-Scan-of-actual-size.pdf

https://www.onlinecreditcenter6.com/eapplygen2/load.do?cHash=38521181415&subActionId=1000&langId=en&intcmp=chevrontexacoapplyplcc

https://www.onlinecreditcenter6.com/eapplygen2/load.do?cHash=38521181415&subActionId=1000&langId=en&intcmp=chevrontexacoapplyplcc
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 8 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


 What are they hiding??  EVERYTHING!   Pour yourself a stiff 
drink, get out your magnifying glass, and take a hard look at the 
real “FeeCorp”.   
 


Just To Get Your Card there is a Fee (sounds like a setup or 
annual fee to us) 
 


3.8     Administration of Account. Fuelman…… Fuelman reserves the right 
to charge a fee of up to fifty dollars ($50.00) a month or a minimum of 
fifteen dollars ($15.00) per Billing Cycle for account administration.  
 


If you want to use your card there could be a fee 
 


3.9     Card Fees. Fuelman reserves the right to charge a service fee of up 
to ten dollars ($10.00) per Card per month to support the use of the Card.  
 


If you do not use your card there could be a fee 
 


3.11  Inactive Cards. Fuelman reserves the right to charge a fee of up 
to three dollars and fifty cents ($3.50) per Billing Cycle for Cards that are 
inactive for seventy-five (75) or more days.  
 


When you make a transaction there could be a fee 
 


9.8  Minimum Program Administration Fee. Under circumstances 
where the previous month’s average fuel price (defined as the U.S. Regular 
Gasoline Price by the U.S. Energy Information Administration) is below 
$3.25 dollar per gallon, we may charge a Minimum Program 
Administration Fee of up to 10 cents per gallon or $2 per transaction to 
cover ongoing program operations costs.  
 
All the following fees are assessed in the context of paying your bill.
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 9 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


If you want to pay by check there could be a fee 
 


10.5.1  Client Check.  ...Fuelman reserves the right to charge an 
Exception Handling Fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for processing the payment. 
Fuelman reserves the right to charge a Check Processing Fee of fifteen 
dollars ($15.00) per check payment.  
 


 If you want to pay by phone there could be a fee 
 


10.5.3  Pay by Phone. Fuelman reserves the right to charge a fee up to 
thirty dollars ($30.00) for processing each Pay by Phone payment using 
either methods.  
 


 If you want to pay by Credit Card there could be a fee 
 


10.5.4   Fuelman reserves the right to charge a credit card convenience 
fee up to three percent (3%) of the payment amount.  
 


 If you want the money to come right from your bank 
account there could be a fee 
 


10.5.5.1 Debits to Bank Account. Fuelman reserves the right to charge a 
bank handling fee of up to twenty five dollars ($25.00) per debit of the 
Client’s Bank Account. 
 


 If you pay EFT/ECH there could be a fee 
 


10.5.6   Client Initiated Electronic Funds Transfer/Automated 
Clearinghouse …. Fuelman reserves the right to charge a fee of up to fifty 
dollars ($50.00) for processing each Client initiated EFT/ACH.  
 


Is it possible to pay your bill without a fee???  Bitcoin? Gold 
Bullion?  Maybe a bag of cash dropped at their offices?
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 10 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


But at least for all these fees I get fleet management 
reports! Yes you do …..for a fee. 
 


11.4   Fuelman reserves the right to charge Client a fee of up to fifteen 
dollars ($15.00) for delivering each of these optional reports or up to one 
hundred dollars ($100.00) per quarter.  
 


If you want to complain or dispute these fees…don’t call or email! 
All complaints must be submitted within 15 days by mail…yes, 
snail mail. 
 


15.1 Disputed Transactions. To dispute any Transaction on Client’s 
Statement, Client must notify Fuelman in writing as set forth below within 
fifteen (15) days of the date of Client’s Statement. Fuelman will promptly 
investigate the matter and respond to Client within sixty (60) days after 
receiving written notice. Notice should be sent to: FUELMAN, P.O. Box 
924138, Norcross, GA 30010, Attention: Customer Service.  
 
The above is just an example of some of the fees that FleetCor imposes on 
its customers. There are many more.  Notice the words in the disclosure 
“reserves the right to charge” vs. a simple "will be charged."    
 
 


4) You Want Your Rebate?  Fuggedaboudit!  
 


Of all the disclosures, the one that is most disturbing is REBATES!   
 


The only persuasive economic incentive for customers to acquire fuel cards 
is the promise that aggregating fuel purchases can avail them of volume 
fuel rebates. This is the raison d’etre of fuel cards.  But needless to say, 
rebates under FleetCor also have their fees and fine print.  After the 
expected rebate fees and out-clauses, we read one disclaimer that 
demonstrates FleetCor’s ability to screw its customers in black and white. 
 


Rebate/Volume Discount
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 11 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


 
Rebate?  Or Bait and Switch? 


 
For this we read in the small print 
 


"……. Under circumstances where the previous month’s average fuel price 
(defined as the U.S. Regular Gasoline Price by the U.S. Energy Information 
Administration) is below $3.25 dollars per gallon, we may change, 
suspend, or terminate this rebate program without notice." 
 


$3.25 a gallon???  That means that FleetCor has reserved for itself the 
ability to opt out of paying rebates since October of 2014.  Do they disclose 
this anywhere to any of their customers? 
By the way, no other player in the fuel card industry does this!  A FleetCor 
exclusive!  
 https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/pet_pri_gnd_a_epmr_pte_dpgal_m.htm 
 


Another of FleetCor devious schemes is to switch customers into "Level 2" 
pricing without their knowledge. This has devastating effects on customer 
costs, and demands customers waste enormous amounts of time verifying 
individual gas receipts to even notice.  Refer to excellent reporting by The 
Capitol Forum for full details.   
 
  



https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/pet_pri_gnd_a_epmr_pte_dpgal_m.htm

https://thecapitolforum.com/

https://thecapitolforum.com/
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 12 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


The Sell Side Really Wants to Invoke BBB to Defend 
FleetCor? 
 


FleetCor’s actions are best explained in a Better Business Bureau post from 
THIS MONTH: 
 


 
 
 * Note that despite the sell side touting that FleetCor has an "A" rating 
with the BBB, this has nothing to do with the business, but merely the 
attention the company gives to published complaints.  (Last year the 


company had an F).  It is amateurish how the sell side references FleetCor's 
BBB “grade letter” to defend the company, while ignoring the content from 
volumes of clearly written customer complaints, which all support the facts 
in this report.  
 


What is FleetCor Worth?  A fair and reasonable analysis 
 


In FY 2016, FleetCor generated $1 billion of net revenues from customer 
fees -- not including merchant fees or interchange fees.  This is the revenue 
generated by all of the "junk fees" mentioned above.  
 


In our model below, we assume a 75% margin from fees (which is generous, 
it’s probably more like 90%.)  If customer (junk fees) get reduced by a 
mere 25% and FLT trades at a EV/EBITDA multiple of 14x like Wex, its 
nearest competitor, FLT stock trades at $76.  
 


And this is without any regulatory or criminal action taken against the 
Company or its management.   This calculation doesn't even account for 
customer rebates that are being confiscated due to predatory late payment 


“Watch your invoices. They are always adding fees and charges for 
items not requested or signed up for. Yes, they will remove them if you 
notice and call them up. Of course they say, pay the full invoice so you 
won't have any fees or late charges and they will credit you back the 
next month. I have received interest charges for late payments despite 
paying on time….“
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 13 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


terms, such as $3.25 per gallon minimum restriction imposed by FuelMan 
cards, in lieu of actual rebates customers could be receiving.
Citron Explains FleetCor April 27, 2017 Page 14 of 14 
Why the Quarter Doesn't Matter 
 


   Conclusion 
 


The only question Citron has regarding FleetCor is 
When the shit hits the fan, will the case stay civil or 
will it go criminal?   


Are we simply looking at unfair deceptive trade 
practices or is this theft by fraud? 


We can tell you …….for a fee.   


Cautious Investing to All!  ( <--- Some no-fee advice! )
