Citron Reports on Cyberdyne #3 | Clinical Trial Results Concealed by the Company |  www.CitronRsearch.com


CYBERDYNE REPORT  #3


OCT  5th 2016


Citron Exposes the MOST IMPORTANT Document that 
Cyberdyne Has Been HIDING From the Investing Public


In our first two reports, Citron explained that hat Cyberdyne (7779.T-JP) , despite 
exaggerated promotional efforts by its CEO, has failed to deliver any meaningful 
revenues or unique technology over the past 4 years. More importantly, we have 
shown that Cyberdyne with a market cap of 225.B¥ significantcantly lags behind its 
competition Rewalk and Ekso Bionics in both innovation and penetration in the 
United States yet the competition market caps are  7 Bil¥ and 10 Bil¥


What has been most disturbing to Citron is that Cyberdyne has avoided any clear 
disclosure on its FDA approval timeline.  Citron will now expose why Cyberdyne 
has not disclosed any communication with the FDA, and the real reason we have 
not seen any meaningful revenues worldwide.   


Citron Reaffirms its 300¥ Target


CYBERDYNE REPORT #3
Citron Reports on Cyberdyne #3 | Clinical Trial Results Concealed by the Company |  www.CitronRsearch.com


CYBERDYNE REPORT  #3


OCT  5th 2016


In order for an investor to see how effective or rather ineffective the HAL robot is you have to 
look at the small print in the user manual inserted in the package of the HAL. Citron believes 
the full results of this study have never been released to the investing public.


Yet, there’s no mention from Cyberdyne of the results of these trials to investors.


The Clinical Trial Cyberdyne Does Not Want You To See!!!


Although rarely discussed, Citron was aware that Cyberdyne had conducted a clinical test on 
its HAL device.  We had evidence to the trial through this link:


https://dbcentre3.jmacct.med.or.jp/jmactr/App/JMACTRE02_04/JMACTRE02_04.aspx?kbn=3&seqno=3962


VS


Link to Report


The results of the clinical test show that the improvement in walking distance by a patient 
using HAL compared to a standard low-tech ambulatory hoist system was less than 10%.  


*Note this was a 2 minute walking test with a limited subset.  The clinical trial was conduct-
ed for a distance of less than 10 meters. Therefore, the improvement in walking ability is at 
maximum one meter; more likely measured in centimeters. 


http://citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/CyberdynePackageInsert.pdf
Link to Product Insert
Citron Reports on Cyberdyne #3 | Clinical Trial Results Concealed by the Company |  www.CitronRsearch.com


“Trial results also show a 63.3% incidence 
of adverse physical outcome from wearing 
the HAL”


And Last Week The Story Got Worse For Cyberdyne…Proof the 
Company has been misleading analysts and investors.


Because Cyberdyne conducted this clinical trial we assume that this study was intended to 
show the HAL in its best possible performance.  The trial itself is very questionable, given it is 
not blinded and vulnerable to biases both from clinicians and patients. Also, the sample size 
exceptionally small with only 11 patients in one control group and 13 patients in the other 
control group. 
 
For all of the hype Cyberdyne created around their product, it barely even works better than a 
common hospital mechanical device that has no robotic or “brain reading” ability.


More troubling, the trial results also shows a 63.3% incidence of adverse physical outcome 
from wearing the HAL. Injuries include myalgia, contact dermatitis (burning from electrode 
contact), abrasion, back pain, falls, bruising, pain in extremities, soreness, osteoarthritis of the 
hip, arthralgia, erythema, and peeling skin……No wonder no one wants to use it.


It is Citron’s opinion that that Cyberdyne has never submitted a “de novo” application to the 
FDA because they knew this clinical trial would never get approval in the United States, be-
cause the trial shows the product barely works and puts patients in danger.  


Cyberdyne then tried to latch onto competitor FDA applications in form 510(k) (despite 
claiming that their exoskeleton is different), but the FDA seems to have denied them this route 
to approval.
Citron Reports on Cyberdyne #3 | Clinical Trial Results Concealed by the Company |  www.CitronRsearch.com


CYBERDYNE REPORT  #3


OCT  5th 2016


Needless to say the company is nowhere near collecting revenue 
for their product’s main use case, despite consensus assuming 
145% YoY revenue growth in 2016 and 62% revenue growth in 
2017 which is impossibly unrealistic.


“It has entered the stage of practical use in the treatment of stroke patients previously thought 
untreatable, and for function improvement and regenerative medical treatment for patients 
with lower limb disabilities. We project that Cyberdyne will move into recurring profits in 
third quarter 2015 in step with expanding sales in Japan of HAL for welfare applications.”


Last week Cyberdyne issued a press release stating that they had just started a clinical trial in 
Japan for HAL to be used in stroke patients (recall the previous clinical trial we have is for rare 
neuromuscular disease)


Just started???  Analysts have been saying for years that HAL had already been studied and 
approved for stroke patients, without ever delivering any clinical trials or data.  Here is an 
example that shows how little the analyst community knows.


We take for example the Nomura analyst who has been talking about stroke treatments as if it 
was imminent since the company’s IPO in 2014.


-- Nomura Initiation of Cyberdyne Sept 30, 2014


THEN


Nomura’s note last week states that they believe the trial duration will be between 12 and 18 
months. So how in the world in 2014 when he initiated could this guy have said that we have 
“entered the stage of practical use for the treatment of stroke patients” when in 2016 the 


clinical trial just started and won’t even be finished until 2018?


AND NOW...


http://www.cyberdyne.jp/english/company/PressReleases_detail.html?id=4883



http://www.cyberdyne.jp/english/company/PressReleases_detail.html?id=4883
Citron Reports on Cyberdyne #3 | Clinical Trial Results Concealed by the Company |  www.CitronRsearch.com


CYBERDYNE REPORT  #3


OCT  5th 2016


OUR CONCLUSION


Cautious Investing To All 


There is a reason the HAL robot has not sold widespread through Europe and Japan.  
There is also a reason why Cyberdyne cannot give us straight answers to its status 
with the US FDA.  The reason all comes down to the results of their own clinical 
trial. Despite its high cost, the HAL robot does not work much better than a typical 
hospital hoist and the HAL robot comes with a high chance of injury to the patient.  


We believe the stock will trade down to 300¥.
