© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


Citron Exposes one of the Largest 
Clean Energy Frauds in US 


History
02


It is no secret that FleetCor CEO Ronald Clarke is known for pushing the envelope.  Citron Research, Capital Forum, Bloomberg, and almost 
every major financial news publication have all written about the company’s egregious billing practices.  While these practices might have 
been aggressive, it has been difficult for anyone to prove that they are illegal.


Until now… 


While FleetCor has used excessive fees to grow earnings, the recent growth of the company is not from a fee and not from the highly 
publicized beyond fuel program but rather from a nefarious and hidden scheme called the “Clean Advantage” program.  Note – this is not 
one of the many controversial fees but rather this is a program that customers pay into to make their fleets carbon neutral or zero emission.  
This is an outright “green fraud” that has brought FleetCor to their Philidor moment and should lead to the immediate resignation of CEO 
Ronald Clarke.


While the company doesn’t dare to discuss the impact of this program, it has clearly been a primary driver of organic EBITDA growth as can 
be seen in the “Miscellaneous Fees” line item.


Clarke validated this last year by referring to the new “zero emissions” (Clean Advantage) program as a key driver of growth.  Yet, this 
program does not appear in any of the company’s investor presentations or corporate filings.  Furthermore, analysts have never discussed 
this program and this week both Goldman Sachs and William Blair talked up the impact of the beyond fuel program, which is only on 5k 
accounts without one mention of the “Clean Advantage” program, which is on 100k accounts.  


The reason why – the “Clean Advantage” program is a total fraud.


Introduction



https://citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/shared-files/fleetcor/20180503_FLT_EarningsCall.pdf
03


With customers ranging from public schools to municipalities to small businesses, FleetCor is selling a carbon neutral program when in reality they are pocketing 
nearly all the money at a level that will most certainly bring criminal indictments.  When Mr. Clarke referred to “zero emissions” in his growth strategy, he was 
referring to the “Clean Advantage” program that began in 2015.  Unlike Fleetcor’s many fees, the “Clean Advantage” program actually sells a product to the customer.  


The language on the “Clean Advantage” website to both US and European customers leaves no doubt or room for misunderstanding about what the “Clean 
Advantage” program is.  Customers pay FleetCor to make their fleets zero emission.  Beyond the clear language to customers, Clarke also presents this program to 
Wall Street as “zero emissions.”  The “Clean Advantage” program is a partnership with a Atlanta-based startup called GreenPrint that is responsible for administering 
the program. 


FleetCor’s “Clean Advantage” Program – The Philidor Moment


make your fleet carbon neutral today.



https://secure.munetrix.com/app_assets/docs/school_transparency/AP-CHECK-REGISTER-2017-2018-4022-1536081545-3660.PDF

https://cityofcedarsprings.org/wp-content/uploads/minutes-agendas-packets/Accounts-Payable_2019-05-09.pdf

https://www.classaction.org/media/schultz-transfer-systems-inc-v-fleetcor-technologies-operating-company-llc_2.pdf

http://www.cleanadvantageprogram.com/how-it-works/
04


Citron believes less than 1% of all money paid by customers to make proportionate investments in the environment to offset their
carbon footprint goes to the environment!  The amount paid into the “Clean Advantage” program to date is at a minimum $100 million 
and growing, making this THE LARGEST CLEAN ENERGY FRAUD in US history.


In layman’s terms, FleetCor has sold enough phony carbon offsets to land their board of directors in jail for the rest of their lives. 


This graphic most clearly explains the fraud.


The Truth About the “Clean Advantage” Program



https://www.wastetodaymagazine.com/article/renewable-energy-credits-fraud-jail-clean-green-fuel/
05


According to Clean Advantage’s website, it claims:  “When we reduce your fleet’s emissions we work with and invest in projects that 
have been certified to sequester CO2 from the atmosphere.  We follow strict guidelines and protocols and retire certified carbon 
credits on a leading public registry [American Carbon Registry].”


Citron examined the American Carbon Registry in order to audit these projects listed on Clean Advantage’s 
website and not one of the projects listed on Clean Advantage’s website exists on the American Carbon 
Registry.  Furthermore, the only project associated with GreenPrint on the American Carbon Registry is the 
“Chesapeake Mizer Pneumatic Retrofit”, a project that was completed in 2011 by Chesapeake Energy.  In 
other words, GreenPrint is buying old carbon offsets from a project that was completed 4 years before 
GreenPrint’s founding.


GreenPrint has bought ~200,000 old vintage credits from a project already completed; a far cry from “working with” and investing in 
the carbon offsetting projects themselves.  Furthermore, given the 2008-2010 issue date of these credits, GreenPrint likely paid $1 or 
less for each of these credits.  Therefore, the only auditable carbon offset from the American Carbon Registry for all of GreenPrint’s
projects including the “Clean Advantage” program amounts to approximately $200k. 


The “Clean Advantage” Program Exposed



http://www.cleanadvantageprogram.com/projects/

https://citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/shared-files/fleetcor/GreenPrint.xlsx
06


Credits Acquired 200,000


Carbon Pounds Offset Per Credit 2,000


Total Carbon Pounds Offset 400,000,000


Carbon Pound Emissions / Gallon of Gasoline(1) 20


Total Gallons of Gasoline Offset 20,000,000


Fleetcor Gallons Processed/Year 15,000,000,000


Gallons Forced Into Clean Advantage (%) 20%


Gallons Forced Into Clean Advantage 3,000,000,000


Gallons Offset As % of Gallons Paying Clean Advantage 0.7%


The “Clean Advantage” Program Exposed


(1) https://www.eia.gov/environment/emissions/co2_vol_mass.php



https://www.eia.gov/environment/emissions/co2_vol_mass.php
07


Citron reached out to all the US projects listed on Clean Advantage’s site 
and not one had ever heard of FleetCor, GreenPrint, or Clean Advantage!  


We found it odd that a company with arguably one of the largest carbon offset 
programs in the world was promoting the planting of “a total of seven walnuts and 
two moss plants” in the Czech Republic.  


The “Clean Advantage” Program Exposed



https://www.environmentalpartnership.org/What-we-do/Grantmaking-Proffesionals-(1)/GreenPrint-LLC-and-Clean-Advantage%E2%84%A2-Carbon-Offset/Planting-and-Restoration-of-Greenery
08


The most highly publicized environmental endeavor on the “Clean Advantage” website is the partnership with the Arbor Day Foundation and 
the planting of 5,000 trees.  This is where Citron does something good for the environment.  For a mere $10k, we were also able to plant 5,000 
trees with the Arbor Day Foundation. 


The “Clean Advantage” Program Exposed
09


Why did FleetCor, the largest global fuel card operator, partner with GreenPrint and not one of the many established 
environmental consulting firms?
They needed a willing accomplice. 


Upon enrollment in the “Clean Advantage” program, FleetCor’s customers are given a certificate of zero emission or a clean 
fleet WITHOUT ANY AUDIT or third party verification which are standard in the industry.  


While companies like Lyft, Etsy, and Expedia use 3Degrees, the leader in carbon offset programs who has strict accreditation 
processes, GreenPrint appears to be a company that encourages the unsavory act of greenwashing.  Just watch their video.  


Greenwashing (noun)
The practice of making an unsubstantiated or misleading claim about the environmental benefits of a product, service, 
technology or company practice.


This has become a problem as Citron was told during our discussions with former management from FleetCor that customer 
requests for proof that they were carbon neutral could not be fulfilled by FleetCor.  


Clearly, there was no audit mechanism in place to enforce carbon neutrality of fleets. 


GreenPrint – The Willing Accomplice



https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/greenwashing

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fApQK9Su5zA&feature=youtu.be
10


The egregiousness of the “Clean Advantage” fraud is most apparent when compared to direct competitor WEX’s own green 
partnership with WeForest for carbon reduction.  


Consider this:


FleetCor’s “Clean Advantage” program charges customers 5 cents per gallon and with the average semi-truck consuming approximately 
20 thousand gallons of fuel per year, this equates to $1 thousand per card annually vs. WEX only charges its customers 18 euro 
annually per card. 


What Does WEX Do?


Price per Gallon $0.05


Gallons Consumed Annually 20,000


Total Price Per Card Annually $1,000 €18



https://www.weforest.org/partner/wex-europe-services

https://www.wexeuropeservices.com/en-gb/eco-miles/
11


Despite the significantly higher fees of FleetCor’s “Clean Advantage” scheme vs. WEX’s program and the contractual obligation of 
FleetCor to make their customers carbon neutral, the greatest accomplishment promoted on Clean Advantage’s website is planting 
5,000 trees.  Compare this to WEX planting over 3 million trees in just the last 2 years.  Even still, WEX does not offer this as a zero 
emission or carbon neutral program. 


FleetCor Scheme vs. WEX Program



http://www.cleanadvantageprogram.com/projects/

https://www.weforest.org/partner/wex-europe-services
12


We are most certain that the analysts and company will defend this illegal practice by minimizing it as a % of revenue despite the fact that this is one of 
the highest margin growth drivers of the company.  


What is most important is even at $100 million, this would be the largest clean energy fraud in US history.  Customers have paid FleetCor over $100 
million to make their fleets carbon neutral while FleetCor has stolen this money earmarked for environmental purposes.


The only question is who will take an enforcement action first?
• Department of Justice
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Federal Trade Commission 
• Federal Bureau of Investigation 
• Foreign jurisdictions who are vigilant about environmental scams


The “Clean Advantage” fraud should trigger the immediate resignation of CEO Ronald Clarke.  Consider this:  as the Volkswagen emissions scandal came 
to light, the stock collapsed, the company faced billions in legal fees and regulatory fines, and the CEO was forced to step down.  The CEO is now facing up 
to 10 years in prison.


Before you want to dismiss a $100 million fraud, remember the head of the EPA, Scott Pruitt, resigned over $100 thousand in travel expenses. 


This will most certainly come to the attention of the leaders of the new green movement from Joe Biden to Bernie Sanders to Elizabeth Warren to AOC 
who will focus on Ronald Clarke being the most overpaid CEO in America while his company is committing the largest clean energy fraud in the country. 


The “Clean Advantage” Fallout



https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/15/business/winterkorn-volkswagen-emissions-scandal.html

https://www.cnn.com/2019/05/16/politics/pruitt-airfare-inspector-general/index.html

http://fortune.com/2019/02/25/most-overpaid-ceos/
13


Much like Philidor did to Valeant, this could be the straw that breaks the 
camel’s back as regulators are finally able to take action against the company’s 
infamous billing practices. 


We believe the fallout from this scandal will result in:
• The potential resignation of CEO Ronald Clarke
• Significant multiple contraction
• Loss of customers
• Massive fines
• Civil litigation
• Exposing the weakness in underlying core business
• Material slowdown in growth
• Regulatory scrutiny of its entire business model


The “Clean Advantage” Fallout


FLT Consensus 2019 EBITDA Estimate $1,518


Clean Advantage EBITDA $125


FLT 2019 Ex. Clean Advantage EBITDA $1,393


Multiple 10.0x


FLT Enterprise Value $13,930


Net Debt $3,457


Liability (Paying Back Fees) $500


FLT Equity Value $9,973


Shares Outstanding 90


FLT Price Target $110.81


FLT Current Price $255.00


Downside (%) -56.5%
14


Committing the largest clean energy fraud in US history will quickly end the legacy business model of FleetCor using its cookie jar of 
excessive fees to drive earnings.  


Much like we saw with Valeant, when an aggressive CEO that is well-liked by hedge funds moves from aggressive tactics to illegal
tactics and regulators get involved, it is impossible to operate business as usual. 


FleetCor has not made their clients zero emission, FleetCor has not significantly reduced carbon footprints, and FleetCor has not 
proportionately invested into environmental initiatives.  FleetCor has exploited a worldwide concern in order to unjustly reward its 
executives.  


Citron cautions any investor that is trying to catch a falling knife.  With the potential for the resignation of CEO Ronald Clarke, 
significant multiple contraction, loss of customers, massive fines, material slowdown in growth, and regulatory scrutiny of its entire 
business model, the downside for FleetCor’s stock price is massive and the stock will no longer be investable. 


Conclusion
These reports have been prepared by either Citron Research (“Citron Research”) or 
Citron Capital, LLC (“Citron Capital”). Citron Research and Citron Capital are 
referred to collectively as “Citron” and each individually as a “Citron Entity.” Each 
report specifies the publisher and owner of that report. All reports are for 
informational purposes only. Under no circumstances should any of these reports or 
any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments.


Citron Research produces research reports on publicly traded securities, and Citron 
Capital is an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of 
Business Oversight. The reports are the property of the applicable Citron Entity that 
published that report. The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are 
solely attributable to the applicable Citron Entity and are not attributable to any 
Citron Related Person (defined below) (other than the Citron Entity that published 
the report).


By downloading, accessing, or viewing any research report, you agree to the 
following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research presented in any report is 
at your own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold 
harmless Citron Research, Citron Capital and each of their affiliates and related 
parties, including, but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, 
members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Citron Related 
Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) attributable to 
any information in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and 
due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities of the 
issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments 
that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You 
represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the 
information, analysis and opinion presented in any Citron report. You further agree 
that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials made 
available by Citron to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by 
these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports 
or other materials on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these 
Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports or 
other materials as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to 
these same Terms of Use.


You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Citron report, Citron Related 


Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, 
and/or consultants), Citron Related Persons clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors have a position (long or short) in one or more of the 
securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to 
one or more of these securities), and therefore may realize significant gains in the 
event that the prices of a Covered Issuer’s securities decline or appreciate. Citron 
Research, Citron Capital and/or the Citron Related Persons may continue to transact 
in Covered Issuers’ securities for an indefinite period after an initial report on a 
Covered Issuer, and such position(s) may be long, short, or neutral at any time 
hereafter regardless of their initial position(s) and views as stated in the Citron 
research. Neither Citron Research nor Citron Capital will update any report or 
information to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Citron Related 
Person.


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither 
Citron Research nor any Citron Related Person (including Citron Capital) are 
offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through any Citron 
research reports. Citron Research is affiliated with Citron Capital. Citron Capital is 
an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of Business 
Oversight and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Citron 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment 
adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and 
agree that Citron Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with 
you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires 
knowledge of your financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and 
Citron Capital has no such knowledge about you.


The research and reports made available by Citron reflect express the opinion of the 
applicable Citron Entity as of the time of the report only. Reports are based on 
generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through 
the applicable Citron Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the 
applicable Citron Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, is not material non-public information, and has been obtained 
from public sources that the applicable Citron Entity believe to be accurate and 
reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or 
who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to 
the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). However, such information is presented 
“as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. With respect to 


their respective research reports, Citron Research and Citron Capital makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 
any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 
Further, any research report contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. 
All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Citron does not 
undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis 
and opinion contained in them.


In no event shall Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons be 
liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or 
in any way connected with any information presented in any Citron report. This 
limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of 
Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons. You accept all risks 
in relying on the information presented in any report.


You agree that the information in any Citron research report is copyrighted, and you 
therefore agree not to distribute this information in any manner without the express 
prior written consent of the applicable Citron Entity. If you have obtained Citron 
research reports in any manner other than as provided by Citron, you may not read 
such research without agreeing to these Terms of Use. You further agree that any 
dispute between you and Citron and their affiliates arising from or related to this 
report or viewing the material presented herein shall be governed by the laws of the 
State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. The failure of 
Citron Research or Citron Capital to exercise or enforce any right or provision of 
these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree 
that each Citron Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these Terms of Use. If 
any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to 
be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect 
to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other 
provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any 
statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 
Citron report or related material must be filed within one (1) year after the 
occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or 
such claim or cause of action be forever barred.


15


Cautious Investing to All
