On July 27, 2016, we published our investment opinion (the “Report”) on Itochu Corporation (Tokyo: 8001) (“Itochu” or 


the “Company”).1  In our Report we presented 42 pages of detailed analysis of Itochu’s financial statements and public 


disclosures, which highlighted a number of corporate governance and accounting deficiencies.  That same day, Itochu 


issued a perfunctory 1-page response (the “Response”), which was so short and cursory that it failed to address the issues 


raised by our Report in any meaningful way.  





1. Hiding Behind Deloitte, Touche & Tohmatsu 
 


Time and again, Itochu has hidden behind Deloitte, Touche & Tohmatsu (“DTT”), trying to reassure investors by 


reminding them that DDT “issued an unqualified opinion for our Consolidated financial statement.”  But having a well-


known auditor sign off on Itochu’s financial statements is no guarantee that the Company will not be engulfed in an 


accounting scandal.   





Ernst & Young ShinNihon gave Toshiba an unqualified audit opinion, but the auditor was fined ¥2.1 billion (USD 17.4 


million) by Japanese regulators for a “grave breach of duty” in failing to spot irregularities in Toshiba’s accounts.  KPMG 


signed off with an unqualified opinion on the accounts of Olympus.  Enron, one of the biggest corporate scandals in 


American history, was notable because renowned accounting firm Arthur Anderson gave an unqualified opinion on 


Enron’s accounts.  





Furthermore, DTT does not have the best reputation for detecting accounting irregularities.  DTT acted as the auditor for 


Hong Kong listed China Metal Recycling (HK: 773), which Glaucus exposed as a fraud in 2013.  In the US, DTT came 


under intense scrutiny for giving an unqualified opinion on the accounts of Chinese accounting frauds such as Longtop 


Financial and China Media Express.2   





The point is that an unqualified opinion from a famous auditor is no protection against accounting impropriety.  That is 


why we firmly believe that Itochu should nominate an independent committee to retain an independent auditor to 


investigate the integrity of Itochu’s financial statements and the issues raised in our detailed Report. 





2. Itochu’s Failed Investment in the Drummond Mine 
 


In our Report, we presented an extensive analysis into Itochu’s disastrous 2011 investment in Drummond’s Colombian 


coal mine (“the Drummond JV”).  By any economic measure, Itochu’s investment was a failure.  Since the investment 


date, coal prices were down 57% and production at the mine was 26% less than forecast.  Accounting rules dictate that 


Itochu should have taken a write-down or impairment to the carrying value of the Drummond JV.  It did not.  Instead, 


Itochu reclassified its investment, an accounting gimmick that we believe was clearly inappropriate under prevailing 


accounting standards.  


                                                             
1 Our Report is available for download in English and Japanese at https://glaucusresearch.com/japan/   
2 http://www.law360.com/articles/652106/deloitte-unit-to-pay-12m-to-china-mediaexpress-investors.   


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is 


not investment advice nor should it be construed as such.  You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect 


to the securities covered herein. We believe that the publication of this investment opinion is in the service of the public interest by encouraging enhanced 


disclosures by listed companies and fostering increased transparency in the Japanese capital markets.  We have a short interest in Itochu and therefore stand to 


realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines.  Please refer to our full disclaimer on the last page of this report. 


 
COMPANY:  ITOCHU Corporation │ Tokyo: 8001 


INDUSTRY:  Trading 
 



https://glaucusresearch.com/japan/

http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/files/2016/pdf/ITC160727_2_e.pdf

http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/files/2016/pdf/ITC160727_2_e.pdf

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-toshiba-accounting-ernst-idUSKBN0U505S20151222

http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052970203501304577086351407137104

http://www.reuters.com/article/hongkong-regulator-chinametal-idUSL4N0G02IW20130731

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2013/01/GlaucusResearch-China_Metal_Recycling_Holdings_Ltd-HK0773-Strong_Sell_January_28_2013.pdf

http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2011/10/20/deloittes-quandary-defy-the-s-e-c-or-china/?_r=0

http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2011/10/20/deloittes-quandary-defy-the-s-e-c-or-china/?_r=0

https://glaucusresearch.com/japan/

https://glaucusresearch.com/japan/
Itochu’s Response is oddly contradictory.  First, the Company claims (as it did in Q3 FY 2015) that the JV agreement was 


revised at the time of the issuance of preferred shares (potential voting rights).  But it is important to note that although 


Itochu claims its share might be diluted, such a dilution did not happen.3  Indeed, in Itochu’s Response, the Company 


mentioned potential dilution but again failed to clarify if such a dilution took place. 





Itochu claims that reclassification was justified because it “lost the approval right on important resolutions of 


Drummond such as budget and capital expenditures.” But as we discussed in detail in our Report, “approval authority” 


over capital expenditures and budget is irrelevant under prevailing accounting standards.  “Approval authority” appears 


to be an accounting standard made up by Itochu.  In reality, the test is “significant influence.”  Under, IAS 28, a holding 


of 20% or more of the voting equity of an entity creates a presumption of significant influence and generally requires 


that the investment be treated as an investment in an associate.   





Itochu owns a 20% stake in the Drummond JV, therefore the presumption is that its stake in the Drummond JV should 


be accounted for as an investment in an associate.  This presumption is even stronger in this case because from FY 2012 


through FY 2014, Itochu followed the rule and classified the Drummond JV as an investment in an associate.  





Further, in our Report, we provided a detailed analysis of the “five factors” under IAS 28 which clearly showed that 


Itochu’s investment in the Drummond JV easily meets all the requirements to be considered an investment in an associate 


under prevailing accounting rules.  Itochu fails to even acknowledge the correct accounting standard, let alone provide any 


detailed explanation over why it lacks sufficient influence over the Drummond JV to justify deconsolidation.   





But the larger point is this.  Even if Itochu was right and deconsolidation was appropriate in FY 2015, accounting rules 


required Itochu to perform a revaluation of its investment at the time of reclassification.  Itochu were happy to 


recognize a ¥60 billion gain when it reclassified its investment in Ting Hsin from an associate to an “other investment.”  


Why wasn’t a similar revaluation taken for the Drummond JV?  





We believe that any such revaluation of the Drummond JV would have meant recognizing major losses in Itochu’s 


consolidated accounts, and that Itochu inappropriately avoided recognizing such impairments in order to overstate its 


reported profitability.  





Do not just take our word for it.  Bloomberg independently valued Itochu’s share of the Drummond mines at ¥60 billion 


in July 2013, and coal prices continued to decline from there.4   





By our valuation, we estimate that Itochu’s stake was worth only ¥45 billion in FY 2015.  As a result, we believe that 


instead of inappropriately reclassifying the investment, Itochu should have taken an impairment in FY 2015 of at least 


¥153 billion.  Itochu’s reported net income was ¥300 billion in FY 2015, so this restatement would have reduced net profits 


by 51%! We continue believe that this misconduct should trigger a regulatory investigation and that Itochu should be 


forced to restate at least its FY 2015 financial statements. 





3. Erroneous Consolidation of CITIC 
 


Itochu fails to address this issue, falling back on the fact that it holds a 10% stake in CITIC through a 50:50 JV with 


Charoen Pokphand Group (“CP”).  The JV, CT Holdings, holds 20% of CITIC’s voting equity.  But this is all form over 


substance 


In order to be deemed an investment in an associate, accounting rules dictate that Itochu must have “significant influence” 


over the investee.  As we state in our Report, the fact that the JV holds a 20% interest is no guarantee of “significant 


influence,” especially in this case.   





CITIC is 58.13% owned by CITIC Group Corp (“CITIC Parent”)– a company wholly-owned by the Chinese government.  


According to its website, “the national interests represent CITIC Group’s core interests. CITIC Group follows the 


excellent tradition in putting the national interests above all else.”  Given that CITIC is majority owned and controlled 


                                                             
3 To our knowledge, although Itochu fails to disclose any details, Itochu still owns 20% of the voting equity of the Drummond 


JV.   
4 http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-07-16/alabama-billionaire-battles-murder-suits-as-prices-ebb   



http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/files/2016/pdf/ITC160727_2_e.pdf

http://www.group.citic/wps/portal/!ut/p/b1/04_Sj9CPykssy0xPLMnMz0vMAfGjzOI9w8zcLULdQoM9XV1MDRxNXL283H09DL09DfULsh0VAZ1a7iY!/?lctn=9&flag=11

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-07-16/alabama-billionaire-battles-murder-suits-as-prices-ebb
by the Chinese government, we think it is extremely unlikely that Itochu can have “significant influence” on CITIC’s 


policies and financial decisions.  Our analysis of the five factors supports our opinion that consolidation is inappropriate 


as Itochu fails to meet any of them.  





 
Source: Glaucus 





It is also worth mentioning that if the test was “approval authority” over capital expenditures and the budget, as Itochu 


claims with respect to the Drummond JV, then Itochu obviously lacks any such approval authority over CITIC and thus 


should not be consolidating its investment in CITIC as an equity method associate.   





4. Dubious Reclassification of Ting Hsin 
 


In our Report, we highlighted that Itochu looked set to miss earnings in FY 2015 by ¥60 billion.  Yet just four weeks 


before the end of the fiscal year, Itochu reclassified its investment in Ting Hsin and recognized a one-time, (after-tax) 


non-cash gain from the reclassification of ¥60 billion, just enough so that Itochu hit its target.   





Itochu responded that it “partially sold [its] share of Ting Hsin,” which justified a reclassification and a recognition of a 


gain.  Again, this is all form over substance.  Itochu’s effective stake in Ting Hsin was 18.7% in 2010 and remained almost 


unchanged (17.8%)5 when Itochu reclassified its investment.  Itochu has yet to provide any evidence that its level of 


influence substantively changed at FYE 2015.   





Itochu fails to address the suspicious timing of its reclassification.  We do not have enough information to value Itochu’s 


stake in Ting Hsin, but we find it highly suspicious that the amount of the after-tax gain (¥60.5 billion) was just enough to 


allow Itochu hit its earnings forecast and make up a ¥60 billion profit shortfall in the last four weeks of FY 2015.  Are 


Itochu’s shareholders supposed to believe in such coincidences?   





Itochu also misses the larger point.  If it performed a revaluation of Ting Hsin upon reclassification, why did Itochu not 


perform a similar revaluation of its Drummond investment upon reclassification?  We believe the answer is that the result 


would have been inconvenient: a revaluation of Ting Hsin allowed the recognition of a gain whereas any revaluation of 


the Drummond JV would have resulted in a significant loss and would have adversely affected earnings.  But accounting 


standards do not permit Itochu to selectively follow the rules only when the results are positive.   

















                                                             
5 http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2015/0416/LTN20150416256.pdf  



http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2015/0416/LTN20150416256.pdf
DISCLAIMER 
 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is Itochu. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If you are 


invested (either long or short) in Itochu, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like everyone else, 


are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum.  





We believe that the publication this investment opinion is in the service of the public interest by encouraging the enhancement of disclosure 


by listed companies and fostering increased transparency in the Japanese capital markets.   


 
You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Itochu stock declines. This report and all 


statements contained herein are solely the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of fact. Our 


opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available facts and evidence collected and analyzed, which we set 


out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a manner that any 


person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that 


we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making any investment decisions. 


We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law.  


 
As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) (possibly along 


with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or 


indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the 


event that the price of Itochu’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do 


your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions 


expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or 
neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, 


nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws 


of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained 


from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or 


who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, 


we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and 


accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, 
however, all such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, LLC 


research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value trust) 


falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an 


investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international organization) falling within Article 


19 of the FPO.  


 
This report should only be considered in its entirety.  Each section should be read in the context of the entire report, and no section, 


paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its author to stand alone or to be interpreted in isolation without reference to the rest of the 


report.  The section headings contained in this report are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in reference to the 


detailed statements of opinions in their respective sections.  





For convenience purposes only, we have provided a Japanese translation of this report.  In case of any discrepancy or inconsistency 


between the Japanese and the English versions, the English version is the original and should prevail.  In case of any legal dispute, 


reference shall be made only to the English version.   
 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 


any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without 


notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this report or any of the 


information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising 


from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any 


conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of 


California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a 
California limited liability company that operates in California; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim 


or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim 


or cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or 


provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court 


of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions 


as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this 


governing law and jurisdiction provision.
