1 





          “Anyone taken as an individual is tolerably sensible and reasonable, but as a member of a crowd, he at once 
            becomes an [idiot].”                                                                     -  Friedrich von Schiller (modified) 















































On March 22, 2017, we published our investment opinion (the “Report”) on TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis (ASX: 


TFC / QIN) (“TFS” or the “Company”), which claims to manage the world’s largest commercial Indian Sandalwood 


plantations.  On March 27, 2017, TFS issued a response to an ASX query (the “Response”) about its customers and 


previous disclosures.   





We find the TFS Response wholly inadequate. Not only did TFS fail to address many of the key points raised in our 


Report, but TFS made the startling new admission that its supposedly largest customer had yet to purchase sandalwood 


from the Company in 2017.  Coupled with the shocking resignation of Managing Director Frank Wilson, TFS’s tepid 


Response enhances our conviction in our investment opinion.  Apparently, we are not alone in thinking so.  





On March 28, 2017, Moody’s revised its rating outlook on TFS’s credit from stable to negative, based on factors 


including the difficulty of replacing earnings lost from its biggest customer, TFS’s ability to maintain continued 


institutional investment to support its revenue and cashflow, and volatility in the wake of management turnover.  





Moody’s downgrade of its rating outlook, Wilson’s resignation and TFS’s Response all increase our conviction in our 


investment opinion.  Accordingly, we continue to value TFS’s equity at AU$ 0.00. 





1) Frank Wilson Resigns: Surfstitch 2? 
 


On March 27, Frank Wilson, the founder, former CEO, and largest shareholder, resigned as Managing Director of 


TFS.  Wilson said he had been “approached by a well-funded, credible party” that was looking to take control of the 


Company.  Wilson claimed he resigned to focus fully on this proposal. 





The Company, however, confirmed in a later announcement, that it had not received any formal or informal takeover 


proposals, it was not aware of the identity of any unnamed suitor, it had not received any specific information in 


relation to the terms and conditions of any offer, and it was not “guaranteed that an offer will ultimately be 


submitted.” 





We have little confidence that Wilson can interest any private equity buyer to assist him in a takeover of TFS.  First, 


the timing does not make sense.  Wilson stated that he had “recently” been “contacted by a well-funded party with 


what I believe to be a serious approach.”  But if Wilson and a buyer had been in discussions last week, why would 


any buyer stick around after finding out that TFS’s biggest customer has stopped buying the Company’s products?  


Unless this mystery buyer received insider information (and knew about this startling development before other 


investors), the buyer found out about the lost sales yesterday like every other shareholder.  We find it hard to believe 


a buyer would maintain interest in a Company which failed to disclose that its supposed largest customer had stopped 


buying its products.   





Second, even if a buyer was interested in some of the assets, we think that it could wait and scoop up such assets in 


the near future, not only for a cheaper price, but unencumbered by TFS’s voluminous baggage.  Any suitor looking to 


buyout TFS shares would also inherit the Company’s staggering debts and potential liabilities.  With Moody’s swift 


change to a negative rating outlook on the Company’s debts, TFS already seems to be losing the faith of the capital 


markets we believe it requires to survive.  We think a smart buyer would simply wait until the Company is in a 


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is 


not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect 


to the securities covered herein. We have a short interest in TFS’s stock and bonds and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such 


instruments decline.  Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


COMPANY:  TFS Corporation Limited  / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN 


INDUSTRY:  Indian Sandalwood 



http://www.afr.com/business/agriculture/moodys-places-quintis-on-negative-outlook-chance-of-downgrade-20170328-gv8lnz

https://wcsecure.weblink.com.au/pdf/QIN/01842520.pdf

http://www.news.com.au/finance/business/breaking-news/quintis-md-quits-to-bid-for-company/news-story/e8e002736e421dba4bfc3474203c2f10

https://wcsecure.weblink.com.au/pdf/QIN/01842559.pdf

http://www.reuters.com/article/quintis-ma-idUSL3N1H501U
2 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





distressed situation, and then negotiate with creditors to cherry pick its best assets without inheriting the vast amount 


of baggage that TFS is now carrying. 





Third, if the buyer is serious about partnering with Wilson, it may think twice after Wilson announced a potential 


takeover to the market.  To us, Wilson’s resignation announcement seemed intended on driving up the price of TFS 


shares.  But this is exactly the opposite of what a private acquirer would want.  Serious private equity firms and 


strategic partners want to buy cheap and sell high.  Why would any buyer want someone to reveal their intentions to 


the market, driving up the price of shares before it made its bid?    





Fourth, if the proposed buyout was legitimate, why was it necessary for Wilson to resign? In management led 


takeovers, management is free to recuse itself from the negotiations (to prevent conflicts of interest), focus on running 


the company, and allow independent directors to negotiate with an appointed representative of the prospective 


acquirers.  Management teams around the world negotiate proposed takeovers of their companies without leaving their 


day job.  Why couldn’t Wilson?   





The closest analogue we can find to this situation is Surfstitch Group Ltd. (ASX: SRF).  In February 2016, Surfstitch 


missed earnings guidance and its share price plunged almost 40% to lows of AU$ 1.07.  The retailer’s CEO, Justin 


Cameron, resigned two weeks later and said he was pursuing a privatization bid with private equity investors.   





Cameron’s resignation announcement looks almost identical to Frank Wilson’s. 








Sources: https://wcsecure.weblink.com.au/pdf/QIN/01842520.pdf; 


http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20160310/pdf/435qm7b9vtkg9q.pdf  





Following Cameron’s announcement, Surfstitch’s shares jumped 24% to a high of AU$1.45.  Yet no bid from 


Cameron ever materialized.  Beset by controversy and volatility, Surfstitch’s share price fell 86% in the four months 


after Cameron’s resignation.   


 



http://www.smh.com.au/business/retail/surfstitch-ceo-resigns-mulls-privatisation-bid-20160309-gnf4eb.html

https://wcsecure.weblink.com.au/pdf/QIN/01842520.pdf

http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20160310/pdf/435qm7b9vtkg9q.pdf
3 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





Surfstitch (ASX: SRF) Stock Chart 





Source: Bloomberg 


In our view, the parallels are obvious.  Both Cameron and Wilson tendered shock resignations after their respective 


companies’ share prices had plummeted on disappointing performance.  Both men stated they were leaving to pursue 


a takeover of their respective companies.  Both companies’ share prices rallied on the possibility of a buyout.  Yet 


both men failed to offer any details about the proposed acquisition.  We think that TFS’s stock will experience a 


similar decline because we doubt that Wilson can successfully entice a well-financed partner to back a legitimate bid.   





2) Phantom Chinese Buyer 
 


We cannot help but wonder whether Wilson’s resignation was prompted by the startling revelations in TFS’s 


Response.  In September 2016, TFS announced that it completed its first shipment under a “five-year agreement to 


supply 150 tonnes per annum of processed heartwood to China” to Shanghai Richer Link.  This is roughly the 


equivalent of USD 25 million per year, making Shanghai Richer Link by far TFS’s biggest customer.    


In our Report, we opined that TFS’s announcements of massive pre-sales to Shanghai Richer Link were highly 


misleading because evidence indicated that its exclusive Chinese customer was incapable of fulfilling such a contract.  


Rather than a large commodities importer capable of spending USD 25 million per year on sandalwood, Shanghai 


Richer Link appears to be a tiny importer with no website, minimal operations, tiny revenues, almost zero profits and 


a small cash balance insufficient to purchase sandalwood in bulk.  We believe that TFS has deliberately misled 


investors by announcing a giant contract in which it claimed to have pre-sold 150 tonnes of sandalwood per year into 


China given the paltry operations and tiny assets of its exclusive Chinese customer.   





It looks like we were right, because TFS admits in its Response that “Shanghai Richer Link has not yet requested 


any shipments in 2017.”1  This startling admission corroborates our own due diligence and our opinion that this 


supposedly massive contract is largely illusory.  When we called Shanghai Richer Link and asked them about TFS, at 


first the representative was confused, then said “we don’t do that business anymore.” 





This is frankly unbelievable.  TFS claims to have “forward sold” 750 tonnes of sandalwood to Shanghai Richer Link, 


and then admits, when Glaucus pointed out this contract was illusory, that its customer has not yet ordered any 


sandalwood from the Company in 2017.  Investors and regulators should not lose sight of the fact that TFS admits in 


                                                             
1 TFS Response, p. 5. 



http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20160927/pdf/43bhcj21nftmfq.pdf
4 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





its Response that Shanghai Richer Link is its biggest sandalwood customer, which was supposed to account for 


59% of the Company’s forward sandalwood sales.   








Source: Company response and bond prospectus 





We are not Australian securities lawyers, but doesn’t a company have a duty to disclose if its biggest customer has 


ceased purchasing its products?   





In 2016, the Company announced that it had pre-sold its upcoming harvests for 2016 and 2017, half of which were 


supposedly pre-sold to Shanghai Richer Link (its only Chinese customer).  Since then, TFS has promoted its business 


by reminding investors of such pre-sales, presumably as evidence of strong demand for the Company’s core product:  








Source: Q1 FY17 Result Presentation 


http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20161130/pdf/43dblj08lwcmnw.pdf 


It is reasonable to assume that bond issuers, project level investors (retail MIS and institutional financiers), and 


shareholders relied on the Company’s promise that its upcoming harvests were pre-sold.  But TFS only now admits, 


after being caught by Glaucus, that its supposedly biggest customer has not placed any orders in 2017.   





How can Australian regulators or investors be comfortable with a Company that fails to provide any meaningful 


disclosure to the market when the customer which supposedly accounts for 59% of contracted sandalwood sales stops 


buying the Company’s products?   





TFS then concludes with the pathetic excuse that it “believes that its ability to achieve this guidance is not dependent 


on further sales to Shanghai Richer Link as any wood not sold to Shanghai Richer Link will be sold to alternative 


Customer Name Product


Annual 


Volume(kg)


Galderma Oil 611              


Lush Cosmetics Oil 1,000           


Young Living Oil 1,200           


Medinext General Trading Oil (Equivalent) 1,110           


Shanghai Richer Link Oil (Equivalent) 5,550          


Note 2: Volume for Lush Cosmetics is based on the 


minimum annual number


Note 3: Assume the oil yield of 3.7% when converting 


Wood to Oil


Note 1: Volume for Galderma is based on the Company's 


disclosure that it supplied 1,222kg of oil in two years 


following the signing


Shanghai Richer Link As % of High Value 


Indian Sandalwood
59%



http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20161130/pdf/43dblj08lwcmnw.pdf
5 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





customers.”2  But TFS has been trying to contract with buyers for years – are investors supposed to believe that TFS 


will magically replace its biggest customer overnight?  





This is not even the first time that TFS, in our opinion, has made highly misleading statements about the value of 


newly-signed contracts.  In August 2014, according to Australian media reports, TFS announced a deal with Galderma 


which it claimed would be worth “half a billion dollars.”  Shares of TFS rose 20% in the weeks after the 


announcement.  Despite TFS’s hype machine, the contract turned out to be small, generating only AU$ 6.9 million in 


revenues in the two years following its signing.3  In its Bond Prospectus,4 the Company even admitted that sales to 


Galderma declined in FY 2016, a far cry from the AU$ 500 million expected value promised by TFS at the time of 


signing.   





We believe, based on Shanghai Richer Link’s anemic balance sheet, minimal revenues, tiny profits, and paltry 


operating business, that TFS’s biggest customer was never in a position to buy 150 tonnes of sandalwood per year 


from the Company.  We think it was highly misleading to announce to the market that TFS had pre-sold USD 25 


million of sandalwood to a customer with only AU$ 228,352 in cash on its balance sheet and no operating website.   





We also believe that it was highly misleading for TFS not to update the market when its biggest customer had ceased 


purchasing sandalwood from TFS.  Whether TFS’s failures violated any Australian securities laws is not for us to 


decide, but we fail to see how any investor can have confidence in the honesty and integrity of a Company which 


conceals such material information and repeatedly makes what we think are obviously misleading statements about 


the value of its contracts and its customers. 





a. Tax Evasion by Chinese Importers of Sandalwood 
 


In addition to its illusory contract with Shanghai Richer Link, a media report from a Chinese broadcaster, published 


on March 23, 2017, announced that Chinese customs officials cracked a smuggling operation which was evading taxes 


on the import of sandalwood from Australia.  





The media report included a shot of the TFS logo, and as TFS now admits, one of its employees was interviewed as 


part of the broader investigation.   





Source: http://news.cctv.com/2017/03/23/ARTIFj3453vRHOxqZY2M8ve9170323.shtml 


In its Response, TFS admits that allegations of tax evasion by Chinese importers came to its attention in December 


2016, prompting the company to hire an external law firm to review the matter.  Although TFS claims that neither 


TFS nor its employee has been charged by Chinese authorities, there is a larger issue.  Given that TFS claims that 


China is its largest market, why didn’t TFS disclose the investigation until now?  





                                                             
2 TFS Response, p. 5. 
3 TFS Bond Prospectus, p. 4. 
4 TFS Bond Prospectus, p. 67. 



http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-08-15/dist-sandalwood-sale/5673180

https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=5&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwjDxf6z1OXSAhXGTSYKHeEzB3sQFgg1MAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.bondsupermart.com%2Fmain%2Ffile-depository%2Fdownload-file%3FparamCategory%3DbondDocument%26paramDocumentNo%3D1693&usg=AFQjCNGkGNBLx-LeMAU7rhH3hf9V1JOglw

http://news.cctv.com/2017/03/23/ARTIFj3453vRHOxqZY2M8ve9170323.shtml

http://news.cctv.com/2017/03/23/ARTIFj3453vRHOxqZY2M8ve9170323.shtml
6 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





To us, this is just another example of untrustworthy behavior.  In our view, TFS only discloses bad news when it gets 


caught.  The government of TFS’s largest export market launched a sweeping investigation of smuggling sandalwood 


into China, but TFS only admits that its employee was interviewed when its logo appears in a Chinese news report 


about a crackdown on sandalwood smuggling.  Similarly, TFS announced a sweeping contract with its biggest 


customer to sell 150 tonnes of sandalwood per year, but only discloses that the same customer has not placed any 


orders in 2017 when Glaucus exposes the customer as a tiny, borderline-distressed commodities importer without the 


cash flows or balance sheet to buy sandalwood in such quantities.   





If TFS only admits to bad news when it gets caught, what else is it hiding?  





3) Ponzi-Like Marketing Materials 
 


In our Report, we highlighted marketing material by a German institutional bank named Jaederberg & Cie (“JC”), 


which characterizes itself as an asset partner of TFS, in which JC offered project level investments in TFS’s vintages 


from as early as 2010.  Inexplicably, JC’s marketing materials promise that investors in TFS’s plantations will be paid 


cash dividends starting two years after the initial investment, with a full payback of the initial investment 


promised within seven years of the investment date.  There is no possibility that any of such payments can come 


from the harvesting of sandalwood, because the trees are not ready to be harvested until at least 15 years after planting.  


The only source of such future payments must come from funds raised from future investors (or the capital 
markets).  We concluded that, to us, this looks like a Ponzi scheme, because investors are promised quick, above-


average investment returns which in practice will be paid not from the sale of a product but from cash raised 


from future investors. 





In its Response, TFS tries to throw JC under the bus, despite admitting a “longstanding relationship” with the German 


bank.  TFS claims that it “does not, and has not, been involved in either the production of prospectuses and marketing 


materials (apart from providing permission to use a Quintis corporate video and images) for Jäderberg & Cie’s 


investment funds or the structuring of the funds.”5 





First, investors should note that TFS is being cute.  In its Response, it claims that it was not involved in the production 


of the marketing materials or structuring of the funds, but fails to deny that it reviewed them or that it had the 


authority to give final approval for the structure of the investment offerings or the content of the marketing 


materials. 





Second, only Australian (and potentially German) regulators have the subpoena power to determine if TFS truly was 


not involved in the production of such documents or the structuring of such investments, but for our part, we have our 


doubts.  





JC claims on its website to have raised at least AU$ 30.6 million for TFS so far, possibly more depending on the 


popularity of its more recent offerings.  Are we to believe that JC raised such sums of money without TFS reviewing 


any of the underlying investment documents or the proposed structure of the payback periods?   








Source: JC Marketing Material 


To us, it seems highly unlikely that a firm like JC, which describes itself as an asset partner of TFS, could raise such 


sums for TFS from investors without TFS having knowledge of, or involvement in, the structuring of the investment 


offerings or the marketing materials.   





Third, TFS fails to address the very issue at hand, because even if TFS throws JC under the bus, it could still be liable.  


JC’s marketing documents promise investors quick, above-average investment returns which in practice will not be 


paid from the sale of sandalwood but from cash raised from future investors.  Paying off old investors with 


                                                             
5 TFS Response, p. 5. 


JC Capital Raising


AUD mm


JC Indian 


Sandalwood 1


JC Indian 


Sandalwood 2 JC Eagle Park 4


JC Indian 


Sandalwood 5 Total


Initial Investment 15 13 2.6 N/A 30.6



https://web.archive.org/web/20170228203718/http:/www.jaederberg.de/asset-partner-tfs.html

http://jaederberg.de/download-center-174.html?file=files/pdf/Downloads%20-%20PDF%27s/FLYER%20JC%20Eagle%20Park%204_EN.pdf
7 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





money raised from new investors is the hallmark of a Ponzi scheme, and was exactly the pattern of behavior of other 


failed Australian agricultural managed investment schemes such as Great Southern.  Even if TFS was not involved in 


crafting such promises (which we doubt), by presumably accepting funds raised by JC, TFS most certainly benefitted 


from them.   





As a result, we believe that TFS and JC are still obligated to fulfill such promises, which means that they are obligated 


to raise more money in the coming years to make payments to investors who subscribed to offerings through JC.   





Ultimately, we highly doubt that TFS can wash its hands of Ponzi-like marketing materials which contributed over 


AU$ 30 million to its coffers by claiming ignorance of the details of such offerings.   





4) Incipient Capital: Undisclosed Related Party is the Source of Key Price and Demand Forecasts 
 


In our Report, we pointed out that the key component of TFS’s marketing presentations to potential investors in its 


plantations is a study by Incipient Capital forecasting the future demand for sandalwood.  In its 2016 presentation to 


investors, this study was the only source of TFS’s critical demand forecast.  Yet TFS fails to disclose that Incipient 


Capital was an undisclosed related party with many connections to the Company.  TFS’s response is three-fold.   





First, TFS complains that we failed to mention a more recent study done by McKinsey on the global sandalwood 


market.  But this is ridiculous considering that until its Response, TFS has never, to our knowledge, mentioned the 


McKinsey study by name in any of its public documents.6   





Even today, TFS refuses to release the full study.  How can Glaucus, or any investor, address a study which TFS 


refuses to distribute or which even the identity of the author was until recently a secret?  The details of the McKinsey 


study are crucial to evaluating the conclusions cherry-picked by the Company in its Response.  For example, did TFS 


pay for the study? Market studies paid for by companies tend to promulgate a view which is positive for such 


companies.  What other assumptions went into McKinsey’s market estimate? Until we know, how can any investor 


assess the study’s value? 





Second, TFS is trying to downplay its reliance on Incipient Capital, but investors should not let the Company get away 


with such sleight of hand.  Incipient Capital was the only source of TFS’s critical demand forecast in its 2016 


presentation to investors.  It was also the only source in TFS’s bond prospectus of demand forecasts.  Incipient 


Capital’s study is ubiquitous in TFS marketing materials, and TFS should not be able to dismiss its importance.   





 
Source: TFS Senior Secured Notes Offering Memorandum 


Date: 7/20/2016 


                                                             
6 TFS had previously mentioned a study by “one of the world’s leading management consulting firms,” but until the Response, 
we did not see any Company disclosure which indicated that the study was conducted by McKinsey.  



http://www.smh.com.au/business/inevitable-fate-of-our-very-own-ponzi-scheme-20090520-bfrg.html

https://web.archive.org/web/20160307033005/http:/tfsltd.com.au/files/5514/5663/7499/SIO_2016_Information_Memorandum.pdf

https://web.archive.org/web/20160307033005/http:/tfsltd.com.au/files/5514/5663/7499/SIO_2016_Information_Memorandum.pdf

https://web.archive.org/web/20160307033005/http:/tfsltd.com.au/files/5514/5663/7499/SIO_2016_Information_Memorandum.pdf

https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=5&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwjDxf6z1OXSAhXGTSYKHeEzB3sQFgg1MAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.bondsupermart.com%2Fmain%2Ffile-depository%2Fdownload-file%3FparamCategory%3DbondDocument%26paramDocumentNo%3D1693&usg=AFQjCNGkGNBLx-LeMAU7rhH3hf9V1JOglw
8 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





Third, TFS claimed in an earlier response to Bloomberg that by the “legal definition,” Incipient Capital is not a related 


party.  But this is nonsense: by any definition, common sense or legal, we think it is obvious that Incipient Capital is 


a related party.   To review, TFS consistently cited Incipient Capital in its marketing materials without disclosing that:   





• Incipient Capital was the lead manager in raising $194 million in financing for TFS from 2009 to 2012.   


• Incipient Capital’s co-founder and non-executive director, from 2009-2016, was the CEO of a JV 49% owned 
by the Company and fully acquired in 2014.   


• Incipient Capital’s co-founder was also the founder and director of Wise-owl, an Australian market research 
firm which has put out positive analyst coverage on TFS, placing a buy rating on the stock.   





How is Incipient Capital not a related party when Phillip Shamieh is a partner of the firm and, at the same time, 


serves as the CEO of TFS JV/subsidiary Gulf Natural Supply?  According to his LinkedIn page, he worked 


simultaneously for both TFS and Incipient Capital from 2009 through January 2016 (the same period when TFS was 


citing the critical study).  Isn’t that a textbook related party?  





Not only do such conflicts of interest undermine the credibility of the Incipient Capital study, but we believe it is 


materially misleading for TFS to present critical forecasts to potential investors without disclosing that the source is a 


related party that works and raises money for TFS. 





5) Forecasted Cash Flows Based on Ludicrous Assumptions 
 


The valuation of sandalwood trees is highly sensitive to a few key inputs, including future market price, yield and 


survivability. Given the length of time between planting and harvest, these inputs are inherently difficult to forecast.  


In our Report, we opined that TFS has used the long production cycle and esoteric sandalwood market to propagate 


ridiculously favorable assumptions to investors regarding the future profitability of its plantations.  It continues to 


raise money without accountability because nearly all of its trees have yet to be harvested, but accountability is 


coming. 





a. Unrealistic Price Forecasts   
 


The market for Indian sandalwood is thinly-traded and highly opaque, which we believe TFS exploits to mislead 


investors with absurdly optimistic forecasts regarding the future price of sandalwood.   


i. Import Data 
 


In our Report, we highlighted import data available from Indian customs records which shows that sandalwood oil is 


being imported at prices lower than the US$ 4,500 per/kg frequently mentioned by TFS.  In the Response, the 


Company criticizes our data source as relying on “unknown shipping documentation compiled by a third party and 


placed on a free website.”  But this is exactly the point: our Indian customs data is an independent source, and 


therefore, we believe, far more valuable than self-serving projections by TFS.   





Our Report highlights the Indian customs data because TFS admits that India is a key market for its sandalwood.  But 


if essential sandalwood oil is being imported today into India at lower prices than TFS is forecasting when it values 


its plantations, then it undermines not only the Company’s forecasts but also the gains it recognizes every year on the 


value of its biological products.  





But TFS’s Response further undermines its price forecasts, because with the apparent cessation of sales to its largest 


customer, TFS is admittedly having trouble selling its products.  TFS claims that the size of the sandalwood market 


will increase to twelve times its current size by 2025 (with TFS projecting that it will supply 75% of the demand).7  


If TFS is having trouble selling its products now, when supply is scarce, why should investors believe that prices will 


increase (or stay high) when TFS floods the market with sandalwood in the future?  We believe that over time, a glut 


of supply will force the price of sandalwood down, making returns on future harvests far lower than TFS is projecting 


and rendering the value of TFS’s plantations far lower than the Company is prepared to currently admit. 








                                                             
7 FY 2016 Full Year Results Presentation 



http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20160826/pdf/439npvbj1qsclm.pdf
9 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





ii. TFS Artificially Inflates the Price of Sandalwood and Prevents Market Price Discovery   
 


In its Response, TFS fails to address one of the more critical components in our Report   





Since 2014, each year, the Company has purchased MIS-owned sandalwood harvests at auction.  These hectares 


are managed by TFS but owned by its retail and institutional investors.  In theory, MIS-owned trees were supposed to 


be sold at auction after harvest.  Instead, TFS raises money from the capital markets to buy the harvested trees.  In one 


case, it foolishly bragged that it paid 10% above the next highest bidder at auction.  In 2016, the Company admitted 


that it raised AU$ 60.5 million from the equity markets to purchase 221 hectares of MIS plantations from retail 


investors due to be harvested over the next five years.  In our view, this is Ponzi-like behavior.  TFS is using funds 


raised from new investors to buy out previous investors.  In doing so, the Company is bidding up the price of 


sandalwood at auction, thereby artificially inflating the price of the thinly-traded commodity to justify its own 


ludicrous price forecasts.     





The Company claims it wants to increase exposure to sandalwood, but we suspect that it is purchasing older plantations 


to prevent sandalwood from hitting the open market in significant volume, thereby preventing the establishment of a 


market price for sandalwood; which we suspect would be well below the price used in the Company’s forecasts.   Our 


suspicion is that the Company is terrified of trees hitting the open market at an equilibrium price lower than TFS’s 


forecasted price, which would not only undermine the Company’s future promises of profitability and returns for 


investors, but would also force the Company to incur dramatic write downs in the valuation of its existing plantations. 





We are limited to the data available in the public forum, but a regulator with subpoena power could examine TFS’s 


internal email correspondence with respect to such purchases.  It could also subpoena documents in connection with 


such auctions, including whether TFS was over-bidding at such auctions to drive up the quoted price of sandalwood. 





b. Dubious Yield and Survivability Assumptions   
 


In our Report, we highlighted that TFS’s reported “profits” (from non-cash gains) and its marketing materials are both 


based on highly dubious assumptions regarding the heartwood yield and survivability of its sandalwood trees.  


We noted that academic studies project yields between 4.0 – 6.8 kg per tree.  In FY 2011, TFS told investors to expect 


a yield as high as 30 kg per tree, as high as seven times the yield projected by such academic research.  We also 


pointed out that in 2016, TFS admitted that its actual yields on harvested trees were 3.1, 4.9, and less than 9.7 kg 


per tree (for 2014, 2015 and 2016 harvests, respectively), far below the Company’s current forward projection of 19.8 


kg per tree.  Actual survival rates from FY 2014 through FY 2016 were 32%, 38%, and 70%, respectively, which also 


came in far below the Company’s forecast survival rates of 80-90%.  In addition, the Company alerted investors in 


FY 2016 that 9 of its first 12 vintages (75%) were not growing in line with the yield curve.   





TFS’s Response is basically that survival rates and yields have improved since its earlier plantations and that 


improvements in the process of sandalwood planting (and maintenance) will result in better outcomes.  But this misses 


the point.  





Our point is that TFS should be using the yield and survivability it has actually achieved to value its plantations 


(and to market to shareholders, creditors and project-level investors), not its self-serving forecasts, which have 


little basis in either academic studies or TFS own results.   





We believe that TFS’s financial statements should project an expected yield of ~10 kg per tree, which would be double 


the reported yield from academic studies and even greater than the Company’s maximum yield on prior harvests.  In 


our opinion, just this simple revision of its yield estimates to a more realistic assumption would cause TFS’s scheme 


to unravel.  First, the Company would be forced to take a write down on the value of its biological assets, a hit to its 


income statement which would correct for ludicrous previous upward re-evaluations.  Second, the Company would 


have to correct misleading cash flow forecasts in its marketing material, which rest on such overly rosy assumptions.  


This would make it much harder to raise money for new vintages.  In our opinion, the loss of investor confidence from 


this change in TFS’s forecasts would effectively cut off TFS from the capital markets.    








 



http://www.asx.com.au/asxpdf/20170227/pdf/43gbhgqhtrrbl6.pdf
10 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





Valuation 





Moody’s downgrade of its rating outlook, Wilson’s resignation and TFS’s Response increase our conviction in our 


investment opinion.  Specifically, TFS has now admitted that it failed to disclose that its biggest customer has not 


ordered any sandalwood in 2017, despite the fact that TFS claimed to have pre-sold USD 25 million of sandalwood 


to this customer per year for the next five years.  We believe it should dramatically undermine investor confidence in 


TFS that the Company failed to disclose such a material development until Glaucus caught it red handed.  





Nor can it inspire investor confidence that TFS essentially disclaims all involvement with JC, its long-time partner, 


which was, in our opinion, disseminating Ponzi-like marketing materials to investors.  Are investors, creditors and 


regulators really to believe that JC raised AU$ 30 million for TFS using marketing documents and investments 


structures that were not reviewed or authorized by TFS?  





TFS is already heavily levered, burns cash at a torrid pace, and cannot function without access to the capital markets.  


As a result, its debts are mounting, and its interest payments are becoming a larger and larger burden.  TFS reported 


AU$ 555 million in total financial liabilities as of 1H FY 2017.   





 
Source: Company Public Filings 


 
In FY 2016, TFS’s annual interest payments were AU$ 31 million, accounting for 50% of the Company’s reported 


cash EBITDA.  Such leverage is concerning because of the Company’s long wait until it can harvest meaningful 


amounts of sandalwood. The only way that the Company can continue to pay interest on its debt is with new borrowing 


or project level financing, creating a vicious cycle.   





Every investor should do their own homework.  For our part, we calculate that TFS’s liabilities far exceed the value 


of its sandalwood plantations, and that once investors come to realize the misleading nature of TFS’s disclosures, TFS 


will struggle to access the capital markets.   





With Moody’s revision of its outlook on TFS’s debt to negative, this process has already begun.  Without the capital 


markets, we highly doubt that the Company will be able to fully repay its current investors, let alone continue to 


operate for the benefit of shareholders.  We believe that TFS will likely follow Timbercorp and Great Southern into 


ignominy and failure.  Accordingly, we continue to value TFS’s equity at AU$ 0.00. 
  


AU$ '000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1H '17


Total Financial Liabilities 67,281 140,842 146,503 164,154 245,332 349,393 456,153 555,342


Cash EBITDA 44,268     16,533      23,780      51,804      51,400      57,533       62,162       7,574         


Interest Payment 2,938 3,757 9,756 16,248 19,141 19,617 31,211 15,418


Interest Payment as % of Cash EBITDA 7% 23% 41% 31% 37% 34% 50% 204%
11 





TFS Corporation Ltd. / Quintis│ ASX: TFC / QIN                                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





DISCLAIMER 


 
We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is TFS. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If  you 


are invested (either long or short) in TFS, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like 
everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the 


publication of our opinions about the public companies we research is in the public interest.  





You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of TFS stock declines. This report and 
all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of fact. Our 


opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we set out in our research report 


to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a manner that any person could have 


done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on 
to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making any investment decisions. We are 


prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law.  





As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) (possibly 
along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors 


has a direct or indirect short position in the stock and bonds (and/or other options or instruments) of the company covered herein, 


and therefore stands to realize significant gains if the price of such instruments decline. Use Glaucus Research Group California, 


LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with 
respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be 


construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, 
or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any 


security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under 


the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and 


reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected 
persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is 


evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure that our 


research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to support our 


opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented “as is,” without 
warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, 


LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high 
value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international 


organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  


 
This report should only be considered in its entirety.  Each section should be read in the context of the entire report, and no section, 


paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its author to stand alone or to be interpreted in isolation without reference to the 


rest of the report.  The section headings contained in this report are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in 


reference to the detailed statements of opinions in their respective sections.  
 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 


completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or supplement 
this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and independently 


agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by the laws of the 


State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the 


superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that 
Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in California; and (iii) that 


regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the 


material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a 
waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the 


parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision and 


rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction 
provision.
