We are short shares of Pulse Biosciences, a ~$400mm medical-device company with 13 


employees, zero revenue, and one focus: developing and commercializing a technology it calls 


“Nano-Pulse Stimulation” (NPS), in which cells are exposed to very strong electrical fields for 


very brief periods of time in hopes of killing them. Pulse claims that this method of killing cells 


constitutes a “novel therapeutic tissue treatment platform” with the potential not only to destroy 


tumors directly but also, in the words of the company’s chief scientific officer, to “essentially 


transform[ them] into vaccines to direct the immune system to destroy them.” On the basis of 


this high concept (as opposed to any significant commercial or technical progress), Pulse’s 


stock price has increased six-fold since its May 2016 IPO. 





This run-up is senseless. Contrary to Pulse’s highly selective narrative, even if NPS one day 


performed as advertised, it would still have little value. For one thing, an existing ablation device 


called the NanoKnife, which has been on the market for a decade, also kills cells by exposing 


them to very strong electrical fields for very brief periods of time. While Pulse insists that its 


technology, by using somewhat stronger fields for somewhat briefer periods, generates wildly 


different effects, the scientific literature argues otherwise: many allegedly unique benefits of 


NPS, like the induction of apoptosis (a form of programmed cell “suicide”) and the stimulation of 


the immune system, apply not just to NanoKnife but to a wide range of other run-of-the-mill 


treatments. From a clinical perspective, Pulse’s NPS is nothing special, especially relative to 


NanoKnife – which, in turn, is a perennial flop with less than $20 million in annual revenue. 





Worse still, our review of published NPS results reveals that the technology doesn’t perform as 


advertised. To the contrary, it’s often appallingly ineffective. For instance, in the only formal NPS 


clinical trial published to date, Pulse researchers treated three patients with skin cancer and – in 


an outcome far worse than standard surgery – left two with residual cancer and a third with 


discolored and anomalous-looking (but supposedly, for the time being, benign) lesions. Very 


recently, new research funded by Pulse itself concluded that “even after the most intense 


treatments” a sizable fraction of human cancer cells across a range of cancer types simply 


cannot be killed by NPS – an alarming phenomenon whose cause remains a complete mystery. 


The unexpected discovery of this “residual resistivity” or “tolerance” – published online in 


December, headed for print in May, yet, to our knowledge, never mentioned by Pulse 


management – may by itself wipe out what little commercial value NPS might have had. What’s 


the point of a method for killing cancer that can’t kill cancer? 





Pulse’s technology has barely made it off the drawing board, yet it’s already proven itself to be 


weak, unreliable, and undifferentiated. Investors with high expectations are in for a shock. 





May 2017 





Pulse Biosciences, Inc. (PLSE) 
High-Voltage Hype Set to Short-Circuit 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in and own option interests on the stock of Pulse 
Biosciences, Inc. (the “Company”). Other research contributors, and others with whom we have shared our 
research (collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise have short positions in, and/or own option 
interests on, the stock of the Company. The Authors stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the 
stock decreases. Following publication, the Authors may transact in the securities of the Company. All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the Authors do not undertake to update 


this report or any information herein. Please read our full legal disclaimer at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 2 











Table of Contents 


I. INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS ........................................................................................................ 3 


II. COMPANY OVERVIEW ................................................................................................................... 7 


III. PULSE’S TECHNOLOGY IS NOTHING SPECIAL ....................................................................... 8 


Many Other Cancer Treatments Stimulate the Immune System ............................................................................. 10 
Observed Immune Effects Have Not Translated to Clinical Benefits ................................................................... 12 
Technologies Like Pulse’s Have Been Commercial Flops ........................................................................................ 13 


IV. PULSE’S TECHNOLOGY IS IMPOTENT AND UNRELIABLE ................................................ 16 


Pulse’s Basal-Cell Carcinoma Trial Was a Failure ....................................................................................................... 16 
NPS Fails to Kill Many Cancer Cells ............................................................................................................................ 19 


V. CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................................ 20 


REFERENCES .......................................................................................................................................... 21 


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ................................................................................................................... 23
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





I. Investment Highlights 





Pulse’s NPS technology is far less special than it claims. Pulse contends that “NPS will 


provide unique benefits to patients in a wide variety of medical applications,”1 asserting that, 


while other ablation modalities using extreme heat or cold to destroy tumors “generally lead[] to 


cellular necrosis” (uncontrolled cell death driven by physical injury), NPS “offers a non-thermal 


and non-ionizing ablative technology that can be selectively tuned to induce apoptosis,” or 


programmed cell death. “[T]his less destructive approach,” according to Pulse, “lends itself to a 


number of applications including tumors which would otherwise be inoperable because of 


proximity to critical structures” (emphasis added).2 





However, irreversible electroporation (IRE) – a technology very similar to NPS and already 


commercialized for years under the brand name NanoKnife – has been pitched in almost 


exactly the same way, as this selection from a 2012 marketing presentation demonstrates: 





Selection from NanoKnife Marketing Presentation, February 2012 





Source: AngioDynamics. Red highlights added by Kerrisdale. 





Furthermore, while Pulse uses limited evidence from animal models to suggest that NPS can 


prevent cancer recurrence, irreversible electroporation produced similar results four years ago, 


when a team of researchers found that, after using IRE to destroy tumors in mice and then 


                                                
1 Pulse 2016 10-K, p. 3. 
2 Pulse 2016 prospectus, p. 27. 





v
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 4 





injecting the mice with a second batch of cancer cells, “growth of the second tumors 


was…significantly reduced or prevented entirely” (1). Indeed, more broadly, what Pulse claims 


to be NPS’s most important benefit – its purported ability to cause cell death in a way that 


stimulates the immune system – is shared by a wide range of therapies, including cryoablation, 


photodynamic therapy, radiation therapy, focused ultrasound ablation, radiofrequency ablation, 


and more. If NPS can’t “provide unique benefits” like Pulse says, then it makes no sense for 


such an early-stage technology – years away from generating meaningful revenue, and 


supported by published data from only four human patients – to command such a high 


valuation. 





Similar technologies have repeatedly fallen short of expectations. While Pulse’s marketing 


message closely resembles that of NanoKnife (manufactured by AngioDynamics, which 


acquired the technology in 2008 for just $25 million3), that should come as no comfort to Pulse 


shareholders, since NanoKnife has proven to be a serial disappointment both clinically and 


commercially. For instance, in a surprising failure, a clinical trial testing the use of NanoKnife in 


lung cancer ended early when it became clear that the treatment failed to eradicate many 


tumors (2) – notwithstanding preclinical evidence, like Pulse’s, of positive immune effects. A 


decade after launching, NanoKnife still produces less than $20 million of annual revenue – a 


small part of a relatively small yet crowded market for nonsurgical tumor ablation.  





Similarly, while some animal models have suggested that radiofrequency ablation stimulates 


significant immune benefits, a randomized controlled trial in humans with liver cancer proved 


that the therapy delivered results that were significantly worse than those of conventional 


surgical resection (3). Another technology, high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), has 


likewise shown signs of enhancing immune responses to cancer, yet its results in humans were 


so weak that it struggled to achieve FDA approval, and the technology’s leading manufacturer, a 


French company called EDAP, earns almost zero profit from it. In general, tantalizing hints that 


new ablation modalities might confer meaningful anti-cancer immunity have failed to translate 


into real-world success, an outcome that we fully expect to repeat for Pulse. There’s no room in 


the marketplace for a NanoKnife “me too” when the original NanoKnife has failed to gain much 


traction. Even if Pulse’s technology did what it was supposed to do, it would have no realistic 


value proposition. 





Pulse’s data indicate that NPS is impotent and unreliable. In the only formal study of NPS in 


humans yet completed and published, Pulse researchers treated ten small tumors caused by 


basal-cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) across three patients. While Pulse has spun this 


study as an early win, three out of the ten tumors remained cancerous 15 weeks after treatment; 


by contrast, the most effective treatment for this cancer, a technique called Mohs surgery, 


almost always succeeds, with recurrence very rare even five years later. Not only did NPS fail to 


eliminate 30% of the tumors; it failed on two out of three patients. The third, while judged 


cancer-free on the basis of histological data, was likely unhappy with the “improvement” of her 


                                                
3 See AngioDynamics FY 2009 10-K, p. 4.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





two lesions, which in our view look even more troubling after treatment (last row of photos) than 


before treatment (first row of photos): 





Pulse’s Results in One Patient’s Basal-Cell Carcinoma 





Source: Nuccitelli et al. 2014 (4), Kerrisdale analysis 


Images depict two different tumors on a single patient before 


treatment and two, seven, and eleven weeks after treatment, from 


top to bottom. 





For one of the other two patients, not only did NPS fail to rid him of cancer; it also appeared to 


give rise to two instances of seborrheic keratosis, a benign skin growth that looks like skin 


cancer – an unpleasant result not just for the patient but for Pulse, which hopes to one day treat 


this condition4 yet may somehow cause it.   





These startlingly bad results are consistent with a longer track record of weak and inconsistent 


NPS data. The latest and perhaps the most worrisome example is a study paid for by Pulse 


itself that shows for the first time that, across a variety of healthy and cancerous human cell 


lines, sizable (10%+) fractions of cell populations exposed to NPS boast “an unusual level 


of…tolerance” and simply don’t die, no matter how many times they’re zapped (5). Disturbingly, 


while the authors of the study tried to take the sting out of this discovery by blaming it on some 


artifact of the experimental methodology, they concluded that the phenomenon of NPS 


resistance or tolerance is quite real – yet its cause remains a mystery.  





                                                
4 See e.g. Pulse 2016 10-K, p. 6. 


Does this look like a cure?
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





When NPS failed to completely kill tumors or prevent their recurrence in previous studies, as it 


often did, researchers could always fall back on the excuse that they just hadn’t used enough 


pulses. The new study, however, exposes that excuse as hollow and underscores just how 


poorly the effects of NPS are still understood. Since cancer is, by definition, a disease of 


aberrant growth, and other existing ablation modalities can in fact reliably kill cells, a treatment 


like Pulse’s NPS that unaccountably only kills some parts of tumors some of the time is 


worthless. 





If Pulse’s technology were as good as it claimed to be, it would still falter in a market already full 


of technologies with similar stories. But with so much evidence quickly stacking up against NPS, 


we believe it’s dead on arrival.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





II. Company Overview 





Pulse Biosciences: Capitalization and Financial Results 





*Pro forma for Pulse’s February 2017 equity issuance (at a price of $6.10 per share). 


†2017 values represent Kerrisdale projections. Pulse management indicated on the company’s May 4, 


2017, earnings call that cash use in 2017 would be $13.5 million. 


Source: company filings, Kerrisdale analysis  





Though technically founded in May 2014, Pulse Biosciences grew out of an entity formed in 


2000 (initially called RPN Enterprises and later renamed BioElectroMed) created by Richard 


Nuccitelli, a former UC Davis professor and now chief scientific officer of Pulse who retired from 


academia to pursue his fortune. In the early 2000s, Nuccitelli grew excited about early animal 


studies showing that strong but brief electrical pulses (on the order of 100 nanoseconds in 


duration) could eliminate tumors. While research findings in this area, many of them co-


authored by Nuccitelli and funded by government grants, trickled in over the years, the field 


remained obscure, with only a handful of groups involved and no apparent outside commercial 


interest. By 2008, Nuccitelli’s BioElectroMed entity seemed to be more focused on an unrelated 


technology called the Dermacorder, designed to assess wound healing and even diagnose 


cancer by measuring electric fields; an old version of BioElectroMed’s web site boasts that the 


device was “featured on Star Trek Tech [on the] History Channel.” 





But the Dermacorder apparently amounted to little, and by 2013 BioElectroMed returned its 


focus to what it then called “Nanosecond Pulse Ablation.” A “Partnering” page on its site noted, 


“We seek corporate partners…To inquire about partnering opportunities, please contact us.” But 


no partners emerged. Ultimately the small investment bank MDB Capital – a firm with a 


checkered past that includes packaging and taking public many companies that proved 


disastrous for long-term shareholders – helped BioElectroMed roll up a number of patents 


related to nanosecond pulsed electric fields, some of which were previously held by a handful of 


universities, including Old Dominion and Eastern Virginia Medical School. A November 2014 


private placement infused the new roll-up entity with $8 million in cash and valued it at $20 


million in total, or $2.67 per share (88% lower than the current price). Finally, what was now 


called Pulse went public in May 2016 at a price of $4 per share.  





Little happened in Pulse’s first several months as a public company, and its stock price ranged 


between $4 and $6. On February 10, however, Pulse issued a press release announcing that 


Robert Duggan, a serial entrepreneur who became a billionaire after selling the drug company 


Capitalization Financial results ($ mm)


Share price ($) $23.07 2015 2016 2017†


Fully diluted shares (mm):* Revenue -$          -$          -$          


Shares outstanding 14.1      Oper. cash flow (3)          (8)          (14)        


Dilutive impact of warrants/options 1.7        Cash 4           16         8           


Total 15.9      


Fully diluted market cap ($mm) 366$
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





Pharmacyclics to AbbVie, and Maky Zanganeh, a former dentist and Duggan’s COO at 


Pharmacyclics, bought significant stakes in the company, including purchasing $5 million of 


newly issued shares directly from the company at a price of $6.10. Investors, acting as if this 


shift in ownership somehow altered the value of Pulse’s underlying technology, drove the stock 


dramatically higher from there. Indeed, the price has become so frothy that Pulse recently 


announced that MDB Capital had waived lock-up provisions a month early for pre-IPO holders 


of 28% of the company’s shares; apparently these holders were so eager to sell at current 


prices that they didn’t want to risk waiting even one more month, despite the ugly optics. 





While the past successes of Pulse’s new minority shareholders deserve respect, they can’t 


change what the technology is or how well it works. To be sure, NPS is still very early in its 


development, having been used on only a handful of human patients to date, but, with no 


meaningful edge over alternative ablation modalities and an accumulating body of evidence 


highlighting its weakness and inconsistency, Pulse cannot, in our view, justify anything close to 


its current valuation – no matter who owns its shares. 





III.  Pulse’s Technology Is Nothing Special 





Out of context, Pulse’s story sounds good. The first page of the company’s IPO prospectus sets 


out the official line: 





For the treatment of cancer, we believe that we can trigger a signaling cascade within 


the tumor cells that ends in immunogenic apoptosis. Immunogenic apoptosis is a 


process in which cells are induced to die in a natural way, initiating their own 


programmed cell death, engaging the immune system to clear damaged, diseased, or 


aged cells and enrolling cytotoxic T cells to recognize and eliminate cells of the same 


tumor type. We believe we are the only medical device company with the intellectual 


property, technology, and know-how to be able to produce this natural cell death using 


NPES5 to initiate cell signaling that induces the targeted adaptive immune response.6 





Not only can Pulse’s device kill cells, the story goes; it can also kill them in a unique way that 


recruits the patient’s own immune system to join the fight.  





But is Pulse truly “the only medical device company” with these abilities? Pulse is at pains to 


distinguish its “nanosecond” pulses (which, in clinical applications, have actually been ~100-


nanosecond pulses) using electric field strengths of tens of thousands of volts per centimeter 


from the characteristics of another technology, irreversible electroporation (IRE), which uses 


pulses ~100x longer at electric field strengths ~10x weaker. According to Pulse, irreversible 


                                                
5 By the time of its 2016 Q3 10-Q, Pulse began to refer to its technology as “Nano-Pulse Stimulation” 


However, previously it used the term “Nano-Pulse Electro-Signaling” (NPES), while academic papers 


generally say “nanosecond pulsed electric field” (nsPEF). These terms are all synonymous. 
6 Pulse 2016 prospectus, p. 1.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





electroporation – marketed by the publicly traded medical-device company AngioDynamics 


under the name NanoKnife – “cause[s] cell membranes to irreversibly permeabilize, resulting in 


necrosis (death) of the tumor cells,” while Pulse’s technology, by contrast, “transiently 


permeabilizes internal organelles which can lead to a signaling cascade ending in immunogenic 


apoptosis rather than necrosis.”7 





The scientific literature, however, paints a different picture: irreversible electroporation is 


generally regarded as causing apoptosis. Consider the following passage from a study of IRE in 


human prostate cancer (emphasis added) (6): 





Unlike other [focal therapy] modalities, [IRE] relies on a non-thermal mechanism to 


induce cell death. IRE uses needle electrodes placed in or around a targeted volume of 


tissue to deliver a series of brief direct-current electrical pulses with the intention of 


inducing a permanently porous cell membrane. This disrupts cellular homoeostasis 


resulting in apoptosis. 





This summary is not meant to be controversial; rather, it merely states the consensus. Another 


recent IRE study used similar language (7): 





Unlike RFA [radiofrequency ablation] and MWA [microwave ablation], IRE induces 


apoptotic cell death in the (relative) absence of thermal damage. … IRE thus offers the 


advantage of preserving underlying structural integrity and architecture due to the 


absence of necrotic cell death… 





Moreover, while Pulse harps on NPS’s ability to induce apoptosis, this emphasis is overblown. 


What exactly NPS does to cells remains murky. As one 2014 paper explained (emphasis 


added) (8): 





With the complexity of the cellular response to nsPEF [nanosecond pulsed electric 


fields], the mechanisms and specific pathways leading to cell death have only been 


partially understood. The early studies focused on the apoptotic response and only 


recently early necrosis was reported by several groups as a separate or even a 


predominant mode of nsPEF-induced cell death. 





In short, AngioDynamics’ NanoKnife IRE technology causes apoptosis, not just necrosis, while 


Pulse’s NPS technology causes necrosis, not just apoptosis. To depict itself as unique, Pulse 


has no choice but to gloss over the deep similarities between IRE and NPS, but these efforts 


are misleading. However interesting the different effects engendered by variations in pulse 


duration and field strength may be from a scientific perspective, their practical impact on cancer 


cells appears to be small.  





                                                
7 Pulse 2016 prospectus, p. 38.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 10 





Indeed, more broadly, there is nothing unusual about non-surgical ablation modalities or other 


cancer treatments causing cell death by apoptosis. As one 2016 review put it, “Induction of 


apoptotic programmed cell death is one of the underlying principles of most current cancer 


therapies,” including radiation and chemotherapy (emphasis added) (9). While cells directly 


exposed to intense heat may die in an uncontrolled, necrotic manner, that’s not the whole story. 


In the words of another recent review (emphasis added) (10): 





Heat-ablated lesions can be thought of as having three zones: the central zone, which is 


immediately beyond the application tip and which undergoes ablation-induced 


coagulative necrosis; a peripheral or transitional zone of sublethal hyperthermia, which 


mostly occurs from thermal conduction of the central area that is either undergoing 


apoptosis or recovering from reversible injury; and the surrounding tissue that is 


unaffected by ablation. 





As the same review also points out, a similar pattern results from cryoablation, which kills cells 


via intense cold: 





Direct cold-induced coagulative necrosis occurs at the centre of cryoablative lesions, 


whereas apoptosis has been observed at their periphery. 





Thus, what Pulse cites as a key point of differentiation – NPS’s ability to induce apoptosis – is 


anything but different. A company with an undistinguished hypothetical product that has barely 


taken the first steps toward commercialization in a crowded market doesn’t deserve a $400-


million valuation. 





Many Other Cancer Treatments Stimulate the Immune System 





Ironically, Pulse’s rhetorical focus on apoptosis runs counter to its other focus: the potential 


immunological benefits of NPS. In general, apoptosis is thought to stimulate immune responses 


far less than necrosis – or even to suppress immune responses. A 2009 review of immune 


responses to cryoablation summarized the traditional view (11): 





Necrosis occurs with mechanical tissue damage, such as cryoablation, and is 


characterized by cellular breakdown and release of intracellular contents. Many of these 


intracellular contents can be immunostimulatory. … Apoptosis, or programmed cell 


death, results in several steps that allow the uptake of cellular debris by both 


macrophages and dendritic cells, but without causing inflammation and thus stimulat[ing] 


an immune response. Apoptotic cells do not release their contents…as do necrotic cells. 


In fact, several studies have shown that apoptosis not only does not stimulate immune 


recognition, but quite the opposite. 





To be fair, over time, further research has demonstrated that in some cases apoptosis can give 


rise to so-called immunogenic cell death (ICD). However, it would be bizarre to suggest that
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 11 





Pulse’s NPS has a monopoly on stimulating the immune system. To the contrary, decades of 


research show that a wide range of ablation modalities and other treatments can lead to ICD. 


This is not some special new power that makes Pulse’s technology superior to the status quo; 


it’s already widespread. 





A recent review by researchers from University College London entitled “Harnessing the 


Immunomodulatory Effect of Thermal and Non-Thermal Ablative Therapies for Cancer 


Treatment” gives a sense of how many such therapies appear to enhance immune responses: 





Select Ablative Therapies Found to Stimulate the Immune System 





Source: Bastianpillai et al. 2015 (12), Table 1 


Note: PDT = photodynamic therapy; HiFU = high-intensity focused ultrasound; LoFU = low-intensity 


focused ultrasound. 





Note that the treatment with the strongest evidence of immune-response generation is 


cryotherapy, the ablation of tumors using extreme cold; by contrast, electroporation – the 


treatment most similar to Pulse’s NPS – has produced more “limited” evidence. Beyond this list, 


chemotherapeutic agents including doxorubicin, mitoxantrone, oxaliplatin, and bortezomib, 


along with the simple physical intervention of applying high hydrostatic pressure ex vivo, have 


also been shown to elicit ICD (13). Pulse’s technology is more of the same. 





Consider, for instance, radiofrequency ablation – a method of killing cancer cells with intense 


heat. Japanese researchers showed in 2010 that radiofrequency ablation of a tumor on one side 


of a mouse’s body could significantly reduce the growth rate of an untreated tumor on the other 


side, “accompanied by massive T-cell infiltration” – evidence of a strengthened immune 


response sparked by the ablation (14). Another group showed in 2013 that radiofrequency 


ablation of colorectal cancer in mice “caused a marked increase in intratumoral CD8+ T 


lymphocyte infiltration,” especially T cells specific for tumor antigens. In addition, ablation of a 


primary tumor retarded the growth of separately induced secondary tumors on other parts of the 


body, and this effect required the presence of T cells to work (15). In short, radiofrequency 


ablation doesn’t just kill the cancer cells it directly affects; it also triggers the immune system to 


attack similar cells.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 12 





Likewise, consider high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU). Mouse studies as far back as 1992 


suggested that HIFU led to “stimulation of host tumor immunity” (16). Further studies revealed 


that vaccinating mice with HIFU-treated tumor cells inhibited growth of subsequently introduced 


tumors, while T cells extracted from tumor-bearing mice treated with HIFU, when transferred to 


other such mice not treated with HIFU, could extend survival and even induce tumor regression 


(17).  





Irreversible electroporation also appears to confer a degree of anti-tumor immunity. In 2013, 


researchers found that, after only partially ablating mouse tumors using IRE, mice with 


functional immune systems survived much longer than immunodeficient mice – suggesting that, 


even when IRE didn’t eliminate every cancer cell, it still sparked enough of an immune response 


(in mice capable of it) to enhance health. Furthermore, in tumor-bearing mice treated with IRE 


and then subsequently re-challenged with the same type of tumors, “growth of the second 


tumors was shown to be significantly reduced or prevented entirely” – a phenomenon 


accompanied by “robust” T-cell infiltration in some mice (1). In 2016, another mouse model 


demonstrated that IRE ablation of the liver could inhibit the growth of a related tumor on the 


skin, again accompanied by an influx of T cells (18). 





Such effects, observed across a wide array of ablation modalities (including NanoKnife’s IRE), 


put Pulse’s overblown claims in perspective. The best evidence Pulse has marshaled shows 


that, in some cases, in certain animal models, NPS treatment can do more than kill the cells it 


directly affects; it can also stimulate the immune system to target tumors itself. But the same 


can be said for radiofrequency ablation, cryoablation, high-intensity focused ultrasound, 


irreversible electroporation, and more. Pulse’s findings do nothing to distinguish NPS from the 


many more established and better understood competitors. 





Observed Immune Effects Have Not Translated to Clinical Benefits 





Despite intriguing suggestions of positive immunological side effects, however, nonsurgical 


ablation modalities have often performed poorly in real patients. In the words of one 2017 


review (emphasis added) (17): 





[In addition] to lowering the general tumor burden, ablation releases tumor antigens and 


multiple bioactive molecules such as damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). 


Combined with general inflammation and immune-regulatory processes of the wound 


healing response following ablation, this will result in different innate and adaptive 


immune effects.… However…responses generally remain weak. Potent antitumor 


immunity therefore is rarely generated, as also evidenced by scarce reports of 


spontaneous regression following ablation. 





Irreversible electroporation, for example – the modality most similar to Pulse’s NPS – performed 


surprisingly poorly in a key lung-cancer trial published in 2015, forcing the trial to be cut short 


prematurely lest more patients receive such ineffective treatment (2). In another recent clinical
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 13 





trial dubbed the “NanoKnife Electroporation Ablation Trial” (NEAT), researchers were again 


clearly disappointed by the results, noting that, while NanoKnife treatment appeared to be safe, 


“[t]he ablation results were less satisfactory, with one-third [of patients] harbouring clinically 


significant disease following treatment” – a far cry from a consistent cure. Thus, whatever the 


modest potential immune benefits of IRE, they were not enough to overcome its other 


limitations, like the difficulty of assessing whether a targeted tumor has been fully ablated in the 


first place. 





These weak results are not unique to IRE; other modalities have produced similar 


disappointments in the clinic. For instance, in a large randomized trial comparing liver-cancer 


patients treated with radiofrequency ablation to those treated with conventional surgery, RFA 


led to substantially worse overall survival and recurrence-free survival, with RFA patients almost 


50% more likely than surgery patients to experience a recurrence of their cancer within five 


years after treatment (3). Again, regardless of whether RFA induced any immune response in 


these patients, it didn’t matter; overall, they still would have been better off with surgery. 





Ultrasound ablation has yielded further disappointments. An unfinished trial using a device 


called Ablatherm produced by the publicly traded company EDAP found that almost a third of 


prostate-cancer patients tested positive for prostate cancer within two years of ablation, results 


so poor that an FDA expert panel voted unanimously in 2014 that there was no reasonable 


assurance that the treatment was effective. Once more, immunological data generated in animal 


models failed to translate to a net clinical benefit in real patients.  





Indeed, the evidence in favor of nonsurgical ablation is generally weak, as one recent review 


pointed out (10): 





[C]ommon disadvantages include incomplete ablation, disease recurrence and inferior 


outcomes…There is a noticeable lack of randomized controlled clinical trials in patients, 


which is mostly because it is unethical to conduct head-to-head comparisons between 


ablation and surgical excision when the tumour is resectable. 





Over time, the same pattern of disillusionment has repeated again and again: tantalizing hints 


that killing cells in some novel way will have meaningfully positive knock-on effects, juxtaposed 


with unimpressive clinical outcomes that relegate the treatment to the small market of patients 


with no better alternatives. At best, Pulse’s NPS technology will fizzle out in the same way. 





Technologies Like Pulse’s Have Been Commercial Flops 





With only weak and equivocal clinical data to support them, novel ablation modalities akin to 


Pulse’s haven’t gained significant market share. The most relevant example is the NanoKnife 


IRE technology, purchased by AngioDynamics in 2008 for just $25 million (a small fraction of
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 14 





Pulse’s current market cap).8 The NanoKnife pitch is almost identical to Pulse’s, as befits a 


technology so similar. Both purport to use strong but short electrical pulses, not extreme 


temperatures, to induce apoptosis; both can point to limited preclinical evidence that this 


approach triggers an immune response; and both claim they can protect important structures 


like blood vessels and bile ducts that may be close to targeted tumors. Pulse’s NPS, however, 


remains far from commercialization, while NanoKnife has benefited from a decade of marketing 


and a large body of clinical research.  





After all those years, though, NanoKnife has gained little traction. Across the world, virtually no 


insurance company or government payor covers NanoKnife ablation,9 regarding it as 


“experimental and investigational,” not proven or medically necessary.10 While the FDA has 


cleared it for the generic indication of soft-tissue ablation, it lacks approval for the treatment of 


any specific condition; as a result, in the words of a recent sell-side initiation piece, “NanoKnife 


market adoption has been slow.”11 To our knowledge, the last time AngioDynamics disclosed 


NanoKnife revenue, in October 2015, it had fallen from an annualized run rate of $17 million12 to 


just $12 million, driven by a decline in the sale of new NanoKnife systems (as opposed to 


disposables used during procedures). While AngioDynamics then stopped providing specific 


figures, management signaled that NanoKnife market growth continued to be weak:13 





 January 7, 2016: “[G]aining new capital placements has been a challenge for 


NanoKnife…As we look to the second half of the [fiscal] year, we have revised our 


NanoKnife capital outlook to reflect this view until we achieve our reimbursement goals.” 


 April 7, 2016: “Capital sales of NanoKnife continued to be a challenge this 


quarter…[T]he revised guidance contemplates near-term NanoKnife capital sales to be 


below historical run rate levels…” 


 January 6, 2017: “The Oncology/Surgery franchise generated revenue [that was]…down 


6% year-over-year and was driven by lower sales in a blation products and 


NanoKnife capital…” 





It thus appears that NanoKnife has made little progress beyond the installed base of just 136 


units that it had achieved by 2016.14 If that’s all NanoKnife could accomplish in over a decade, 


                                                
8 See AngioDynamics FY 2009 10-K, p. 4. 2008 is when the purchase closed; it was announced earlier, in 


2006. 


 
9 See e.g. Barclays Capital’s AngioDynamics initiation report dated February 8, 2017, p. 12 (“A primary 


challenge for NanoKnife currently is obtaining reimbursement and ANGO believes more studies and 


clinical data could help that. While it has country approvals and a DRG code in Germany, ANGO 


continues to seek CMS and NICE (UK) reimbursement for NanoKnife procedures”). 
10 See e.g. determinations by Aetna, Priority Health, BCBS of Arizona, BCBS of Florida, and BCBS of 


Alabama. 
11 Cantor Fitzgerald on AngioDynamics, November 3, 2016, p. 1. 
12 See AngioDynamics August 5, 2015, presentation, slide 21. 
13 Earnings call transcripts obtained via Capital IQ. 
14 See AngioDynamics October 15, 2015, presentation, slide 18.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 15 





what hope is there for Pulse – with an extraordinarily similar product backed up by far less 


research and experience – to build a real business? 





While AngioDynamics continues to hold out hope that NanoKnife will flourish one day, it’s clear 


that the market has more sober expectations. NanoKnife accounts for roughly 5% of 


AngioDynamics’ revenue, and the entire firm has an enterprise value of only $636 million, the 


vast majority of which is obviously attributable to other products. Simply applying 


AngioDynamics’ overall EV-to-sales multiple to an estimate of NanoKnife’s sales,15 we estimate 


that the market is valuing NanoKnife at just $29 million: 





Implied Market Valuation of 
NanoKnife 





Source: company filings, Capital IQ, 


Kerrisdale analysis 





If Pulse somehow merited the same valuation as NanoKnife, its shares would have 92% 


downside. Of course, such a valuation is absurdly generous. Pulse has 13 employees and no 


commercial products; it’s years from earning significant revenue. NanoKnife, by contrast, is 


actually in use today. There is simply nothing about Pulse’s prototype technology that deserves 


a 1,200% premium to its closest comparable. If a healthcare provider or payor wasn’t swayed by 


NanoKnife’s selling points, then Pulse’s pitch will also fall on deaf ears. 





Though less similar to Pulse’s NPS, EDAP’s HIFU product Ablatherm also furnishes an example 


of a novel ablation tool that has fallen short commercially. While Ablatherm does use heat 


(generated indirectly by sound waves) to kill cancer cells and thus differs from the purportedly 


non-thermal approaches of IRE and NPS, it has its own unique selling point: it’s completely 


noninvasive, deployed either outside the body or from within a cavity. As discussed above, 


HIFU has also been found to trigger immune responses. In early 2006, EDAP was a hot stock, 


quadrupling from ~$5 to ~$20 per share on the back of the company’s initiation of clinical trials 


in the US. But investor enthusiasm was short-lived: Ablatherm’s weak results, described above, 


forced EDAP to abandon its plan to seek approval for the device’s use in prostate-cancer 


treatment and instead pursue a narrower and far less meaningful regulatory clearance to ablate 


prostate tissue, with no claim made as to treatment efficacy. As a result, Ablatherm, like 


                                                
15 Cantor Fitzgerald has estimated that current NanoKnife revenues are $16 million. See initiation piece, 


November 3, 2016, p. 2. 


($mm )


AngioDynamics, FY 2016:


Total net sales 354$     


NanoKnife net sales 16         


AngioDynamics EV 636       


EV to net sales 1.8x


Implied NanoKnife value 29$       


Pulse downside (92)%
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 16 





NanoKnife, still suffers from a lack of insurance coverage. Today EDAP’s shares trade at $2.53 


– off some 90% from their peak – and the company’s HIFU products generated just $1 million of 


operating income in 2016. Much of the EDAP’s small market cap stems not from HIFU but from 


its kidney-stone-treatment business, which accounted for 61% of its 2016 net sales. Even if we 


allocate half of the company’s enterprise value to HIFU, the valuation is still just $26 million – 


very close to our estimate of what NanoKnife is worth and, again, a tiny fraction of Pulse’s 


valuation, even though EDAP, for all its flaws, can at least claim to have a finished product to 


sell. 





Approached from any angle, Pulse is massively overvalued even if NPS technology is all it’s 


cracked up to be. At best, NPS is a close cousin to NanoKnife, an obscure, poor-selling product 


frowned up by insurers and unable to gain a commercial foothold beyond a handful of users. 


The features that Pulse claims distinguish NPS from all other cancer treatments and ablation 


modalities – its ability to foster apoptosis and spark an immune response – are in fact 


commonplace yet have done little to drum up sales. Beyond the bluster, Pulse’s technology is 


nothing special.  





IV. Pulse’s Technology Is Impotent and Unreliable 





Even if Pulse’s NPS lived up to its billing, it would have little value in a world where NanoKnife 


and other novel ablation modalities have faltered. However, a detailed review of the available 


published data shows that NPS is disturbingly inconsistent and ineffective. Thus its 


overvaluation is even more extreme. 





Pulse’s Basal-Cell Carcinoma Trial Was a Failure 





NPS has almost never been used on humans. The first reported case was published in 2007, 


when a researcher self-administered 200 20ns-long electrical pulses at a field strength of 6.5 


kV/cm to attempt to ablate a small basal-cell carcinoma (BCC). Within six weeks, the BCC was 


replaced by a scar, and surgical excision later showed that the cancer was gone (19). But this 


informal, un-blinded self-study, described in only a few sentences in an old paper, hardly 


constitutes a formal trial. The first and only such trial to date was published in 2014 in a paper 


whose lead author is now Pulse’s chief scientific officer (4). 





Taken at face value, the trial was a success. As Pulse later said, “We believe the study 


demonstrated NPES is safe and can offer a fast and scarless alternative to current standard of 


care.”16 Pulse has also highlighted two sets of photos of lesions treated in the trial, cherry-


picking the most attractive results and omitting more disturbing images.  





                                                
16 See Pulse March 28, 2016, presentation, slide 17.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 17 





Notwithstanding Pulse’s selective presentation, it’s clear that this trial was, in reality, a failure. 


Pulse only treated three patients, each of whom had multiple BCC lesions – ten in total. 


Fourteen to fifteen weeks after NPS treatment, based on histological analysis, three of the 


lesions still harbored cancer; the other seven did not. It’s important to note the distribution of 


these failures: two out of the three patients still had at least one cancerous lesion, indicating 


that, even for a single patient, the effects of NPS are unpredictable and inconsistent. The third 


patient, though determined by the authors to be cancer-free, continued to have anomalous-


looking lesions in the same locations, the likes of which would send anyone to the 


dermatologist:  





Before and After Images of 
Basal-Cell Carcinomas 


Treated by NPS in a 
“Successful” Patient 





 
Source: Nuccitelli et al. 2014 (4) 





While the published write-up of this trial claims that NPS “was sufficient to cause most of these 


lesions to disappear during the ensuing several weeks,” “disappear” hardly seems the right word 


for what happened. Every lesion in every patient developed a black, scab-like covering, 


described in the paper as a “crust.” Many weeks after the crust fell off, the results were still 


unsettlingly poor: 





 Two lesions were still visibly malignant (1c and 2c)
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 18 





 One appeared relatively normal but remained cancerous (1d) 


 Two developed seborrheic keratosis, a skin condition that resembles cancer (2d and 2e) 


 Two developed what the authors described as “hyperpigmentation” (2a and 2b, shown 


above), as well as “dermal scar[s]” 


 Two looked relatively normal but suffered from “dermal scar[s]” (1a and 1e) 


 One looked relatively normal (1b) 





Relative to Pulse’s spin about offering a “scarless” alternative – as well as its long-term ambition 


to pursue other cosmetically sensitive dermatological indications – these outcomes are 


abysmal. Only one out of ten lesions treated can honestly be described as fixed. 





Nor is “curing” 70% of the lesions (as measured just ~14 weeks after treatment) an impressive 


accomplishment. The gold standard for the treatment of basal-cell carcinoma, a technique 


called Mohs surgery, is extremely effective; among patients with primary BCC, i.e. those who 


have never had the cancer before, 99% are still cancer-free five years after treatment (20). In 


the NPS trial, by contrast, just one out of three patients was cancer-free within a matter of 


months; we’ll likely never know the longer-term recurrence rate, but it can only get worse. While 


other treatments are less effective than Mohs surgery, none is nearly as bad as Pulse’s NPS: 





Nano-Pulse Stimulation Appears to Be the Worst Known 
Treatment for Basal-Cell Carcinoma 





Treatment 


method 


5-year recurrence 


rate for primary BCC 


Mohs surgery 1% 


Standard surgical 


excision 
5-10% 


Curettage and 


electrodessication 


7-13% 





Radiation 7-9% 


Cryotherapy 8% 


Pulse’s NPS 30%+ 





Source: Kauvar et al. 2015 (20), Nuccitelli et al. 2014 (4), Kerrisdale 


analysis 





While Pulse (then BioElectroMed) didn’t acknowledge the inferiority of its results – “The efficacy 


of this treatment modality was good,” it bizarrely insisted – it did make excuses. Some of the 


lesions could only be partially ablated, the authors claimed, because they were larger than the 


NPS system’s electrodes. But these lesions were still quite small; the largest was just 2 cm x 1 


cm (0.8 in x  0.4 in). Moreover, the researchers did attempt to cover the entirety of the lesions, 


splitting them into multiple regions and applying many pulses to each region; according to them, 


they simply failed to do a good enough job. But if implementing NPS is so difficult and 


impractical that even small skin lesions can overwhelm it, how can it possibly succeed in the
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 19 





real world? Furthermore, what happened to the much vaunted immune response that NPS is 


supposed to trigger? As Pulse tells the tale, NPS is so powerful and immunogenic that ablating 


a tumor in one part of the body will prevent tumor growth in other parts. In the BCC trial, 


however, improved lesions and cancerous lesions co-existed; there was no sign that the former 


conferred any benefit upon the latter. 





In short, in its clinical debut (and only published trial to date), Pulse’s NPS technology badly 


underperformed all standard treatments for basal-cell carcinoma in terms of eradicating cancer, 


while also producing multiple unexpected and unexplained skin anomalies – and singularly 


failing to give any indication of positive immune benefit. It’s no wonder that NPS has remained 


obscure. 





NPS Fails to Kill Many Cancer Cells 





In the wake of NPS’s abysmal debut trial, researchers directly funded by Pulse17 have very 


recently published another disturbing set of results. To gauge the sensitivity of different human 


cell types, both cancerous and healthy, to NPS, the researchers applied standardized treatment 


regimens in vitro. What they found was that the number of pulses it took to kill half the cells 


treated (the LD50) varied massively, and for no discernible reason, across different cell types, 


with a factor of 80 separating the relevant dose for the most and least sensitive categories. 


Moreover, cancer cells were generally less sensitive to NPS – better able to survive it – than 


healthy cells, an obviously undesirable pattern for a putative cancer treatment.  





While the unpredictability and inconsistency of NPS is itself problematic, the most alarming 


finding – what the authors called “yet another unexpected characteristic of the survival curves” – 


was the phenomenon of residual resistivity: even after thousands of pulses, a meaningful 


fraction (10-20%) of populations of every type of cell tested continued to survive. While similar 


examples of incomplete killing had been reported before, the authors had chalked them up to 


methodological flaws. Here, however, they took great pains to remove all sources of doubt yet 


upheld their initial conclusion (emphasis added):  





We were able to find isolated live cells…even after the most intense 


treatments…[R]esidual resistivity was not an artifact but reflected an unusual level of 


nsPEF tolerance in a limited sub-population of cells. Understanding the mechanism 


underlying this tolerance, as well as methods to overcome it, is essential for efficient 


tumor ablation by nsPEF and remains an area for future investigation. 





…[The data] provided evidence for the highly diverse nsPEF sensitivity not only between 


cell lines, but also between individual cells within each cell line. The presence of these 


resistant cells could have a major impact on the successful ablation of tumors, 


                                                
17 See Gianulis et al. 2017’s acknowledgements: “This work was supported by a Grant from Pulse 


Biosciences Inc.…”
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 20 





thus stressing the need to identify the physiological characteristics responsible for 


nsPEF tolerance. 





Though couched in staid academic language, these words mark a crisis in Pulse’s research 


agenda. When 10-20% of neuroblastoma cells, liver-cancer cells, fibrosarcoma cells, and 


pancreatic-cancer cells survive “even after the most intense” NPS exposure, the notion of NPS 


as a universal cancer-treatment “platform” becomes absurd. Zapping away a fraction of a tumor 


won’t do much good when the resistant remainder can rapidly grow back. Nor is there good 


reason to expect that Pulse researchers can quickly solve this problem; after all, as described in 


the paper, they already tested many possible explanations but failed to find one that fit the facts.  





Stepping back, it should come as no surprise that a tumor-ablation modality that purportedly 


relies on apoptosis would falter. After all, in order to become cancerous in the first place, cells 


must be able to overcome natural checks on aberrant growth, including apoptosis; as tumors 


grow, pro-apoptotic mechanisms tend to weaken and fail (21). By contrast, it’s difficult for cells 


to resist physical interventions like freezing temperatures or scalpels. There is thus good reason 


to believe that the latest finding of Pulse’s own research – that many cells, both healthy and 


cancerous, cannot be killed by NPS – will stand the test of time and render its technology 


worthless. 





V. Conclusion 





Pulse is a tiny company that has made virtually no progress toward commercializing a 


technology that barely seems to work in the first place – yet the market is pricing it as if it were 


already 13x more valuable than its closest peer. In the years to come, Pulse will need to 


repeatedly raise capital to cover its cash outflows as it attempts to inch closer to becoming a 


real business. But we believe this money will be wasted: Pulse’s NPS technology is simply too 


similar to NanoKnife’s irreversible electroporation to gain much traction, especially when the 


best available evidence reveals NPS to be ineffective and unreliable. These nanosecond pulses 


deserve a nanocap valuation, at least 90% lower than where Pulse trades today.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 21 








References 


1. Improved Local and Systemic Anti-Tumor Efficacy for Irreversible Electroporation in 


Immunocompetent versus Immunodeficient Mice. Neal, Robert E. II, et al. 5, May 2013, PLoS 


ONE, Vol. 8, p. e64559. 


2. Irreversible Electroporation (IRE) Fails to Demonstrate Efficacy in a Prospective Multicenter 


Phase II Trial on Lung Malignancies: The ALICE Trial. Ricke, Jens, et al. 2, 2015, Cardiovasc 


Intervent Radiol, Vol. 38, pp. 401-8. 


3. A Randomized Trial Comparing Radiofrequency Ablation and Surgical Resection for HCC 


Conforming to the Milan Criteria. Huang, Jiwei, et al. 6, December 2010, Annals of Surgery, 


Vol. 252, pp. 903-912. 


4. First-in-human trial of nanoelectroablation therapy for basal cell carcinoma: proof of method. 


Nuccitelli, Richard, et al. 2014, Experimental Dermatology, Vol. 23, pp. 130-142. 


5. Selective susceptibility to nanosecond pulsed electric field (nsPEF) across different human 


cell types. Gianulis, Elena C., et al. 2017, Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences, Vol. 74, pp. 


1741-1754. 


6. Focal irreversible electroporation for prostate cancer: functional outcomes and short-term 


oncological control. Ting, F, et al. March 2016, Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases, Vol. 


19, pp. 46-52. 


7. High-Frequency Irreversible Electroporation: Safety and Efficacy of Next-Generation 


Irreversible Electroporation Adjacent to Critical Hepatic Structures. Siddiqui, Imran A., et al. 


2017, Surgical Innovation, pp. 1-8. 


8. Calcium-Mediated Pore Expansion and Cell Death Following Nanoelectroporation. 


Pakhomova, Olga N., et al. 2014, Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, Vol. 1838, pp. 2547-2554. 


9. Westhoff, Mike-Andrew, Marschall, Nicolas and Debatin, Klaus-Michael. Novel 


Approaches to Apoptosis-Inducing Therapies. [ed.] Christopher D. Gregory. Apoptosis in 


Cancer Pathogenesis and Anti-Cancer Therapy. 2016, pp. 173-204. 


10. Thermal Albation of Tumours: Biological Mechanisms and Advances in Therapy. Chu, 


Katrina F. and Dupuy, Damian E. March 2014, Nature Reviews Cancer, Vol. 14, pp. 199-208. 


11. Cryo-Immunology: A Review of the Literature and Proposed Mechanisms for Stimulatory 


versus Suppressive Immune Responses. Sabel, Michael S. 2009, Cryobiology, Vol. 58, pp. 1-


11. 


12. Harnessing the Immunomodulatory Effect of Thermal and Non-Thermal Ablative Therapies 


for Cancer Treatment. Bastianpillai, Christopher, et al. 12, September 2015, Tumor Biology, 


Vol. 36, pp. 9137-9146. 


13. Immunogenic Cell Death in Cancer and Infectious Disease. Galluzzi, Lorenzo, et al. 2017, 


Nature Reviews Immunology, Vol. 17, pp. 97-111. 


14. Antitumor Effect after Radiofrequency Ablation of Murine Hepatoma Is Augmented by an 


Active Variant of CC Chemokine Ligand 3/Macrophage Inflammatory Protein-1ɑ. Iida, Noriho, 


et al. 2010, Cancer Research, Vol. 70, pp. 6556-6565. 


15. Immune Adjuvant Activity of Pre-Resectional Radiofrequency Ablation Protects against 


Local and Systemic Recurrence in Aggressive Murine Colorectal Cancer. Ito, Fumito, et al. 


November 2015, PLoS One.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 22 





16. Effects of high-intensity focused ultrasound in the treatment of experimental neuroblastoma. 


Yang, Rong, et al. 2, 1992, Journal of Pediatric Surgery, Vol. 27, pp. 246-251. 


17. Thermal and Mechanical High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound: Perspectives on Tumor 


Ablation, Immune Effects and Combination Strategies. van den Bijgaart, Renske J.E., et al. 2, 


2017, Cancer Immunology, Immunotherapy, Vol. 66, pp. 247-258. 


18. Irreversible Electroporation versus Radiofrequency Ablation: A Comparison of Local and 


Systemic Effects in a Small-Animal Model. Bulvik, Baruch E., et al. 2, August 2016, Radiology, 


Vol. 280, pp. 413-424. 


19. In vitro and in vivo evaluation and a case report of intense nanosecond pulsed electric field 


as a local therapy for human malignancies. Gardon, Edward B., et al. 2007, Int. J. Cancer, Vol. 


121, pp. 675-682. 


20. Consensus for Nonmelanoma Skin Cancer Treatment: Basal Cell Carcinoma, Including a 


Cost Analysis of Treatment Methods. Kauvar, Arielle N.B., et al. 5, May 2015, Dermatol Surg, 


Vol. 41, pp. 550-571. 


21. Radiation-Induced Cell Death Mechanisms. Eriksson, David and Stigbrand, Torgny. 


2010, Tumor Biol, Vol. 31, pp. 363-372. 


22. Study of Apoptosis and Heat Shock Protein (HSP) Expression in Hepatocytes Following 


Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA). Rai, R., et al. 1, November 2005, Journal of Surgical Research, 


Vol. 129, pp. 147-151.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 23 





Full Legal Disclaimer  





As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates 


(collectively "Kerrisdale") have short positions in and own options on the stock of Pulse 


Biosciences, Inc. (“PLSE”).  In addition, others that contributed research to this report and 


others that we have shared our research with (collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) 


likewise have short positions in the stock of PLSE. The Authors stand to realize gains in the 


event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication of the report, the Authors may 


transact in the securities of the company covered herein. All content in this report represent the 


opinions of Kerrisdale. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they 


believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without 


warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. The Authors make no representation, 


express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or 


with regard to the results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change 


without notice, and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any 


information contained herein. 





This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 


confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted 


as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 


included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing 


conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change. 


The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded 


as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 





Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, 


inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated 


fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation 


of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a 


security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 





This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 


any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the 


Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to 


buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the 


securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all 


information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their 


affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed 


in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors 


should assume that the Authors are short shares of PLSE and stand to potentially realize gains 


in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the 


original publication date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to 


inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading 


activities. In addition, the Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 24 





companies, securities, or commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this 


report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the 


Authors’ operations and their affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is 


generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment 


ideas and the performance of recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a 


potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents. 





The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-


looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical 


fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions 


or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can 


be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other 


factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent 


due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all 


securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone 


judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
