We are short shares of Qualcomm Incorporated, a semiconductor company teetering on the 


brink of disaster. For years, Qualcomm has presented itself as a technological innovator that 


monetizes its R&D in two ways: 1) selling chips that go into smartphones and other wireless 


devices and 2) licensing its patent portfolio. The licensing business, despite contributing far less 


revenue than the chip business, has historically supplied roughly two thirds of Qualcomm’s 


profits, thanks to its extremely high profit margins. 





This unusual business model is living on borrowed time. In the past few years, regulators across 


the globe have concluded that Qualcomm’s ability to extract massive licensing fees from device-


makers like Apple and Samsung stems not from the quality of its patents but from unlawful 


monopolistic tactics. In particular, authorities in China, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, Europe, 


and the United States have found fault with what they see as Qualcomm’s exploitation of its 


dominance in the market for premium modem chips (the components of smartphones that 


enable them to connect to cellular networks) to force device-makers to pay outrageously high 


patent royalties, even on devices that don’t contain Qualcomm chips, all while refusing to 


license its IP to potential competitors. These core Qualcomm business practices, regulators 


contend, violate binding pledges the company has made to license critical patents on “fair, 


reasonable, and non-discriminatory” (FRAND) terms, including to rivals like Intel. Indeed, in the 


words of the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC), quoting an internal Qualcomm 


assessment from 2015, “granting a FRAND license to Intel ‘would destroy the whole 


current QTL [licensing] business.’” 





If Qualcomm is right about that, then destruction is imminent. The FTC has brought a powerful 


legal case against the company, and the trial (conducted entirely before a judge, not a jury) is 


currently underway, with a scheduled end date of January 29th. We believe Qualcomm will 


lose, a view that we regard as the emerging consensus among informed observers, who have 


noted not just the strong evidence marshaled by the FTC but also the many instances before 


and during the trial when the judge signaled disagreement with Qualcomm’s legal views and 


even irritation with its lawyers. 





Perhaps because prior legal troubles have “merely” cost Qualcomm billions of dollars without 


fundamentally transforming its business model, the market has failed to appreciate the 


potentially dire consequences of the current trial. If the judge grants the FTC the remedies it 


seeks, forcing Qualcomm, among other things, to license core patents to competitors and to 


renegotiate all of its existing licenses on fair terms, it could realistically cut Qualcomm’s 


licensing revenue, earnings power, and stock price in half. As Qualcomm’s long-running 


game of monopoly draws to a close, there will be no “Get Out of Jail Free” card. 








January 2019 





Qualcomm Incorporated (QCOM) 
Ignoring the Legal Risk Is Patently Ridiculous 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in the stock of Qualcomm Incorporated (the “Company”). 
Kerrisdale stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication, 
the Authors may transact in the securities of the Company. All expressions of opinion are subject to change 
without notice, and the Authors do not undertake to update this report or any information herein. Please 


read our full legal disclaimer at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 2 











Table of Contents 


I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .................................................................................................................. 3 


II. COMPANY OVERVIEW ................................................................................................................... 5 


III. QUALCOMM IS VERY LIKELY TO LOSE ITS ONGOING LEGAL BATTLE WITH THE 
FTC..................................................................................................................................................... 7 


IV. ENDING QUALCOMM’S UNLAWFUL BUSINESS MODEL WILL RESET ITS LONG-TERM 
EARNINGS POWER FAR LOWER ............................................................................................... 10 


V. QUALCOMM’S BROADER BUSINESS OUTLOOK IS POOR .................................................... 16 


VI. CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................................ 17 


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ................................................................................................................... 18
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





I. Executive Summary 





Qualcomm is very likely to lose its ongoing legal battle with the FTC. Judge Lucy Koh, who 
is presiding over the FTC v. Qualcomm trial, has already ruled against Qualcomm on several 
critical matters, including rejecting its motion to dismiss the case and pre-determining (on the 
FTC’s motion for partial summary judgment) that Qualcomm is indeed obligated, as a matter of 
contract law, to license its key (so-called standard-essential) cellular patents to potential 
competitors like Intel on FRAND terms. Meanwhile, in a closely related consumer class-action 
lawsuit, Judge Koh allowed the case to move forward despite Qualcomm’s vehement 
objections, characterizing the evidence presented thus far to show that Qualcomm’s 
anticompetitive practices harmed consumers as “copious,” “substantial,” and “significant.”1  
 
None of this guarantees that Qualcomm will lose to the FTC, but we and other trial watchers 
have been impressed by the FTC’s performance and, by contrast, surprised at the sometimes 
combative interactions between Judge Koh and Qualcomm’s legal team. In general, 
government plaintiffs like the FTC enjoy a high win rate, and in this specific case the probability 
of government victory appears even higher than usual. 
 
Ending Qualcomm’s unlawful business model will reset its long-term earnings power far 
lower. The FTC isn’t looking to fine Qualcomm; it’s looking to fundamentally change how the 
company does business. In particular, it’s seeking to force Qualcomm to license its most 
important patents on FRAND terms to competitors like Intel, with royalties set at a small 
percentage of the price of a modem chip rather than Qualcomm’s longstanding practice of 
charging device-makers a high percentage of the price of an entire phone. This shift alone will 
radically level the playing field, making the likes of Intel much more competitive, in part because 
of the legal doctrine of patent exhaustion. Under this doctrine, if Intel pays to license Qualcomm 
patents and then sells a chip that makes use of those patents to Apple or Samsung, Qualcomm 
has no legal right to demand any additional license fees from Apple or Samsung; once the initial 
license is granted, Qualcomm’s patent rights are “exhausted” (used up). This creates a troubling 
dynamic for Qualcomm: if Intel or MediaTek can market modem chips for, say, $20 plus a $1 
license fee payable to Qualcomm ($21 all-in), how can Qualcomm continue to sell chips for the 
same ~$20 plus a smartphone-level license fee that could be as high as $20 on its own ($40 all-
in)? The math doesn’t work. Thus Qualcomm will be compelled to drastically reduce what Apple 
has called its “extortion-level royalties”2 – plausibly by an order of magnitude. 
 
Indeed, this dramatic shift may also unfold more directly if Judge Koh agrees to the FTC’s 
request to “[r]equire Qualcomm to negotiate or renegotiate, as applicable, license terms with 
customers in good faith under conditions free from” anticompetitive threats and “[r]equire 
Qualcomm to submit, as necessary, to arbitral or judicial dispute resolution to determine 
reasonable royalties and other license terms.”3 In other words, the judge’s decision in FTC v. 
Qualcomm – a decision that could come as soon as February – could trigger an immediate 
mass renegotiation in which Qualcomm is explicitly barred from leveraging its market position in 


                                                
1 Order Granting Plaintiffs’ Motion for Class Certification in In Re: Qualcomm Antitrust Litigation (case no. 


17-MD-02773-LHK), filed September 27, 2018, ECF No. 760, pp. 23 and 25. 
2 Redacted First Amended Complaint in Apple v. Qualcomm (case no. 17-cv-0108-GPC-MDD), filed June 


20, 2017, ECF No. 83, p. 17. 
3 Joint Pretrial Statement in FTC v.Qualcomm (case no. 5:17-cv-00220-LHK-NMC), filed November 29, 


2018, ECF No. 946, p. 3.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 4 





modem chips to extract excessive, unfair royalties and in which any disagreement over what 
counts as “excessive” will likely end up back in court. But precedents for determining 
“reasonable royalties” in similar circumstances strongly disfavor Qualcomm (relative to its 
current monopolistic business model), pointing to a royalty rate that, according to one FTC 
expert witness, could be as low as ~0.6%,4 a rate likely applied to the modem price of tens of 
dollars as opposed to the device price of hundreds.  
 
Even if we assume a far higher “fair” royalty of $1.50 per device – an amount that Apple’s chief 
operating officer said in sworn testimony that he proposed as relatively fair back in 20075 – we 
estimate that resetting Qualcomm’s licensing revenue to fair levels will slash revenue by $2.7 
billion (relative to fiscal year 2018) and reduce run-rate diluted EPS to $1.64, implying a fair-
value stock price of ~$21 based on historical Qualcomm and peer multiples – 60% lower than 
the current price. Even in this scenario, Qualcomm would continue to siphon $2.5 billion per 
year out of the cellular industry – an amount that few outside of Qualcomm would likely view as 
unjustly paltry. 
 
The prospect of such dramatic downside for Qualcomm’s “extortion-level royalties” isn’t 
surprising in light of some of the evidence that has already emerged from the FTC v. Qualcomm 
trial. Not only did Qualcomm say internally that licensing patents on FRAND terms to its 
competitor Intel – as Judge Koh may soon require – “would destroy the whole current QTL 
[licensing] business” (as quoted above); the FTC has also argued based on internal Qualcomm 
documents that a key reason Qualcomm repeatedly decided not to spin out its licensing unit as 
a separate company was that it wanted to retain the ability to leverage its modem-chip 
monopoly to extract supra-FRAND excessive royalties. But when Qualcomm is legally 
compelled not to leverage that monopoly, royalties will head much lower. Indeed, just last week 
the FTC confronted one of Qualcomm’s witnesses, the company’s senior vice president of 
licensing strategy, with his own past statement, recorded on audio tape, that when “having to 
choose between licensing chips and licensing at the handset, the handset was humongously 
more lucrative.”6 But this “humongously more lucrative” way of doing business – part and parcel 
of Qualcomm’s overall pattern of monopolistic tactics – will likely collapse when Judge Koh 
issues her final ruling. 
 
Qualcomm’s broader business outlook is poor. Even completely disregarding the pivotal 
FTC case, Qualcomm is not a cheap stock; its current valuation seems to bake in an assumed 
near-term settlement of its complex legal and business disputes with two major customers, yet 
such a painless resolution appears less likely than ever. Meanwhile, against the backdrop of an 
increasingly saturated smartphone market, Qualcomm is facing growing competition from both 
rival chipmakers and its own customers (who are producing more key components in-house), 
suggesting lower market share and slower growth in the long run. 
 














                                                
4 Transcript of FTC v. Qualcomm proceedings, January 14, 2019, volume 5, p. 1012. 
5 Transcript of FTC v. Qualcomm proceedings, January 14, 2019, volume 5, p. 870. 
6 Transcript of FTC v. Qualcomm proceedings, January 18, 2019, volume 7, p. 1492.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





II. Company Overview 





Qualcomm Incorporated: Capitalization and Financial Results 





 
Source: company filings, Kerrisdale analysis  


Note: “SBC” = share-based compensation (an economically meaningful ongoing expense that Qualcomm 


excludes from its adjusted EPS figures). “QTL” = Qualcomm Technology Licensing. “EBT” = earnings 


before tax (based on Qualcomm’s segment disclosures). 


* Net debt and share count reflect the impact of post-September 2018 stock repurchases as disclosed in 


Qualcomm’s FY2018 10-K. 





Founded in 1985, Qualcomm was an early innovator in wireless technology, pioneering the 


approach known as code-division multiple access (CDMA) and maintaining a strong position as 


a premier supplier of wireless modems and related components as 3G and 4G evolved. But 


while other suppliers of such components simply sell components, Qualcomm has divided its 


business into two key pieces: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies (QCT), a relatively 


straightforward operation that designs and sells wireless modem chips, and Qualcomm 


Technology Licensing (QTL), a hard-charging group devoted to getting the makers of 


smartphones and other wireless devices (known as original equipment manufacturers or OEMs) 


to pay licensing fees for access to Qualcomm’s large portfolio of patents. These patents include 


both standard-essential patents (SEPs), which Qualcomm has asserted are “essential” to the 


implementation of cellular technical standards like LTE, and non-SEPs that Qualcomm has 


developed or acquired and claims would be infringed by popular devices like the iPhone in the 


absence of a license. The FTC v. Qualcomm case has shown that the basic headline rate 


Qualcomm has historically charged for a license to its entire patent portfolio is 5% of the price of 


the entire device to which the license applies, with a recently imposed cap of $400 (implying a 


maximum royalty of 5% x $400 = $20 per device). 





Like most semiconductor producers, QCT earns relatively low margins and is subject to major 


fluctuations in earnings based on the vagaries of product cycles and end-market demand. QTL, 


by contrast, used to boast pre-tax profit margins approaching 90%, as nearly every 3G and 4G 


device maker paid their “tax” on every unit shipped, with little manpower required to generate 


billions of dollars of revenue. But why? One might expect that hefty royalties charged to 


powerful OEMs would be met with stiffer resistance, with disagreements over patent validity and 


quality frequently descending into costly litigation. The puzzle grows when one considers that 


the cellular SEPs in Qualcomm’s portfolio – arguably the most important patents the company 


has – are encumbered by a FRAND pledge – that is, a contractual promise to a standard-setting 


Capitalization Financial results


Share price ($) $54.29 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018


Shares O/S (mm) 1,212      Revenue ($mm) 23,554$  22,291$  22,732$  


($mm) Stated non-GAAP EPS 4.44$      4.28$      3.69$      


Market cap 65,808$  Non-GAAP EPS incl. SBC 3.94$      3.77$      3.19$      


Net debt* 4,789      


Enterprise value 70,597$  QTL % of segment EBT 78% 65% 54%
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





organization like 3GPP (which writes the rules for standards like LTE and 5G) that Qualcomm 


will license those patents on “fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory” terms to all applicants. 


Such a pledge, though intentionally vague (with the definition of “FRAND” often determined, in 


the end, by a judge), is intended precisely to ensure that a patent holder like Qualcomm can’t 


extract excessive royalties from standards-implementers like OEMs and competing chipmakers. 


Nonetheless, QTL revenues and profits have achieved massive scale, with Qualcomm at one 


point bragging (in a slide presented at the trial) that its licensing revenue was larger than that of 


all other major licensing businesses in the world (including telecom titans Ericsson and Nokia) 


combined. Similarly, Huawei’s senior legal counsel testified that 80-90% of the company’s total 


patent licensing costs for mobile devices go to Qualcomm, despite the fact that Qualcomm is far 


from the only company that has made major contributions to 3G and 4G cellular standards. 


(Indeed, one FTC witness, an Ericsson employee, stated that, in terms of cellular SEPs, 


Qualcomm actually ranks below Ericsson (and likely Nokia as well).7) In other words, Qualcomm 


doesn’t hold anywhere near 80-90% of the most important cellular patents, yet it extracts the 


vast majority of the corresponding patent royalties. 





In the opinion of regulators across the world, the reason Qualcomm has gotten away with this 


anomalously (indeed, “humongously”) lucrative licensing for so long is simple: it has such a 


dominant position in the markets for CDMA and premium LTE modem chips that OEMs, though 


regarding Qualcomm’s licensing fees as unfair and thus in violation of its FRAND commitments, 


felt they had no choice but to pay up. In theory, OEMs could have taken Qualcomm to court 


over its non-FRAND royalties from day one, but as a practical matter such a step posed too 


great a risk of Qualcomm retaliation via the QCT side of the business. The FTC’s opening 


statement in the current trial summarized this overall perspective and briefly explained why it 


violates US antitrust law: 





This case concerns Qualcomm’s long-standing corporate policies to harm competition 


and consumers. Under those policies, Qualcomm will not sell modem chips to a 


customer unless the customer takes a separate license to Qualcomm’s standard-


essential patents. The evidence will show that device manufacturers agreed to the 


license terms not because the royalty rates represent the fair value of Qualcomm’s 


patents but because they need access to Qualcomm’s modem chips. To buy 


Qualcomm’s modem chips, device manufacturers have to agree to pay Qualcomm’s 


elevated royalties, which are effectively a surcharge for access to Qualcomm’s chips, 


even when they use chips made by Qualcomm’s competitors. 





As a matter of textbook economics, if a monopolist demands a substantial payment 


every time a customer buys from someone else, that payment harms competition and 


contributes to the maintenance of the monopolist’s market power. Under the FTC Act, 


that conduct is unlawful and warrants injunctive relief.8 





                                                
7 Deposition Testimony of Christina Petersson, April 20, 2018, FTC v. Qualcomm, ECF No. 1324-1.  
8 Transcript of FTC v. Qualcomm proceedings, January 4, 2019, volume 1, p. 7.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





In parallel with the FTC’s lawsuit, Qualcomm’s business relationships with key customers have 


also deteriorated: Apple has stopped using its chips and paying its allegedly non-FRAND 


royalties, and an additional OEM (universally believed to be Huawei) has also refused to pay. 


As a result, QTL revenues and profit margins have already dropped significantly. 





However, investors have tended to take a sanguine view of these alarming developments, 


blithely assuming that rebellious OEMs will ultimately settle with Qualcomm on decent terms 


and that any adverse legal outcome will either result in minimal business-model disruptions or 


be overturned on appeal. This confidence is misplaced. In reality, the FTC case is going badly 


for Qualcomm, and the impact of a loss could be massive. 





III. Qualcomm Is Very Likely to Lose Its Ongoing Legal 


Battle with the FTC 





The FTC v. Qualcomm trial began on January 4th and is scheduled to end on the 29th; the 


judge will then issue her opinion afterwards, perhaps as soon as February, though she warned 


yesterday that it’s “going to take some time” (at least by her usual speedy standards). It’s easy 


for market participants to ignore complex court cases on the theory that there’s no way to 


estimate the probability of an adverse outcome, but for Qualcomm this facile view fails to 


recognize the evidence that we already have. 





For one thing, Judge Koh has already made several decisions that required her to reject 


Qualcomm’s legal reasoning: 





 Qualcomm initially moved to dismiss the FTC’s suit; Judge Koh said no. 


 Qualcomm sought to present evidence regarding events subsequent to March 2018, the 


original discovery deadline in the case. Qualcomm believed that new developments like 


Apple’s abandonment of the company’s chips in favor of Intel’s would make Qualcomm’s 


historical business practices look less anticompetitive, but Judge Koh held fast to the 


original deadline. 


 Most importantly, prior to the trial, the FTC moved for summary judgment on the legal 


question of whether the agreements Qualcomm made with standards-setting 


organizations regarding its FRAND commitments required it to license its SEPs to 


anyone, including competing chipmakers like Intel and MediaTek, or just to OEMs. 


Qualcomm maintained that it only needed to license its patents on FRAND terms to 


OEMs; at a minimum, Qualcomm said, the question of how far the FRAND commitment 


extended was difficult and controversial enough that it would need to be decided based 


on evidence presented at trial, not ahead of time. But Judge Koh disagreed, ruling that, 


as a matter of pure contract interpretation, Qualcomm was wrong, and, contrary to its 


longstanding practice, it actually is contractually obligated to license its SEPs on FRAND 


terms to anyone, including rivals. (Technically, Judge Koh’s ruling didn’t address the 


question of whether Qualcomm had actually breached this commitment, but, based on
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





the evidence presented in the trial, it clearly has.) This landmark decision went a long 


way toward advancing the FTC’s case even before the trial began. 





Furthermore, in a closely related antitrust class-action suit against Qualcomm – which, because 


it includes everyone in the United States who purchased a smartphone over a multi-year period, 


is likely the largest class action (in terms of number of class members) in US history – Judge 


Koh certified the class and thus allowed the suit to move forward, again over the strident 


objections of Qualcomm’s legal team. Her order in that case recounted in great detail the 


evidence that the plaintiffs had already presented to show that they had a plausible case that 


Qualcomm charged excessive, unfair, and unlawful patent royalties and that these excessive 


royalties were passed through to smartphone prices, pushing them up and thereby harming 


consumers; Judge Koh clearly believed the evidence was good enough to give the plaintiffs 


their day in court. While the legal issues at play in the FTC case are not identical to those in the 


class-action suit, it can’t be good for Qualcomm to see Judge Koh take such a favorable view of 


a body of evidence very similar to that set forth by the FTC. (For example, one of the FTC’s 


expert witnesses has also provided evidence in the class action, and his work is discussed very 


respectfully by Judge Koh.) The point is not that the judge is biased against Qualcomm but that 


Qualcomm’s legal arguments have repeatedly failed to persuade her – perhaps simply because 


the legal underpinnings of the company’s business practices are weak. 





In addition, in a past case not directly involving Qualcomm, GPNE v. Apple, Judge Koh also 


ruled on a matter relevant to Qualcomm in a way that goes against its interests. The plaintiff, 


GPNE, purported to hold cellular SEPs (based on pager technology) and sued Apple for patent 


infringement. Apple submitted expert testimony in which the calculation of potential damages 


caused by this alleged infringement was based on a small percentage of the value of a 


standalone modem chip (also known as a baseband processor chip), not the entire value of, 


say, an iPhone. GPNE objected, in line with Qualcomm’s view of its own patents, that it was 


legally entitled to a royalty on the entire device and thus that Apple’s expert testimony should be 


thrown out. But Judge Koh disagreed, “hold[ing] as a matter of law that in this case, the 


baseband processor is the proper smallest salable patent-practicing unit”9 – in other words, the 


correct starting point or “royalty base” for calculating a reasonable royalty that, in turn, would 


dictate how much Apple would owe to GPNE if it was found to infringe on its patents. While the 


facts in the GPNE case don’t perfectly line up with the facts in the Qualcomm case, the 


similarities are strong; if Judge Koh concludes in one case that reasonable royalties on cellular 


SEPs should be a small fraction of the price of an individual modem chip, not an entire 


smartphone, then it’s difficult to see why she’d conclude differently in another case. Once again, 


this precedent does not bode well for Qualcomm. 





As the trial has unfolded, we have also been struck by the tone of some of Judge Koh’s 


interactions with Qualcomm’s lawyers. While we wouldn’t put too much weight on this sort of 


observation, it certainly does Qualcomm no favors to be at odds with a critical decision-maker. 


                                                
9 Order Re: GPNE and Apple’s Motions to Exclude in GPNE v. Apple (case no. 12-CV-02885-LHK), dated 


April 16 2014, ECF No. 242, pp. 24-5.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





For example, Judge Koh complained that Qualcomm’s lawyers, while cross-examining the 


FTC’s witnesses, were not actually “impeaching” them (legitimately calling into question their 


credibility): 





The Court: How is that impeachment? Why do you all keep doing this? These are not 


really impeachment, but you – anyway, go ahead, please. This has been going on with 


multiple Qualcomm cross-examinations that these are not impeachment. 





Mr. Paige: I asked— 





The Court: Can you answer my question? Why is that impeachment?10 





On another occasion, when the FTC played a segment from an audio tape, Qualcomm objected 


that the FTC cut off the recording prematurely and should let it play longer to provide more 


context – but Judge Koh was unimpressed: 





Mr. Bornstein: Your honor, I have a completeness objection. Can we have that keep 


playing, please. I think we cut off for some important context for Mr. Reifschneider’s 


comments. 





The Court: We’ll do this in your time. I mean, it would have been easier with the 


transcript. Qualcomm blocked the transcript from coming in, and he’s saying, “Oh, but if I 


had the transcript, I would be able to testify X and Z.” So it’s a little bit frustrating from 


our perspective. You’re requiring us to go back in chambers and listen to the whole tape, 


which is I hope what you wanted because that’s what’s going to happen because you 


would not allow the transcript in. So you’ll do your completeness objections on your own 


time.11 





In another instance, Judge Koh complained that Qualcomm initially insisted that the dollar value 


of one its incentive payments to Apple be sealed (i.e. kept off the public record), only to later 


refer to it in open court and claim it was public knowledge: “Mr. Van Nest [one of Qualcomm’s 


lawyers] had represented that the $1 billion number was public, which was not true, and also 


that it had not been sealed. I had sealed it at the request of Qualcomm. Qualcomm had 


represented that that was competitive pricing information. I took their representation as correct, 


and I sealed it. But that should all be unsealed now.”12 Again, friction over such procedural 


matters between the judge and Qualcomm’s legal team certainly doesn’t guarantee that 


Qualcomm will lose, but the overall picture is bleak. 





Meanwhile, the FTC has put forward a strong case – and we’re not the only ones who think so. 


Just last week, Bloomberg Intelligence released a short piece entitled “Qualcomm Has Uphill 


                                                
10 Transcript of FTC v. Qualcomm proceedings, January 14, 2019, volume 5, p. 899. 
11 Transcript of FTC v. Qualcomm proceedings, January 18, 2019, volume 7, p. 1490. 
12 Transcript of FTC v. Qualcomm proceedings, January 14, 2019, volume 5, p. 863.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 10 





Climb in Second Half of FTC Antitrust Trial,” noting that “Halfway through its trial against 


Qualcomm, the FTC continues to have the upper hand, in our view. The agency has done a 


good job depicting Qualcomm's tactics as abuses of market power that have harmed 


competition.” Similarly, Joshua Sisco, a senior antitrust correspondent for the legal news source 


MLex, remarked that, though it was too early to say for sure how the judge would ultimately rule, 


“I think the FTC’s case has been going really well,” noting in particular the persuasiveness of a 


key witness from Intel. Florian Mueller, an anti-software-patent advocate who has followed the 


various legal cases against Qualcomm very closely for years and is attending the current trial in 


person, wrote more emphatically about the FTC’s “likely-winning case”: 





The FTC's litigation staff can be proud of the tremendous work they've done (and 


imagine the distractions resulting from the government shutdown). The case the 


government has rested is extremely strong, and I already have this feeling that this "Your 


Honor, the FTC rests its case" moment may have been one of the most important 


moments in worldwide antitrust history. 





To be sure, Mueller can be regarded as a biased observer in light of his personal opposition to 


Qualcomm’s business model, but his analytical track record is nothing to scoff at; for instance, 


he correctly predicted that the FTC would win its important motion for summary judgment.   





In fact, in our conversations with other market participants, we have found that everyone who is 


paying close attention to the FTC case – including some with “buy” ratings on Qualcomm stock 


– agree that the FTC seems to be winning. Stepping back from the details of the case, it 


shouldn’t be surprising to see the FTC prevail. Government plaintiffs don’t like to lose, and they 


are careful to pursue only the cases where they believe the odds are stacked in their favor. With 


Qualcomm specifically, though the market has been trained over the years to overlook the 


inherent suspiciousness of the company’s anomalous and monopolistic business model, 


governments across the world have consistently found it to be unlawful; why should the US be 


any different? Moreover, as much as Qualcomm will argue that all of its contractual 


arrangements are perfectly fair, a “who’s who” of the wireless industry has already testified 


under oath that, just as the FTC alleges, Qualcomm’s licensing fees are excessive, unfair, and 


anticompetitive. Litigation is inherently uncertain, but we believe the most likely outcome is quite 


clear: the FTC will win, and Qualcomm will lose. 





IV. Ending Qualcomm’s Unlawful Business Model Will 


Reset Its Long-Term Earnings Power Far Lower 





What happens if Qualcomm loses? We believe that market participants have been complacent 


about the FTC case in part because of confusion about the remedies the FTC is seeking. In 


past run-ins with global regulators, Qualcomm has often emerged relatively unscathed, paying a 


fine and moving on. But if the FTC convinces Judge Koh to grant what it’s asking for, this case 


will turn out much differently. It’s not about getting Qualcomm to cough up more money; it’s
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 11 





about changing the way it does business. Below, we present the far-reaching “relief sought” by 


the FTC, in the agency’s own words (emphasis added): 





The FTC seeks a declaration and adjudication that Qualcomm’s conduct violates Section 


5(a) of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. § 45(a). In addition, the FTC seeks permanent injunctive 


and other equitable relief that would redress and prevent recurrence of Qualcomm’s 


conduct, including an order that would at least: 





 Prohibit Qualcomm from conditioning the supply of modem chips on a customer’s 


patent-license status; 


 Require Qualcomm to negotiate or renegotiate, as applicable, license terms with 


customers in good faith under conditions free from the threat of lack of access to 


or discriminatory provision of modem chip supply or associated technical, 


software, or other support; 


 Require Qualcomm to submit, as necessary, to arbitral or judicial dispute 


resolution to determine reasonable royalties and other license terms should a 


customer choose to pursue such resolution; 


 Require Qualcomm to make exhaustive SEP licenses available to modem-chip 


suppliers on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms and to submit, as 


necessary, to arbitral or judicial dispute resolution to determine such terms; 


 Prohibit Qualcomm from discriminating or retaliating in any way against any modem-chip 


customer or modem-chip supplier because of a dispute with Qualcomm over license 


terms or because of a customer’s license status; 


 Prohibit Qualcomm from making payments or providing other value contingent on a 


customer’s agreement to license terms; 


 Prohibit Qualcomm from entering express or de facto exclusive-dealing agreements for 


the supply of modem chips; 


 Prohibit Qualcomm from interfering with the ability of any customer to communicate with 


a government agency about a potential law enforcement or regulatory matter; 


 Require Qualcomm to adhere to compliance and monitoring procedures and appropriate 


“fencing in” provisions, including but not limited to a potential firewall between patent 


licensing and chip personnel; and 


 Impose any other relief that the Court finds necessary and appropriate to redress and 


prevent recurrence of Qualcomm’s conduct.13 





If the FTC wins, it will be because it has convinced Judge Koh that Qualcomm’s approach to 


tying its chip business to its licensing business is unlawful and has inflated its licensing revenue; 


Judge Koh must then do what she can to stop this behavior. This will necessarily mean a major 


overhaul of the business model, as contemplated in the remedies described above, and a major 


downward reset in Qualcomm’s earnings power. This is not an extreme tail event but a base 


case (conditional on an FTC victory, which, again, we regard as by far the most likely outcome). 





                                                
13 Joint Pretrial Statement in FTC v. Qualcomm, filed November 29, 2018, ECF No. 946, pp. 3-4.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 12 





How will these remedies actually play out? Consider the requirement that Qualcomm 


“renegotiate…license terms with customers in good faith” and “submit, as necessary, to arbitral 


or judicial dispute resolution to determine reasonable royalties and other license terms should a 


customer choose to pursue such resolution.” Given Qualcomm’s position that its current license 


terms are already fair, it’s hard to see how these mass renegotiations will proceed smoothly; 


Qualcomm’s counterparties, for their part, will also be strongly tempted to see how far they can 


get in court, where “fairness” and “reasonableness” can be judged based on precedents and 


case law without fear of Qualcomm’s market power. Indeed, the FTC’s opening statement 


described how, in the agency’s view, all of Qualcomm’s existing license agreements were 


tainted by anticompetitive tactics and presumptively unfair: 





The process of tying the sale of chips to licensing poisons the negotiation of a FRAND 


rate. Now, without a threat to chip supply, a party faced with a demand for unreasonable 


royalties for standard-essential patents can challenge that demand in court, either as a 


defendant in patent litigation, or a plaintiff in a FRAND determination action. Qualcomm’s 


policies prevent OEMs from negotiating in the shadow of the law. Instead, they negotiate 


in the shadow of a potentially devastating disruption in chip supply. 





If Judge Koh puts Qualcomm’s negotiations back “in the shadow of the law” where they belong, 


what “reasonable” royalty rates will emerge? And will it be anywhere near Qualcomm’s historical 


headline rate of 5% of the price of an entire smartphone? 





In patent-infringement cases, under US law, the damages awarded to successful plaintiffs must 


be at least equal to “a reasonable royalty for the use made of the invention by the infringer.”14 


But a key 19th-century Supreme Court ruling (Garretson v. Clark) held that patent holders 


seeking damages must “[g]ive evidence tending to separate or apportion the defendant’s profits 


and the patentee’s damages between the patented feature and the unpatented feature, and 


such evidence must be reliable and tangible, and not conjectural or speculative.” In other words, 


the reasonable royalty can’t be based on “the entire value of the whole machine” if the patent in 


question pertains only to one component of the machine; instead, the royalty should be based 


solely on the contribution of the patented feature to the overall value of the item. 





In applying this precedent, courts have recently gravitated toward the concept of the “smallest 


salable patent-practicing unit,” or SSPPU. Indeed, as discussed above, Judge Koh herself ruled 


in 2014 in a non-Qualcomm case that, for a cellular standard-essential patent, the relevant 


SSPPU was not an entire device (like a smartphone) but rather the wireless modem, whose 


market value is an order of magnitude lower. 





Thus the most likely outcome of the FTC’s renegotiation remedy is that Qualcomm’s current 


licensees will seek “judicial dispute resolution” to “determine reasonable royalties” on 


Qualcomm’s patent portfolio, and, applying existing precedents, the courts will conclude that 


Qualcomm deserves at most a small percentage of the value of a modem chip, not the value of 


                                                
14 35 U.S.C. § 284.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 13 





a whole phone. What percentage? That will be for judges to decide based on expert testimony, 


but the figures discussed by one of the FTC’s expert witnesses, Matthew Lasinski, are 


instructive. Using the so-called top-down methodology employed in other intellectual-property 


cases, Lasinski estimated that all cellular SEPs deserved only a 6% combined royalty rate, with 


Qualcomm deserving only 10% of that royalty stream based on the alleged strength of its patent 


portfolio relative to those of other SEP contributors like Nokia and Ericsson. Overall, then, 


Qualcomm “should” get only 0.6% of the value of the smallest salable patent-practicing unit 


corresponding to its cellular standard-essential patents – in other words, 0.6% of the price of a 


modem chip, or roughly 0.6% x $20 = $0.12 per smartphone. Needless to say, this would 


represent a massive drop from Qualcomm’s current rates of $10-20 per smartphone. Qualcomm 


would of course argue that it has contributed more than 10% of the value of all 3G and 4G 


SEPs, but the key point is that once royalties are set as a small percentage of a modem price as 


opposed to a phone price, licensing revenues must fall drastically. 





Qualcomm would also argue that such calculations neglect the value of its non-SEPs: patents 


that don’t directly pertain to technical standards like LTE but are still infringed by typical cellular 


devices. However, the value of such patents remains an open question. Interestingly, when 


Qualcomm was forced by Chinese authorities to offer Chinese OEMs patent licenses covering 


just its SEPs as opposed to its entire portfolio, the OEMs chose to license just the SEPs and 


skip the others, suggesting they attributed little value to them. In the past, Qualcomm executives 


have identified features like airplane mode as subject to its non-standard-essential patents, but 


such a feature is intuitively difficult to regard as patent-worthy. More substantively, the US 


Patent and Trademark Office has instituted 19 different inter partes review (IPR) challenges to 


Qualcomm-held non-standard-essential patents just in the past week; while this doesn’t 


guarantee that Qualcomm’s patents are ruled to be invalid, it does indicate that the Patent 


Office believes the case for invalidity is plausible. 





Meanwhile, as Qualcomm has recently sued Apple for infringement of its non-SEPs in multiple 


jurisdictions across the world, it’s striking how weak some of the patents appear given that 


Qualcomm presumably filtered through its entire portfolio to find its strongest and most 


defensible assets. In one case in Germany, for instance, Apple managed to work around 


Qualcomm’s allegedly infringed user-interface patent simply by updating iOS for German users 


so that searches bring up just text but no icons. In another case, Qualcomm claimed that Apple 


infringed its Chinese patent on “moving ‘cards’ around on a touchscreen display”; again, Apple 


maintained than an updated version of iOS rendered the patent irrelevant. In short, Qualcomm’s 


much ballyhooed non-SEPs appear, not surprisingly, unessential. But if a reasonable royalty for 


its cellular SEPs is just $0.12 per device, then its non-SEPs can be worth multiples of that value 


without getting anywhere close to the company’s current royalty levels. 





Even if Judge Koh doesn’t mandate full license renegotiation, a similar outcome can be reached 


via other dynamics. Consider the FTC’s proposed requirement that Qualcomm “make 


exhaustive SEP licenses available to modem-chip suppliers on fair, reasonable, and non-


discriminatory terms and to submit, as necessary, to arbitral or judicial dispute resolution to 


determine such terms.” Such a remedy aligns quite well with Judge Koh’s prior summary-
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 14 





judgment ruling that Qualcomm is contractually obligated to license its SEPs on FRAND terms 


to competing modem-chip suppliers, and thus appears to be an easy win for the FTC. But the 


consequences for Qualcomm could be severe. Once competing suppliers like Intel and 


MediaTek can obtain chip-level SEP licenses for a “fair” price (subject to judicial determination 


in the event of a disagreement and thus likely to gravitate toward a low percentage of the chip 


price, not the whole-device price), OEMs who buy chips from them will no longer have to worry 


about paying Qualcomm for anything SEP-related because these patents will be deemed 


“exhausted.” By contrast, if Qualcomm tries to maintain its existing business model for 


customers that do buy its chips, those OEMs face much higher all-in prices when going with 


competitors because they have to pay for both chips and device-level patent licenses. Under a 


regime where Qualcomm is forced to license its SEPs to competitors, existing Qualcomm 


customers will have a massive incentive to switch away from Qualcomm to its competitors given 


the dramatic difference in pricing. This will put pressure on Qualcomm to slash its royalties. 





One way or another, then, an FTC victory will likely mean that Qualcomm’s license fees will 


reset from a percentage of the device price to a percentage of the modem-chip price, ending 


Qualcomm’s long period of overearning and forcing it to subsist only on fair and reasonable 


royalties. It thus makes sense that Qualcomm executives noted that licensing at the device level 


was “humongously more lucrative” than licensing at the chip level and worried that licensing to 


Intel “would destroy the whole current QTL business”; they knew what they were talking about. 





How would this business-model transformation translate into earnings power? To be sure, 


estimating the effect is more art than science. While the FTC’s expert witness had good reason 


to argue for a 0.6% royalty rate, we concede that judges might be reluctant to impose so 


dramatic of a reduction all at once. Nonetheless, since the FTC’s entire case is premised on the 


notion that Qualcomm is extracting supra-FRAND royalties from the cellular industry and since 


several lines of legal reasoning point to future licensing at the chip level, it’s also unrealistic to 


suppose that Qualcomm’s licensing revenue will remain at anywhere near its current magnitude. 





To illustrate one plausible scenario, we use a figure cited by Apple’s COO under oath as a fair 


initial offer: $1.50 per device. Such an amount would actually be a relatively high percentage of 


current chip prices (roughly 8%), comparable to the total royalty rate settled upon in other court 


cases for all SEPs combined, not just the share of a single patent-holder like Qualcomm. 


Running the numbers, a $1.50-per-device royalty rate would still give Qualcomm a $2.5B annual 


revenue stream – not an outcome likely to inspire much sympathy for what Qualcomm would no 


doubt depict as its mistreatment. Nonetheless, this scenario would imply massive downside for 


Qualcomm’s stock price:
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 15 





Kerrisdale Analysis of Qualcomm’s Potential 
Earnings Power Assuming an FTC Victory 





Source: Kerrisdale analysis 


Note: device shipments represent the midpoint of 


Qualcomm’s estimate range for 2018. 





In the calculations above, we assume that Qualcomm ultimately collects its royalties on almost 


every cellular device shipped across the globe, including units produced by Apple and Huawei 


that generate no royalties today; however, we do haircut the total shipments figure slightly to 


reflect Qualcomm’s historical experience of receiving royalties on fewer devices than it 


estimated were actually shipped (i.e. OEMs underreporting to save on fees). Given the QTL 


segment’s very high incremental margins, the vast majority of the reduction in licensing revenue 


will fall to the bottom line, and we simply apply this reduction in profits to Qualcomm’s actual 


FY2018 results, adjusted to reflect a normalized tax rate and the company’s current share 


count. We then multiply by an assumed P/E multiple of 13x to obtain a per-share valuation 


estimate of ~$21, 61% lower than where Qualcomm currently trades. (As one sell-side analyst 


wrote in May 2018, Qualcomm’s “five year average forward P/E is ~13x, roughly in-line with its 


handset component supplier peers.” This is higher than Intel’s current forward P/E of 10.6x.15) 


                                                
15 Source: Capital IQ. 


Actual FY2018 QTL revenue 5,163$    


Assumed future royalty rate per device 1.50$      


Global 3G/4G/5G device shipments (B) 1.85


Compliance rate 90%


Devices generating royalties 1.67


Pro forma QTL revenue ($mm) 2,498$    


Reduction in QTL revenue (2,666)$  


Assumed QTL incremental margin 90%


Reduction in QTL EBT (2,399)$  


FY2018 non-GAAP EBT 5,620$    


Less: share-based compensation (883)        


Adjusted FY2018 non-GAAP EBT 4,737$    


Reduction in QTL EBT (2,399)     


Pro forma QCOM EBT 2,338$    


Normalized income tax at 15% 351         


Pro forma net income 1,987$    


Shares O/S 1,212


Pro forma EPS 1.64$      


Assumed P/E multiple* 13x


Implied QCOM share price 21.31$    


Downside -61%
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 16 





Interestingly, in this scenario, Qualcomm finally starts to look more like a normal company, with 


72% of segment profits coming from QCT – the actual chip business, not the licensing shop.  





Of course, any particular estimate of the financial impact of a Qualcomm loss in the FTC case 


will wind up being wrong; the situation is complex and will play out over an extended time period 


even after the judge issues her final ruling. Nonetheless, a dramatically negative impact to 


Qualcomm’s earnings power shouldn’t be regarded as unlikely or extreme; it’s exactly what 


investors should expect if the FTC gets its way – and, at this point, that looks like a good bet.  





V. Qualcomm’s Broader Business Outlook Is Poor 





If Qualcomm already had a depressed valuation or a clear path to grow its way out of an FTC-


induced earnings slump, it might make sense for the market to shrug off all the legal risks, but 


neither premise is true. After taking account of its share-based compensation expense and 


adjusting for a normalized 15% tax instead of the temporary ~1% rate enjoyed in recent 


quarters, Qualcomm’s run-rate trailing EPS is $3.32. Qualcomm thus trades at more than 16x 


earnings, a relatively high multiple for a semiconductor company beset by regulatory scrutiny 


and heavily exposed to a problematic end market: smartphones. As recent worries over Apple’s 


iPhone sales have shown, the global smartphone market is maturing, as consumers keep old 


devices for longer and balk at paying higher prices. Meanwhile, though Qualcomm still produces 


the best wireless modems, competitors like Intel and MediaTek have become more capable, 


while major Qualcomm OEM customers Samsung and Huawei have increasingly moved to in-


source their modem production, starting with lower-end devices but threatening to further 


displace Qualcomm as time goes on. Weak end-market growth coupled with intensifying 


competition will suppress Qualcomm earnings power for the foreseeable future even without 


considering the ramifications of the FTC case. 





What about 5G? While Qualcomm does enjoy a clear lead over rival manufacturers in its 5G 


product development, we believe this advantage is strongest in one specific area of heightened 


technical difficulty: millimeter-wave (mmWave) spectrum. But 5G doesn’t require mmWave 


spectrum. In fact, as we have discussed elsewhere, the band that mobile operators outside the 


US are planning to use for initial 5G deployments is the 3.5 GHz band; meanwhile, within the 


US, efforts are underway to repurpose the 3.7-4.2GHz band for 5G. (Interestingly, these efforts 


were initially spearheaded by Intel, which we believe views the band as an easier path to 5G 


than mmWave.) In addition, T-Mobile plans to roll out 5G on its low-band 600MHz spectrum, 


while AT&T has also recently discussed using sub-6GHz spectrum for its 5G buildout. This 


matters because sub-6GHz 5G will be much more similar to existing LTE than exotic mmWave 


5G will be, reducing the degree of difficulty for the likes of Intel or MediaTek to produce 5G-


capable hardware. Thus, to the extent that mmWave deployment ends up focusing on a small 


number of areas while widespread 5G leverages more conventional spectrum – a fairly 


consensus viewpoint – Qualcomm’s technical advantage in mmWave has less practical 


importance. In short, we see nothing positive about Qualcomm’s underlying business prospects 


that can compensate for the immense legal risk the company faces.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 17 








VI. Conclusion 





Nothing lasts forever – certainly not patents. Qualcomm has profited mightily by cleverly linking 


its chip business and its patent portfolio, but the jig is up, and the company will need to adjust to 


its new reality. With an unprecedentedly pivotal court case coming to a head over the next 


several weeks, the market can’t keep its head in the sand for much longer. Soon, investors will 


have to grapple with the fact that Qualcomm’s longstanding business model is likely going the 


way of its CDMA technology – a historical relic that lingers on beyond its glory days as a 


shadow of its former self.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 18 





Full Legal Disclaimer  





As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates 


(collectively "Kerrisdale") have short positions in the stock of Qualcomm Incorporated 


(“QCOM”). In addition, others that contributed research to this report and others that we have 


shared our research with (collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise may have short 


positions in the stock of QCOM. The Authors stand to realize gains in the event that the price of 


the stock decreases. Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the 


securities of the company covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of 


Kerrisdale. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be 


accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any 


kind – whether express or implied. The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as 


to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the 


results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, 


and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any information 


contained herein. This report is not a recommendation to short the shares of any company, 


including QCOM, and is only a discussion of why Kerrisdale is short QCOM. 





This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 


confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted 


as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 


included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing 


conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change. 


The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded 


as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 





Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, 


inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated 


fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation 


of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a 


security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 





This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 


any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the 


Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to 


buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the 


securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all 


information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their 


affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed 


in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors 


should assume that the Authors are short shares of QCOM and stand to potentially realize gains 


in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the 


original publication date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to 


inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 19 





activities. In addition, the Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other 


companies, securities, or commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this 


report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the 


Authors’ operations and their affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is 


generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment 


ideas and the performance of recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a 


potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents. 





The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-


looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical 


fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions 


or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can 


be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other 


factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent 


due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all 


securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone 


judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
