We are short shares of Straight Path Communications, a disgraced “5G” hype vehicle whose
stock price surged last week for an unusual reason: the announcement of a harsh regulatory
crackdown. After a pseudonymous short seller in 2015 accused Straight Path of “fraud,” the
FCC opened its own investigation into whether the company had violated its legal duty to
actually provide service rather than merely hoard spectrum for the sake of speculation. To end
this investigation, Straight Path agreed to pay up to $100 million over time, surrender many of
its licenses, and sell its entire remaining spectrum portfolio, with 20% of the sale proceeds going
to the FCC.


The market greeted this news joyously, apparently relieved that Straight Path had avoided an
even more draconian penalty and convinced that a spectrum sale would be fast and lucrative.
This optimism is badly misplaced. Straight Path’s spectrum is worth far less than the company’s
current half-billion-dollar market cap. Indeed, as we discuss below, Verizon is set to buy a
similar amount of higher-quality spectrum from a sophisticated, deep-pocketed seller – Carl
Icahn – for just $200 million, 61% lower than where Straight Path trades, implying massive
downside for its stock price even before taking into account the harsh FCC penalties. Adjusting
for these penalties and the lower quality of Straight Path’s spectrum, we believe the true
downside exceeds 70%. The notion that a company that holds less than $10 million in cash,
burns $7 million a year, and must pay out $15 million in fines in the next nine months will drive a
drastically harder bargain than Carl Icahn – in a government-mandated fire sale – is beyond
absurd. Yet to own Straight Path at this price, that’s what one must believe.


Further weakening Straight Path’s bargaining position is the immense supply of alternative
millimeter-wave spectrum. In a rulemaking concluded last July, the FCC effectively expanded
the 39GHz band that houses the vast majority of Straight Path’s spectrum by 71%; with so
much directly adjacent greenfield spectrum, Straight Path’s holdings are nothing special.
Moreover, a follow-on rulemaking, initiated at the same time and now in its final phase,
proposes to open up an additional 18 gigahertz of mmWave spectrum for mobile use, likely
quintupling the existing inventory and further diluting Straight Path’s value.


As much as management might want to raise capital and hold out for an unrealistic sweetheart
deal, a little-noticed term of the FCC settlement makes that a dangerous strategy, allowing the
FCC to re-open its investigation after twelve months and potentially revoke Straight Path’s
licenses. Likewise, shareholders confident that Straight Path’s former parent company will foot
the bill for its fines fail to appreciate the legal subtleties that put this outcome in serious doubt.
But who can blame them? At this point, hope is the only real asset Straight Path has left.


January 2017


Straight Path Communications Inc. (STRP)
Setting the Story Straight


Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in the stock of Straight Path Communications Inc. (the
“Company”).  Other research contributors, and others with whom we have shared our research (collectively
with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise have short positions in the stock of the Company.  The Authors
stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication, the Authors
may transact in the securities of the Company. The Authors have obtained all information herein from
sources they believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without
warranty of any kind – whether express or implied – and without any representation as to the results
obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the Authors do
not undertake to update this report or any information contained herein. Please read our full legal disclaimer
at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 2


Table of Contents
I. STRAIGHT PATH’S SPECTRUM ISN’T WORTH MUCH ............................................................3


II. SPECTRUM LIKE STRAIGHT PATH’S IS ABUNDANT ..............................................................6


III. REGULATORY RISK STILL LOOMS..............................................................................................8


IV. INDEMNIFICATION MAY NOT HELP ........................................................................................9


V. CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................................ 10


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER....................................................................................................................11
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 3


I. Straight Path’s Spectrum Isn’t Worth Much


What will potential buyers pay for Straight Path’s portfolio? The most obvious benchmark is the
Verizon/XO Holdings deal announced last February. In that set of transactions, Verizon
acquired rights to two distinct assets: the fiber-optic network business of XO Communications,
bought for $1.8 billion (with expected synergies and tax benefits valued at $1.5 billion); and the
millimeter-wave spectrum held by an XO Holdings subsidiary called Nextlink. In lieu of an
outright purchase, Verizon is leasing the spectrum through 2018, with an option to buy it at
expiration, which observers widely expect Verizon to exercise.


Unfortunately, Verizon’s initial press release didn’t disclose what it would actually have to pay to
acquire the XO spectrum in 2018. However, industry sources, including the investment bank
UBS, indicate that the strike price is $200 million. Below we reproduce the relevant section from
a February 22 UBS research note on Verizon:


UBS Disclosure of Verizon Purchase Price for XO Spectrum


Source: UBS, “Verizon Communications: XO Fiber Network Purchase All about 5G,”
February 22, 2016, p. 1


Investor’s Business Daily summarized the same UBS piece and provided the same $200 million
figure; the spectrum expert Tim Farrar has also alluded to it publicly.1 Though XO is a private
company (solely owned by Carl Icahn), FCC filings allow us calculate how much mmWave
spectrum it holds, which amounts to 189.6 billion MHz-pops, the vast majority of which is in the
28GHz LMDS band. Paying $200 million for roughly 200 billion MHz-pops implies a price per
MHz-pop – a common spectrum valuation metric – of a tenth of a penny.


1 See e.g. his tweets from July 30 (“And VZ $200M option on XO spectrum sets pretty hard limit on
39GHz which will be worth less per MHzPOP”) and September 5 (“And why pay a huge premium for
midband when high frequencies will be incredibly cheap (viz $200M option price for XO spectrum)”).
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 4


Verizon/XO Implied Spectrum Pricing


Source: FCC filings, Kerrisdale analysis


Strikingly, this price closely resembles what MetroPCS paid Straight Path for a combination of
LMDS and 39GHz spectrum in the New York, San Francisco, Las Vegas, and Orlando markets
in 2012 – namely, $0.0010 per MHz-pop2 – implying that, notwithstanding the dawn of 5G and
renewed enthusiasm about mmWave technology, high-frequency spectrum prices have barely
moved. Nor is there any indication that XO’s spectrum sparked a fierce bidding war among
Verizon’s competitors; to the contrary, Icahn’s public statement about the deal expresses not
triumph but resignation:


Although this sale to Verizon does not represent a significant annualized return on our
investment, we believe that in today’s environment it does represent the best achievable
outcome for the company’s customers, employees and owner.


How does XO’s spectrum portfolio compare to Straight Path’s? In sheer size (as well as
geographic scope), it’s similar; XO holds 190 billion MHz-pops, while Straight Path holds 222
billion. Simply applying the same aggregate price per MHz-pop to Straight Path’s portfolio would
value it at $234 million – 54% below the company’s current market cap even before factoring in
the FCC penalties. Clearly the gulf between where Straight Path is trading and where the
Verizon/XO transaction implies it should be is enormous.


Refining the analysis further, we exclude from XO’s total MHz-pops the portion of the LMDS
band that has not been authorized for mobile use – everything outside the A1 block that runs
from 27.5 to 28.35 GHz. Valuing non-A1 LMDS spectrum at zero necessarily implies a higher
price for the remaining, almost entirely A1 spectrum, which amounts to $0.0016 per MHz-pop.
While this price might serve as a reasonable benchmark for Straight Path’s own 28GHz A1
spectrum, it’s too high for its far larger holdings of 39GHz spectrum, which suffer from inferior
propagation as a result of their higher frequencies and thus are more costly and difficult to
deploy. To adjust for the difference in frequencies, we use a piece of technical analysis
prepared by AT&T Labs’ Advanced Wireless Technology Group and submitted to the FCC in


2 See Straight Path’s FY2013 10-K, p. 12, and FCC filings including transaction-related public interest
statements (1, 2). MetroPCS paid $6.8 million for what we estimate to be ~7.1 billion MHz-pops.


XO MHz-pops (mm):
LMDS 185,811
39 GHz 3,804


Total 189,615
XO spectrum purch. price ($mm) 200$


Value per MHz-pop 0.0011$
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 5


July 2016, comparing the simulated performance of 28 and 39GHz spectrum.3 AT&T concludes
that “a licensee will need somewhere between 44% - 66% more spectrum in the 39GHz band to
provide the same cell edge data rate with the same cell radius as compared to 28GHz.” If it
takes 1.44x to 1.66x more 39GHz spectrum than 28GHz spectrum to accomplish the same
network goals, then 39GHz spectrum must only be 60-69% as valuable.4 Bringing all these
figures together below, we find that the gross value of Straight Path’s spectrum is, at best, $260
million.


Straight Path Spectrum Portfolio:
Gross Value Using Verizon/XO Pricing


Source: FCC filings, Kerrisdale analysis
Note: 39 GHz is valued at 65% of 28 GHz (the midpoint
of 60 and 69%, as derived from the AT&T analysis
above).


But we have yet to consider the sizable negative impact of Straight Path’s civil penalties. Under
the terms of the consent decree, Straight Path has three options:


 sell all of its spectrum within twelve months, pay 20% of the proceeds to the FCC, and
pay an additional $15 million;


 sell all of its spectrum more slowly, pay 20% of the proceeds to the FCC, and pay an
additional $100 million; or


 renounce its licenses within 12 months and pay $15 million.


Complicating matters further, if Straight Path sells non-spectrum assets as part of a spectrum
transaction, it may attribute $50 million in value to those assets (“the Excluded Amount”),
reducing the size of the 20% cut it owes the FCC.


Assuming Straight Path doesn’t simply renounce its licenses, we consider the first two scenarios
below, generously giving the company full credit for the Excluded Amount (which wouldn’t apply
in a straightforward spectrum sale). In any market, motivated sellers fetch lower prices for their
assets, and Straight Path will be no different: any potential buyers will be well aware of the
pressures facing the company, including the step-up in penalties associated with a delayed
sale, and they will exploit their position of relative strength. Thus we assign a 20% price


3 Alternatively, a simple rule of thumb suggests that spectrum value decreases as the square of the
frequency (because of free-space path loss), implying that 39 GHz is (28/39)² = 51% as valuable as 28
GHz, a result similar to what the AT&T analysis indicates.
4 1/1.44 = 69%; 1/1.66 = 60%.


MHz-pops
(mm)


$/MHz-
pop


Value
($mm)


28 GHz (A1 only) 46,464 0.0016$ 75$
39 GHz 175,625 0.0011$ 184


Total 260$
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 6


discount in the scenario in which Straight Path sells in the next twelve months. Nonetheless,
based on the XO valuation, it still appears that a fast sale would be better for Straight Path than
incurring the $85 million penalty and holding out. In any event, though, Straight Path
shareholders face massive value destruction, with ~70% downside from current prices.


Straight Path Spectrum Sale:
FCC Penalty Scenarios


Source: Kerrisdale analysis


II. Spectrum Like Straight Path’s Is Abundant


Straight Path’s management likes to depict the company’s spectrum as a unique asset, offering
any carrier a dominant position in the 39GHz band that will supposedly be a crucial part of
mmWave 5G. Whether such technology will ever take off on a large scale remains an open
question; in fact, recent writings by industry experts entitled The 5G Myth: When Vision
Decoupled from Reality and “5G Economics: An Introduction” signal a broader reassessment of
whether the benefits of 5G have been overhyped in light of its potentially staggering
infrastructure and operating costs. Nevertheless, if we just assume more carriers are interested
in acquiring mmWave spectrum for 5G, is Straight Path a particularly attractive option?


No. After being forced to give up 93 of its 39GHz licenses as part of the FCC consent decree,
Straight Path’s remaining 39GHz portfolio contains only 40% of the band’s MHz-pops – leaving
some 838 MHz (on a nationwide population-weighted basis) in the hands of others, primarily the
FCC, which will ultimately auction off unused licenses. Even more importantly, these figures
consider only the conventional 38.6-40GHz band, with 1.4 GHz of total bandwidth. However, in
its July 2016 report and order, the FCC applied identical technical and licensing rules to the
adjacent band from 37.6 to 38.6 GHz, supplying another 1,000 MHz of pure greenfield spectrum
that will also be auctioned. Furthermore, the 37-37.6 GHz band just next door has also been
authorized for mobile use, albeit on a shared basis with the Federal government, giving carriers
interested in mmWave experimentation yet another low-cost alternative (once the sharing
arrangement is further fleshed out). The diagram below summarizes the setup, making it clear


Fast sale Slow sale
Gross spectrum value 260$ 260$
20% duress discount (52) -


Net spectrum value 208$ 260$
Upfront penalty (15) (15)
Additional penalty - (85)
FCC share of proceeds (32) (42)


Net company value 161$ 118$
Per share 12.94$ 9.45$


Downside (68)% (77)%
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 7


that multiple carriers will find it easy to acquire very large amounts of spectrum just like Straight
Path’s without having to engage with the company at all. No one is clamoring to scoop up
Straight Path’s particular holdings.


Straight Path: 39GHz Holdings in Context


Source: Kerrisdale analysis
Note: Straight Path segment reflects nationwide population-weighted average and assumes the company will
successfully repack its discontiguous channels starting from the lower edge of the 38.6-40.0GHz band. In
reality, individual geographic markets will vary.


Indeed, while Straight Path tries to focus investor attention on just the 38.6-40GHz band in
which it holds a plurality (though not a majority) of the MHz-pops, it’s clear that other industry
participants take a broader view. For instance, T-Mobile’s 5G-related experimental FCC license
covers the entire 37-40GHz band (as well as the 28GHz band) – not just Straight Path’s piece.
The same is true for AT&T; meanwhile, the fixed-wireless startup Starry applied only to use the
lower-frequency greenfield segments. In fact, FCC rules now mandate that devices operating
anywhere from 37 to 40GHz must support the entire band, including the shared segment,5
thereby ensuring that “incumbent” spectrum like Straight Path’s has no special advantage. With
so much highly similar supply in the pipeline and with major commercial mmWave deployments
still years away, no buyer will be in a hurry to pay up for Straight Path.


In the months to come, the supply picture for Straight Path will only get worse. Under the FCC’s
Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding mmWave spectrum, the agency has already
proposed to authorize mobile operations in additional bands containing some 18 GHz of
spectrum (~27x what Straight Path holds):


 The 24GHz band: 700 MHz
 The 32GHz band: 1,600 MHz
 The 42GHz band: 500 MHz
 The 47GHz band: 3,000 MHz
 The 50GHz band: 2,200 MHz
 The 70/80GHz bands: 10,000 MHz


5 See Spectrum Frontiers Report & Order, paragraph 323.


Completely vacant
(37.6-38.6 GHz)


37 GHz 40 GHz


Shared
(37.0-37.6


GHz)


Straight Path
(~38.6-39.2)


Mostly vacant
(~39.2-40.0 GHz)
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 8


While different bands will have different idiosyncrasies, the overall direction of policy is clear:
much, much more mmWave will be opened up for mobile use. In fact, in light of the current
Republican FCC commissioners’ avowed disappointment6 that even more bands weren’t
opened up even faster, as well as the Trump transition team’s distaste for the warehousing of
large chunks of spectrum by the Federal government, this trend toward increased commercial
supply will likely accelerate. Verizon was not merely talking its book when it said the following in
October:


It would be impossible for any firm to exclude a competitor by purchasing “too much” mmW
spectrum because a large amount of mmW spectrum in the 5G pipeline will be released
continuously for many years. So any competitor that fails to acquire spectrum necessary for
its operations will have numerous future opportunities to correct its lack of spectrum.


For mmWave spectrum, then, the FCC has ensured that it’s a buyer’s market, not a seller’s
market, putting Straight Path in a dire position.


III. Regulatory Risk Still Looms


Despite the high cost of Straight Path’s FCC settlement, the company’s shareholders have
breathed a sigh of relief, glad that the regulator’s sword no longer dangles over their heads. But,
while the settlement did resolve the FCC’s previous investigation, a careful reading of the
underlying consent decree shows that risks still remain in the event that Straight Path drags out
its spectrum sale. Consider paragraph 17 of the decree:


Enforcement of Part 101 Discontinuance of Service Rules. The Bureau agrees not to
pursue an investigation of Straight Path for a violation of the discontinuance of service
provisions contained in Sections 101.65 or 101.305 of the Rules regarding the License
Portfolio for the period of time between the Effective Date and earliest of: (i) the closing
date of the last transaction(s) to transfer or assigns the License Portfolio as specified in
paragraph 16; (ii) the occurrence of an Event of Default as specified in paragraph 19; (iii) or
twelve (12) months from the Effective Date, unless applications are pending with the
Commission to transfer or assign the entirety of the License Portfolio as specified in
paragraph 16.


The “discontinuance of service provisions” are rules mandating that any licensee who
permanently discontinues wireless service thereby automatically forfeits its license and must
notify the FCC. Straight Path has strenuously maintained that, when it told the FCC it provided
“substantial service” using its spectrum as of the required buildout deadlines, it was telling the


6 See e.g. Commissioner Pai and Commissioner O’Reilly’s statements regarding the Spectrum Frontiers
R&O.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 9


truth – but, given that the company currently generates less than $700,000 of annual revenue7
from a nationwide spectrum portfolio and had to conduct its own investigation just to ascertain
what equipment it still had deployed where, it’s clear that, in any plain-English sense of the term,
it doesn’t provide “substantial service” anymore. The consent decree lets Straight Path off the
hook, but only for a limited time. If twelve months elapse and Straight Path still hasn’t sold its
spectrum, the FCC reserves the right to re-initiate an investigation – and if it finds that Straight
Path has permanently discontinued service with respect to any of its licenses, the company
could simply lose them. This provision thus puts Straight Path under additional pressure to sell
quickly; while the FCC might not immediately go after the company again, the prospect of
catastrophic loss through regulatory action is not something to trifle with. Straight Path simply
doesn’t have the luxury of taking its time.


IV. Indemnification May Not Help


During Straight Path’s conference call last week, some questioners appeared to be confident
that the company could force its former parent, IDT Corporation (from which it spun out in
2013), to bear the cost of the FCC settlement, under the theory that the wrongdoing that gave
rise to the settlement took place prior the spinout. Though this idea sounds plausible, the reality
is far less clear-cut. Under the separation agreement between IDT and Straight Path, Straight
Path has sole responsibility for “SPCI [Straight Path Communications Inc.] Liabilities,” which
include


any and all Liabilities of IDT, SPCI, or any of their respective Affiliates, primarily relating to,
arising out of or resulting from the operation or conduct of the SPCI Business or any other
business, or the ownership or use of the Assets of SPCI, as conducted at any time on or
after the Effective Time  (including any Liability relating to, arising out of or resulting from
any act or failure to act by any director, officer, employee, agent or representative of IDT,
SPCI, or any of their respective Affiliates (whether or not such act or failure to act is or was
within such Person’s authority), in each case arising before the Effective Date…


While this passage is poorly drafted (and even suffers from unbalanced parentheses), it
appears to say that Straight Path bears any liabilities flowing from the conduct of its business
after the spinoff date, even when those liabilities can also be traced back to pre-spinoff actions.
But there’s a good case to be made that Straight Path’s troubles with the FCC have at least as
much to do with its own post-spinoff conduct as with anything that came before. While Sinclair
Upton Research accused Straight Path of simply lying about its network buildout to retain its
licenses, Straight Path itself consistently maintained that it told the truth, as the consent decree
itself notes:


7 See FY2017 Q1 10-Q showing $159k of quarterly revenue, entirely attributable to the Straight Path
Spectrum segment.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 10


In response to the preliminary investigation of Morgan Lewis following the investigation
of a limited number of sites, Straight Path released a statement that “a significant
amount of the equipment that had been installed in connection with the substantial
service showings [was] no longer present at the original locations.” As part of the
Morgan Lewis investigation, Straight Path reported that “[i]nterviews and
contemporaneous documents consistently confirm that equipment was deployed at the
original locations in connection with the substantial service applications, but the
investigators concluded, based on the weight of the evidence, that the equipment was
likely put in place for a short period of time at each location.” The Morgan Lewis
investigation also determined that “the investigators did not find any evidence that the
equipment used in connection with the substantial service applications is still present at
the originally specified locations.” … In its October 11 LOI Response, Straight Path
argued that the prior substantial service filings made for the 39 GHz licenses held by
Straight Path Spectrum, LLC had satisfied the substantial service rules, that the
Commission had accepted the filings, and that the 39 GHz licenses are not subject to
the discontinuance rules.


In other words, Straight Path and the law firm it engaged never backed away from the position
that equipment really was installed to satisfy the buildout requirements; it’s just that it was only
there “for a short period of time.” How short, and whether that period of time varied from location
to location, has never been made clear. What the FCC felt it had sufficient evidence to conclude
was not that Straight Path lied at the time of its “substantial service” showings (pre-spinout) but
that it “had not actually deployed equipment with any permanency.” But did that failure to deploy
“equipment with any permanency” take place before 2013, after 2013 – or, most likely, both?


Because the FCC’s concerns pertained not just to a discrete set of statements made in 2011
and 2012 but to an extended period of less-than-substantial service spanning the pre- and post-
spinout periods, the question of who bears primary responsibility is inherently murky. Straight
Path will argue that the failure was IDT’s, while IDT will argue that, by Straight Path’s own
admission, the “substantial service” showings were truthful and it was Straight Path’s own fault
that it did not maintain a level of performance acceptable to the FCC in 2013, 2014, 2015, and
2016. Because the underlying legal issues are genuinely uncertain, it’s naïve to expect IDT to
simply hand over the money without putting up a fight, and it’s perfectly possible that Straight
Path will walk away empty-handed and face the full brunt of the penalties on its own.
Shareholders betting on a rapid and favorable resolution will likely be disappointed.


V. Conclusion


Trading near its peak market cap despite a harsh regulatory crackdown and an onslaught of
competing spectrum supply, Straight Path is highly overvalued. Simply using the Verizon/XO
mmWave spectrum transaction as a benchmark implies a share-price decline of ~70% – and,
given the weakness of the company’s position, it could easily be worse. The path has always
been more crooked than straight, and now it's coming to an end.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 11


Full Legal Disclaimer


As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates
(collectively "Kerrisdale") have short positions in the stock of Straight Path Communications Inc.
(“STRP”).  In addition, others that contributed research to this report and others that we have
shared our research with (collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise have short
positions in the stock of STRP. The Authors stand to realize gains in the event that the price of
the stock decreases. Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the
securities of the company covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of
Kerrisdale. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be
accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any
kind – whether express or implied. The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as
to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the
results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice,
and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any information
contained herein.


This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official
confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted
as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information
included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing
conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change.
The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded
as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only.


Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility,
inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated
fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation
of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a
security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor.


This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell
any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the
Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to
buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the
securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all
information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their
affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed
in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors
should assume that the Authors are short shares of STRP and stand to potentially realize gains
in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the
original publication date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to
inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading
activities. In addition, the Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  | Fax: 212.531.6153 12


companies, securities, or commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this
report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the
Authors’ operations and their affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is
generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment
ideas and the performance of recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a
potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents.


The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-
looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical
fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions
or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can
be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other
factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent
due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all
securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone
judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
Filename: STRP 006
Directory: C:\Users\agnescao\AppData\Local\Temp
Template:


C:\Users\agnescao\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Templates\Norm
al.dotm


Title: BOFI - Kerrisdale
Subject:
Author: Navi Hehar
Keywords:
Comments:
Creation Date: 1/25/2017 12:51:00 AM
Change Number: 2
Last Saved On: 1/25/2017 12:51:00 AM
Last Saved By: Shane Wilson
Total Editing Time: 0 Minutes
Last Printed On: 1/25/2017 8:22:00 AM
As of Last Complete Printing


Number of Pages:12
Number of Words:4,884 (approx.)
Number of Characters: 27,842 (approx.)
