Prothena Corp. PLC (NASDAQ:PRTA) is a $2.4bn development-stage biotechnology company 


whose stock has climbed over 700% since its spin-off from Elan in December 2012. We are 


certain that its lead asset, NEOD001, will fail its ongoing Phase 2b and Phase 3 trials.  
 


NEOD001 is a monoclonal antibody designed to treat amyloid light chain amyloidosis (AL 


amyloidosis). AL amyloidosis is a condition caused by light chain proteins misfolding, which then 


leads to the light chains sticking together and forming amyloid structures. These amyloids are 


then deposited within tissues and organs of the body where they interfere with organ function, 


and can potentially lead to organ failure/death. NEOD001 is intended to bind to and induce the 


removal of amyloid deposits. 
 


While this sounds good in theory, all clinical and scientific evidence points to disappointment. In 


the Phase 1/2 trial, NEOD001 failed to achieve meaningful clinical response, durable response, 


dose response, control over catastrophic events, or any apparent benefit at all. 
 


The Phase 2b and Phase 3 trials will be no different. The imminent failure of NEOD001 comes 


as no surprise to amyloidosis researchers; in the words of one amyloid antibody co-inventor, the 


probability of NEOD001 succeeding in its Phase 3 trial is “almost zero.”  Another co-inventor 


believes that NEOD001 “is just not going to work.” Antibodies targeting AL amyloidosis have 


been around since at least 2000 but have performed poorly in practice. The principal issue is 


that AL amyloid deposits are far too heterogeneous for a single antibody to work consistently 


among patients. On top of the heterogeneity, researchers believe that organ-specific occlusion 


and amyloid proteolyzation could further contribute to the inability of AL amyloid antibodies to 


bind to their target epitopes and achieve meaningful responses. Radioimaging studies for other 


AL amyloid antibodies have shown that even in situations where investigators have achieved 


binding between antibodies and amyloid deposits in patients, there is virtually no effect on 


amyloid deposits in the heart or kidneys — the key targets in Prothena’s trials. Prothena 


conspicuously opted against publishing such a radioimaging study for NEOD001. 
 


In its Phase 1/2 trial, Prothena declares any patient who achieves a decline in NT-proBNP of 


≥30% from baseline at any single point during its trial to be a responder. But NT-proBNP has 


been shown to have a week-to-week clinical variance of 35% — so seeing 53% of patients 


temporarily achieve a ≥30% decline in NT-proBNP at one point over a median of 12+ monthly 


measurements tells investors nothing. Using best response also masks patients who see their 


condition worsening because it only reflects the single best change in NT-proBNP. For instance, 


one patient saw his NT-proBNP levels skyrocket by 300% at which point he quit the trial, and 


another patient died during the trial. Both patients were recorded as “responders” under 


Prothena’s hollow best response endpoint — but this will still not translate to statistically 


significant results in the placebo-controlled Phase 2b and Phase 3 trials because precedent 


published data shows that a control group can be expected to achieve a comparable NT-proBNP 


response rate. Prothena’s purported cure is nothing but a deception to prop up its stock. 








November 2017 





Prothena Corp. PLC (PRTA) 
The Next Big Biotech Blow-Up 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in the stock of Prothena Corporation PLC (the “Company”). 
Other research contributors, and others with whom we have shared our research (collectively with 
Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise have short positions in the stock of the Company. The Authors stand to 
realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication, the Authors may 


transact in the securities of the Company. Please read our full legal disclaimer at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 2 














Table of Contents 


I. INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS ........................................................................................................ 3 


II. COMPANY OVERVIEW ................................................................................................................... 7 


III. NEOD001 HAS NO CHANCE FOR SUCCESS ................................................................................ 8 


Prothena is suppressing negative NEOD001 results ................................................................................................... 8 
Initial patient-stratified Phase 1/2 results show NEOD001 does not work ......................................................... 10 
Prothena’s “best response” endpoint masks lack of efficacy with measure-to-measure variance ..................... 12 
NEOD001 compared to historical precedent ............................................................................................................. 15 
Precedent radioimaging studies show that antibodies cannot treat amyloid deposits in the heart .................... 21 
Amyloid fibril heterogeneity driven by light chain variation, organ-specific polymorphisms/occlusion, and 


proteolyzation combine to make clinical success impossible for NEOD001 ....................................................... 23 
NT-proBNP declines following chemotherapy with established regimens and amyloid deposits resolve 


naturally, making clinical success difficult to attain even without NEOD001’s incredible challenges ............. 25 


IV. CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................................ 27 


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ................................................................................................................... 28
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





I. Investment Highlights 





Kerrisdale Capital: What would you guess the probability is that their [Prothena’s] Phase 3 trial 


will be successful?  That they will get statistically significant results? 





Amyloid antibody co-inventor #1: Almost zero. 





Amyloid antibody co-inventor #2: This disease [AL amyloidosis] is so heterogeneous that you 


cannot treat them like a population, you have to treat them like individuals… The way it [AL 


amyloidosis] presents and the way it works, it [NEOD001] is just not going to work. You cannot 


do it.  





The experts agree — NEOD001 does not work. We spoke with numerous amyloidosis 


experts who were familiar with NEOD001 and its reported results, including researchers 


specializing in AL amyloidosis and amyloid antibodies and principal investigators involved with 


Prothena’s Phase 1/2, Phase 2b, and Phase 3 trials. Most, including ones involved with 


Prothena’s trials, were skeptical that NEOD001 actually works.  





The data agrees — NEOD001 does not work. Prothena’s “positive” data presented to 


investors and analysts is distorted and misleading for the following reasons: 





 Prothena’s initial Phase 1/2 data lacks all elements of a successful trial. There is no 


dose response, there is no duration benefit, and the drug does not appear to have any 


influence on catastrophic cardiac events. Prothena subsequently stopped publishing a 


patient-stratified NT-proBNP time series and switched to exclusively providing best 


response data — indicating that the initial poor results did not improve later. 





 Prothena’s “best response” is an uninformative measure that substitutes variance for 


efficacy, and Prothena provides this in lieu of meaningful data because NEOD001 does 


not work. Prothena makes misleading apples-to-oranges comparisons with other 


publications, comparing their best response rates with responses over fixed durations to 


try to show that NEOD001 is efficacious. The average patient was in the NEOD001 


Phase 1/2 trial for 12.8 treatment cycles as of the final results presentation. Prothena is 


cherry-picking the best data point out of those ~12 data points, and then comparing it to 


studies using a single data point at the end of a pre-specified length of time. Prothena’s 


outcome names (“responders” and “stable”) imply much better outcomes than were 


actually observed because they are purely based off of the single best data point for 


each patient. 





o One patient saw NT-proBNP skyrocket by more than 300% from baseline while 


on NEOD001 and subsequently stopped taking the drug — yet still falls under 


Prothena’s definition of “best responder” since he saw NT-proBNP decline by 


more than 30% before it shot up.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 4 








o One “responder” saw an NT-proBNP best response of -58% — but later died 


during the Phase 1/2 trial, illustrating the fact that best response is primarily 


driven by variance and is useless as a clinical endpoint. This patient was counted 


as a successful responder anyway. 





 Prothena repeatedly makes a misleading apples-to-oranges comparison between its 


53% best response rate and the 26.5% response rate in Comenzo et al 2012 to 


convince investors that NEOD001 will succeed in Phase 3 — but Comenzo 2012 


measures cardiac response rate based on the final change in NT-proBNP six months 


after baseline, not the cherry-picked best monthly measurement over a 12 month period.  


We can however triangulate the fixed duration response rates (response rates at the end 


of a specific number of months as opposed to best response rate) from Prothena’s 


Phase 1/2 trial based on responder data provided by the company and make an 


appropriate comparison with Comenzo 2012. As we show in this report, we see that 


Prothena’s month-to-month cardiac response rates are in the 20-30% range and in-line 


with what should be expected from a control group in the upcoming Phase 2b trial. 





 The 53% cardiac best response rate achieved in Prothena’s Phase 1/2 trial is also in-line 


with what investors should expect from the control group in Prothena’s current Phase 2b 


and 3 trials. In the study Jaccard et al 2014, the authors carved out a subgroup of 


patients who had survived for at least three months after starting therapy. This subgroup 


is a good comparator to Prothena’s results and of the patients in Jaccard 2014’s >3 


month survival cohort, cardiac best responses were documented in 45% (19/42). 





 The change in best response rates over the course of the NEOD001 trial indicates that 


NEOD001 does not work. Initial data published in 2014 showed a best response rate of 


56%, with the majority of responders being treated with ≤1 mg/kg of NEOD001. 


Prothena’s final results presentation showed a 53% response rate when all patients 


were titrated up to the maximum dose (24 mg/kg) and average duration increased 


significantly. Increased doses and administrations (and therefore potential best-response 


data points) should be linked to higher best response rates — instead, Prothena saw the 


rates decline. This would be a highly improbable event if NEOD001 actually 


worked. 





 Even Prothena’s best-response rates are an artifact of the efficacy of prior treatments 


rather than the efficacy of NEOD001. The median time since last PCD treatment in 


Prothena’s trial was approximately 6 months.1  However, it is well-known that 


chemotherapy causes a transient increase in NT-proBNP which subsequently reverses. 





Gibbs et al 2009 showed that there is a transient increase in NT-proBNP levels following 


chemotherapy in AL amyloidosis patients, with a median increase of 83% six months 


                                                
1 5.8 months in presentation of the final Phase 1/2 results
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





following diagnosis which naturally reverses afterwards in nearly all patients. The study 


showed that 92% of patients saw subsequent declines in NT-proBNP levels at twelve 


months, with the median decline being nearly 50% -- bringing NT-proBNP to 


approximately where it was prior to chemotherapy. 





The science agrees — NEOD001 does not work. Prothena claims that NEOD001 works by 


binding with a cryptic epitope. A cryptic epitope is a targeted binding site revealed under specific 


circumstances; in the case of NEOD001, the target is revealed in misfolded light chain proteins 


forming amyloid deposits but not in ordinary light chain proteins, allowing for NEOD001 to treat 


amyloidosis without interfering with healthy light chains or having its effects diluted. However, as 


we confirmed with researchers in the field, this is impossible-- there are simply too many 


variations in amyloidogenic proteins that cause AL amyloidosis. The proteins and amyloid 


structures vary between patients and even among amyloid deposits within a single patient far 


too much for a single cryptic epitope to work with any consistency. On top of the heterogeneity, 


researchers believe that organ-specific occlusion and amyloid proteolyzation could further 


contribute to the inability of AL amyloid antibodies to bind to their target epitopes and achieve 


meaningful responses. 





 Even when antibodies showed affinity to some amyloid deposits in some patients, there 


was still no evidence of efficacy in the heart (the principal target for Prothena’s Phase 2b 


and Phase 3 trials). This problem has affected the two predecessor AL amyloidosis 


antibodies (11-1F4 and GSK2398852), and Prothena has provided absolutely no 


evidence or even theory to explain why NEOD001 would be an exception.  





 Failure to reliably bind to AL amyloid fibrils has been a recurrent theme in AL 


amyloidosis, even in vitro. For instance, in Misdiagnosis of Hereditary Amyloidosis as AL 


(Primary) Amyloidosis, Lachmann et al reveal that even antibody staining of in vitro 


biopsies worked less than half of the time. 





 Prothena could have refuted this by publishing a radioimaging study showing that 


NEOD001 does bind to amyloid deposits — but either didn’t complete a study, or 


completed such a study but decided against publishing the results. Precedent 


radioimaging studies for similar antibodies designed to bind with amyloid deposits 


showed poor binding reliability, with complete failure to bind to amyloid in the heart. 





Amyloid deposits, Prothena’s alleged “incurable target”, resolve naturally once the root 


cause (plasma dyscrasia) is reduced/eliminated through conventional therapy. Even if 


NEOD001 did work, it would be extraordinarily hard to show any meaningful clinical benefit. 





 It has been known since at least 19282 that amyloid deposits regress naturally once 


serum free light chains are normalized. This was conclusively shown to be true in 


                                                
2 Waldenström, Henning. "On the formation and disappearance of amyloid in man." Acta Chir Scand 63 


(1928): 479-530.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





Gameren et al 2009, a study which showed that significant natural declines in amyloid 


deposits were seen in patients, with approximately 50% of the complete responders 


group showing significant declines in amyloid deposits within one year after the start of 


chemotherapy and nearly all patients seeing significant declines in amyloid deposits 


within 3 years. 





Our discussions with physicians treating amyloidosis patients also confirmed this. 


Consensus is that once patients get free light chain (FLC) levels under control through 


chemotherapy, amyloid deposits typically resolve naturally within six months to two 


years. 





Neil Woodford has bid the price up but history shows the Woodford effect does not last 





 Investors should beware when no notable healthcare hedge funds are involved in a 


multi-billion dollar name, and the largest investor has made repeated large mistakes in 


the biotech sector.  





 Within biotechnology, Woodford is best known for buying a 28% stake in Northwest 


Biotherapeutics, a company alleged to have engaged in a paid stock-promotion scheme 


and currently under SEC investigation.  The stock has declined by more than 95% and 


Woodford’s stake, originally purchased for >$150mm, is now virtually worthless. 





 Woodford also holds 28% of Allied Minds, a publicly-traded venture capital firm primarily 


owning stakes in healthcare companies. We previously published negative views on 


Allied Minds in September 2015, and the stock has since declined more than 60%.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





II. Company Overview 





Prothena Corporation PLC: Capitalization and Financial Results 








Source: company filings, Capital IQ, Kerrisdale analysis 


†Consensus estimates via Capital IQ. 








Prothena Corporation PLC is an antibody-focused biotechnology company. Sell-side analysts 


ascribe the bulk of Prothena’s value to its principal asset, NEOD001. NEOD001 is an antibody 


designed to treat amyloid deposits in patients with AL amyloidosis. AL amyloidosis, also known 


as primary amyloidosis and systemic amyloidosis, is a disease characterized by formation and 


accumulation of amyloid in organs and tissue.   





It is estimated that 1 out of every 100,000 US residents suffer from AL amyloidosis, with 


approximately 4,500 new cases per year. Amyloids are misfolded proteins, and in the case of 


AL amyloidosis, the specific proteins are antibody light chains produced by malignant plasma 


cells. In other types of amyloidosis, amyloids are formed from other proteins: for instance, in the 


case of AA amyloidosis, the amyloids are primarily composed of serum amyloid A protein 


fragments. Light chains themselves are normally soluble, but in patients with AL amyloidosis, 


the misfolded light chains tend to clump together and form amyloid fibrils, which are insoluble 


and not easily removed naturally by the body. Amyloid fibril build-up can interfere with organ 


function, causing adverse events and potentially death. Cardiac involvement is the leading 


cause of death in AL amyloidosis patients.  





Prothena filed an Investigational New Drug application for NEOD001 in September 2012. 


NEOD001 is designed to bind to amyloid fibrils and trigger their removal. In December 2012, 


Prothena was spun off from Elan Corporation, an Irish pharmaceutical company. As part of the 


spin-off, Elan invested $26.0mm in Prothena in exchange for an 18% stake, valuing the equity 


at approximately $144mm and enterprise value at just $19mm. Prothena closed its first day of 


trading (December 21, 2012) at $7.20/share with 17.7mm shares outstanding for a market 


capitalization of $127mm and enterprise value of nearly zero. 





The first patient was dosed in Prothena’s Phase 1/2 trial for NEOD001 in April 2013. Prothena 


published a positive press release with initial clinical data on NEOD001 on April 23, 2014 and 


presented the data at the International Symposium on Amyloidosis, claiming that “eight of nine 


evaluable patients with AL amyloidosis with cardiac involvement either achieved responses
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





(N=5) or were considered stable (N=3).”  In the press release, Prothena also guided to initiating 


a Phase 2/3 trial of NEOD001 in Q4 2014. Prothena’s stock rallied 10% that day. But then on 


April 29, 2014, Prothena published its poster for NEOD001 which provided a more granular look 


at the initial Phase 1/2 data,3 and Prothena’s stock plummeted 31% and an additional 16% the 


next day. The poster is extremely troubling because it shows no discernible trends suggesting 


efficacy. It includes a time series graph (which we provide on p. 10 of this report) where patients' 


NT-proBNP levels are clearly gravitating around baseline levels rather than improving over time, 


and increasing dose and duration of treatment did not appear to have any effect. 





In subsequent press releases and presentations, Prothena switched away from providing 


complete data from the NEOD001 Phase 1/2 trial and has only provided best response data and 


scatterplots that exclude non-responders. Since then, the stock has tripled to $61/share with a 


market capitalization of $2.4bn. 





III. NEOD001 Has No Chance For Success 


Prothena is suppressing negative NEOD001 results 





Prothena’s valuation implies a high probability that NEOD001 will succeed in its Phase 2b and 


Phase 3 trials. This optimistic outlook is driven by management’s guidance that the drug’s 


Phase 1/2 results as presented to investors, specifically the cardiac best response rate, are far 


better than would be expected from a placebo group and proof that NEOD001 works.   





We strongly disagree with this assessment. Prothena’s cardiac best response rate is merely a 


byproduct of well-documented natural variance, and we believe there is no chance of NEOD001 


producing statistically significant results in its current Phase 2b and Phase 3 trials. 





Cardiac best response rate is determined by looking at the single greatest decline in NT-


proBNP for each patient. So, if a patient showed an NT-proBNP measure of 1000 ng/L at 


baseline, 650 ng/L after one month of treatment, 1100 ng/L after two months of treatment, 1400 


ng/L after three months of treatment, and died during the fourth month, the patient would be 


counted as a cardiac best responder. 





This best response endpoint does nothing to demonstrate that NEOD001 works. Illogical clinical 


endpoints are typically the result of data mining following the failure of a drug to show actual 


efficacy. We believe the decision to use cardiac best response in lieu of the typical fixed-


duration response — response as measured over a pre-specified period (6 months, a year, 18 


months, etc.) — is a product of the fact that the fixed-duration responses in Phase 1/2 were not 


meaningfully different from what one would expect to see from a control group. 





                                                
3 (Abstract #PB-48) Preliminary cardiac biomarker responses demonstrated in an ongoing phase 1 study 


of NEOD001 in patients with AL amyloidosis and persistent organ dysfunction
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





Prothena’s “best response” endpoint does nothing to demonstrate that NEOD001 works. In fact, 


it does the exact opposite: it makes it clear that Prothena has diverted investors’ attention to its 


manufactured endpoint because the fixed-duration response rate is poor.  





While the ideal endpoint for trials evaluating drugs like NEOD001 would be overall survival, we 


recognize that this is not practical for a Phase 1/2 trial because of the long horizon required for 


survival trials. That said, investigators still want to see evidence of efficacy — in the case of 


NEOD001, they should be looking for sustained decline in NT-proBNP, a key biomarker for 


measuring the degree of heart failure in patients. We know that Prothena is collecting NT-


proBNP data regularly, and there are various ways it could be displayed in posters — patient-


by-patient chronological data, median change in NT-proBNP for the entire patient pool by 


months since beginning NEOD001 treatment, etc. 





However, instead of providing any kind of chronological data showing the impact of NEOD001 


on patients’ biomarkers, Prothena has only provided its “best response” smokescreen, which 


takes the best response for each patient over duration of treatment and ignores all other data 


points. The problem with using a best response endpoint is that it is well-known that there is 


significant variance in the biomarker among the patient population. Rather than demonstrating 


efficacy, Prothena is just confirming that variance is high and calling it success. Prothena has all 


the data on month-to-month changes in biomarkers — but chose not to publish it. The only 


logical explanation is that NEOD001 failed to show any meaningful, sustained response.  





This should be no surprise to investors who have been following Prothena since its initial 


NEOD001 poster in 2014. The granular patient-by-patient data displayed on the poster showed 


that NEOD001 had no effect on patients. The lack of subsequent comparable data only confirms 


that nothing changed as the trial progressed. Prothena has since compared its “best response” 


data to data from other trials measured over a set time period in an apples-to-oranges 


comparison. Precedent trials measure change over time and produce a single data point for 


each patient; Prothena collects as many as two dozen data points for each patient and then 


cherry-picks the best data point for each patient. When we triangulate Prothena’s actual 


response rates over fixed durations, we find that they are well-within the range one would 


expect from a control group.  





Academic and clinical researchers we spoke with were skeptical of the efficacy of NEOD001 


based on both the mechanism of action and the publicly-available clinical data. Creating 


successful antibodies for treating amyloid deposits is far more complicated than Prothena 


portrays it to be in investor presentations. Misfolded light chain antibodies (the root cause of AL 


amyloidosis) and the fibrils formed by them are incredibly heterogeneous. Prothena either 


neglected to complete or neglected to publish proof-of-concept radioimaging studies showing 


that NEOD001 actually binds to AL amyloid deposits in humans.  





However, we can look at human radioimaging studies performed with other amyloid antibodies 


as precedent. Binding has been unreliable among different patients and even among different 


organs within the same patient, with no apparent affinity for amyloid fibrils found in the heart in
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 10 





particular — which does not bode well for Prothena’s Phase 2b and Phase 3 trial where change 


in NT-proBNP and mortality/hospitalization are the primary endpoints. 





As we show in this report, NEOD001 checks all the wrong boxes for clinical success: 











Initial patient-stratified Phase 1/2 results show NEOD001 does not 


work 





If NEOD001 worked, you might see changes in NT-proBNP levels that look something like this, 


as the treatment removes amyloid deposits from heart tissue:
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 11 








This is what Prothena’s preliminary data looked like: 





 
Prothena Poster at 2014 International Symposium on Amyloidosis 





Note that there is no pattern of increasing change over time (or even sustained change) and 


more than half of the “best response” responders were in the two lowest doses — 0.5 mg/kg 


and 1.0 mg/kg — the opposite of dose response.  





Predictably, investor response to this data was poor. The poster was presented at the 2014 


International Symposium on Amyloidosis (April 27 – May 1, 2014) and between April 28 and 


April 30, 2014, Prothena’s stock dropped by over 40%. To stem the bleeding, Prothena 


scheduled a special call to discuss the interim data for May 2, 2014. 





During the special call, Prothena management reframed the data to focus on “best response”: 


dodging discussion of the lack of sustained response, dose response, or any other kind of 


meaningful response. Using its best response criteria, Prothena claimed that five of the nine 


evaluable patients were responders. Prothena lauded the results and then-CEO Dale Schenk 


guided analysts to compare the then-56% best response rate with a 15-30% for conventional 


patients: “It should be noted that somewhere between 15% to 30% of patients are known to be 


able to show a response on this type of cardiac biomarker following plasma cell-directed 


therapy.”4 





                                                
4 https://seekingalpha.com/article/2188233-prothenas-ceo-presents-at-neod001-interim-phase-1-data-


conference-transcript?part=single
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 12 





Prothena subsequently switched to exclusively providing updated data on patients’ best 


responses. Below is Prothena’s final waterfall chart of best responses to NEOD001, taken from 


the final Phase 1/2 results presentation: 





 
Source: Prothena Presentation at ASH 2016 





Generally, drugs that work show dose response, so one would expect to see improved efficacy 


with a higher median dose. Even if the drug doesn’t work, increasing the duration of treatment 


(and therefore the number of measurements taken) must increase the probability of the single 


greatest decline for each patient being greater than 30% because Prothena effectively has more 


shots on the goal. The data showed the opposite — the best response rate declined, with the 


final best response rate from the Phase 1/2 trial being 53%, down from the initial 56%. This 


outcome would be highly improbable if the drug worked. 





When investigators are measuring the impact a drug has on a specific endpoint for patients, 


they typically measure this based on change in that endpoint over a predetermined length of 


time, or in the case of overall survival, they measure the time until a change in that endpoint. 


Prothena could easily have provided this kind of data to investors — specifically, change in NT-


proBNP over a period of six or twelve months. Instead, Prothena has elected not to disclose 


median change, and to instead provide the percent of patients who, at one point or another, saw 


a decline of over 30% in NT-proBNP levels. 





Prothena’s “best response” endpoint masks lack of efficacy with 


measure-to-measure variance 





There are challenges in interpretation of NT-proBNP. The challenges are, at what time point 


are you measuring it, and are you measuring it as best response, because the best
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 13 





response could be a 30% reduction, and tomorrow if you measure it, it will be a 25% 


increase, and then the next day it’s progression…I can tell you this from clinical practice that 


this happens all the time. 
 


— NEOD001 Principal Investigator 





Primary endpoints using biomarkers are most often measured as either change from baseline in 


a specific endpoint at a predefined point in time or as a function of that change; e.g., the percent 


of patients who saw a change greater or less than a predefined level. Prothena is measuring the 


percent of patients with “best responses” greater than 30% decline in NT-proBNP.  





During discussions with practitioners and clinical investigators in the NEOD001 trials, we were 


told repeatedly that variance in month-to-month NT-proBNP is very high and strongly influenced 


by factors that have nothing to do with amyloid deposits, such as diuretics or salt intake. 


Published data also confirms this.  





Wu et al 2003 showed that clinical variation in NT-proBNP in healthy patients over an eight-


week period was 33%. Bruins et al 2004 showed that week-to-week clinical variation in NT-


proBNP in stable CHF patients was 35%. In Schou et al 2007, researchers found that median 


year-to-year clinical variance in stable CHF patients was 30%. Bruins concluded that “The high 


CVis hamper interpretation of changes in BNP and NT-proBNP concentrations and may partly 


explain their poor diagnostic values in chronic heart failure.”  This prompted significant 


discussion of the utility of NT-proBNP as a diagnostic factor. In response to Bruins et al 2004, 


Fokkema et al 2006 suggested using a lognormal approach to adjust for skewness in changes 


in NT-proBNP — but even with this methodology, Fokkema found that the declines required to 


show any clinical meaning within-day, day-to-day, and week-to-week were -22%, -42%, and -


61%, respectively. See below for a summary of published figures regarding variance in 


individuals’ NT-proBNP levels:
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 14 





Even if it were not just measuring variance, the 30% declines in NT-proBNP would not be 


sufficient to show a difference in survival. 





The 172 patient, two-year trial Miller et al 2009 (appropriately titled Only Large Reductions in 


Concentrations of Natriuretic Peptides (BNP and NT-proBNP) Are Associated with Improved 


Outcome in Ambulatory Patients with Chronic Heart Failure) confirmed that a substantial and 


sustained change in NT-proBNP is required to produce any benefit for patients: the study 


showed that, when measuring mortality risk, a 20-80% decline in NT-proBNP produced a p-


value of 0.865 with a hazard ratio that was paradoxically slightly higher than 1: 





 
Source: Miller et al 2009 





We also reiterate that this is a baseline-to-final-measure change in NT-proBNP, not best 


response, further trivializing Prothena’s endpoint. As we argued earlier, Prothena’s best 


response measure is useless because it measures variance rather than sustained response. 


Miller et al 2009 shows that even if Prothena’s data points had been reflective of sustained 


response, they would not translate to increased overall survival. Miller et al shows that it takes a 


>80% decline in NT-proBNP levels to produce a meaningful hazard ratio (approximately 0.4), 


but few patients in Prothena’s trial saw declines that high even when measuring on a best 


response basis. 





20-80% decrease in 


NT-proBNP level in 


CHF patients has no 


meaningful impact on 


survival
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 15 








NEOD001 compared to historical precedent 





As we showed in the prior section, Prothena’s best response measure is a poor indicator of 


efficacy because it measures the maximum response in any month over a duration rather than 


the ultimate change over the duration and is influenced far more by the variance in the 


measured biomarkers than by efficacy. Yet in communications to the market, Prothena 


management regularly compares its best response endpoint with published data that relies on a 


single measurement to determine cardiac responder/non-responder status in blatant apples-to-


oranges comparisons. For instance, the following statement was made in a Prothena press 


release from June 2015 about its clinical data:5 





The 57.1% cardiac best response rate is more than double the expected cardiac best 


response rate of 26.5% from historical data in patients treated solely with off-label 


standard of care (Comenzo, et al., Leukemia. 2012;26:2317-2325). 





In this comparison, Prothena is taking its best response data and comparing it with fixed-


duration data from Comenzo et al 2012. The 26.5% response rate is calculated based on the 


percent of patients who saw a decline in NT-proBNP of at least 30% and 300 ng/mL at six 


months, not the percent of patients who saw a maximum response of at least 30% and 300 


ng/mL at one time point out of twelve months. 





Below is the relevant section of Comenzo et al 2012 that Prothena is referencing: 





                                                
5 http://ir.prothena.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=917683
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 16 








Prothena arrives at 26.5% by dividing the 100 patients from the NT-proBNP response survival 


curve by the 377 total patients.6  However, these are not best responses — these are 


responses at six months from treatment-naïve patients who were evaluated at two time points: 


treatment initiation and six months following treatment initiation. 





The appropriate comparison with the data from Comenzo et al 2012 would be between fixed 


duration rates using Prothena’s drug. Prothena does not provide these directly to investors — 


but we were able to extrapolate them based on publicly available data, and we found that the 


26.5% Prothena points to falls squarely in the middle of the range achieved by Prothena during 


its trial. 





We triangulated the response rate for each month in Prothena’s Phase 1/2 trial from graphical 


data provided by the company in a 2015 presentation. Our conclusions demonstrate that 


NEOD001 will not outperform the control group in its Phase 2b & Phase 3 trials. Prothena 


provided a scatterplot of patient NT-proBNP changes in its Phase 1/2 trial as of 2/28/15. See 


below: 





                                                
6 100 / (169+108+100) = 100 / 377 = 26.5%
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 17 





 
Source: Prothena EHA 2015 Presentation 





From the scatterplot, we can see how many patients achieved 30% or greater declines in NT-


proBNP from baseline at specific points in time. All non-responders were excluded from the 


graph — and by definition, the non-responders did not see a response of >30% decline and 300 


pg/mL at any point, so therefore at every time point on the graph, the non-responders would 


have been failures. We made a table showing our estimates of the response rates at each point 


in time based on Prothena’s EHA 2015 data: 








As stated in the footnotes to the table, non-responder data was not provided by month, but we 


do know that all patients were treated for at least four months and that the median treatment 


duration was 12 months as of the presentation. We conservatively assumed that non-


responders had a significantly shorter average treatment duration than the general population, 


and reduced the patient count to five patients after four months, from five to four patients after 


six months, four to three after 8 months, and three to two after 10 months — an overall decline 


of 50% after 8 months despite the median duration of treatment for the overall patient population
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 18 





being disclosed as 12 months at the cut-off date (February 2015) for the final data. Even if you 


make wildly aggressive assumptions about the dropout rate for never-responders, you cannot 


get to a meaningfully differentiated response rate — assuming 100% of never-responders 


dropped out of the trial after 4 months (which is clearly not true), you still have a median monthly 


response rate of 33% through 12 months (compared to 25% based on our estimates).  This 


33% is not significantly higher than the 26.5% in Comenzo et al, and it is overstated due to 1) 


excluding never-responders from months 5-12 and 2) survivorship bias in later months —


patients seeing improvement are more likely to stay on therapy regardless of whether the 


therapy is actually helping them. 





The lack of change in response rate over time based on the monthly data demonstrates that 


NEOD001 does not work. If NEOD001 did work, you would expect a steady increase in the 


number of patients who responded each month over time. Instead, Prothena saw no such 


snowballing of response rate: 








Looking at the first twelve months of data, the response rate is between 15% and 30% at 10/12 


monthly time points with a median response rate of 25%, and this remarkably does not change 


significantly throughout the trial despite survivorship bias,7 with the linear trend line sloping 


                                                
7 The further out you go, the less indicative the data is of what the response rate would be for a larger trial 


because the patients who are most likely to drop out are patients who were not seeing positive changes 


in biomarkers (regardless of whether those changes were driven by the experimental drug or not). While 


Prothena stopped disclosing discontinuation rates, Prothena previously disclosed that of the first six 


patients in the Phase 1 study, three discontinued by seven months, which may have inflated later 


response rates
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 19 





upwards at a rate of less than 1%/month — in such a small group of patients, this all but 


guarantees that there is no duration benefit to the treatment. Prothena also disclosed in its “final 


results” presentation at ASH 2016 that the median time to initial cardiac response was two 


months. This combined with the lack of snowballing in response rate means that responses 


were fleeting and merely caused by chance — if there were a sustained response, you would 


see the response rate clearly increasing over time, rather than bouncing around in the 15-30% 


range. 





Perhaps realizing that overall monthly response rates could be triangulated from the scatterplot 


data, Prothena also stopped providing the scatterplot. It was conspicuously absent from the 


slide deck Prothena presented at ASH 2016, which focused exclusively on the best response 


waterfall. 





The final best response rate was nearly the same as the response rate at the time of the last 


scatterplot, suggesting that the cardiac response rates did not increase from the ~20-30% seen 


in the interim data despite increased duration.  





Plotting the median data from Prothena’s scatterplot without including any non-responder data, 


we also see that the median cardiac response to NEOD001 (measured as decline in NT-


proBNP) did not improve measurably throughout the trial. Like response rate, this should have 


been measurably impacted by survivorship bias as well as any duration response. See below: 








Additionally, Prothena’s scatterplot appears to intentionally exclude unfavorable data even 


among its so-called responders. There was a patient who saw NT-proBNP increase by 319% 


-40%


-35%


-30%


-25%


-20%


-15%


-10%


-5%


0%


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12


%
 C


h
a


n
g


e
 in


 N
T


-P
ro


B
N


P
 f


ro
m


 B
a


se
li


n
e


NEOD001 Treatment Months


NEOD001 Phase 1/2 Trial: 
Median Change in NT-proBNP by Month Among Responders


If NEOD001 worked, responders would see declines in NT-
proBNP ramp up over time, but instead there was no 
meaningful change in response magnitude over time
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 20 





from baseline while on NEOD001, at which point he discontinued treatment. This would clearly 


be considered by most to fall under the scope of “progression” but Prothena recorded this 


patient as a responder as well (confirmed with a co-author of Prothena’s Phase 1/2 results 


presentation). Somehow, the final data points showing massive increases from baseline in NT-


proBNP for this patient (318.7% and 249.0%) did not make it into the scatterplot provided to 


investors. 





While Prothena regularly compares its best response results to the responses over a 


predetermined duration in other studies, we can look at other published data to conduct a more 


apples-to-apples comparison.  





In the study Jaccard et al 2014, the authors carved out a subgroup of patients who had survived 


for at least three months after starting therapy. This subgroup is a good comparator to 


Prothena’s results because Prothena’s trials are only enrolling patients who were at least able to 


stabilize the production of misfolded light chains and survive beyond the conclusion of 


chemotherapy.  





Of the patients in this cohort, cardiac responses were documented in 45% (19/42). We believe 


the small difference between these patients and those in Prothena’s reported 53% best 


response rate is likely due to the fact that Prothena’s patient population had better hematologic 


responses (ie. Prothena’s population had lower FLC levels due to a better response to 


chemotherapy) compared to the patients in the Jaccard trial. In Jaccard et al 2014, 24% of 


patients in the >3 month survival subgroup had achieved complete responses, 33% achieved 


very good partial response, 29% achieved partial response, and 14% achieved no response, 


compared to Prothena’s population, where for the patients for whom their most recent 


hematologic response was documented, 52% were complete responders, 22% were very good 


partial responders, 17% were partial responders, and 9% were non-responders. 





Other studies show a wide range of NT-proBNP responses, and confirm that Prothena’s 


response rate is anything but exceptional. Palladini et al 2010 measured patients’ NT-proBNP 


levels at baseline and six months after initiating treatment. In this study, investigators found that 


the cardiac response rate measured six months after initiating treatment was 38% (43/113). In 


Palladini et al 2006, researchers found that cardiac response rate measured after three cycles 


of chemotherapy was 39%, with a median decline of 48% in NBT-proBNP among patients who 


saw a hematologic response. This is not surprising — as we show in this report, amyloid 


deposits resolve naturally once the source of the problem (malignant plasma cells producing 


misfolded FLC) is resolved and FLC levels are controlled. This is typically achieved through 


chemotherapy targeting the plasma cells.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 21 





Precedent radioimaging studies show that antibodies cannot treat 


amyloid deposits in the heart 





What matters now, the biggest thing, is what happens in the heart and kidneys. If that 


epitope is present in the heart and kidneys, then that antibody that can image that or bind 


that is going to be the best therapeutic [option]. For our imaging study…if we knew they had 


amyloid in the heart or kidney…11-1F4 didn’t image that. 11-1F4 didn’t image cardiac 


amyloid. And that’s not surprising to us — you might ask why, that’s counterintuitive and 


strange, but when you think of the SAP imaging system, they can’t image the heart. Again, 


you have this anomaly, this SAP agent that binds all amyloid in the body, it’s in every 


deposit, but when you radiolabel it, you get beautiful images of the spleen, adrenals, liver, 


maybe a little kidney, but never the heart. 
 


— Amyloidosis Researcher 





SAP imaging has been around since the early 80’s, and nobody knows why [SAP doesn’t 


bind in the heart]…but when you take amyloid out of the heart, from a patient at autopsy, it’s 


got SAP in it — so the ligand is there. It [amyloid antibody development] is complicated by 


the fact that there is no universality at all. 
 


— Amyloidosis Researcher 





NEOD001 is the third antibody designed to bind to amyloid deposits, and like its predecessors, 


we believe it has no effect on amyloid in the heart. 





Radiolabeling is the process of labeling a substance (in this case, an antibody) with a 


radioactive tracer. In the case of amyloidosis, radiolabeling tells investigators if and where the 


antibody is binding to amyloid deposits. This is especially critical for developing antibodies for 


amyloidosis because, short of a placebo-controlled trial, it is the only way to know whether or 


not an antibody is hitting its targets. 





Prothena has failed to publish any radiolabeling results — either because Prothena did not 


conduct a radiolabeling study or because the study yielded poor results. Like its Phase 1/2 trial 


results, the key information for investors is the data that Prothena has failed to give them. 


However, when looking at precedent antibodies that bind to amyloid deposits, we see that 


amyloid fibrils present a unique challenge that those antibodies failed to successfully address. 


As we show in a later section, there are likely multiple causes for this failure, and merely trying a 


different cryptic epitope (as Prothena is doing) does nothing to address any of them. Just as it is 


highly unlikely that Prothena has opted to keep positive trial results secret, it is also improbable 


that Prothena discreetly fixed this complex, multi-faceted problem and opted to not publicize or 


patent its discoveries. 





There are two other amyloid antibodies for treating AL amyloidosis: 11-1F4 and GSK2398852. 


11-1F4 is a chimeric antibody that targets a cryptic epitope (like NEOD001) and dates back to 


the late 1990’s. GSK2398852 is an antibody that binds to serum amyloid P component (“SAP”),
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 22 





a universal component of amyloid deposits and dates back to 1984. Published data has shown 


that neither of these antibodies are capable of binding to and removing cardiac amyloid 


deposits. 





In 2010, a study was published on 11-1F4 (Wall et al 2010) showing that, while there was 


significant uptake of the drug in certain places, there was no apparent effect on the heart or 


kidneys: 





Among 9 of 18 subjects, there was striking uptake of the reagent in liver, lymph nodes, 


bone marrow, intestine, or, unexpectedly, spleen (but not kidneys or heart)… those with 


cardiac or renal amyloid had no demonstrable uptake in these sites. 





In a 1990 NEJM publication (Hawkins et al 1990), researchers found that GSK2398852 (then 


referred to as an SAP antibody) uptake in the heart and kidneys was minimal. In one patient 


who died hours after imaging, 0.2% of the SAP antibody was found in the patient’s heart. Given 


that the patient died from a pulmonary embolism, it seems highly probable that there was 


significant cardiac involvement. While renal involvement for this patient is not clear, the 


radiolabeled SAP antibody showed similar affinity to amyloid deposits there, with 0.26% of 


injected antibody found in the kidneys. 





In a subsequent 2006 study (Bouke et al 2006), the investigators conducted another 


radiolabeled study of SAP antibody, where they enrolled 60 patients with AA amyloidosis, 80 


patients with AL amyloidosis, and 27 patients with hereditary aTTR amyloidosis. There was no 


evidence of cardiac uptake of SAP antibody in any of those patients: 





Our findings here further confirm that SAP scintigraphy is not suitable for evaluating 


myocardial amyloid, which was present clinically in many patients in this series. 





In Misdiagnosis of Hereditary Amyloidosis as AL (Primary) Amyloidosis, Lachmann et al reveal 


that even in vitro antibody staining of biopsies works less than half the time: 





Immunohistochemistry is usually definitive in identifying or ruling out AA amyloidosis, but 


it frequently is not diagnostic with respect to AL amyloidosis. In our series, AL fibrils were 


identified by immunohistochemical staining in only 121 of the 316 patients with 


confirmed AL disease (38 percent). This reflects the failure of anti–light-chain antibodies 


to bind to light-chain fragments with an abnormal cross-β amyloid-fibril conformation and 


also reflects background staining of normal immunoglobulins in the tissues. 





These results are damning for both NEOD001 and Prothena’s preclinical PRX004, which would 


be subject to the same problems with aTTR as NEOD001 is subject to with AL amyloidosis. 


Through discussions with experts and independent research, we believe that amyloidosis 


antibodies have performed poorly due to three primary factors that we will discuss in the next 


section. This scientific rationale coupled with the precedent antibody results and NEOD001’s 


poor clinical results to date make us virtually certain that NEOD001 will fail its upcoming trials.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 23 








Amyloid fibril heterogeneity driven by light chain variation, organ-


specific polymorphisms/occlusion, and proteolyzation combine to 


make clinical success impossible for NEOD001 





There’s one important thing to remember about primary amyloid disease, and I beat my 


medical students over the head with this…basically everyone who has light chain amyloid 


disease has a different underlying light chain. These clones are made randomly — so they 


don’t have the same disease. They are molecularly unique. I’m not trying to second guess 


their [Prothena’s] work although I’m pretty cynical about some of these studies. It’s easy to 


measure light chain in the blood, but we can’t tell you if it’s a bad light chain or a good light 


chain, or if this light chain is going to give you kidney damage or that light chain is going to 


cause nerve damage…These primary amyloid people can have a host of manifestations 


because they are making different proteins. On a molecular, amino-acid basis, they are all 


different. 


— Clinician/Amyloidosis Researcher 





Amyloid is not just amyloid fibrils, there are lots of other proteins in amyloid deposits and 


they are contributed by the organ that the fibrils are in. So each amyloid deposit has organ-


specific things added to it, and so when we take an antibody that stains kappa light chains 


and we have tissue from a patient that had amyloid systemically and we look at the liver, the 


spleen, the heart, the kidneys and they had the same amyloid in every organ from the same 


patient. We stained each of those tissues with the same antibody and only some of those 


tissues will light up. We find that the liver and spleen might light up but the kidney won’t 


stain. Even within an individual, the heterogeneity of the deposits within each organ are 


remarkable. If you just accept all that as true, then the idea that you can find one drug or 


one antibody that can hit every amyloid in every patient, in every organ of that patient, 


statistically the chances of that happening are infinitesimally small.  


— Amyloidosis Researcher 





The proteolyzed fiber may have a different structure — the cryptic epitope may not be 


accessible and may not even be there. 


— Biochemist/Amyloidosis Researcher 





We have concluded that the principal reasons why NEOD001 will fail its trials are 1) the 


variation in misfolded light chain, 2) the occlusion of fibrils in organs, and 3) proteolyzation of 


amyloid deposits. NEOD001 is designed to target a single cryptic epitope which is purportedly 


revealed through protein misfolding. However, based on our research and discussions with 


industry experts, we believe that the variation in light chains and light chain folding makes the 


targeted epitope potentially nonexistent or not revealed, occlusion conceals the targeted 


epitope, and proteolyzation may degrade the targeted epitope. These explain the poor clinical 


results for NEOD001 and other antibodies targeting AL amyloid fibrils.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 24 





It is known that there is significant variation in amyloid fibrils. This makes targeting a specific 


antigen/epitope very challenging. Raffen et al 1999 described the diversity:  





Human antibody light chains originate from a total of 30 to 40 κ and λ variable domain 


gene segments. Each of these gene segments serves as the progenitor of a family of 


related light chains that diversify by the accumulation of somatic mutations. 


Consequently, the primary structures of amyloidogenic and nonamyloidogenic light 


chains differ at numerous sites, and there is no single amino acid substitution or 


combination thereof that underlies a pathological propensity. 





Experts we spoke with believed that the heterogeneity in light chains and light chain mutations 


make AL amyloidosis impossible to successfully treat with a single antibody. One researcher 


who focuses on amyloidosis and is named on AL amyloid antibody patents had the following to 


say: 





This disease is so heterogeneous that you cannot treat them like a population, you have 


to treat them like individuals…The way it presents and the way it works, it’s [NEOD001 


is] just not going to work. You cannot do it. One thing will not cure everyone.  





Other experts we spoke with agreed, and emphasized that a single antibody was highly unlikely 


to be able to successfully target the same antigen in AL amyloidosis because of the diverse 


nature of the amyloids even in the same individual. 





The second scientific reason for why NEOD001 will not work is potential occlusion of the target 


epitope. A biochemist/amyloidosis researcher explained this problem: 





It could be that within the [fibrils], the epitope becomes occluded again. It’s not exposed 


in the native structure of the antibodies…You’re probably aware of the phenomenon of 


amyloid polymorphism, that is, a given sequence of the protein can form a whole bunch 


of amyloid fibers that differ from one another in structure. The smallest unit of the fiber is 


called the protofilament, and that consists of two chains. That protofilament like a wire in 


a cable, can wrap around other protofilaments and there can be different numbers of 


protofilaments in different fibrils, and that is almost always the case in amyloid, that, you 


see some fibers are thinner, others are a little bit thicker, some are much thicker, those 


are amyloid polymorphs. What could be happening is that the epitope in some of these 


fibrils is now buried in a cable-like structure. It’s a real complication in treating amyloid 


[diseases]. 





It is also supported by literature which (as we discussed in the prior section) shows that even in 


patients where antibodies bound to amyloid fibrils in certain organs, they consistently failed to 


bind in the heart and kidneys. Based on this data, one could theorize that polymorphisms 


obstructing the epitope are common in the heart and kidneys — which are the key targets in 


Prothena’s trials.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 25 





The third potential reason for why AL amyloidosis antibodies do not work consistently is the 


proteolyzation of amyloid deposits. While it has been shown that amyloid fibrils can be resistant 


to proteolysis in vitro, there is clearly regression in vivo (Tennent et al 1995). On the surface, 


natural regression of amyloid fibrils would seem like a positive for patients, but it can also make 


it more difficult or impossible for antibodies to bind to their target epitopes. Even ignoring the 


potential impact on NEOD001’s epitope, we think that the natural regression of amyloid deposits 


poses a serious barrier to NEOD001 attaining clinical success because it raises the minimum 


efficacy required to demonstrate clinical success. 





NT-proBNP declines following chemotherapy with established 


regimens and amyloid deposits resolve naturally, making clinical 


success difficult to attain even without NEOD001’s incredible 


challenges 





I had a patient with AL amyloidosis with severe cardiac problems. NT-proBNP was 3,000 or 


4,000 — it was very, very high. I treated her, I’m not a cardiologist, but I treated her as a 


cardiologist would and her BNP went way, way down…What I’m trying to say is, you get 


improvement in BNP through established cardiac regimens. Her BNP went down by about 


80%. 


— Clinician/Amyloidosis Researcher 





NT-proBNP goes up paradoxically with some treatments 


— NEOD001 Principal Investigator 





If you have a CR [complete response], organs will repair in 70-80% of patients, if you have a 


hematologic PR [partial response], organs will repair in 30-40% of patients…VGPR [very 


good partial response] is a new terminology so I don’t know the statistics for VGPR. Having 


said that, the enrollment on the study was after 6 months [following] plasma cell dysplasia 


treatment…So the median time to enrollment was, I think, 6.5 months, but there were 


patients who were 2-3 months post chemotherapy regimen who were also enrolled in the 


trial. So my concern was that we were seeing the leftover effects of plasma cell dysplasia 


treatment. 


— NEOD001 Principal Investigator 





In order to succeed in its ongoing Phase 2b trial, Prothena must produce a statistically 


significant response rate (measured as a best response of ≥30% decline in NT-proBNP 


compared to placebo).  





Published studies show that there are spikes in NT-proBNP levels following successful 


chemotherapy treatments for AL amyloidosis, followed by natural declines. These natural 


declines will pose added difficulty for Prothena in distinguishing its results from the control 


group. One particular study, Gibbs et al 2009, showed that median NT-proBNP measurements
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 26 





taken six months after treatment increased by approximately 83%, and after another six months, 


the NT-proBNP levels declined in 92% of patients to a median value of 92 pmol/L. See below for 


a graphical representation of the results from Gibbs et al 2009: 








Our discussions with practitioners and investigators in the NEOD001 clinical trials confirmed 


that the increase in NT-proBNP levels during — and decline in NT-proBNP levels following — 


chemotherapy treatment was a well-known phenomenon among AL amyloidosis patients. 


Prothena’s final Phase 1/2 presentation shows that the median months since last treatment was 


5.8 months. We believe that some percent of Prothena’s observed best response rate was 


simply natural decline following the conclusion of chemotherapy. 





Further, far from being an incurable condition, amyloid deposits are well-known to naturally 


resolve once FLC levels have dropped and the source of the problem (errant plasma cells) has 


been resolved or significantly reduced. It has been known since at least 19288 that amyloid 


deposits regress naturally once serum free light chains are normalized. This was conclusively 


shown to be true in Gameren et al 2009, a study which showed that significant natural declines 


in amyloid deposits were seen in patients, with approximately 50% of the complete responders 


group showing significant declines in amyloid deposits within one year after the start of 


chemotherapy and nearly all patients seeing significant declines in amyloid deposits within 3 


years.9   











                                                
8 Waldenström, Henning. "On the formation and disappearance of amyloid in man." Acta Chir Scand 63 


(1928): 479-530. 
9 Amyloid deposits evaluated on a graded scale
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 27 





IV. Conclusion 





NEOD001 is the most poorly understood “future blockbuster” drug currently pending pivotal 


results. NEOD001’s best response measure merely confirms what is already well-known: there 


is high variability in month-to-month NT-proBNP measurements among patients. Investors 


should ask themselves why a company would be so opaque with its clinical results and avoid 


releasing more detailed data. We did — and we found out that most who understand the 


science underpinning the drug are skeptical of Phase 3 success. The heterogeneity of AL 


amyloidosis combined with organ-specific occlusion and amyloid proteolyzation have made 


other amyloid antibodies fail to work in practice, and NEOD001 will be no exception. Prothena 


management’s data smokescreen may have temporarily fooled investors but will not protect 


anyone from the enormous and inevitable downside from NEOD001’s Phase 2b and Phase 3 


failures.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 28 





Full Legal Disclaimer  





As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates 


(collectively "Kerrisdale") have short positions in the stock of Prothena Corporation PLC 


(“PRTA”). In addition, others that contributed research to this report and others that we have 


shared our research with (collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise may have short 


positions in the stock of PRTA. The Authors stand to realize gains in the event that the price of 


the stock decreases. Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the 


securities of the company covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of 


Kerrisdale. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be 


accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any 


kind – whether express or implied. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without 


notice, and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any information 


contained herein. This report is not a recommendation to short or sell the shares of any 


company, including PRTA, and is only a discussion of why Kerrisdale is short PRTA. 





This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 


confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted 


as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 


included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing 


conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change. 


The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded 


as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 





Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, 


inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated 


fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation 


of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a 


security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 





This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 


any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the 


Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to 


buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the 


securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all 


information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their 


affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed 


in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors 


should assume that the Authors are short shares of PRTA and have positions in financial 


derivatives that reference this security and stand to potentially realize gains in the event that the 


market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the original publication 


date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to inform any investor or 


viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading activities. In addition, the 


Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other companies, securities, or
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC  |  1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor  |  New York, NY 10036  |  Tel: 212.792.7999  |  Fax: 212.531.6153 29 





commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this report are compensated 


based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the Authors’ operations and their 


affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is generally a derivative of their 


effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment ideas and the performance of 


recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a potential conflict of interest in 


the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents. 





The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-


looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical 


fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions 


or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can 


be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other 


factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent 


due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all 


securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone 


judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
