Muddy Waters Capital, LLC 


 info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research:  Carson C. Block, Esq.	
  








in all fairness I do want to point out that 
it is a side-effect of rapid growth that not 
everything is perfect. I think this also 
contributes to the charm of Rockstars 
here, for example. You can tell that in 
many places it's already pretty 
professional and awesome, but other 
areas still feel a little too DIY. And I 
think the combination is often what 
makes- 


00:25:36 
P. W. M. 


Was? Das gibt's doch nicht! Das 
muss ich mir meinen Dienst ja selber 
nachbehandeln (???) (Publikum 
lacht) 


What? I don't believe it! 
(???) (Audience laughs) 


00:25:43 
C. Sch. 


Also, die Bühne ist schon supergeil, 
aber... Ich meine... 


Well, the stage is really awesome, but... I 
mean... 


00:25:47 
P. W. M. 


Aber meine Stimme ist im Arsch, ja. 
(Publikum lacht) 


But my voice has gone to the dogs, yes. 
(Audience laughs) 


00:25:48 
C. Sch. 


Kann ich kurz erzählen... dass Du durch 
die Hintertür raus musstest? Also, das 
ganze Toilettenthema im Backstage-
Bereich, das hat der Philip noch nicht 
im Griff. Da musste einmal so ein 
LKW-Reifen herhalten... (Publikum 
lacht) 


Can I talk about how you... that you had 
to go out through the back door? All I 
can say is that Philip has to work a little 
harder to sort out the "toilet issue" in the 
backstage area. Because a truck tire was 
misused for a certain purpose... 
(Audience laughs) 


00:26:03 
(Herr 2 
aus dem 
Publikum) 
(Gent. 2 
from the 
audience) 


Christian, ich hätte noch eine Frage – 
bei der Vorstellung der 
Geschäftsbereiche gerade, auf der 
Folie habe ich aufmerksam gelesen, 
dass "Daten betrieben" – eigentlich 
fast in jedem dieser Bereiche stand. 
Wie denkt Ihr über die Nutzung von 
Daten nach? 


Christian, I have one more question – 
when you were talking about the 
strategic business fields I read the 
term "collect data" on one of your 
charts – and noticed it was actually 
also included in almost all of the other 
areas as well. What do you think 
about the use of data? 


00:26:22 
C. Sch. 


Ich glaube, das ist ein Thema, das wir 
so die letzten 12 Monate einfach 
gemerkt haben, dass in allen 


I think this is an issue we have become 
more aware of during the last 12 months, 
because it's an issue that is virulent in all 


Page 59 of 62
Geschäftsbereichen das Thema virulent 
ist, und wir haben halt gemerkt, dass es 
sehr häufig auch einen riesigen 
Unterschied ausmacht. Ja, wenn Du die 
Beacons in Außenwerbeträgern 
installierst, wirst Du plötzlich in 
Echtzeit über mobile SDKs-
Reichweiten verfügbar, und es gibt 
plötzlich einen ganz anderen Blick auf 
die Vermarktungsmöglichkeiten. Wenn 
Du im Publishing-Bereich aus der 
Vermarktung kommst, denkst Du sehr 
stark an Behavioral-Daten. 


areas of business, and we realized that it 
very often also makes a huge difference. 
If you install beacons in outdoor 
billboards, you are suddenly available 
via mobile SDKs coverage in real time, 
and you get a completely new 
perspective in regard to marketing 
possibilities. If you enter the publishing 
field with a background in marketing, 
you automatically think about behavioral 
data. 


00:26:54 
C. Sch. 


Wenn Du plötzlich mit Subscription-
Modellen arbeitest merkst Du, dass Du 
viel tiefergehende Daten hast. Von 
daher sind wir gerade auch dabei uns zu 
überlegen, wie kriege ich die einzelnen 
Themen da kombiniert und in Summe 
mehr Wert für die Firma geschaffen? 
Aber, dass Daten eine zentrale Rolle 
spielen – neben Inventar – davon sind 
wir absolut überzeugt. 


If you suddenly find yourself working 
with subscription models, you realize 
you have data that reaches much further 
down. So, right now we are in the 
process of finding a way of combining 
these individual issues, and thus create 
more total value for the company. But 
we are absolutely certain that data – as 
well as assets – plays a central role. 


00:27:15 
P. W. M. 


Naja, sehr, sehr gut. Ich kann nur 
sagen, also, ich bedanke mich bei Dir, 
dass Du hier bei uns auf der Bühne 
erstmal so super spannend erzählst. 
Ich glaube, es gibt nicht viele Chefs 
von börsennotierten Firmen, die sich 
hier so locker hinsetzen und das 
dermaßen glaubwürdig und 
sympathisch rüberbringen. Ich kann 
nur sagen – für uns, aus der 
Rockstars-Perspektive, ist natürlich 
genau das, was Ihr macht, ist halt 
Rockstars. Einfach sagen: "Okay, 
eine gewisse Anarchie muss sein, wir 
gehen da rein, wir glauben an das 
Thema, wir denken über die Dinge 
ganz anders, als die anderen im 
Markt." Insofern wünschen wir 
Euch natürlich massiv Glück dabei. 
Vielen Dank, dass Du da warst. Ich 
glaube, da kann man nur klatschen. 
[Applaus] 


Well, that all sounds really, really 
good. All I can say is thank you very 
much for joining us on the stage here, 
and telling us your exciting story. I 
don't think there are many COOs of 
publicly traded companies, who could 
just sit down here and tell things in 
such a believable and sympathetic 
fashion. I can only say – for us, from 
the Rockstars perspective, it is pretty 
clear that what you are doing is 
exactly that – being rock stars. You 
simply say, "Okay, a certain amount 
of anarchy is unavoidable. We'll go 
straight in. We believe in what we are 
doing. We have a completely different 
way of thinking as all the other 
players in the market." We of course 
wish you and your company all the 
best in your endeavor. Thank you so 
much for coming. I think all that's left 
to do here is give a big round of 
applause. [Applause] 


Page 60 of 62
Appendix 2 
Media Venture Investees Likely Advertising through Ströer 


 
• Hoccer – in early 2014, Media Ventures invested a headline number of €50 million in 


secure messaging company Hoccer.  A significant portion of the investment was for (or 
in) advertising on the Ströer network.  “’[Media Ventures] will be paying a portion of the 
50 million euros in Hoccer in cash, to promote the development of the technology’, states 
the article.  Most of the money will flow into an advertising campaign by Ströer, an Out-
of-Home media company, with the aim to present Hoccer as an alternative to WhatsApp 
through posters or big screens.”171,172 
 


• Spotted – in mid-2015, Media Ventures invested additional money in the startup dating 
app company.  “The dating startup further announced engaging in a long-term media 
partnership with the existing investor company Media Ventures, owned by poster 
entrepreneur Dirk Ströer.  Spotted refused to disclose the exact amount, only that it is not 
a media-for-equity deal.  ‘Due to achieved objectives, we received the media budget on 
top of the financing’ commented Spotted CEO Nik Myftari towards the Grundersszene.  
Overall, the sum of the deal is said to ENCOMPASS 14.5 million U.S. dollars.”173 


 
• EINFACHLOTTO.de – on 5 June 2014, the online company issued a press release titled 


“Launches Nationwide Billboard with Lothar Matthäus”.  (Matthäus is a famous German 
football player.)  The press release reads “One of [the company’s] shareholders, among 
others, is Media Ventures, the investment company of the Ströer Group, which holds 25.1 
percent.”  It also reads “Katja Semder, the marketing manager of [the parent company], 
says, ‘Our previous campaign has shown that we can increase our membership both 
quickly and efficiently just by using the classical channels.  That is why billboards and 
radio are the preferred types of media.’”174 


 
• Spontacts – In 2013, Media Ventures invested a seven-figure sum to support expanding 


the company’s media strategy, with CEO Dirk Stader highlighting the “strong integration 
of mobile and off-line [advertising]”175 The Spontact press release noted that “Media 
Venture’s extensive out-of-home advertising spaces – both billboards and digital domains 
– throughout Germany are being used to promote the leisure community Spontacts.”176 


 
• tape.tv – Media Ventures signed a three-year media deal in the “mid double-digit 


millions” with online music station tape.tv in 2013. An article announcing the deal notes 
that well-known media entrepreneur Dirk Ströer is the driving force at Media Ventures 


                                                
171 http://www.deutsche-startups.de/2014/03/24/stroeer-50-millionen-hoccer/ 
172 See also http://www.handelsblatt.com/technik/it-internet/50-millionen-euro-investiert-stroeer-uebernimmt-
whatsapp-alternative-hoccer/9658512-all.html and http://www.rp-online.de/digitales/smartphones/hoccer-dirk-
stroeer-kauft-das-deutsche-whatsapp-aid-
1.4125379?utm_campaign=buffer&utm_medium=social&utm_content=bufferd86cf&utm_source=twitter.com 
173 http://www.gruenderszene.de/allgemein/finanzierung-spotted 
174 http://www.openpr.de/news/799298/EINFACHLOTTO-de-startet-bundesweite-Plakat-Kampagne.html 
175 https://www.adzine.de/2013/10/freizeitbranche-millioneninvestition-fuer-die-freizeit-community-spontacts-
display-advertising/ 
176 https://www.spontacts.com/blog/spontacts_news/millioneninvestition-spontacts/ 


Page 61 of 62
and “operates a Germany-wide network of billboards on subways and bus stops under his 
family name. And exactly those are designed to help ‘plant the message in the minds of 
the people out there that you can watch music anywhere’”.177 The Media Ventures press 
release concurred: “[our] tens of thousands of billboards” remind people of that.178 


 
• Topdeals.de – in 2011 Dirk Ströer and Jens Kunath founded Topdeals.de, which is 


online coupon company (similar to Groupon).  “By December 2011, Ströer and Kunath 
want to win a million users for Topdeals.de.  To achieve this goal, a widespread 
campaign will start as early as the end of May.  For the airing of TV spots, online banners 
and billboards, a budget of EUR 7 million is available for the year 2011 alone.  In the 
following year, the advertising budget will increase to EUR 9 million; in 2013 to EUR 16 
million.  But whether Aha.de actually transfers this amount to the marketers is doubtful.  
The reason: As a major shareholder and associate of Ströer Out of Home Media, Dirk 
Ströer can obtain the outdoor advertising spaces at significantly lower rates.  As the focus 
of the campaign is on billboards – of the EUR 7 million, this year 4 million will be 
invested in out-of-home, 2.5 million in the web and only 500,000 in TV j- the actual net 
spending is likely to be significantly lower.  Ströer has already proven that the model can 
work: The dating portal Neu.de he founded in 1999 was initially also advertised on 
billboards – and established itself as one of the top players on the market.”179 


 
• Neu.de – in a 2013 interview, Dirk Stader, Media Ventures’s CEO stated “Well, the 


dating platform neu.de certainly makes for a great story.  I think we made dating more 
socially acceptable through the enormous advertising prints in our out-of-home billboard 
campaign.  Many still remember the Germany-wide billboard campaign that just 
consisted of the words neu.de written on the poster.  That awakened almost everybody’s 
curiosity, and people wanted to know the meaning behind it.  In addition, the exit was 
extremely lucrative, that much I can divulge here.”180 


 
• Weg.de – Media Ventures sold Comvel GmbH, the company that owns travel website 


weg.de.181 The portal grew rapidly and enjoys great name recognition, no doubt due to its 
extensive outdoor advertising campaigns. 


 
• Be Posh – an e-cigarette manufacturer with an anonymous investor from North Rhine-


Westphalia “with direct access to online and offline media” launched a multi-million euro 
advertising campaign in 2015.  Two items of note i) Cologne, where Ströer is based, is in 
North Rhine-Westphalia; ii) there is an implication that there will also be an online 
advertising campaign.182 
 


 
                                                
177 http://www.gruenderszene.de/allgemein/tape-tv-mediadeal-stroer-entlassungen 
178 https://www.mediaventures.de/159/media-ventures-und-tape-tv-im-schmelztiegel-der-digitalisierung-2/ 
179 http://www.horizont.net/medien/nachrichten/-32-Millionen-fuer-Werbung-Dirk-Stroeer-und-Jens-Kunath-starten-
Gutschein-Portal-Topdeals.de-100316 
180 https://www.companisto.com/en/article/article-257 
181 http://www.presseportal.de/pm/71425/2616619 
182 http://www.horizont.net/marketing/nachrichten/E-Zigaretten-Be-Posh-startet-mit-Millionenkampagne-in-den-
deutschen-Markt-133111 


Page 62 of 62
