Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 










Page 1 of 17
Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters”) is an investment advisor to private funds.  Muddy Waters 
has analyzed the U.K.-listed company IQE plc (“IQE”) and is hereby publishing the outcome and the 
conclusions of our analysis, which is based on publicly available information.  Funds Muddy Waters 
manages are short shares of IQE and for this reason there might be a conflict of interest. 
 


 
Report Date: February 8, 2018 
 
Company:  
IQE plc 
 
Ticker:  
IQE (AIM: IQE) 


 
Industry: Semiconductors 
 
Stock Price: GBp 112.6 
 
Market Cap: £851.3 million 
 
Float: 90.5% 
 
Average Daily Volume (90-day): £15.1 million 
 





Muddy Waters is Short IQE plc (AIM: IQE LN) 
 


Muddy Waters Capital LLC is short IQE.  IQE is, in our opinion, an egregious accounting manipulator.   
 
In August 2015, IQE formed a 50/50 joint venture with Cardiff University called Compound 
Semiconductor Centre Limited (“CSC”).  In our analysis, IQE received substantial, but unsustainable, 
accounting benefits from CSC, at the cost of millions of pounds to the university.  We adjust downward 
the company’s reported net income for 2015 and 2016, respectively, by 58.5% and 25.4%.  We believe it 
is reasonable to adjust 1H 2017 net income down by approximately £5 million or 69% to account for 
likely aggressive capitalization of expenses.   
 
On February 2nd, a firm called ShadowFall circulated a report criticizing IQE’s accounting for two joint 
ventures.  IQE responded on February 5th, calling the contents of the report “without merit” and 
“misleading”.  Our research has been independent of ShadowFall, and ShadowFall’s report does not 
address the vast majority of the issues with IQE’s accounts we have identified.   
 
The 2015 and 2016 adjustments reflect our belief that IQE’s transactions with CSC are not substantive, 
and the accounting is possibly designed to deceive investors.  We estimate that when IQE booked gains 
on transferring PP&E to CSC, it transferred the PP&E at a valuation 4.6x carrying value.  This markup 
strains credulity.  We call upon IQE to release the purportedly independent valuation report in full, and 
we will publicly opine on it (even if it convincingly supports the valuation).  IQE was CSC’s only 
customer through 2016, and CSC generated an abysmal negative -105.9% gross margin!  (It is almost 
amazing anyone would claim that it “holds itself to the highest standards of corporate governance, 
transparency, and integrity” with a straight face under these circumstances.1) 
 


																																																													
1 Quote is from IQE response to ShadowFall. 


Page 2 of 17
We identify five previously unknown issues with the accounting for transactions between IQE and CSC.  
Time and again, IQE seems to be employing “having one’s cake and eating it too” accounting.  We feel 
that IQE dominates CSC, and CSC is therefore likely an alter ego for IQE.   
 
We believe IQE began aggressively capitalizing expenses in 1H 2017.  CSC’s funds were largely 
exhausted by the end of 2016, and we suspect IQE was desperate for some more earnings magic.  We 
note that insiders, who presciently purchased a substantial number of shares just before the JVs’ 
accounting benefits began flowing to IQE, sold millions of pounds of stock around the end of 1H 2017.  
These sales could be a sign that IQE’s ability to generate profits has hit the wall as the result of the 
exhaustion of its financial engineering options.   
 
 
 
  


Page 3 of 17
Egregious Manipulation through CSC 
 
Companies House filings state that “CSC’s mission is to provide Europe’s first prototyping facility 
dedicated to enabling businesses and academics to demonstrate new technologies based on compound 
semiconductor materials that will be production ready…”  In addition, CSC is theoretically tasked to 
“facilitate a wide range of training and skills development to support a growing demand…” for 
technologies.  Cardiff University has invested £23.8 million cash in CSC, including a £2.0 million loan and 
an additional £0.8 million investment in the first seven months of 2017.  In contrast, IQE invested zero cash 
– it received its interest in exchange for contributing unspecified PP&E and intangible assets.  We estimate 
the PP&E contribution was valued at 4.6x of its carrying value, which is one of several facts giving us 
concern that IQE might have taken advantage of Cardiff University. 
 
 
We adjust downward IQE’s 2015 and 2016 net income by 58.5% and 25.4%, respectively, to exclude gains 
on transfers of assets to CSC, which we believe lack substance 
 
These adjustments also bring the gross margins in line with those of prior periods. 
 
To neutralize the effect of disposal and license transactions with CSC on IQE’s historical financials, we 
make the following adjustments: 
 





• reverse IP licensing revenue of £7.07 million and £4.93 million in 2015 and 2016, respectively, 
which carried a 100% operating margin, and 


• reverse the realized £4.714 million gain on disposal of PP&E in 2015 
 
In 2015 and 2016, IQE booked gains from transferring PP&E and licensing IP to CSC.  In our opinion, 
these gains are misleading as to the economic health of IQE, and we accordingly adjust IQE’s financials 
to exclude them.  We have identified issues with both the PP&E and IP transactions and accounting. 
 
We estimate that the valuation given to the PP&E IQE transferred was 4.6x its book value, which is 
suspicious on its face.  However, we have identified five accounting issues that solidify our doubts about 
these gains, and which cause us to believe that IQE’s accounting is egregiously manipulated through 
transactions with CSC.  IQE insiders’ significant sales in mid-2017 – just after CSC seemingly lost its 
ability to boost IQE’s accounting profits – lend additional weight to our conviction that the transactions 
with CSC are manipulative and should be disregarded. 
 
  


GBPm
As 


reported
As 


adjusted Difference
As 


reported
As 


adjusted Difference
Revenue 114.0       107.0       -6.2% 132.7      127.8      -3.7%
Cost Of Goods Sold (83.4)       (83.4)       0.0% (98.0)      (98.0)      0.0%
  Gross Profit 30.7         23.6         -23.1% 34.7        29.8        -14.2%
Operating expenses (15.5)       (15.5)       0.0% (16.4)      (16.4)      0.0%
   Operating Profit 15.2         8.1           -46.5% 18.4        13.4        -26.8%
Gain (loss)  on Sales of Assets 5.2           0.5           -90.9% -         -         0.0%
Others (1.0)         (1.0)         0.0% 0.7          0.7          0.0%
   Profit before tax 19.4         7.6           -60.8% 19.0        14.1        -25.9%
Income tax 0.8           0.8           0.0% 0.4          0.4          0.0%
   Net Income 20.1         8.4           -58.5% 19.4        14.5        -25.4%


2015 2016


Page 4 of 17
The five accounting issues that cast doubt on the substance of the gains from transacting with CSC are: 
 


• CSC’s accounting for the transactions is inconsistent with that of IQE, which is problematic given 
the overlapping managers and directors between the companies.  The having one’s cake and 
eating it too treatment suggests IQE is inappropriately accounting for these transactions. 


• IQE has its cake and eats it too in yet another manner when accounting for transactions with CSC 
by selling to it at purportedly market (i.e., arms-length) prices, yet buying from it at cash cost 
(well below market / arms-length prices). 


• IQE’s recognition of certain of these gains from these transactions in 2015 and 2016 is wholly 
inconsistent, leading us to conclude that at best, there is a concerning amount of arbitrariness to 
IQE’s accounting; and, at worst, its accounting is intended to deceive investors. 


• CSC has lost prodigious amounts of money (and burned through substantially all the cash Cardiff 
University invested through 2016), yet IQE’s income statement has been immunized against 
recognizing its share of these losses through accounting we believe is highly aggressive.  Once 
again, IQE is having its cake and eating it too by booking (highly questionable) material gains 
from CSC without recognizing its losses.  (Note that we do not adjust IQE’s earnings downward 
for its share of CSC’s losses, which would effectively be double counting.) 


• Our diligence leads us to believe that CSC is likely non-substantive and effectively an alter ego of 
IQE, supporting our view that IQE’s economic reality is more appropriately understood by 
adjusting for the transactions with CSC. 


 
 
We estimate IQE’s PP&E contribution to CSC was valued at 4.6x its carrying value, straining credulity 
 
In H2 2015, IQE realized a £4.7 million gain on the disposal of the contributed PP&E, which was 
equivalent to 30.1% of its net income during the period.  IQE showed carrying value of all PP&E of 
which it disposed during the period as £3.4 million, and disclosures specific to the PP&E contributed in 
exchange for the £12.0 million equity stake imply IQE carried the PP&E at only £2.6 million.  (Note that 
under IAS 28, IQE may not recognize a gain on the portion equal to the percentage owned by the 
transferor, which in this case is 50%.  If we subtract £9.4 million (2 x £4.7 million) from £12.0 million, it 
implies the carrying value of the PP&E valued at £12.0 million was only £2.6 million.)   
 
IQE noted in its response to ShadowFall that it engaged an “independent” valuation firm to determine the 
“market value” of this PP&E.  Unlike audits, such valuation reports are not generally governed by 
statutory duties to public companies or their shareholders.  In our past work, we have found numerous 
third-party reports to be merely fig leaves to justify egregious accounting (e.g., Noble Group Ltd.).  We 
generally take purportedly independent valuation reports with a grain of salt; therefore, we call upon IQE 
to release the full valuation report used to support the £12.0 million figure.  Should IQE release the 
report, we will publicly opine on it, even if we believe it convincingly supports the valuation (this is a 
serious offer).   
 
IQE transferred intangible assets to CSC, which were valued at £20.0 million.  In the ShadowFall 
response, IQE once again tells us that the valuation was supported by a third-party report.  It would be far 
more difficult for us to sanity check this type of valuation report, but we certainly think that releasing it 
would serve the public interest, given the government money invested.  Regardless, given the totality of 
accounting issues we observe, we believe it prudent to disregard these gains. 
 


Page 5 of 17
Accounting Issue 1 – CSC’s accounts call into question IQE’s revenue recognition and gross profit 
 
IQE recognized IP licensing revenue from CSC of £7.7 million and £4.9 million, respectively, in 2015 
and 2016.  CSC’s accounts do not appear to support this treatment because CSC capitalized these 
payments as investments in intangible assets, and amortizes them over seven years on a straight-line 
basis.  This divergent accounting treatment benefitted IQE’s 2015 and 2016 reported revenue and gross 
margins.  It simultaneously benefitted CSC by decreasing its reported loss through less aggressive 
expensing (i.e., seven-year amortization).  Had IQE’s treatment reflected that of CSC, it would have 
instead recognized gains on sale, which would not have improved top-line revenue and gross margin.  The 
fact that such closely-connected entities are engaging in having one’s cake and eating it too accounting is 
one reason we believe the gains are non-substantive and should be disregarded. 
 


CSC’s capitalizes the IP transactions as purchases of intangible assets – see CSC’s 2016 AR, p. 26: 
 


 
 
CSC’s financials expressly call the transactions purchases of intellectual property from IQE, rather than 
licenses.  The below is from CSC’s 2016 AR, p. 32: 
 


 
 
There are reasons to be skeptical of this divergent accounting treatment – particularly IQE’s recognition 
of licensing revenue.  We elaborate below on our view that IQE dominates CSC.  Suffice to say that we 
expect that IQE’s top management, which sit on CSC’s board of directors, are aware of the divergent 
accounting.   
 
 
  


Page 6 of 17
Accounting Issue 2 – IQE has its cake and eats it too by selling to CSC at arms-length prices, but buying 
from it at cash cost, which is anything but arms-length 
 
IQE’s response states that its purchases from the joint ventures are “at cash cost” (emphasis added).  This 
also makes IQE’s financials misleading because cost is not reflective of an arms-length arrangement.  
Cash cost is even less reflective of an arms-length transaction, as depreciation and amortization are 
seemingly not included in cost.  Were IQE to be transacting with arms-length parties, it would 
presumably pay more so that the counterparties could generate a profit (to say nothing of recovering 
depreciation & amortization).  In this way, IQE seems to be claiming income that is based on arms-length 
sales, but expenses without the counterparty earning a profit margin.  This increases our doubt about the 
substance of the transactions between IQE and CSC. 
 
 
Accounting Issue 3 – IQE recognized licensing revenue in an internally inconsistent manner between 
2015 and 2016, giving rise to concerns that IQE intended to deceive investors 
 
Despite recording IP licensing revenue in 2015 on transactions with CSC, in our opinion, IQE’s 
accounting was more consistent with a gain on disposal of assets than licensing revenue.  The issue is that 
IQE booked an unrealized gain.  IAS 28 prohibits recognition of gains on disposals to associates and joint 
ventures for the portion of the transferee owned by the transferor.  In other words, if one owns 50% of a 
joint venture and disposes of assets to the JV at a £1 million gain, only £500,000 of the gain may be 
realized by the transferor.  We believe that the unrealized gain in 2015 is consistent with a gain on 
disposal (again, not top-line income), and is therefore inconsistent with booking license revenue.  Events 
the following year increase our concerns. 
 
IQE’s 2016 accounting, in our view, resolved this inconsistency in the least conservative manner 
available.  In 2016, there were no unrealized gains on IP transactions with CSC.  In contrast to the year 
before, in 2016, IQE recognized all receipts as licensing revenue (versus only ~50% the year before).  
IQE provided no justification in its AR for the change.  Below is IQE’s disclosure, without discussion, 
related to the changed policy (emphasis added): 
 


“The profit arising from license income sales to joint ventures in 2015 represents revenue of 
£15,310,000 offset by an elimination of unrealised profit of £7,286,000 relating to our retained 
interest in the Compound Semiconductor Centre Limited joint venture.  No such elimination has 
occurred in 2016.”  


 
This unexplained change in accounting policy raises significant questions about IQE’s accounting 
practices, and historical margins.  Even if the transactions with CSC were properly booked as licensing 
revenue, this unexplained change brings us to another reason to be skeptical of IQE’s accounting: The 
inconsistency between the two years allows 2015 unrealized gains on PP&E and intangibles to add 
exactly to £12.0 million.  This is a sign that IQE’s accounting might be intended to deceive investors. 
 
£12.0 million is the precise amount needed to zero out IQE’s equity investment in CSC.  If IQE were to 
avoid recognizing its pro rata share of CSC’s loss, it needed to zero out its equity investment in CSC.  
(We discuss this next.)  We therefore see this inconsistency as evidence that, at best, IQE’s accounting 
can be arbitrary with respect to material items; and, at worst, is designed to deceive investors. 
 
 


Page 7 of 17
Accounting Issue 4 – IQE’s failure to recognize CSC losses is highly questionable 
 
Despite CSC having lost many millions of pounds since inception, IQE recognized no share of the loss in 
its financials.  We believe the accounting IQE used to avoid recognizing any loss, and the resulting non-
recognition, are highly aggressive.  IQE’s equity investment account was debited (i.e., increased by) 
£12.0 million in exchange for the PP&E it contributed (at an estimated 4.6x premium to book value).  In 
addition, IQE received preferred shares valued at £8.0 million as partial payment for the intangibles.  IQE 
recognizes the preferred shares as a financial receivable.   
 
Under the equity accounting method, a 50% shareholder in CSC would normally recognize its pro rata 
share of the loss at CSC.  IQE appears to have avoided recognizing any loss by creating in 2015 contra-
accounts to its £12.0 million equity investment account.  The contra-accounts seem to have been the 
unrealized gain on the disposal of the PP&E (£4.7million) and the aforementioned unrealized gain on sale 
(or license as IQE states it) of intangible assets (£7.286 million).  By having contra-accounts that netted 
the equity investment account down to zero, IQE avoided recognizing any CSC losses against its equity 
investment.   
 
However, as we pointed out above, £7.286 million of the contra-account seems to have been unrealized 
gains from licensing revenue (or as we argue, sales of intangible assets), which we believe should not be a 
contra-account to an equity investment.  In our opinion, the unrealized gain should net off the £8.0 million 
receivable that was booked when IQE received preferred shares in exchange for intangible assets.   
 
However, even if we agreed that IQE could zero out its equity investment account, we believe IQE should 
still recognize CSC losses because of the preferred shares it owns.  IQE’s view apparently is that because 
it has classified the preferred shares as a financial receivable, it no longer has an account reflecting an 
equity investment in CSC.  We disagree, and believe that this interpretation of accounting standards 
would be aggressive.  Our view is that, given CSC’s financial state, the receivable is unlikely to be 
collected in the foreseeable future.  Thus, the substance of the receivable should be an investment.   
 
We did not adjust IQE’s results downward for its shares of CSC’s losses because it would be double 
counting to a considerable extent.  Much of CSC’s losses are due to transactions for which we have 
already adjusted IQE’s results.   
 
 
Issue 5 – We see CSC as likely non-substantive and an alter ego of IQE 
 
We assume that IQE has a valid technical argument to avoid consolidating CSC, but we see this as a triumph 
of form over substance.  In its response to ShadowFall, IQE stated that although it has significant influence 
on its joint ventures, it “does not have control”.  “Control” under IFRS is a subjective concept, and in our 
view, is prone to abuse.  As an example, we understand that a party might have absolute day-to-day direction 
of the operations, but if a joint venture party has a veto over certain high-level decisions, a company could 
likely convince its auditor to agree that consolidation is not required.  Because we think that from a 
substantive perspective, IQE dominates CSC, we view the relationship and the resulting accounting benefits 
to IQE with substantial suspicion. 
 
  


Page 8 of 17
We believe IQE dominates CSC, supporting our view that the transactions between them lack substance 
largely because: 
 


• IQE was CSC’s only revenue source through 2016, 
• IQE sells to CSC at purportedly arms-length / market valuations (e.g., PP&E transferred at 4.6x 


estimated carrying value), but IQE buys from CSC at non arms-length / market prices – at cash 
cost, with no profit margin or reimbursement for depreciation and amortization (note that CSC’s 
2016 gross margin was negative -105.9%!),2  


• CSC employees appear to largely believe they are IQE employees, the companies appear to be 
advertising some of the same job openings, and CSC employee contracts are apparently “essentially 
the same contract as all other IQE employees” 


• The companies share the same physical address, and in our experience, CSC’s phone number is 
answered “IQE”, 


• IQE personnel appear to be exercising day-to-day control, 
 
Through 2016, IQE was CSC’s only revenue source:3 
 








																																																													
2 In 2016, CSC’s revenues were £3.955 million and COS were £8.143 million. 
3 CSC AR, pp. 32 and 13. 


Page 9 of 17
Indeed, although CSC claims a headcount of 74 people and reportedly spent £2.6 million on staff in 2016, 
outside of CSC’s non-executive chairman, we can only find a single individual on LinkedIn who claims to 
work (or to have worked) for CSC while not simultaneously working for IQE.  If we include people who 
claim to work or have worked simultaneously at CSC and IQE, we find one more person.  However, IQE 
has 321 employee profiles on LinkedIn.  If CSC is a high-tech research and development company, why 
are there not far more professional CSC employees who have LinkedIn profiles?  The answer could be that 
CSC employees see themselves as working for IQE, supporting our alter ego theory. 
 
From our and our researcher’s phone calls it appears that IQE employees serve as staff for CSC.  Our 
researcher called the CSC contact number listed on CSC’s website to see if an employee might be able to 
explain how CSC was separate/different from IQE.  He was greeted with, “Hello, IQE.”  He asked whether 
he could apply for a technician role and was transferred to Beth Williams, a human resources employee at 
IQE.  
 


 
Source: LinkedIn 





Page 10 of 17
Even CSC’s About Us webpage includes a video with the face of Chris Meadows, Corporate Systems 
Manager at IQE Europe.   
 


 
Source: CSC about us Website 





 
 
Furthermore, the jobs advertised on CSC’s jobs board appear to be at IQE (with the exception of jobs for 
PhD studentships, which appear to be university-focused).  Applicants are directed by CSC’s jobs website 
to email the human resources at IQE at personnel@iqep.com.  Indeed, IQE posts some of the same job 
openings on its own website.  When our researcher inquired about the technician role listed on CSC’s 
website, we he was told that although the technician role is with CSC, it is “essentially the same contract 
as all other IQE employees.”  
 


Q: I spoke to your colleague about a technician role at CSC.  I was passed your details.  Would it 
be possible to get a little more information about the role?  Is it with CSC or IQE?  Or is that 
effectively the same thing? 
 
IQE HR: The role is CSC, which is a joint venture with IQE and Cardiff University.  Essentially 
though it is the same contract as all other IQE employees and is based at our site in Cardiff.   


Page 11 of 17
Source: CSC jobs page 


 
On February 5th, the first business day after the ShadowFall report was released, we called CSC.  The phone 
again was answered as “IQE”.  We expressly stated that we wanted to speak with someone from CSC and 
not IQE, and we were connected to Robert Harper.  While his LinkedIn profile shows him as a program 
director at CSC, it also shows that he is still employed by IQE (thus the one person with both companies 
simultaneously on his LinkedIn profile): 
 


Page 12 of 17
When we inquired with Mr. Harper about CSC, he suggested we call Wyn Meredith, who according to his 
LinkedIn profile has worked exclusively for CSC since leaving IQE in 2015 (the one employee we found 
on LinkedIn who lists CSC exclusive of IQE), or Chris Meadows (discussed above). 
 
All of this begs the question: Who are the 74 employees who worked at CSC as of 2016 and earned £2.6 
million? 
 








Page 13 of 17
IQE’s key managers all sit on CSC’s board.  





 
Source: Company House Filings CSC 2016, IQE Website, Barclays Research 2018 


 
Colin Whitehouse is listed as the Chairman of CSC.  However, Mr. Whitehouse’s LinkedIn page indicates 
that Mr. Whitehouse is a non-executive chairman of CSC and that he apparently does not even work at the 
joint venture full-time.  Rather, Mr. Whitehouse lists his primary occupation is a “Science, Technology & 
Innovation Consultant and Independent Advisor” in Worcester, England, over 100 KM from CSC’s 
supposed center in Cardiff.   
 


 
Source: LinkedIn 


 
 
We are curious as to what exactly CSC sells IQE.  CSC is supposed to be a R&D company, but our 
worldwide search for patent applications using the European Patent Office applicant database revealed zero 
results for CSC.   
 


Page 14 of 17
Source: European Patent Office 


 
 
We are skeptical that CSC is operating at arm’s length from IQE.  There is ample evidence suggesting IQE 
dominates it, which conceptually could make it an alter ego of IQE.  Therefore, these facts and opinions 
reinforce our view that the transactions between IQE and CSC lack substance, and results should be adjusted 
to exclude their impacts.   
 
 
IQE’s 1H 2017 Capitalized Intangible Investments Blew Out, just as CSC’s Earnings Contributions 
Collapsed 
 
We believe it is reasonable to adjust 1H 2017 net income down by approximately £5 million or 69% to 
account for likely aggressive capitalization of expenses: 
 


 
 
By December 31, 2016, CSC had just £13,000 in cash left, meaning its utility to boost IQE’s earnings was 
limited.  (In 2017, Cardiff University seems to have extended CSC another loan of £800,000, which pales 
in comparison to the £23.0 million the university had previously invested.)  In 1H 2017, IQE’s capitalized 
intangible investments exploded.  At the same time, IQE suddenly stopped disclosing detail that would be 
helpful in understanding this spike.  Maybe this blowout is great news for the future – investment in highly 
productive assets that will drive growing returns for years.  Or maybe IQE aggressively sought ways to 
keep expenses off its income statement.  We personally lean toward the latter explanation given the 
previously discussed accounting issues.  Therefore, an IQE sceptic might want to adjust 1H 2017 income 
downward by approximately £5 million, which is the difference between 1H 2017 and 2H 2016 investment 
levels. 
 
  


GBPm
As 


reported
As 


adjusted Difference
Revenue 70.4        70.4        0.0%
Cost Of Goods Sold (53.7)      (53.7)      0.0%
  Gross Profit 16.7        16.7        0.0%
Operating expenses (8.9)        (13.9)      56.4%
   Operating Profit 7.8          2.8          -64.4%
Gain (loss)  on Sales of Assets (0.2)        (0.2)        0.0%
Others (0.8)        (0.8)        0.0%
   Profit before tax 6.8          1.7          -74.4%
Income tax 0.6          0.6          0.0%
   Net Income 7.3          2.3          -68.6%


1H 2017


Page 15 of 17
IQE’s investments in intangibles spiked in 1H 2017: 
 


 
 
 
IQE simultaneously became more opaque in its disclosures about these investments, strongly implying that 
the increase is difficult to justify.  In the 1H 2016 interim report, and in every previous interim report, IQE 
broke out two categories on its cash flow statement under investing activities.  The first was “capitalised 
development expenditure” (£2,784k in 1H 2016), and the second was “investment in other intangible fixed 
assets” (£755k in 1H 2016).  Yet in its 1H 2017 interim report, IQE combined these two categories into an 
item labelled “investment in intangible fixed assets.”  These “investments” exceeded £9.6 million pounds 
in 1H 2017, vs. only £3.5 million in 1H 2016.   
 
By comparing 2016 figures, it is clear that “investment in intangible fixed assets” is a catch all that includes 
capitalized development costs.   
 





Source: IQE Company Filings 
 
We think this accounting treatment is problematic.  By removing a separate line item labelled “capitalized 
development expenditure” in its 1H 2017 interim report, IQE has made it impossible for investors to 
determine the amount of costs capitalized in that period.  Compare this with previous periods, in which IQE 
broke out the figures.  


Page 16 of 17
Source: IQE Company Filings 


 
We note that while cash outflows for capitalized investments in intangible assets increased by 108.7% from 
2H 2016 to 1H 2017, amortization of intangible only increased 12.5% from £2.4 million to £2.7 million.   
 
Insider Share Transactions Bookend JV Earnings Magic4 
 
From October through December 2014, IQE insiders Messrs. Nelson, Rasmussen, Williams, and Ainsworth 
acquired a total of 20.5 million shares at a weighted average price of £0.13 (total £2.6 million).  This was 
soon before IQE’s joint ventures started transacting with IQE.  Between May 2017 through July 2017, these 
insiders sold £7.8 million of shares (7.18 million shares at an average price of £1.08).   
 
A sceptic might view the purchases not so much as prescient, but rather as insiders understanding of the 
type of accounting gains IQE stood to make from the joint ventures.  A sceptic might also view the 
monetization around the close of 1H 2017 – a period in which we suspect IQE could have been 
unsustainably aggressive in its accounting – as signalling the company is unlikely to be able to continue to 
produce such gains with CSC’s funding largely spent.  On the other hand, maybe this is all a coincidence.   
 
Conclusion 
 
We understand that Cardiff University, Wales, and the UK government see IQE as an important part of the 
noble enterprise of creating highly skilled jobs in the region.  We genuinely wish them all the best in this 
endeavour and hope it will be extremely successful.  None of those feelings, however, can alleviate our 
concern that Cardiff University has not been shrewd enough in its dealings with IQE.   
 
IQE received significant accounting benefits from CSC.  These benefits came at a cost of millions of pounds 
to the university.  IQE insiders have financially benefitted from recent sales of shares at prices significantly 
higher than prior to CSC’s commencement.  The university should ask whether the benefits it is receiving 
are worth the cost.  In the meantime, shareholders should ask whether IQE’s financial performance since 
2015 can be sustained.   


																																																													
4 All share transaction data sourced from Bloomberg. 


H1 14 H2 14 H1 15 H2 15 H1 16 H2 16 H1 17
Development Costs (1.7) (3.2) (2.1) (2.9) (2.8) (3.5)
Investment in 'other' intangibles (0.7) (0.6) (0.2) (1.0) (0.8) (1.0)
Total intangible 'investments' (2.4) (3.9) (2.3) (3.9) (3.5) (4.6) (9.6)
Dev't Costs/Total Intangibles 72.6% 83.5% 90.7% 74.5% 78.7% 77.2%


Page 17 of 17
