Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 


	
that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive this transcript as an agent for any 
other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters Capital LLC (possibly along 
with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors 
and/or their clients and/or investors, has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related 
to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either 
declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period of time, 
and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time regardless of our initial position and views as stated in our research. 
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to 
or from any person through this report or reports on the website. Muddy Waters Capital LLC is registered as an investment advisor 
only in the United States, but it does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship 
evidenced in writing. 
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 
"FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO.  
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences 
and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained 
herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not 
insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to 
the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy 
Waters Capital LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of 
analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC does not 
undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) 
in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained 
Muddy Waters Capital research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without 
going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your viewing and use of any 
reports or other materials on the Muddy Waters Research website shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without 
regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive 
jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable 
law, given that Muddy Waters Capital LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters Capital LLC to exercise or 
enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of 
these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court 
should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms 
of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless 
of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material 
herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.
Page 1 of 53	


Nidec: A Gigantic Stock Promotion 
 
 
Company:  
Nidec Corp. 
 
Ticker: 6594 JP 
 
Industry: Manufacturing 
 
 


 
Report Date: December 13, 2016 
 
Stock Price (JPY): JPY 9888 
 
Market Cap (JPY): JPY 2,948 billion 
 
Float: 84.4% 
 
Avg Volume (30 days): 1.1 million shares 
 


 
Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters”) is short Nidec, and we value its shares at JPY 4,764.  
We view Nidec as a gigantic stock promotion.  The company’s management, led by Mr. Shigenobu 
Nagamori, repeatedly give uber-bullish predictions about Nidec’s business, and then massively 
misses them.  Nidec missed a three-year forward sales projection by 29%.  The company missed its 
2015 sales target of JPY 2,000 billion by 41%, and now tells investors that number is its 2020 target.  
Nidec missed a two-year projected overall operating profit target by 27%.  Nidec’s track record with 
short, medium, and long-term projections in its Automotive product group seems even worse.   
 
On top of the arbitrariness of Nidec’s projections, we calculate the company showed effectively no 
organic growth over the past four years, despite having projected its organic growth CAGR during 
this time would be 11.4%.1  Instead, we calculate that Nidec’s actual organic growth (ex-currency 
effects and M&A) CAGR from FY 2011 through FY 2015 was only 0.05%.2  The quality of Nidec’s 
earnings growth seems poor.  We estimate that effective tax rate reductions have boosted Nidec’s 
reported EPS by 11.4% since FY 2013.  Given Nidec’s meager top line organic growth, it is probably 
fair to say that the vast majority of the remainder of Nidec’s reported EPS growth has been due to 
currency effects and M&A. 


																																																								
1 H1 2012 Presentation, Slide 13 Data points extracted from Nidec graphic using Plot Digitizer, available from 
http://plotdigitizer.sourceforge.net/  
2 See Nidec’s Organic Growth Barely Exists for an explanation of our organic growth estimates.
Page 2 of 53	


Analysts and investors appear to have gone blind from 
staring at The Man Hotter Than the Sun.  (This is a 
reference to Mr. Nagamori’s self-published comic book 
about himself, shown to the right.)  Sell-side analysts heap 
praise on the company, and write about their expectations 
for future organic growth as though Nidec were a 
completely different company.  At the same time, they 
remain oblivious to the incessantly missed predictions.  As 
a result, Nidec’s sky high valuation implies a valuation for 
its non-HDD businesses close to that of Facebook, Inc., 
which is one of the strongest consumer brands in the world, 
generates 35%+ organic growth, and generally converts a 
much higher percentage of its operating cash flow to free 
cash flow than Nidec does.   
 
Nidec’s failures to meet targets are made even worse by the highly aggressive accounting the 
company employs to boost reported profitability, and make the trend in its automotive business look 
more favorable than it really is.  Nidec’s JPY 36 billion in write-offs seem unjustified, and could 
have been improper.  According to the company, the write-offs boosted reported profit by JPY 10 
billion to JPY 15 billion per year.3  Nidec has transferred businesses into the Automotive group in 
ways that misleadingly flatter the Automotive group’s results.  Furthermore, we have interviewed 
four former employees who have attested to Nidec Automotive group salespeople in China stuffing 
the channels (thereby improperly boosting reported sales).  Nidec’s auditor probably offers little 
safeguard against misleading accounts – in our opinion, Nidec’s auditor is to audit failures what 
Michael Jordan was to basketball.4   
 
Part of the myth underpinning Nidec’s valuation is a notion that it is a superior acquirer of 
businesses.  We think Nidec’s acquisition strategy is more effective at masking weak organic growth 
than at creating value, and we see the extent to which it generates synergies as greatly overestimated.  
While Mr. Nagamori speaks publicly about buying companies such as Renesas Electronics Corp. 
(6723 JP) and Calsonic Kansei Corp. (7248 JP), he makes some highly questionable purchases, such 
as a recent acquisition of a small Romanian company from a convicted felon.5  Former employees of 
some of Nidec’s acquisition targets question the thoroughness of Nidec’s due diligence, and the 
notion that there were synergies with Nidec’s existing businesses.  At the time Nidec announced it 
was acquiring Ansaldo Sistemi Industriali S.p.A., Mr. Nagamori brushed aside the rare analyst 
question about whether Nidec would be able to achieve its goal of generating a 10% operating profit 
margin in the business.6  The most recent financials we have for that entity show that its OP margin 
halved since around the time of acquisition to 2.8%.  Nidec’s reasons for acquiring minority stakes in 
six formerly listed subsidiaries are unclear, but we note that Mr. Nagamori received JPY 29.5 billion 
in Nidec shares (at today’s share price) for his ownership of these companies.   
 


																																																								
3 We do not know the number of years for which this boosts (or boosted) profit. 
4 As we explain in Nidec’s Auditor is Highly Questionable, our assessment is also based on the performance of 
Nidec’s auditor’s predecessor entities. 
5 https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-17/renesas-jumps-most-in-7-months-on-nidec-interest-in-
acquisition  
6 FY2011 Call.
Page 3 of 53	


Nidec in our view unduly promotes business opportunities with sex appeal, such as haptics (which 
led to a write-off), robots, drones, and LIDAR.  These exciting products account for a tiny sliver of 
Nidec’s overall business, and in our view, have received an inordinately large amount of attention 
from investors.  Nidec’s margin on sales of drone motors to Amazon.com (AMZN US) is likely to be 
significantly compressed once any scale is achieved. 
 
We have real corporate governance concerns about Nidec.  There are indications that management is 
able to override internal controls.  Mr. Nagamori’s receipt of Nidec shares worth today 
approximately JPY 29.5 billion for his stakes in subsidiaries raises questions, as does the JPY 14.5 
billion loan he received from the company, which was repaid a few months later by mostly selling 
his Nidec shares to the company.  It is disconcerting that Nidec was unable to hold onto Bunsei Kure, 
while the company’s Chief Technology Officer, Mikio Katayama, was instrumental in running Sharp 
into the ground. 
 
We value Nidec’s shares at less than half of the price – JPY 4,764.  At the current price, the implied 
valuation ascribed to its non-HDD businesses is approximately 21.5x EV / EBITDA.  (Facebook 
trades at 24.9x.)  Given Nidec’s anemic organic growth, the seeming commoditization of many of its 
products, and the capital intensity of manufacturing, we can see no reason to justify a share price 
anywhere close to Nidec’s current valuation.  Unfortunately, Nidec’s transparency has been 
decreasing over the years, and is poised to take a large step backward as the company plans to no 
longer file financial statements in the U.S.  Unless Nidec resolves the U.S. filing and other 
transparency issues, we believe investors should exercise extreme caution when considering 
purchasing Nidec’s shares.
Page 4 of 53	





Table of Contents 
 
Nidec Incessantly Fails to Hit its Targets………………………………………………………………. 


 
 
 5 


Nidec’s Organic Growth Barely Exists………………………………………………………………… 6 
  
Nidec’s Earnings Growth Seems Low Quality………………………………………………………… 7 
  
Nidec Boosted Reported Profitability Through Highly Questionable and Possibly Improper Write-
offs……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 


8 


Manipulating Profitability of Automotive……………………………………………………………… 17 
  


Unnamed Nidec Motor Corp. Subsidiary Flatters Automotive Operating Profit……………..... 18 
 
Nidec Dalian ………….………………………………………………………………………... 


 
19 


 
Elesys………………………………………………………………………………………….... 


 
21 


  
China Automotive Employees Appear to Stuff the Channels………………………………………… 22 
  
Nidec’s Auditor is Highly Questionable……………………………………………………………… 25 


 
Nidec’s M&A: Scant Evidence of Excellence………………………………………………………... 28 
  


Ansaldo Sistemi Industriali S.p.A…………………………………………………………….. 29 
  


Sole Motors…………………………………………………………………………………..... 30 
 
ANA IMEP S.A……………………………………………………………………………….. 


 
31 


 
Nidec Motors & Actuators (fka Valeo Motors & Actuators business)……………………….. 


 
32 


 
Avtron Industrial Automation………………………………………………………………… 


 
33 


 
Consolidating listed subsidiaries……………………………………………………………… 


 
33 


 
Sex Appeal…………………………………………………………………………………………….. 


 
35 


  
It’s Hard Not to Go Blind When Staring at “The Man Hotter than the Sun”: The Cult of  
Nagamori-san………………………………………………………………………………………….. 


 
38 


 
Nidec’s Ex-HDD Valuation Approaches Facebook’s – this Does Not Make Sense…………….......... 


 
41 


 
Prescription for Transparency………………………………………………………………………… 


 
45 
 


Appendix (Detail on Promotion and Missed Targets, Inventory Reconciliation)…………………….. 48
Page 5 of 53	


Nidec Incessantly Fails to Hit Targets 
 
Nidec says it is targeting JPY 2 trillion in revenue for FY 2020.7  The 2020 target used to be its 
FY 2015 target.  Nidec gives us an enormous number that is supposedly its FY 2030 target – JPY 
10 trillion.8  If history is any guide, Nidec will massively disappoint.  Below is a summarized 
collection of missed Nidec targets from recent years.9  It stuns us that analysts and investors give 
management any credence when they speak about targets and expectations – there seems to be a 
complete failure to hold Mr. Nagamori accountable.   
 








																																																								
7 H1 2016 Presentation, Slide 15. 
8 FY 2014 Presentation, Slide 32. 
9 For more detail on these predictions and misses, see the Appendix.
Page 6 of 53	


Nidec’s Organic Growth Barely Exists 
 
We calculated Nidec’s organic growth rates by subtracting currency effects and acquisitions.  We 
calculate the organic growth CAGR from FY 2011 through FY 2015 as 0.05% - essentially zero.  
Our calculations are below: 10 
 


 
 
In a manner that seems completely divorced from reality, management routinely speak on results 
calls as though Nidec has been generating strong organic growth.  Examples include: 
 


• “Please turn to Slide 11.  We are continuing aggressive investments that support 
organic growth, which could be JPY 110 billion in fiscal year 2016.” – Q2 2016 
call 


• “Touching on the organic growth outlook of automotive on Slide 22, the business 
is expanding at a faster pace than originally expected.” – FY 2015 call  


• “M&A is a very critical for us to grow.  So organic growth and M&A to drive us 
of our high-growth.” – Q1 2014 call 


• Q: “You gave some very bullish numbers on Techno Motors.  You’re looking for 
sales to double to JPY 100 billion in fiscal March 2017.  Can you talk about what 
is driving that double yen sales?  How much of that is organic versus M&A?” 
A: “There are no acquisitions taken into consideration at all.  This is completely 
due to organic growth.” – Q1 2013  


 
It seems the sell-side does not understand the lack of organic growth.  We would normally 
assume sell-side analysts have done similar calculations to estimate organic growth. However, 
sell-side report statements such as the following challenge that notion, and support our view that 
analysts are unquestioning in their acceptance of statements from Nidec management: 
 


• “Looking toward FY 3/21 Nidec expressed confidence that it can increase 
automotive sales to JPY 600 billion solely through organic growth.” – October 25, 
2016 


• “Q1 in line; rising organic growth prospects.” – July 23, 2016 
• “We do not think the medium and long-term growth in automotive household, 


commercial and industrial product is priced in.” – July 22, 2016 


																																																								
10 These numbers are taken from the 20-F sections comparing the current fiscal year to the prior one (approximately 
p. 50-55).  Nidec does not give all of the information necessary to make a precise calculation of organic growth 
(because there are FX impacts to the growth from M&A); however, we are comfortable that these calculations are 
fair representations.
Page 7 of 53	


• “Apply a 10% premium to the resulting theoretical value to reflect the high 
visibility of medium-term earnings growth.  Reflecting the strong growth 
potential of the company’s business, especially its automotive operations.”  July 
22, 2016 


• “Nidec emphasized organic growth and lifted FY20 organic growth goal by 20% 
to JPY 600 billion.” – October 25, 2016 


• “We believe the main factors that put the company in sight of FY 3/21 autos-
related sales of JPY 600 billion via organic growth are rising share for existing 
offerings such as electrical power steering motors, as well as increasing orders for 
items including motors for new-generation brake systems, and products 
combining ECUs and sensors.” – October 25, 2016 


 
Nidec’s Earnings Growth Seems Low Quality 
 
Nidec’s earnings growth in recent years seems to be of low quality.  A meaningful portion of 
Nidec’s reported EPS growth has come from lowered effective tax rates.  Given the lackluster 
organic topline growth, it stands to reason that a large proportion of the remaining growth in 
reported EPS is likely due to currency swings and M&A.   
 
Nidec could face an EPS headwind possibly as early as FY 2018 due to the expiration of foreign 
tax preferences that have accounted for over 5% of diluted EPS in each of the past three fiscal 
years.  We estimate that decreases in Nidec’s effective tax rate since FY 2013 have respectively 
boosted FY 2014 and FY 2015 EPS by approximately 4.7% and 11.4%.11  A substantial portion 
of the reduction Nidec’s effective tax rate between FY 2013 and FY 2015 was due to Japan’s 
statutory tax rate decreasing; however, Nidec’s FY 2015 effective tax rate was 22.2%, compared 
to Japan’s statutory corporate tax rate of 33.0%.   
 
Nidec’s low tax rate is largely due to overseas tax preferences.  The issue is that these 
preferences start expiring possibly as early as FY 2018 and FY 2019.  The below table from 
Nidec’s 20-F shows the significant tax benefits Nidec receives in its foreign subsidiaries.12 
 





																																																								
11 Assuming minority interests of 1% of net income. 
12 FY 2015 20-F, p. 46.
Page 8 of 53	


Nidec discloses that these foreign tax benefits accounted for 7.8%, 6.7%, and 5.5% of Nidec’s 
diluted EPS in FY 2013 – FY 2015. 13  These benefits primarily relate to income sourced from 
subsidiaries in Thailand and the Philippines.14  Nidec discloses that the Thailand benefit is a 
corporate income tax exemption granted in 2010, and lasts for eight years “from the date of 
commencement of certain revenue-generating activities”.  (We are unsure of when that date was 
satisfied.)  Nidec’s Philippines income tax holiday is four years, and was renewed in September 
2015.  This date implies the preference expires in FY 2019 – we have no view on whether it is 
likely to be extended.  Regardless, we believe investors should take into consideration how much 
of Nidec’s EPS growth has come through organic growth, versus tax rate reductions and 
currency swings. 
 
Nidec Boosted Reported Profitability Through Highly Questionable and Possibly Improper 
Write-offs 
 
We believe that in recent years, Nidec misleadingly and artificially boosted its reported 
profitability and growth in profits through highly questionable write-offs it took in FY 2012.  
(We also saw a meaningful write-off in 2010 at Nidec Motors & Actuators – see Nidec’s M&A: 
Scant Evidence of Excellence.)  In the Q3 2012 results, Nidec announced that it was going to 
take approximately JPY 36 billion in inventory and PP&E write-offs in the following quarter.15  
In its FY 2012 20-F, Nidec disclosed that the PP&E impairment portion of the write-offs was 
JPY 12.7 billion: 
 


“…As a result, our losses related to fixed assets and personnel expenses related to 
severance payments increased ¥12,704 million and ¥1,762 million, respectively, for the 
year ended March 31, 2013 compared to the previous year.”16 





																																																								
13 FY 2015 20-F, p. 47. 
14 FY 2015 20-F, p. 46. 
15 Nagamori (emphasis added) Q3 FY 2012 call: And we should like to mention that although the amount for the 
structural reforms and other adjustments is JPY 40 billion, the actual cash out would be, in other words, the actual 
expenditures would be 10% of that. And what we will be doing is the cash out itself will be in the amount of JPY 4 
billion. And so therefore, for the remaining JPY 36 billion, it will be on a noncash basis. In other words, what will 
be carried out are impairments, or we'll be taking out reserves.  So what we'll be focusing upon is, in regard to the 
impairment of facilities or of the buildings and the consolidation of factory, that would be the core of our efforts.  So 
what we would like to do is to be able to complete the process of structural reforms and other adjustments during 
this fiscal year so that from the next fiscal year onwards, we will be able to quickly recover to our profit levels and 
revert to our levels before, as well as to strive for achieving higher levels of profitability. 
And out of that, it will be approximately JPY 4 billion, where cash out or cash expenditures, such as the reduction of 
headcount or relocation of plants, would be carried out.  And the remainder will be in regard to the impairment on 
buildings or consolidation of plants and also the review of our inventory assets, so that we'll be looking at our fixed 
assets, including the machinery and so on, and we will be looking into those areas. 
Now we have considered that when we are going to be implementing our structural reforms and other adjustments, 
then taking into consideration the changes that are taking place in the market, we felt that it would be better for us to 
be able to achieve a quicker recovery from the next fiscal year onwards, so it has been decided that this should be in 
the scale of JPY 40 billion.  And so therefore, in regard to the current structural reforms and other adjustments, what 
we have done is to look at the overall improvements in the structure of our fixed assets. And also, we have looked 
into the impairment, and then we have also carried out the review of our inventory assets. 
16 FY2012 20-F, p. 61.
Page 9 of 53	


PP&E impairments of JPY 12.7 billion imply the inventory write-offs approximated JPY 23 
billion (JPY 36 billion total write-offs and impairments, minus JPY 12.7 billion PP&E 
impairments.)  According to Mr. Nagamori, these write-offs would create JPY 10 – 15 billion in 
annual cost savings going forward:17   
 


Question: “Got it. And then my second question, Nagamori-san, is on Page 14. When I 
look at the mid-term target, you're talking about over JPY 100 billion in operating profit 
for fiscal '14. Can you help us understand a little bit of how you get there from JPY 70 
billion in fiscal '13 in terms of how much of that JPY 30 billion year-over-year increase is 
coming from restructuring? 
Mr. Nagamori: “We believe that in terms of the structural reforms and other adjustments, 
then there'll be an effect realized per year of between JPY 10 billion to JPY 15 billion.” 


 
The most obvious ways in which these write-offs would have improved subsequent reported 
profits is through a) decreased depreciation expense due to impairing PP&E, and b) reduced cost 
of goods sold due to writing off inventory so that when the written-off inventory is subsequently 
sold, it will not have matching costs.   
 
Assuming the mid-point of JPY 12.5 billion in annual expense reduction, the table below 
compares Nidec’s reported operating profit and EPS to what we estimate it would have been 
without the write-offs.  Note how the reported OP margin is approximately 150 basis points 
higher than in our adjusted numbers. 
 


 
 
Assuming a mid-range of JPY 12.5 billion in cost reductions over the ensuing two years, the 
below graphs compare what Nidec’s operating profit and EPS growth trajectories would have 
looked like without the write-offs, versus what Nidec reported as a result of the write-offs. 
 
  


																																																								
17 Q4 FY2012 call
Page 10 of 53	


Operating income and EPS growth adjusted to reverse an estimated JPY 12.5 billion cost savings, versus reported 
results.














The Nidec presentation slides below compare the relatively unexciting projected growth in OP 
margin pre-charges to the rocket like growth post charges.  Note in the post-charges slide that 
even with the benefit of a reduction of JPY 10 – 15 billion in annual expenses, Nidec was still 
expecting to fall short of the FY 2013 and FY 2014 OP margin goal it maintained just two 
quarters earlier.  (Recall that Nidec has a long and rich history of missing its own projections – 
often by substantial amounts.)
Page 11 of 53	








 
 
The Write-Offs are Highly Questionable 
 
In our opinion, it is difficult to justify the bulk of these charges, and they could therefore be 
improper.  The indicators necessary to perform impairment tests on PP&E largely seem to us to 
have been absent.  Management’s statements about inventory levels before and soon after 
announcing the write-offs, and analysis of the inventory sub-accounts cause us to have a hard 
time believing that Nidec could have written off such a large amount of inventory.  (We have 
little confidence that Nidec’s troubled auditor is an effective safeguard against problematic 7


ᵏᵑ


0


0.5


1


1.5


FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015
0


5


10


15


Building a Strong Corporate Group by Achieving Growth 
with Cash-Generating Power and Financial Strength


(Sales in Trillions of Yenὸ
(Operating Income     


ratio: %)


682.3B


1.2T


(F)


10.7ή


Organic 
Growth


M&A 
Growth


15.0ή


New Mid-Term Plan


(F)(F) (F)


ᵏᵒ


Small              
precision    
motors


Single Pillar


400 300 300 200


Automotive


Household                                                   
Commercial                                                 


Industrial 


Other                           
product              
groups


FY2011 Sales: 682.3 Billion Yen


* Nidec Tosok’s automobile parts operation previously included in “Other product groups” has 
been classified into the “Automotive” category. 


*


300


100


Key Areas


200


400


300


100


200


400


New Portfolio Transformation Plan


FY2015 Sales: 1.2 Trillion Yen


4 Pillars
(Sales in billions of Yen)


Small              
precision    
motors


Other         
product       
groups


*Automotive
Household                          


Commercial                         
Industrial 


7


ᵏᵑ


WPRTM= World-class Performance Ratios
Achieving world-class performance targets:
1. Business Portfolio Transformation & Expansion


(Evolve into a “Trillion-Yen Corporate Group” with new 
products, new markets and new customers)


2. Sales of 1.2 Trillion Yen
Consolidated Operating Margin of 15%
(Reshape the profit structure by adopting “ASSET” approach)


3. Financial Strength through Enhanced Cash-
generating Power
(Maximize free cash flow by tightening the grip on CCC and CAPEX) 


WPR™ Part2 


“ASSET” approach: Nidec’s profit-enhancing approach intended to maximize the Group’s management resources: 
manpower, fixed assets, intangible assets (intellectual property, etc.) and free cash.


*


*


ᵏᵒ


0


0.5


1


1.5


FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015
0


5


10


15


- Achieving Sustainable Growth for the Next 100 Years -
Profitable growth striking balance between expansion and financial soundness


New Mid-Term Strategic Target


(Sales in Trillions of Yen) (Operating Income Ratio)


Sales                
0.68 T


(TGT)


Operating Income       
Ratio


10.7 %


Operating Income Ratio
15 %


Organic


M&A


Operating Income Ratio
2.5 %


Sales
0.71 T


Previous Outlook                                      
(October 2012)


Revised Outlook 


(TGT)(F)


Sales
1.2 T
Page 12 of 53	


accounting – particularly given that on the two occasions the auditor’s U.S. regulator inspected 
the auditor, the regulator found inventory valuation issues in the audits of Nidec.18  We provide 
more detail in Nidec’s Auditor is Highly Questionable and Increases our Concerns about 
Nidec’s Internal Controls and Accounts.)  We note that while Nidec HDD competitor Minebea 
had write-offs around the same time, the write-offs primarily involved non-HDD businesses.19 
 
Nidec’s PP&E Impairments are Suspect 
 
We strongly doubt that Nidec met the requirements to impair much of the PP&E.  Under U.S. 
GAAP accounting standards, “indicators” of PP&E impairment must be present as a prerequisite 
for a company to perform impairment tests.20  The indicators are designed to alert a company 
that events or changes in circumstances might have caused an asset’s carrying value to not be 
recoverable.21  Based on subsequent results and management’s pronouncements during FY 2012 
(excerpted below), we doubt these indicators existed at a sufficient level to do many of the 
requisite impairment tests.  
 
Typical indicators of impairment include:22 
 


• A significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset (asset group)  
• A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset (asset 


group) is being used or in its physical condition  
• A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect 


the value of a long-lived asset (asset group), including an adverse action or assessment by 
a regulator  


• An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the 
acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset (asset group)  


• A current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash 
flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with 
the use of a long-lived asset (asset group)  


• A current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset (asset group) will be 
sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated 
useful life. The term more likely than not refers to a level of likelihood that is more than 
50 percent.  


 
Management’s statements leading up to Q4 seem to contradict the purported need for PP&E (and 
inventory) write-offs.  Some of management’s statements could even be construed as admitting 
that the primary purpose of the write-offs was to improve future reported profits.  Our 
interpretations of some of management’s statements during FY 2012 are below.  Per our 


																																																								
18 https://pcaobus.org//Inspections/Reports/Documents/2014_PricewaterhouseCoopers_Kyoto.pdf 
19 See Minebea March 31, 2013 Annual Results, p. 29. 
20 See http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-impairment-or-disposal-of-long-lived-assets/$FILE/EY-
impairment-or-disposal-of-long-lived-assets.pdf p. 4. 
21 See http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-impairment-or-disposal-of-long-lived-assets/$FILE/EY-
impairment-or-disposal-of-long-lived-assets.pdf p. 10. 
22 http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-impairment-or-disposal-of-long-lived-assets/$FILE/EY-
impairment-or-disposal-of-long-lived-assets.pdf p. 10.
Page 13 of 53	


interpretations, it is very difficult to see how the environment necessitated PP&E impairments or 
inventory write-offs.  (The statements we interpret are provided in the accompanying footnotes.)   
 


• As of the Q1 2012 call, management expected to be able to manufacture more high 
margin HDD products without incurring additional capex.  This indicates that there could 
be no reason to impair HDD PP&E.23   


• As of the Q1 2012 call, management felt the HDD industry was headed in a “much more 
healthier direction”, and Nidec apparently had little excess inventory.24 


• On the Q2 2012 call, Mr. Nagamori stated that Nidec “was not thinking of taking any 
tests for impairment to take place.”25   


• As of the Q2 2012 call, Nidec did not expect a declining HDD market over the long-
term.26 


																																																								
23 Nagamori (emphasis added): “Rather than say that it's the volume, it's always better to move forward with a 
better product mix in terms of the profitability. So this means that a better profitability can be achieved not 
necessarily by increasing volumes. [Japanese] So therefore, our thinking does not call for the necessity of volumes 
to go up in order for us to improve profitability. That is not the way we think. [Japanese] Rather, we are moving 
forward with the improvements on the assumption that if volumes go up, then this will be a further added benefit 
for us. [Japanese] Rather, if volumes go up, then this would mean that it will be necessary also to increase capital 
expenditures, so that this will mean a burden on our investment situation and there will also be the burden imposed 
on dealing with depreciation. [Japanese] Rather, on the contrary, we believe that the product mix will improve if we 
increase more of our 7-millimeter height and later on the 5-millimeter height products, which are more technically 
difficult. [Japanese] Or the profitability will also improve more if we had more of these server multidisc type, which 
have 3, 4 and 5 platters. [Japanese] And it should be mentioned that for the first quarter that has just ended, we were 
lower in volume by 10 million units compared to plan but our profits were higher.” 
24 Nagamori (emphasis added): “In regard to the breakdown, it will not be possible for us to give you the details 
because of the contractual situation with our customers. [Japanese] However, we believe that from here onwards it 
will not be like in the past, whereby the prices went steadily down. [Japanese] Now, naturally, there is the change in 
the product mix and also the customers will not be reducing the prices of the hard disks that easily. And so, 
therefore, we believe that the pattern that will be absorbed from here onwards in this regard will be different from 
that which was observed in the past. [Japanese] So therefore, our outlook on the situation is that the hard disk drive 
industry has changed considerably compared to 1 year ago. [Japanese] And our expectation is that the direction that 
it is headed for is in a much more healthier direction. [Japanese] And in terms of the adjustments made on 
production at the end of June, we have seen that it has been much quicker in regard to the action taken then in the 
past, whereby things were stopped so that excess inventory was not kept on our side nor on the side of the customer. 
So we believe that in that sense it is a very healthy market… There was a slight buildup in the end of June but we 
believe that now it is returned to an appropriate level. [Japanese] I believe also, though, there are some areas where 
there are shortages and some where there are some excesses of inventory. We believe that on the whole, it is at a 
very appropriate level. [Japanese] So whereas in the past such inventory adjustment took 3 months or so to make, we 
see that now things are moving very quickly. [Japanese] It seems like things change in a matter of 2, 3 weeks or 4 
weeks, whereby things are dropped very quickly.” 
25 Nagamori (emphasis added): “I believe that the capacity question was in regard to spindle motors and in terms of 
excess capacity there, whereas there are three factories in Thailand currently, the idea is to reduce by one factory.  
And in the Philippines there are two factories which we are looking to reduce to one.  However, this does not mean 
that we will be closing those factories, but rather a transition will be made to a new business.  And we’re thinking 
already of moving into the area of SCD fans, a new market for us which we are entering and the volumes are going 
up there.  So this transition is being made for that.  So therefore, we’re not thinking of taking any tests for 
impairment to take place.” 
26 Nagamori (emphasis added): “The results of the first half have been in accordance, for the most part, with the 
plans that we had.  And for the hard disk market, from here onwards in the medium-term growth rate, we are 
looking at the hard disk market growth rate to be at an annual growth rate of 3% to 5%.  So therefore, we are 
looking forward to a very rapid improvement in the situation of cost of goods sold as a result of these activities.
Page 14 of 53	


• On the Q3 2012 call announcing the write-downs, management seems to us to admit that 
their primary motivation in taking the charges is to improve future reported profits.27 


• On the Q3 2012 call, management acknowledges conditions do not necessitate the 
impairments, and indicates to us that they view impairments as a matter of its discretion.  
That view appears to contravene accounting rules, and in our opinion, demonstrates that 
management is able to override internal financial controls.28   


• On the Q3 and Q4 2012 calls, management made multiple statements that were positive 
about the outlook for HDD (and consistent with statements earlier in the year).29  
However, Small Precision Motors recorded over half of the write-offs.30  





																																																								
[Japanese] So we are confident that the kind of results that we were able to generate as a result of WPR 1 will also 
be seen as a result of carrying out WPR part 2. 
27 Nagamori (emphasis added): “And we should like to mention that although the amount for the structural reforms 
and other adjustments is JPY 40 billion, the actual cash out would be, in other words, the actual expenditures would 
be 10% of that. And what we will be doing is the cash out itself will be in the amount of JPY 4 billion. And so 
therefore, for the remaining JPY 36 billion, it will be on a noncash basis. In other words, what will be carried out are 
impairments, or we'll be taking out reserves. [Japanese] So what we'll be focusing upon is, in regard to the 
impairment of facilities or of the buildings and the consolidation of factory, that would be the core of our efforts. 
[Japanese] So what we would like to do is to be able to complete the process of structural reforms and other 
adjustments during this fiscal year so that from the next fiscal year onwards, we will be able to quickly recover to 
our profit levels and revert to our levels before, as well as to strive for achieving higher levels of profitability…So 
the policy is that for all of our businesses and all of our group companies, we will be pursuing the same direction so 
that we can carry out our structural reforms and other adjustments, then quickly generate results. [Japanese] And at 
the same time, we'll be implementing structural reforms and other adjustments for our currently highly profitable 
businesses so that they will have even higher profitability realized.” 
28 Nagamori (emphasis added): “And generally speaking, many companies often carry out these kind of structural 
reforms and other adjustments when things have turned very bad. However, we believe that it's necessary to be able 
to be proactive so that these reforms are carried out before the profitability gets thoroughly in a poor situation. And 
rather, by taking this step, it will be possible to move forward in a positive direction and become a stronger 
company… And so what we do is to carry out impairments very quickly and rather than try to consider that the 
market may recover if we wait a little bit longer. And as a result of waiting, there will be many Japanese companies 
that will suffer even greater damage but -- so that it will not be sufficient just to carry out impairments, but -- in 
order to recover. But what we are trying to do is to anticipate and act quickly.” 
29 Question Q3 2012 call: “I wonder if the company could say when they expect Nidec's production volume of HDD 
spindle motors to bottom out?”  Nagamori (emphasis added): “Rather than say bottom out, I believe that for the next 
1-year period, the situation will remain flat.  Well, most likely there are expectations that for the next fiscal year, the 
numbers will go up. However, we believe that things will remain flat so that, whereas the hard disk market for 
last year was at a level of JPY 580 million, we believe that it will be transitioning at a level of JPY 550 million.  
And my feeling is that it would be better to consider the upside as starting from 2014 onwards.” 
 
Nagamori Q4 2012 call (emphasis added): “So the current efforts that have been made in regard to structural 
reforms and other adjustments were carried out on the assumption that in the conventional PC-related markets, as 
well as in the digital camera markets and the liquid crystal display markets have become very weak. And so 
therefore, it was decided to move forward with the structural reforms and other adjustment efforts.  The basis, 
therefore, in the changes that had been carried out by us is a business plan which assumes that we'll see a stable 
situation continue in regard to the hard disk drive situation, and that we will not be expecting growth in this area.  
And this likewise applies for the digital camera market as well. 
30 FY2012 Q3 Call.
Page 15 of 53	


• On the Q4 2012 call, management expressed a view that its business would quickly 
recover (“a V-shaped recovery”), which we believe illustrates how unnecessary the write-
offs were.31  In our opinion, the slide below really shows how unwarranted the 
impairments were – in our experience, it is rare to see a company talk about large write-
offs at the same time it is giving such a bullish forecast for the next year. 





 
 
We are highly incredulous that Nidec could or should have written off JPY 23 billion in 
inventory. 
 
Inventory that has been written off can often be sold later, providing a boost to reported profit 
because there are no matching costs.  Under Nidec’s own accounting policy, which is consistent 
with our understanding of U.S. GAAP, inventory write-offs are only acceptable when inventory 
has not moved for one year or there is no possibility of future sales or use.32,33  Under U.S. 


																																																								
31 Nagamori (emphasis added): “First of all, when we made the announcement about the results for the third quarter 
in January of this year, we made an announcement about how we would be changing our profit structure.  And then, 
from the third quarter onto the fourth quarter, we carried out, throughout our entire group, the structural reforms and 
other adjustments. [Japanese] I am strongly confident of the fact that we have been able to completely come through 
with those structural reforms and other adjustments. [Japanese] So therefore, we have increased our confidence that 
for fiscal year 2013, we'll be heading towards a V-shaped recovery.  Especially in the previous fiscal period, we 
moved forward with the CCC, or Cash Conversion Cycle, improvement. [Japanese] And it was possible for us to 
clear the objective which we had set of a 30% improvement here. [Japanese] So therefore, we have been able to 
achieve a record breaking operating cash flow of JPY 110.3 billion.” 
32 FY 2013 20-F, p. 83: “We periodically assess the market value of our inventory, based on sales trends and 
forecasts and technological changes and write off inventories with no movement for one year or when it is apparent 
that there is no possibility of future sales or usage.”            
33 Based on Nidec’s descriptions of the charges, we believe it is referring to write-offs, as opposed to write-downs.  
If the inventory were written-down, it would be revalued at realizable value.
Page 16 of 53	


GAAP, a drop in selling price does not in and of itself necessitate a write-off.34  We believe 
Nidec’s inventory write-offs were largely unjustified for the following reasons: 
 


a) The magnitude of the estimated write-off seems too large relative to Nidec’s Q3 FY2012 
and Q4 FY2012 inventory balances to be believable – we estimate the write-off 
represents approximately 22% of Q3 FY2012 inventory of JPY 106.2 billion.35  Inventory 
at Q4 FY2012 was little changed from the prior quarter at JPY 99.8 billion.36  This 
relatively insignificant QoQ change during the quarter in which this massive write-off 
occurred implies that at some point during the fourth quarter, Nidec’s inventory surged to 
at least approximately JPY 123 billion (see the Appendix).  The improbability that 22% 
of Nidec’s Q3 inventory balance was excess – especially given some of management’s 
comments in earlier quarters about the health of the HDD industry and inventory levels – 
supports our opinion about the write-offs.37  (We infer that the majority of the inventory 
write-offs were in the HDD segment because the largest disclosed swings in operating 
profit attributed at least in part to inventory write-offs were in the Thailand and 
Philippines segments, which primarily sell HDD motors.38   


 
b) As shown below, no single sub-account of inventory changed materially QoQ during the 


periods preceding the write-offs and the quarter in which they were taken.39  The 
company was turning inventory approximately 5.5x to 6.0x per year (roughly every two 
months).  It is incredible to us that the company claims to have had such a massive write-
off in Q4 when the sub-account opening and closing balances were so little changed – for 
this to have been justified, Nidec would have had to have had a massive intra-quarter 
blowout in one or more of these inventory sub-accounts.  








c) As excerpted below, Management’s FY 2012 statements also make us strongly doubt 
there was significant inventory (as well as PP&E) that met the criteria for write-off.   
 
In Q1 2012, Mr. Nagamori stated that HDD prices will not continue to steadily decline, 
that it is a “very healthy market”, and that neither Nidec nor its customers have excess 
inventory.  Note the lack of excess inventory in this quarter is important vis-à-vis Nidec’s 


																																																								
34 The implementation examples for ASC 330-10-55-8 to 12 illustrates a situation in which no loss is to be 
recognized when sales price drops.  
35 Q3 FY 2012 6-K, p.28 
36 FY2012 20F, p.F-4. 
37 FY2012 20-F, pp. 75-80 state that the inventory losses for Nidec Electronics (Thailand) Segment, Nidec (Dalian) 
Segment Nidec Philippines Segment Nidec Techno Motor Segment, and All Others Segment related to  excess 
inventories.  
38 FY2012 20-F, pp.76-80 
39 Source: CapitalIQ
Page 17 of 53	


inventory accounting standard that provides for write-offs only for inventory that has not 
moved for one year (or when it is apparent there is no possibility of future use or sale).   
 
Mr. Nagamori said on the call “We believe that from here onwards, it will not be like in 
the past, whereby the prices went steadily down.  Now, naturally, there is the change in 
the product mix and also the customers will not be reducing the prices of the hard disks 
that easily.  And in terms of the adjustments made on production at the end of June, we 
have seen that it has been much quicker in regard to the action taken then in the past, 
whereby things were stopped so that excess inventory was not kept on our side nor on the 
side of the customer. So we believe that in that sense it is a very healthy market…   
 
…There was a slight buildup in [Hard Disk Drive chain inventory levels] at the end of 
June but we believe that now it is returned to an appropriate level.  I believe also, though, 
there are some areas where there are shortages and some where there are some excesses 
of inventory.  We believe that on the whole, it is at a very appropriate level.  So whereas 
in the past such inventory adjustment took 3 months or so to make, we see that now 
things are moving very quickly.  It seems like things change in a matter of 2, 3 weeks or 
4 weeks, whereby things are dropped very quickly.” 
 
On the Q3 2012 call when Nidec announced the upcoming write-offs, Mr. Nagamori 
stated that the company was writing off the inventory in anticipation of losses on it in the 
future.  This view appears to completely contravene U.S. GAAP, which provides that “if 
a business is expected to lose money for a sustained period, the inventory shall not be 
written down to offset a loss inherent in the subsequent operations.”40  On the call, Mr. 
Nagamori stated “And so what we do is to carry out impairments [and inventory write-
offs] very quickly and rather than try to consider that the market may recover if we wait a 
little bit longer.41  And as a result of waiting, there will be many Japanese companies that 
will suffer even greater damage but -- so that it will not be sufficient just to carry out 
impairments, but -- in order to recover. But what we are trying to do is to anticipate and 
act quickly.” 


 
Manipulating Profitability of Automotive 
 
The Automotive product group is key to the bull thesis on Nidec.  It is well-known that Nidec’s 
core business of HDD motors is in long-term structural decline.  The below table of overall EBIT 
margins makes clear that Nidec is no more profitable today than it was five years ago.42  It is 
clear to us that Nidec’s lofty valuation is largely due to high expectations about the future of 
Automotive. 
 


																																																								
40 ASC 330-10-35-7 
41 Mr. Nagamori was discussing the entire amount of the charges (JPY 40 billion including personnel-related costs), 
so the implication is that he was describing PP&E impairments and inventory write-offs. 
42 “Profitable” here refers to EBIT margin.
Page 18 of 53	


 
 
Nidec entered the Automotive business in 2006 when it acquired Valeo Motors & Actuators.  In 
our opinion, one of Nidec’s imperatives is to show that it can grow the OP margin of the 
Automotive group.  We see evidence that Nidec is manipulating its reported Automotive OP 
margin in order to try to show an upward trend.   
 
One example is that Nidec waited four years from acquisition to start reporting a high OP margin 
business as part of the Automotive group.  Another example is Nidec (Dalian), which appears to 
have been using its Small Precision Motors business to subsidize the OP margin of the 
Automotive group.  A final example is Nidec Elesys Corp., which Nidec acquired from Honda at 
the end of FY 2013.  Nidec’s investor relations has told us that Elesys’s OP margin has 
significantly improved; however, the financials we have for several of Elesys’s entities cast 
significant doubt on that statement. 
 
Unnamed Nidec Motor Corp. Subsidiary Flatters Automotive Operating Profit 
 
In FY 2014, Nidec transferred an apparently highly profitable subsidiary of the Appliance, 
Commercial, and Industrial product group (“ACI”) to the Automotive product group.43  (Nidec 
does not disclose the name of the subsidiary.44)  We understand from Nidec investor relations 
that the business makes switches for the auto manufacturer General Motors.  According to IR, 
the business had been part of the Emerson Motors business Nidec acquired in FY 2010, and until 
the transfer it had been grouped with ACI. We estimate that the transferred subsidiary generated 
an OP margin in FY 2013 of 10.9%.   
 
It is curious that it took so long to group this subsidiary into Automotive.  Subsidiaries in the 
ACI group generally produce motors for home appliances, and commercial and industrial 
equipment.”45  On the other hand, Motors & Actuators subsidiaries primarily produce automotive 
products.46  At least two possible reasons for the delay suggest themselves. One is that Nidec was 
too busy to correctly classify the company for about four years.  Another, unfortunately dodgy 
possibility is that Nidec saved the regrouping for a time when it really wanted to show growth in 
its Automotive business.  If our estimate of the unnamed subsidiary’s OP margin is correct, the 
transfer would have nicely flattered the OP margin of Motors & Actuators, which was 6.3% in 
FY 2013.47   
 
We estimated the revenue and operating profit of the transferred subsidiary by comparing the 
Motor segment numbers originally reported in the FY 2013 20-F to the restated numbers shown 


																																																								
43 Nidec disclosed that the business had been transferred to Nidec Motors & Actuators, which is in the Automotive 
group. 
44 FY2014 20-F, p. 64. 
45 http://www.nidec.com/en-NA/corporate/about/business/motor/bu03/ 
46 FY2014 20-F, p. 64. 
47 FY2013 20-F, p. 80.
Page 19 of 53	


in the FY 2014 20-F.  Nidec’s disclosure of the transfer strongly implies that the sole difference 
in the two sets of Motor segment numbers is due to the transfer.48  Below are the financials: 
 





 
 
The other thing to note is that this subsidiary appears to have been growing quite quickly at the 
time – potentially transferring a small gem to Automotive.   
 
Nidec Dalian 
 
With Nidec Dalian (“Dalian”), Nidec could be using a Small Precision Motors business to inflate 
the operating profit margins of the Automotive product group.  Dalian owns one manufacturing 
facility in China.49  It produces both other Small Precision Motors and Automotive products.  In 
August 2009, Nidec regrouped part of Dalian’s business to Motors & Actuators.50  (Motors & 
Actuators is in the Automotive product group.)  We understand that the Dalian segment from that 
point forward only included the Small Precision Motors portion of the business.   
 
Subsequent to the move, Dalian’s OP margin declined from 15.4% in FY 2009 to 10.6% in FY 
2010, indicating that the Automotive portion of Dalian was much higher margin than the Small 
Precision Motors portion.  This is counter-intuitive, as we estimate that Other Small Precision 
Motors generally produces an OP margin slightly higher than that of Automotive products. 
 
In order to better understand the financials of the respective businesses within Dalian, we 
obtained the PRC financials (“SAIC filings”) for Dalian and its subsidiaries.51  From the SAIC 
filings, which are on a calendar year, we can try to estimate the revenue and operating profit of 
the Automotive portion of Dalian.  Because Nidec stopped separately disclosing Dalian in 
calendar Q4 of 2014, we have to estimate the Small Precision Motors business’s revenue and OP 
for that one quarter.  (We do not think CY 2013 is a good year to use for this purpose because in 
calendar Q1 CY 2013, Dalian showed an operating loss of JPY -0.8 billion, which we assume 
was probably due to the FY 2012 write-offs.)   
 
From Nidec’s quarterly filings, we see that from January 1, 2013 through September 30, 2013, 
Dalian’s Small Precision Motors business (as disclosed in U.S. quarterly filings) recorded an OP 
margin of 1.7%.  In order to estimate the Dalian’s calendar Q4 2013 Small Precision Motors 
business, we use quarterly revenue of JPY 2.3 billion, which is the average quarterly revenue of 


																																																								
48 See FY 2014 20-F, p. 64: “One of the subsidiaries previously reported as part of this segment has been transferred 
to the Nidec Motors & Actuators segment for the year ended March 31, 2015.  All prior period segment information 
has been reclassified in accordance with the current period presentation to enable comparisons between the relevant 
amounts.”  
 
49 http://www.nidec.com/~/media/nidec-com/en-global/ir/library/earnings/archive/2011/Q4_1  
50 FY2009 20-F, p. 60. 
51 The data is available from the State Administration of Industry and Commerce.
Page 20 of 53	


the prior three quarters; and, operating profit of .04 billion (a 1.7% OP margin).  From there, we 
derive estimates for the revenue and operating profit for Dalian’s Automotive business. 
 


 
 
Under the aforementioned assumptions, Dalian’s Automotive business generated an OP margin 
in CY 2014 that was 670 basis points higher than that of the FY 2014 Automotive product group 
of 8.4%.52  Assuming our full year Small Precision Motor business assumption of a 1.7% OP 
margin is anywhere near correct, Dalian’s CY 2014 OP margin would have been much lower 
than our estimate of Nidec’s FY 2014 other Small Precision Motors OP margin of 9.5%.53   
 
Dalian is of particular concern because it contains two businesses at one site.  As a result of the 
shared facilities, Nidec likely has to make a number of judgment calls about how to allocate 
expenses between the Small Precision Motors and Automotive businesses.  Given the likely 
performance differences Dalian’s Small Precision Motors and Automotive businesses generated 
versus their product group averages, we are concerned that Nidec is using the non-Automotive 
business at Dalian to subsidize a higher OP margin for Automotive.  Using the above estimates, 
if we reallocated Dalian’s expenses so that Small Precision Motor’s OP margin increased by 10 
percentage points to 11.7%, it would knock Dalian Automotive’s OP margin down to 9.2%.  
These theoretical OP margins are much closer to what their product groups generate company-
wide. 
 
  


																																																								
52 FY2014 Results Presentation, Slide 14. 
53 On the FY2014 call, Nidec management stated that HDD OP margin for the year had been 22%.
Page 21 of 53	


Elesys 
 
In March 2014, Nidec acquired Elesys from Honda.  Elesys produces electronic control units for 
automobiles.  One oddity about how Nidec treated Elesys right after the acquisition is that during 
its first two quarters as part of Nidec (Q1 and Q2 FY 2014), Nidec classified Elesys as part of the 
All Others operating segment.  In Q3 2014, Nidec transferred Elesys to the Nidec Motors & 
Actuators segment.  At the time it was transferred to Motors & Actuators, it appears to have been 
grouped with an unknown business that had also been in All Others.  The unknown business 
seems to have been generating roughly JPY 5 billion in revenue per quarter.  (The foregoing is 
based on the assumption that Elesys was generating JPY 8 billion to JPY 9 billion in quarterly 
revenue at the time.)  The foregoing might (or might not be) pertinent to our concerns about 
Elesys’s stated OP margins. 
 
Nidec told investors on the Q1 2015 call that Elesys’s OP margin had greatly improved since the 
acquisition: 
 


Masuo Yoshimatsu - Chief Financial Officer, First Senior Vice President and Director: 
“Yes, actually, before our acquisition of Elesys, their profitability was like average of 
automotive components business as you may know. And since then, we have been 
improving their profitability at least twice, in some cases, 3x before the acquisition. So 
that's the contribution from Elesys.” 


 
Investor relations has given us the following information about Elesys’s OP margins: 
 


 FY 2014 FY 2015 Q1 FY 2016 Q2 FY 2016 
OP Margin 10.24% 13.26% 13.58% 14.7% 


 
On the surface, the OP margin jump in FY 2015 is very impressive.  However, the information 
we have makes this jump seem unlikely – if not impossible.  Investor relations attributed the 
jump in FY 2015 to Elesys taking advantage of Nidec’s scale to purchase semiconductors at 
lower prices.  Importantly IR also stated that Nidec does not purchase semiconductors for Elesys 
centrally – Elesys purchases from suppliers directly.  This means that the jump in OP margin 
would be reflected in financial statements for the various Elesys entities.  The information we 
have on China and Japan does not match the jump.  (According to IR, China is about 20% of 
sales, Japan 40%, and the U.S. 40%.) 
 
We obtained financials for Elesys China from SAIC.54  We have Japan financial information 
from a Japanese credit bureau, Teikoku Databank.55  The piece that is missing is the U.S., but IR 
confirmed that Honda accounts for substantially all of Elesys’s volume company-wide, and that 
the OP margins in the U.S. are similar to those of Japan and China.   
 


																																																								
54 The data is available from the State Administration of Industry and Commerce. 
55 https://www.tdb.co.jp/english/company/index.html
Page 22 of 53	


 
 
From the above financials, we can see that the supposed 10.24% OP margin in FY 2014 is 
reasonably close to the data we have.  However, the delta between the above numbers and the 
claimed FY 2015 OP margin of 13.26% is substantial, and has increased substantially while our 
Japan and China financials show decreasing margins (both gross and operating).  If Elesys is 
purchasing its own semiconductors, and the OP margins are reasonably similar in the U.S., then 
how did Elesys generate a 13.26% OP margin in FY 2015?   
 
China Automotive Employees Appear to Stuff the Channels 
 
In FY 2015, China accounted for 22.9% of Nidec’s overall revenue.56  We have spoken with four 
former employees of Nidec’s China operation who have provided evidence alleging channel 
stuffing at quarter and fiscal year ends in the Automotive product group.57  (The former 
employees often referred to the practice as “pulling forward” sales.)  Three of the four former 
employees had first-hand knowledge of these practices, while the other one attested to knowing 
this was occurring in the company.  (One of the former employees who demonstrated firsthand 
knowledge had been employed by a Nidec majority-owned joint venture, Nidec Kaiyu Auto 
Electric (Jiangsu) Co. Ltd.58)  
 
The magnitude of the alleged channel stuffing and its potential impact on Nidec’s financials is 
not entirely clear.  The allegations we encountered focus on the automotive business.  Key points 
and comments from each of the interviews are below. 
 


																																																								
56 Source: S&P Capital IQ. 
57 Each former employee had terminated his employment with Nidec at least one year earlier. 
58 http://en.nidec-kaiyu.com/about/i=2&comContentId=2.html
Page 23 of 53	


 
 
It is important to note that we have not done our own independent verification of these 
allegations.  To the extent these interviews are accurate, the takeaways are that management in 
Japan sets unrealistically high sales targets for the China operation.  There is apparently little 
tolerance for employees who do not meet their targets.  These difficult to attain goals appear to 
result in tremendous pressure to meet targets, and allegedly push some employees over the line.   
 
From these interviews, the way the alleged channel stuffing seems to work is that a salesperson 
asks a client to take delivery of items that were planned for the subsequent period.  It was 
explained that Nidec’s CRM systems record a sale when the goods leave the warehouse.  (As we 
argue below, this is where a more conservative revenue recognition policy would help prevent 
channel stuffing.) 
 
Allegedly, usually the clients agree to take the goods into their buffer or safety stock.  
(Customers do not pay for goods in their safety stock until they use them).  Sometimes, the 
customers direct that the goods be held in a third party logistics provider’s warehouse.  
Moreover, Nidec salespeople allegedly can slow down the shipment by working with Nidec 
warehouse workers to keep the goods on the loading dock for about one week.  Depending on the 
destination, additional transit time can chew up more time.  
 
Nidec’s revenue recognition policy is not as conservative as it can be, and in our opinion, could 
help to enable the alleged channel stuffing.  Nidec recognizes revenue without regard to 
customer “acceptance”, which could enable Nidec to record revenue without actually receiving 
payment.  China’s auto industry generally runs on a “Just in Time” inventory management
Page 24 of 53	


system,59 which means buyers usually only acknowledge an obligation to pay once the goods 
have been used in their production.60  While Nidec’s revenue recognition policy could suffice for 
more developed markets, in China there is a non-negligible possibility that employees would 
exploit the lack of necessary acceptance to stuff channels.  Below is a comparison of Nidec’s 
revenue recognition policy to those of two PRC-listed automotive suppliers.61 
 


Nidec recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery 
has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably 
assured. For small precision motors, automotive, appliance, commercial and industrial 
products and electronic and optical components, these criteria are generally met at the 
time a product is delivered to the customers’ site which is the time the customer has taken 
title to the product and the risk and rewards of ownership have been substantively 
transferred. These conditions are met at the time of delivery to customers in domestic 
sales (FOB destination) and at the time of shipment for export sales (FOB shipping 
point). Revenue for machinery sales is recognized upon receipt of final customer 
acceptance. At the time the related revenue is recognized, Nidec makes provisions for 
estimated product returns. Revenue from a part of sales of automotive, appliance, 
commercial and industrial products under long-term construction type arrangements are 
recognized under the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-
completion method, revenue is recognized as a percentage of estimated total revenue that 
incurred costs to date bear to estimated total costs after giving effect to estimates of costs 
to complete based upon the most recent information.62 


 
U.S. GAAP provides that revenue should not be recognized until acceptance occurs.63  As was 
explained, customers are not obligated to pay for goods in safety stock, and thus they have not 
been accepted. 
 


 
 
The revenue recognition policies for Chinese auto parts manufacturers Wanxiang Qianchao Co 
Ltd. (000559 CH) and Weifu High-Technology Group (000581 CH) seemingly make it harder to 
stuff channels in the manner that the former Nidec employees have alleged. 
 


																																																								
59 FY2015 20-F, p. 29, FN 59. 
60 See: http://auto.sina.com.cn/news/2001-08-27/13236.shtml  
61 Translation by Muddy Waters Capital LLC. 
62 2015 20-F, p. F-16. 
63 https://www.sec.gov/interps/account/sabcodet13.htm
Page 25 of 53	


Wanxiang: “The company sells constant-speed drive shaft, car wheel units and drive 
shaft and other products.  Revenue recognition for domestic sales meet the following 
conditions: the product has been delivered to the customer according to the contract, and 
the amount of product’s sales revenue is determined, the payment has been collected or a 
payment voucher has been obtained, the associated economic benefits will likely flow to 
the company, the costs related to the products can be reliably measured.”64  
 
Weifu: “Concrete judging criteria for time of recognized the income from goods sales: 
The Company's domestic sales revenue recognition time: The company delivers goods as 
agreed, checks the goods that the buyers have received and inspected during the period of 
the last reconciliation date and this reconciliation date with the buyers on the 
reconciliation date as agreed, and transfers the risks and remunerations to the buyers after 
checking, the Company issues the invoices to the buyers in accordance with the 
recognized varieties, quantities and amounts and affirms the sales revenue realization on 
the reconciliation date.”65 


 
Nidec’s Auditor is Highly Questionable 
 
Including with its predecessor firms, Nidec’s auditor, Pricewaterhousecoopers Kyoto (“Kyoto 
Audit”), has issued unqualified audit opinions on no fewer than six accounting scandals.  The 
PCAOB has found troubling issues in two inspections of the firm in its current incarnation – 
including weaknesses in its audits of Nidec.66  (Some of the PCAOB’s specific criticisms of 
Kyoto Audit resonate with certain issues we have identified.)   
 
The accounting scandals for which Chuo Aoyama PwC had served as auditor include: 
 


• Yaohan Japan Corp.67,68 
• Yamaichi Securities69,70 
• Ashikaga Bank71 
• Kanebo Ltd.72 
• Nikko Cordial Corp.73 
• Sanyo Electric74 





																																																								
64 http://disclosure.szse.cn/finalpage/2016-02-27/1202003307.PDF (MWC translation). 
65 http://pdf.dfcfw.com/pdf/H2_AN201604180014399451_1.pdf p. 121. 
66 We note that the PCAOB inspected PricewaterhouseCoopers Kyoto in 2016, and found no issues at that time. 
Since the previous two inspections, the firm might have gotten better at auditing, or being inspected, or both. 
67 http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/16440dc8-e153-11da-90ad-
0000779e2340.html?ft_site=falcon&desktop=true#axzz4RQzvwO00  
68 The audit issues predate the 2000 merger of Chuo Shinko Audit Corp. with Aoyama Audit Corp. 
69 http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2005/09/14/national/four-cpas-arrested-over-kanebo-scandal/#.WD4VAlecHBI  
70 The audit issues predate the 2000 merger of Chuo Shinko Audit Corp. with Aoyama Audit Corp. 
71 http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2005/09/14/national/four-cpas-arrested-over-kanebo-scandal/#.WD4VAlecHBI  
72 http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/16440dc8-e153-11da-90ad-
0000779e2340.html?ft_site=falcon&desktop=true#axzz4RQzvwO00  
73 https://www.accountancyage.com/aa/news/1776704/pwc-shut-japanese-affiliate  
74 http://www.marketwatch.com/story/sanyos-accounting-woes-a-big-blow-to-shareholders
Page 26 of 53	


The Kanebo scandal led to three Chuo Aoyama accountants being indicted.75  Chuo Aoyama was 
actually suspended from auditing public companies for two months from audit practice by 
Japan’s Financial Services Agency in 2006.76  This was the first suspension given to a large 
auditor in Japan.77  
 
In reaction to these scandals, in 2006, PwC split Chuo Aoyama into two firms: PwC Arata and 
Chuo Aoyama.  Arata was a new firm, and Chuo Aoyama was renamed Misuzu.  Only about one 
quarter of Misuzu’s staff went to Arata, with most of the rest staying at Misuzu.78  The Financial 
Times wrote the following about the apportionment of personnel between the two firms, giving 
the impression that the restructuring was effectively a “good firm / bad firm” solution – with 
Misuzu being the bad firm: 
 


“Speaking in unusually blunt terms, [the chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers global] 
told the Financial Times yesterday that Arata’s limited size reflected the availability of 
staff who met the firm performance standards.”79 


 
It was not long before PwC figured out that the firm needed more than a name change.  
Accounting scandals continued to come to light throughout 2006.  In early 2007, the firm 
announced that in the wake of the Nikko Cordial scandal, Misuzu would be wound down.80   
 
Nidec disclosed that following Misuzu’s July 2007 dissolution, the Chuo Aoyama / Misuzu team 
that audited Nidec had transferred to a newly established audit firm, Kyoto Audit Corp. 
(emphasis added): 
 


“As MISUZU PricewaterhouseCoopers terminated its operations on July 31, 2007, the 
Kyoto office of MISUZU PricewaterhouseCoopers decided to establish Kyoto Audit 
Corporation to succeed to the business it formerly carried out as part of MISUZU 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. As such, Kyoto Audit Corporation is the successor to the 
assurance practice and business of the Kyoto office of MISUZU 
PricewaterhouseCoopers. Kyoto Audit Corporation’s personnel are substantially the same 
as those previously employed by the Kyoto office of MISUZU PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
including those who have been assigned to us.”81 





																																																								
75 http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/16440dc8-e153-11da-90ad-
0000779e2340.html?ft_site=falcon&desktop=true#axzz4RQzvwO00  
76 http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2006/05/11/business/chuoaoyama-handed-suspension-order-heads-
roll/#.WD4WD1ecHBI 
77 http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2006/05/11/business/chuoaoyama-handed-suspension-order-heads-
roll/#.WD4WD1ecHBI  
78 http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2006/09/02/business/chuoaoyama-reopens-doors-as-misuzu-
audit/#.WD4XCFecHBI  
79 http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/1b5761a0-c151-11db-bf18-
000b5df10621.html?ft_site=falcon&desktop=true#axzz4RQzvwO00  
80 http://retheauditors.com/2007/02/21/pwcs-two-card-monte-game-in-japan-fails-update/  
81 FY 2007 20-F, p. 103.
Page 27 of 53	


Kyoto Audit Corp. is now PricewaterhouseCoopers Kyoto.82  As of its 2013 PCAOB inspection, 
Kyoto Audit audited only two companies that filed financials in the U.S.: Kyocera and Nidec.83  
The public version of the PCAOB inspection report is troubling.  It identifies issues with each 
audit (without identifying to which company’s audit it is referring.)  In both cases, the PCAOB 
report stated that Kyoto Audit failed to perform sufficient audit procedures to test inventory.  In 
the case of one company, the auditor also failed to perform sufficient audit procedures with 
respect to cost allocation, and the occurrence and allocation of revenue.  In the case of the other 
company, PwC Kyoto failed to sufficiently test internal control deficiencies.  (Note that in our 
report, we have discussed issues with Nidec’s inventory accounting, revenue recognition, and 
internal controls.)   
 
That was the second time the PCAOB rang up Kyoto Audit for its audits of these two companies.  
In 2010, the PCAOB cited the firm’s two audits for identical reasons: deficiencies in testing 
revenues, doubtful accounts, and inventory valuations.84  Kyoto Audit’s managing member is 
Yukihiro Matsunaga.85  He is one of Nidec’s designated engagement partners, just as he appears 
to have been in 2005 while with Chuo Aoyama.86,87  (We infer that he has been the most senior 
engagement partner, given his topmost position on the letterheads of the two audit report cover 
letters we cited.) 
 
In our opinion, Kyoto Audit missed a mistake Nidec made in part of its accounting for the FY 
2012 write-offs (in addition to the propriety of the charges themselves).  JPY 2.4 billion of the 
PP&E impairment was booked as a loss on disposal as part of a sale and leaseback transaction.88  
This appears to be incorrect accounting treatment, as we believe it should have been booked as 
prepaid rent expense, given the overall profitable operations at Nidec.  The omission of the sales 
and leaseback disclosures could imply a lack of understanding of relevant U.S. GAAP at both 
Nidec and Kyoto Audit. 
 
In our opinion, Kyoto Audit is to audit failures what Michael Jordan was to basketball.89  It is 
extremely questionable why a company with a JPY 3,000 billion market cap and that is this 
widely held would still use an auditor with such a checkered history, including having been 
publicly censured twice by a regulator for doing a poor job on its audits.  Our guess is that Nidec 
likes having a weak auditor so that it can manipulate its accounts to appear to be more profitable 
and faster growing than it actually is. 
 
  


																																																								
82 http://www.pwc.com/jp/en/japan-press-room/press-release/2013/kyoto-audit130315.html 
83 See Kyocera 20-F and 
https://pcaobus.org//Inspections/Reports/Documents/2014_PricewaterhouseCoopers_Kyoto.pdf  
84 https://pcaobus.org//inspections/reports/documents/2011_Kyoto_Audit_Corporation.pdf  
85 http://www.pwc.com/jp/en/kyoto/corporate/message.html  
86 http://www.nidec.com/-/media/nidec-com/en-global/ir/calendar/meeting/2016Proxy1.pdf?la=en-Global p. 40. 
87 http://www.nidec.com/~/media/nidec-com/en-global/ir/calendar/meeting/archive/050623-012 p. 18. 
88 The JPY2.4 billion loss in connection with the sales and lease-back arrangement was calculated by subtracting the 
disclosed JPY 10.3 billion PP&E loss on sale, disposal, or impairment (FY 2012 20-F, p. 48) from the JPY 12.7 
billion losses related to fixed assets (FY 2012 20-F, p. 61).   
89 In this context “PwC Kyoto” includes its predecessor Chuo Aoyama / Misuzu.
Page 28 of 53	


Nidec’s M&A: Scant Evidence of Excellence 
 
It seems that investors and analysts have been unquestioning in their acceptance of the 
proposition that Nidec has some “secret sauce” that makes it a great acquirer.  Indeed, a recent 
search of sell-side research covering Nidec yielded the words “synergy” and “synergies” in 153 
Nidec reports over the past five years.90  However, we see no evidence that Nidec is that rare 
great acquirer of companies.  Instead, we see Nidec as a much more typical serial acquirer that 
usually does not create value – or even destroys it.  We believe the following about Nidec and its 
acquisition activity: 
 


• Its acquisitions help to mask weak organic growth, and the complexity it adds to Nidec’s 
accounting makes it more difficult for investors to understand the performance of Nidec’s 
existing businesses.   


• The extent to which it generates synergies with existing businesses is greatly 
overestimated. 


• Nidec’s due diligence – particularly outside of Japan – can be lacking. 
• Nidec has a taste for highly questionable companies at times. 
• Its record of creating value through acquisitions is at best mixed. 


 
With so many moving parts (e.g., currencies, regroupings and reorganizations, inter-company 
sales, asset impairments, capex, timing differences), it is difficult to concretely evaluate the 
performance of Nidec’s acquisitions.  As we discuss in Prescription for Transparency, it is 
alarming how as Nidec has become more complex, it is also becoming substantially less 
transparent, which will make analyzing the effectiveness of Nidec’s acquisition strategy even 
more difficult.  
 
At a high level, we argue that the two graphs below showing Nidec’s return on assets and asset 
turnover over 10 years does not support the proposition that it creates value through acquisitions, 
or that there are substantial synergies with the businesses it acquires.  The graphs show that in 
recent years, Nidec’s asset efficiency is generally lower than it was at the beginning of the 
period. 
 











																																																								
90 Search performed on Alpha-Sense.
Page 29 of 53	


Nidec seems at least partly responsible for the seemingly widespread perception that it creates 
significant value through acquisitions.  When Mr. Nagamori was asked on the FY 2011 call how 
realistic his 10% operating profit margin goal was for a recent ex-Japan acquisition, he rebuked 
the analyst by stating “We think you will study more carefully the mergers and acquisitions 
which we carried out in the past.”91  As we discuss below, that particular acquisition does not 
seem to have gone the way investors were led to expect.  Some of Nidec’s acquisitions are 
frankly questionable, given the parties from whom they are purchasing or significant legacy 
issues at the business.  Former employees of acquisition targets have voiced opinions about 
Nidec’s acquisition strategy that run contrary to the view that it is a great acquirer. 
 
A former senior of Emerson motors and controls who, subsequent to the sale to Nidec, helped 
Nidec evaluate acquisition opportunities, gave an opinion that “I don't want to say there was no 
strategy.  You know, [Nagamori] just -- he wanted to become the world's biggest motor maker, 
you know, and things that were somewhat related, you know, set that strategy.  It was a little bit -
- it was definitely a lower hurdle than what Emerson would have used, I'll say that.” 92 
 
Ansaldo Sistemi Industriali S.p.A.: Nidec’s 2012 acquisition of ASI has generated no meaningful 
improvement through FY 2014.  ASI was approximately 160 years old at the time of the 
acquisition, and makes industrial motors.93  When Nidec acquired ASI, it projected that it would 
increase the OP margin from the mid-single digits to 10%.94  ASI’s financials show this has not 
yet happened at least as of March 31, 2015. 
 
Below is a comparison ASI’s summary financials of the last full year before Nidec acquired it 
(CY 2011) to the most recent year for which we obtained financials (FY 2014): 
 


 
 
Nidec was supremely confident about its ability to significantly improve ASI’s profitability at 
the time of the acquisition.  The quote at the beginning of this section in which Mr. Nagamori 
admonished the analyst to more closely study his M&A track record was in response to a 
question expressing skepticism about acquiring ASI.  Specifically, the analyst questioned the 
feasibility of projected 10% OP margin due to competition from Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric.   
 
Our conversations with two former ASI employees who were there at the time of the sale offers 
some surprising reasons why this acquisition has not (from our perspective) met expectations.   
 
																																																								
91 FY2011 Call. 
92 Emerson Source A transcript.  All sources interviewed for our research has not been employed by the company 
for at least one year. 
93 http://www.nidec.com/en-EU/corporate/news/2012/news0029/  
94 FY2011 Call.
Page 30 of 53	


“As I mentioned, I was not physically there.  But I was talking daily about the due 
diligence process.  And I remember that everybody was kind of astonished by the way the 
due diligence was accomplished, the time frame, because it is very short compared to the 
amount of documents.  And also, my view – the reason why I’m saying probably didn’t 
ask the right questions because it pretty – my view was pretty superficial.  Basically, once 
they had some information, the first level information, they (unintelligible) and from a 
product perspective, in my view, they didn’t really look detail, in detail what was 
needing, what was the view of the future of the production, that was actually the 
integration of the solar and wind parts.”95 


 
“The product was completely different.  This means Nidec coming with approach and 
mentality of mass production, means consumer product for PNC, for disc, for iPod and so 
on.  Ansaldo and ASI, coming from experience of large industrial product, large machine.  
This means complementarity, full complementarity of product.  Brother completely 
different, what did they have, the market completely different what they have, and this 
means that synergy, yes is possible, but in reality was integration of a product line that 
they don’t have.  I cannot integrate my motor of 150 ton with their motor of 20 grams.  
You understand…Nidec, they are very close to three, four customer, I give you an 
example, make iPod and so on and so on.  Ansaldo is more in big industrial product.  
This means customer is not the same.  Okay.”96 


 
Our former Emerson motors and controls source was involved in evaluating the ASI acquisition 
for Nidec.  He described ASI as being “so far from what the Emerson business did” that he 
questions Nidec’s rationale for purchasing ASI.97 
 
Sole Motors: In January 2010, Nidec acquired Sole Motors, which develops, manufactures, and 
sells household motors.98  Its manufacturing plants are in Italy and Hungary.  Since the 
acquisition, Sole’s net revenue has declined 12.9%, and it only recently generated positive OP 
margin. 
 





																																																								
95 ASI Source A transcript.  All sources interviewed for our research have not been employed by the company for at 
least one year. 
96 ASI Source B transcript.  All sources interviewed for our research have not been employed by the company for at 
least one year. 
97 Emerson Source A transcript.  All sources interviewed for our research have not been employed by the company 
for at least one year. 
98 http://www.nidec-motor.com/Trusted-Brands/Sole/Overview
Page 31 of 53	


Below is a Q2 2009 slide promoting the acquisition as part of Nidec’s M&A “Growth Path”.99  
 


 
 
In January 2012, Mr. Nagamori described the acquisition as though it had been successful 
“…things are functioning quite well [at Sole].  And also because common development work 
was being carried out, then we are now having very good synergies being generated.”100  Based 
on the above results, we believe this response was misleading. 
 
In FY 2014, Sole underwent a corporate restructuring.101   
 
ANA IMEP S.A.: This FY 2016 acquisition has a particularly dodgy background, and left us 
wondering “Of all the companies in the world, why would Nidec have bothered to acquire this 
one?”  Nidec acquired 94.8% of the company.  ANA IMEP is a Romanian manufacturer of 
household motors founded in 1967.102  Its sales have declined 29.8% from RON 90.6 million in 
CY 2010 to RON 63.6 million (approximately JPY 1.7 billion) in CY 2015.103 
 


																																																								
99 http://www.nidec.com/~/media/nidec-com/en-global/ir/library/earnings/archive/2010/Q2_1 
100 Q3 2011 Call. 
101 Nidec Sole Motor Corporation S.r.l. FY2014 annual report. 
102 http://www.nidec.com/en-Global/ir/news/2016/news0422-01/ 
103 Romanian financial statements.
Page 32 of 53	


 
 
Nidec is buying ANA IMEP from George Copos (pictured above).104  (Note that Nidec did not 
mention him by name in the press release – it only referred to him as the “major shareholder”.105) 
Copos was released from prison two weeks before agreeing to sell the company to Nidec.106  
Copos had been sentenced to four years in connection with sales of real estate to the Romanian 
state lottery.107  He had also been sentenced to prison for tax evasion and money laundering 
involving the illegal transfer of football players.108  Previously, Copos had been indicted by the 
Romanian Anti-Corruption Authority, which accused him of stock manipulation and money 
laundering.109  Copos was Romania’s vice prime minister from 2004 to 2006.110  He resigned 
from the Conservative Party in 2006 amid a corruption scandal.111   
 
One eyebrow-raising connection is that according to LinkedIn, ANA IMEP’s Sales and 
Marketing Director from 2014 until this year was Nidec Sole Motors’ Sales Director until 
2013.112 
 
Nidec Motors & Actuators (fka Valeo Motors & Actuators business):  
 
In 2006, Nidec entered the Automotive product business by acquiring Valeo S.A.’s motors and 
actuators business for approximately JPY 25 billion.113  It is very difficult to evaluate the 
financial performance of this acquisition given that local financials are unavailable for significant 
portions of the business, among other factors.114  A former Valeo senior executive who stayed on 


																																																								
104 http://www.zf.ro/eveniment/copos-a-vandut-94-8-din-actiunile-fabricii-ana-imep-catre-japonezii-de-la-nidec-
15268858 
105 http://www.nidec.com/en-Global/ir/news/2016/news0422-01/ 
106 http://www.romania-insider.com/george-copos-released-on-parole/ 
107 http://www.romania-insider.com/romanian-businessman-copos-gets-another-final-jail-conviction-no-parole-in-
tax-evasion-case/129929/ 
108 http://www.gandul.info/stiri/ultima-ora-sentinta-in-dosarul-transferurilor-copos-3-ani-si-8-luni-de-inchisoare-cu-
executare-mm-stoica-3-ani-si-6-luni-borcea-6-ani-si-4-luni-ioan-becali-6-ani-si-4-luni-12192834 
109 http://www.romania-insider.com/george-copos-released-on-parole/ 
110 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Copos 
111 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Copos 
112 https://it.linkedin.com/in/roberto-appiana-98765922/de 
113 http://www.nidec.com/-/media/nidec-com/en-global/corporate/news/2006/news0075/061115.pdf  
114 Other factors include timing of starting production in Poland, and inability to see eliminations of inter-company 
transactions.
Page 33 of 53	


for several years post acquisition expressed the opinions that during his time at Valeo post-
acquisition a) it took almost four years for Nidec to attempt any major initiatives to improve 
performance of the business (the first major initiative in his view was shutting down the 
headquarters in France), b) the combination with Nidec did not help Valeo win any major 
customers, and c) there was no R&D synergies.115   
 
One other item to note is that in FY 2008, the German entity, Nidec Motors & Actuators GmbH 
impaired its goodwill by €18.1 million, which cut its annual depreciation and amortization 
expense roughly in half (approximately €3 million).  While this could have been entirely 
justified, it benefitted reported OP margin through decreased amortization. 
 
Avtron Industrial Automation: 
 
In 2012, Nidec acquired Avtron Industrial Automation, which produces industrial and 
commercial motor controls.116  A former Avtron executive told us that he understands from 
former colleagues “only in the last two or three months that the integration has sort of really 
begun to get some traction. Again, I think the reason for that is Nidec was a little bit naive and a 
little bit slow in pushing for a more vigorous integration program or a better structured 
integration program.”117  He also stated that Nidec’s due diligence process was lighter touch than 
what he was used to “I think the transaction was -- relative to other transactions I've seen I would 
say relatively painless. I think from your perspective that might suggest that perhaps Nidec did 
not do as vigorous or aggressive due diligence process as other acquirers might do…Nidec's 
diligence was very much trust but verify, but it was, what I would call, a very gentle verification. 
They didn't go into everything with a fine tooth comb.”   
 
Consolidating listed subsidiaries: 
 
Mr. Nagamori has increased his holdings in Nidec when the company has fully consolidated 
previously publicly traded subsidiaries through share swaps.  Adjusted for splits, the table below 
shows the shares Mr. Nagamori has received per consolidation transaction, and the approximate 
value at today’s share price (JPY 29.5 billion). 
 





																																																								
115 We do not detail the number of years in order to protect the former employee’s identity.  He has not been 
employed by the company for at least one year. 
116 http://www.nidec-avtron.com/drivesystems/news/archived/avtron-industrial-automation-acquired-by-nidec  
117 The former executive left Avtron at least one year ago.
Page 34 of 53	


On the FY 2009 results call after announcing the acquisition of Servo minority interests, Mr. 
Nagamori said the following about consolidating listed subsidiaries: 
 


“Our policy is that we would only have an arrangement of a 100% subsidiary in the case 
purely when the subsidiary company’s management and employees strongly desired it, 
and there is no change in our policy in this regard.” 


 
When Nidec announced the consolidation of Sankyo by share exchange, one analyst expressed 
surprise on the FY 2011 call noting the inconsistency with the above statement.118  Mr. 
Nagamori responded that what he “may” have said in the past does not necessarily apply in the 
future.  He also reminded the questioner that there were still four publicly-traded subsidiaries, 
and that if it made sense to consolidate them in the future, Nidec would do so.  Less than one 
year later, Nidec became less equivocal when it announced the consolidation of Copal, Tosok, 
and Semitisu.  Mr. Nagamori stated with perhaps a tinge of revisionism “We had, in the past, 
explained that it would not be a positive thing for us to continue a situation whereby both the 
parent company and the subsidiary of that company remain listed.”119   
 
We do not purport to know the reasoning behind consolidating these companies, and the timing 
of these transactions.  We do find the inconsistency in Nidec’s discussion of the rationales for 
these transactions a little troubling, particularly given Mr. Nagamori’s financial interests in them. 
 
Adjusted for splits, Nidec has issued 30.2 million shares to consolidate the subsidiaries.120  
Adjusted for splits, during this time Nidec has bought back 19.8 million shares for about JPY 
71.6 billion:121 
 





																																																								
118 FY 2011 Call. 
119 FY 2012 Call. 
120 Source data from Bloomberg. 
121 Source: Bloomberg.
Page 35 of 53	


Sex Appeal 
 
We doubt that even Sade could make a motors business sound as sexy as Nidec does.  In recent 
times, Nidec has been emphasizing a future of robots, drones, speed reducers, ADAS, and 
LIDAR.  In reality, these areas are a tiny portion of Nidec’s present (and likely future) business.  
To get investors excited, the company’s presentations can show slides with severe up and to the 
right slopes that shout “Rapid expansion”:122 
 


 
 
Or telling us how there’s a “new strategy” built around virtual reality – perhaps “alternate 
reality” is more suitable:123 





																																																								
122 Q1 2015 presentation. 
123 FY 2015 presentation.
Page 36 of 53	


We understand that revenues from these categories (including drone and robotics-related sales to 
a “US online retail behemoth”) contributed 4.2% of total sales in FY 2015.124  We understand 
that management forecasts that they will contribute approximately 5.2% to FY 2016 total 
sales.125  However, when excluding the portion of revenue from Nidec Sankyo’s LCD robots, 
which is a business that Nidec has been in since at least FY 2003,126 these exciting new areas 
only represent approximately 2.6% of forecast FY 2016 revenue.  Below is a table breaking out 
our understanding of Nidec’s historical and forecast FY 2016 revenues in these categories: 
 


 
 
A number of investors appear to be excited about Nidec’s provision of motors to a “U.S. retail 
behemoth” for drones and robots.  One of the reasons for the excitement is that the OP margins 
recorded so far are high (we understand in the 20% to 30% range).  Based on our interview with 
a former senior Amazon.com Inc. drone program executive, as Amazon ramps its purchases for 
both robot and drone motors, Nidec is likely to become a price taker.  The former executive 
stated that Amazon’s focus right now is on research and development of these products, and it is 
not yet cost conscious about its suppliers.  He believes the motors are relatively easily switched 
to another supplier if Nidec does not ultimately reduce its prices.  Investors might think that 
Nidec has some proprietary advantage vis-à-vis supplying these motors because of statements 
such as this: 
 


“Then that's the reason why we believe that we do have some technological edge to 
making those motors for drones, and that's the reason why we are just educating in that 
area.”127 


 
Nidec’s description of its “technological edge” reminds us of Nidec’s once uber-bullish 
statements on haptic, and the resulting disappointing reality.   
 


“Then for that point [haptic], we do believe that we do have technological superiority 
over our competitors.”128 


 
In the FY 2014 presentation, Nidec gets us hyped about Haptic: 
 


																																																								
124 We understand some investors are excited about these sales. 
125 Source: Nidec investor relations. 
126 FY2003 20-F, p. 33. 
127 Masuo Yoshimatsu, Q1 2015 Call. 
128 FY2014 Call.
Page 37 of 53	


 
 
Nidec had even once guided to Haptic sales of over JPY 100 billion over the long-term.129  Yet, 
when pressed by an analyst on the FY 2014 call to explain the assumptions behind the JPY 100 
billion projection regarding the time needed to reach the goal and ASPs, Nidec’s CFO was 
unable to provide any details.130  On next call, Nidec management stated Haptic “applications are 
endless, and has a huge potential”.131  By the end of FY 2015 though, Haptic appears to have 
turned into a substantial disappointment.  In Q4 2015, Nidec impaired assets in Small Precision 
Motors, which appears to have been largely related to Haptic products.132 
 
Despite Nidec hyping product lines by pointing to secular trends and presenting hockey stick 
growth in presentations, these businesses are still subject to significant fluctuations.  Nidec 
Sankyo and its “robotics” business has previously suffered significant fluctuations in demand for 
its products.  On the Q3 2011 call, management expressed confidence in the future of Nidec 
Sankyo: 
 


Q: Do you think Sankyo can benefit a lot from Samsung's OLED investment? 
A: Yes of course, we do believe so. But we cannot talk about the details because the 
relationship we have with the customer. And it’s not possible to reveal our mutual secrets 
of course. But the reply we would like to give is that we are moving forward with our 
management activities with confidence.   
 


On the Q1 2014 call, we learn that Nidec Sankyo dragged down the machinery segment: 
 


Q: “And second question, this may be quite small question, but looking at the first quarter 
number, machinery sector's operating profit was down 14%.  Are you just concerned 
about this?  Or does this seem as something special factor?”  
A: “Okay, so you're asking quarter-to-quarter in machinery?”  


																																																								
129 See the exchange near the end of the FY 2014 call between Mr. Yoshimatsu and Benjamin Lu. 
130 See the exchange near the end of the FY 2014 call between Mr. Yoshimatsu and Benjamin Lu. 
131 Q1 2015 Call. 
132 FY 2015 Call.
Page 38 of 53	


Q: “Yes, this is actually year-on-year. And so I thought this is year-on-year comparison 
the machinery sector, operating profit of JPY 2.8 billion minus 14% year-on-year?”  
A: “Okay. So the largest factor of that decline is robot produced by Nidec Sankyo. So 
there is a fluctuation of demand, and this is just temporary decline, we think.” 


 
It’s Hard Not to Go Blind When Staring at “The Man Hotter than the Sun”: The Cult of 
Nagamori-san 
 
We could almost stop at this (read right to left):133 
 


 
 
“The Man Hotter Than the Sun” tells us that basically by saying inspiring things to employees, 
having them keep themselves and their desks clean, and occasionally eating lunch with them, 
Mr. Nagamori is able to turn around struggling companies.  While we understand this is a comic 
and is partly meant to entertain, it is propaganda that illustrates the efforts that have gone into 
shaping investors’ perceptions of Mr. Nagamori.  Through our conversations with sell-side 
analysts, reviews of earnings call transcripts, and analysis of Nidec’s valuation, we believe this 
effort has been largely successful.  We are happy to be the first analysts to publicly call bullshit 
on this myth of a nearly infallible CEO. 
 
To be clear, Mr. Nagamori is a very impressive businessperson.  He built Nidec into a massive 
company that dominated its niche of HDD motors.  Our issue is that we do not believe he is a 
great acquirer of other businesses – particularly outside of HDD – or that he is creating much 
value through diversification.  Much of this report discusses our view that Nidec actively 
misleads investors about its performance.  We understand that his management style has created 
an environment that can make it hard to attract and retain top talent.  One prominent example is 
that of former Nidec COO (and one-time potential successor to Nagamori) Bunsei Kure.  Messrs. 


																																																								
133 http://www.nidec.com/en-Global/corporate/about/message/comics/~//media/nidec-com/en-
global/corporate/about/message/comics/nagamori
Page 39 of 53	


Nagamori and Kure reportedly did not get along, and Mr. Kure left to become CEO of Renesas 
Electronics.134  (Nidec had tried to buy Renesas in 2015, but the sale was blocked by automotive 
companies that own stakes in Renesas.135) 
 
Perhaps as telling about the culture is who is still at Nidec.  In 2014, Nidec hired former Sharp 
president and executive chairman Mikio Katayama as Chief Technology Officer.136  Mr. 
Katayama is expected to be a leader at Nidec post-Nagamori.137  Neither his current, nor possible 
future, role should be reassuring to investors.  Below is the chart for Sharp during Mr. Katyama’s 
tenure as president / COO and then executive chairman.   
 





Another curious aspect of the Cult of Nagamori is his very recent public reversal on employee 
working conditions.  The comic (and numerous articles and interviews we have conducted) make 
clear that blood, sweat, and tears has been a significant part of the Nagamori / Nidec ethos.  An 
August 2016 Bloomberg article had the following to say:138 
 


“That doesn’t mean life at Nidec is easy. Even in a nation renowned for devoted workers, 
the company stands out for its demands on employees. Meetings, Nagamori says, are held 
on weekends or after regular tasks are done. New staff are sometimes told to clean toilets, 
and taking days off is seen as lazy. Nagamori makes no apologies.” 
  
“These days, if you tell people to put everything into their work, you’re soon dubbed a 
black company,” he says, referring to the Japanese term for firms that flout labor 
standards. “I have no problem saying that. If you don’t work, you lose. The only ones I 
can’t stand are layabouts.” 
  


																																																								
134 http://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Carmakers-behind-Renesas-choice-of-new-chief?page=1  
135 http://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Carmakers-behind-Renesas-choice-of-new-chief?page=1  
136 http://www.nidec.com/en-Global/corporate/about/board/katayama/  
137 http://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Nidec-to-tap-ex-Sharp-president-as-technology-chief  
138 http://www.bloombergquint.com/onweb/2016/08/11/the-eccentric-billionaire-who-ignores-investors-to-get-them-
rich
Page 40 of 53	


“Nagamori decries what he sees as a lack of ambition in Japan. Too many young people 
are content with only “small happiness,” like going home to their children in the evening 
rather than working late to become their company’s next president, he says.” 


 
Only two months later, Mr. Nagamori apparently completely changed his views on working 
conditions:139 


 
“But Nagamori spent much of Monday's press event explaining how Nidec is earning 
more by working shorter hours. ‘There are no more moretsu working for us,’ he said, 
using a buzzword once applied with admiration to corporate Japan's most die-hard 
workaholics.” 
 
“For a year, the company has urged employees to leave work on time. They cannot stay 
past their regular hours without obtaining permission from a supervisor that morning, and 
overtime is not approved for unnecessary tasks.” 
 
“Overtime was slashed 30% without affecting productivity. ‘Even if there is still work to 
be done, they tell us to go home when it's past time to punch out,’ a young research and 
development staffer said. ‘That has made us think hard about how to work more 
efficiently.’ 


 
Before Mr. Nagamori publicly changed his mind on working conditions, the impression that we 
got from conversations with sell-side analysts was that they felt the demanding culture was a 
positive for investors, and was another demonstration of Mr. Nagamori’s value.  The impression 
that we have received from the sell-side since Mr. Nagamori’s reversal is that he is once again 
doing something smart for investors.  To the extent our impressions are correct, this illustrates 
how unquestioning many investors have been of Mr. Nagamori – in our view, blindly accepting 
that his every move is a great one. 
 
There was at least one time that Mr. Nagamori was pretty cold, and the result raises significant 
corporate governance concerns.  In our opinion, Nidec effected a bailout of Mr. Nagamori.  In 
December 2008, Nidec made what appears to be a JPY 14.5 billion emergency loan to Mr. 
Nagamori (via an asset management company he indirectly owns).140  In early 2009, the board 
and auditor realized the loan was a violation of U.S. securities law.  Mr. Nagamori repaid the 
loan by selling Nidec shares – 87% of the shares were purchased by Nidec.141   
 
  


																																																								
139 http://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Cutback-in-overtime-drives-Nidec-to-record-result?page=2 
140 FY2008 20-F, p. 34. 
141 FY2008 20-F, p. 34.
Page 41 of 53	


Nidec’s Ex-HDD Valuation Approaches Facebook’s – this Does Not Make Sense 
 
We value Nidec’s shares at JPY 4,764 – less than half of the current price. 
 
We estimate that Nidec’s current share price presently implies an enterprise value of its non-
HDD businesses that is 21.5x LTM EBITDA.  Facebook Inc. (FB) trades at 24.9x EV / LTM 
EBITDA.  FB is growing organically at 35%+ per year.  In contrast, Nidec seems lucky to 
generate 5% organic growth in a given year.  We see many of Nidec’s products as 
commoditized. 
 
Our research indicates that approximately 40% of Nidec’s EBITDA, or JPY 74 billion, is derived 
from HDD motors.  Based on HDD comparables, we think Nidec’s HDD business should trade 
at 7.5x Enterprise Value (EV) / EBITDA or lower, a premium over its main competitor Minebea 
Co. Ltd. (6479 JP) and on the high end of the pure play HDD comparables.  This results in a JPY 
555 billion HDD motor segment valuation.  The HDD motor industry effectively consists of only 
Minebea and Nidec (approximately 20% share and 80% share respectively).142  TDK is another 
Japanese HDD supplier that trades at 6.5x EV/EBITDA and historically has traded at very low 
valuations.  HDD manufacturers Seagate and Western Digital trade at 7.6x to 5.8x EV / 
EBITDA, respectively.  HDD companies have historically traded at low valuations due to slower 
growth in PCs and technology obsolescence risks (see the chart below for historical EV/EBITDA 
multiples). However, Seagate has been able to perform better on the enterprise side and has 
historically been a better executor and thus the premium over Western Digital.  We give Nidec’s 
HDD business a slight valuation premium over Minebea, although their product lines and 
financial profiles are very similar (see comparable table below). 
 





																																																								
142 http://www.nidec.com/~/media/nidec-com/en-global/ir/library/earnings/2016/Q1_1; Slide 8. 


0


2


4


6


8


10


12


14


Jan-03-2011 Jan-03-2012 Jan-03-2013 Jan-03-2014 Jan-03-2015 Jan-03-2016


WDC, STX, Minebea, TDK EV/EBITDA


STX EV/EBITDA WDC EV/EBITDA Minebea EV/EBITDA TDK EV/EBITDA
Page 42 of 53	


*Capital IQ: Data was from Jan. 2011 to July 2016, prior to Western Digital’s acquisition of SanDisk, when pro 
forma financials changed due to the acquisition. 
 
Holding the HDD motor segment valuation constant at JPY 555 billion and taking into account 
Nidec’s remaining ex-HDD EBITDA of JPY 111 billion, Nidec’s ex-HDD implied valuation is 
21.5x EV/EBITDA – very close to that of Facebook.
Page 43 of 53	


Revaluing the non-HDD Business 
 
With a low single digit organic growth profile, we think the ex-HDD business needs to be 
revalued at lower multiples.  The Auto, Appliance, Industrial and Commercial (AACI) segment 
accounts for 37% of Nidec’s EBITDA and receives the highest valuation.  However, similar 
companies in the auto sector are growing revenues at 7% and trade in the 6.0x to 9.0x range (e.g. 
Denso, Continental, Visteon and Delphi) – not 21.5x.   
 
We believe the ex-HDD business should be revalued to 8.0x, which is still a premium to many of 
its peers in the AACI segment.  At an 8.0x valuation multiple, the non-HDD business valuation 
is JPY 888 billion, and when combined with the HDD business at 7.5x, our total estimate for 
enterprise value is JPY 1,420 billion or a combined EV/EBITDA multiple of 7.7x.  This implies 
a downside to the current stock price of over 50% or an implied share price of 4,764.  Given 
Nidec’s issues with accounting transparency, the stock could have even further downside.   
 


 
*Note the Combined Re-Valued Enterprise Value includes net cash position of Yen 22.7 billion
Page 44 of 53	





 
 
Comparables:
Page 45 of 53	


Japanese Comparables: 
	


	
 
Prescription for Transparency 
 
While Nidec’s share price has been increasing in recent years, in our opinion the company has 
materially reduced transparency.  We call upon Nidec to reverse its decision to no longer be 
subject to U.S. filing requirements.  We believe investors would be well-served by simple, 
consistent, and transparent segment and product group disclosures.  Most of all, we wish to see 
an attitude that respects investors’ rights to clearly see the company for what it is – the good and 
the bad.  Companies that successfully pump their stocks on the back of incomplete or misleading 
disclosures divert capital from companies that are more forthright, and thus harm markets, 
investors, and other companies. 
 
The most pressing issue is that Nidec is terminating its sponsorship of its U.S. ADSes, and will 
therefore cease filing financials in the U.S.143  We see this as a negative for both foreign and 
Japanese investors.  Nidec claims that its goals in listing its ADSes in 2001 have been fulfilled, 
																																																								
143 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1158967/000115896716000057/f160502noticeondelistingamer.htm
Page 46 of 53	


so it does not make sense for the company to continue to file.144  We do not think Nidec is being 
completely honest about its reasons.  We see the de-listing decision as Nidec quitting while it is 
ahead.   
 
The U.S. securities regulations – as imperfect as they are – in our opinion, mandate more 
disclosure than those of any other market.  Nidec has established itself as a core Japanese 
holding for international investors, and we suspect management feels that continuing to be 
subject to the increased transparency requirements of the U.S. would make it easier for investors 
to see Nidec’s problems and inconsistencies.  Nidec is larger than it has ever been, and the 
additional cost of maintaining U.S. reporting is inconsequential.  Cessation of U.S. reporting 
seems incongruent with maintaining investor relations representatives on three continents.145   
 
Even in its U.S. filings, Nidec’s reporting strikes us as unnecessarily confusing.  Some of the 
most critical elements for Nidec investors to know are the performance of the HDD and 
Automotive product groups.  It seems unnecessary and unhelpful to bundle Automotive with 
Appliance, Commercial, and Industrial motors.  (We also fail to see the relationship between 
Appliance on one hand, and Commercial and Industrial motors on the other.)  We believe 
investors would benefit if Nidec’s filings separately reported HDD, Other Small Precision 
Motors, Automotive, Appliances, Commercial and Industrial, Machinery, Electronic and Optical, 
and Other.  We further call upon Nidec to provide both organic (ex-currency fluctuations) and 
consolidated metrics for each of the aforementioned product groups.  The organic and 
consolidated product group metrics Nidec should provide investors include revenue, EBITDA, 
operating profit, pretax income, and net income.   
 
Nidec should make clear which entities (or portions of entities) report into which product group. 
While Nidec generally breaks out product group revenue and operating profits on calls and in 
presentations, it is unclear how these numbers are calculated.  As we discuss in this report, there 
are apparently businesses inside of entities (i.e., reporting segments) that can be grouped into 
product groups different from the product groups matching the entities’ primary businesses.  The 
lack of clarity about which entities contribute what revenue and operating profits to each product 
group gives rise to our suspicions that Nidec manipulates its product group disclosures. 
 
We call upon Nidec to disclose historical financial performance for every business it acquires, 
regroups, or reclassifies; and, to continue to provide such disclosure on for at least four quarters 
after the transaction.  This way, investors could better understand how these maneuvers affect 
reported performance.  
 
Nidec seems to use its All Others reporting segment in ways that could mislead investors.  For 
example, after Nidec acquired Elesys, Elesys sat inside All Others for two quarters before being 
transferred to Nidec Motors & Actuators.146  (It appears that when it was transferred out of All 
Others to Motors & Actuators, it was grouped with approximately JPY 20 billion in annual 
revenue from another business.  If we are correct about the bundling, it is also unclear whether 
that apparent additional business transfer suddenly boosted reported Automotive group results.   
																																																								
144 http://www.nidec.com/en-Global/corporate/news/2016/news0411-01/  
145 http://www.nidec.com/en-Global/ir/inquiry/  
146 FY2014 20-F, p. 63.
Page 47 of 53	


 
Entities with revenues totaling JPY 106 billion (in the year before they were reclassified) 
disappeared from segment reporting because they were moved into other segments.  This number 
represents 9.1% of FY 2015 total revenue pre-elimination.  Pre-reclassification revenue from 
entities moved into the All Others segment accounted for JPY 70.0 billion, showing the growing 
scope of All Others.  In FY 2015, All Others represented 15.0% of pre-elimination revenue, 
versus 11.5% in FY 2011.  All Others represented 22.4% (JPY 29.0 billion) of pre-elimination 
operating profit in FY 2015.  The incessant movement of entities into All Others (and 
occasionally out of the segment) strikes us as odd and unhelpful to investors.   
 
Nidec’s incessant reclassifications and restatements make it very difficult to compare its 
reporting segments from period to period.  For investors to access to S&P Capital IQ, the 
inordinate amount of changes to segment reporting can be seen by looking at quarterly segment 
reporting, and selecting All Filings (as opposed to only original or the latest filings).  We hope 
that Nidec will minimize its restatements and reclassifications going forward. 
 
The Nidec Corporation segment is also confusing, as it has significant inter-company sales 
(84.1% of its total); and manufactures products across multiple product groups.  This entity’s 
operating profit has increased from 10.0% of pre-elimination operating profit in FY 2011 to 
13.9% in FY 2015.   
 
We see Nidec as wanting to increasingly control investors’ perceptions of the company’s 
performance, rather than presenting unvarnished information.  This is unfortunate and 
unnecessary.  Mr. Nagamori has already cemented his position as one of Japan’s greatest 
industrialists.  He is an amazing executive, but he is not supernatural.  To us, Nidec seems 
unwilling to admit that is unable to replicate the success of its HDD business as it diversifies.  
We urge Nidec and Mr. Nagamori to become comfortable their impressive achievements, rather 
than continuing to voice unattainable targets and obfuscating the reality of Nidec’s 
diversification strategy.   
 
While an appropriate level of transparency would likely result in a much lower valuation, it 
would be a net benefit for Japan’s capital markets and economy.  Long-side activists help to 
make companies more worthy of capital investment.  Short-side activists help prevent companies 
from taking capital for inefficient uses.  Companies that have attracted more capital than they 
deserve starve other companies of capital, and harm investors.  Japan – and the world – therefore 
need both long-side and short-side activists.
Page 48 of 53	


Appendix A: Detail on Promotion and Missed Targets Detail 
 
Overall: 
 


• In 2009, Nidec predicted FY 2011 operating profit of JPY 100 billion.147  Reality turned 
out to be JPY 73 billion, a miss of 27%.148 


• In 2009, Nidec predicted FY 2012 sales of JPY 1,000 billion.149  Reality turned out to be 
JPY 709 billion, a miss of 29%.150 


• In 2010, Nidec predicted FY 2015 sales of JPY 2,000 billion.151  Reality turned out to be 
JPY 1,178 billion, a miss of 41%.152 


• In 2012, Nidec predicted that its organic growth CAGR from FY 2011 through FY 2015 
would be 11.4%.153  We calculate that the organic growth CAGR was 0.05%.154 


 
Automotive: 
 
Nidec recently published this slide that tells us Automotive is growing at a “faster pace than 
originally expected”! 
 


 
 
We question what management means by “originally expected”. 
 


																																																								
147 Q1 2009 Presentation, Slide 7. 
148 FY2011 20-F, p. 92. 
149 Q1 2009 Presentation, Slide 7. 
150 FY2012 20-F, p. 92. 
151 FY 2009 Presentation, Slide 17. 
152 FY2016 20-F, p. 92. 
153 H1 2012 Presentation, Slide 13 Data points extracted from Nidec graphic using Plot Digitizer, available from 
http://plotdigitizer.sourceforge.net/  
154 See Nidec’s Organic Growth Barely Exists for an explanation of our organic growth estimates.
Page 49 of 53	


• In 2008, Nidec predicted FY 2012 Automotive motor sales of JPY 350 billion.155  Reality 
turned out to be JPY 86.7 billion, a miss of 75%.156  


• In 2010, Nidec predicted FY 2015 Automotive motor sales of JPY 500 billion.157  Reality 
turned out to be JPY 271 billion, a miss of over 45%.158 


• In 2011, Nidec predicted that in FY 2012, it would sell 8.5 million electric power steering 
(“EPS”) units.159  Reality less than two years later turned out to be that Nidec sold 
approximately 7.6 million EPS units, a miss of approximately 10%.160 


• In 2012, Nidec predicted that in FY 2015, it would sell 20 million EPS units.161  Reality 
less than three years later turned out to be that Nidec sold approximately 11.7 million 
EPS units, a miss of approximately 42%.162  


• In 2012, Nidec predicted that in FY 2015, its EPS global market share would be 36%.163  
Reality less than three years later turned out to be market share of 23%.164 


 
Haptic: 
 


• In Q1 2015 Nidec predicted that its FY 2015 sales of Haptic motors would reach JPY 100 
billion.165   In Q4 2015, Nidec wrote-off a portion of its Haptic business.166 





																																																								
155 H1 2008 Presentation, Slide 35  
156 FY 2012 Presentation, Slide 15 
157 H1 2010 Presentation, Slide 11.  This slide shows sales FY 2015 sales predictions for its “4 Pillars” (JPY 500 
billion each).  It materially missed the predictions for every pillar.  Nidec re-published the slide in its FY 2012 
Presentation, slide 15 with far more conservative FY 2015 targets.  It still missed three of these targets by 
appreciable margins. 
158 FY 2015 Presentation, Slide 19 
159 Q1 2011 Presentation, Slide 9  
160 FY 2012 unit volume is calculated from disclosures on Q1 2016 Presentation, Slide 13. 
161 Q1 2012 Presentation, Slide 9 
162 FY 2012 unit volume is calculated from disclosures on Q1 2016 Presentation, Slide 13. 
163 http://www.nidec.com/~/media/nidec-com/en-global/ir/library/download/1025_2, Slide 12. 
164 Q1 2016 Presentation, Slide 13  
165 See the exchange near the end of the FY 2014 call between Mr. Yoshimatsu and Benjamin Lu. 
166 FY 2015 Call.
Page 50 of 53	


ACI: 
 
Nidec recently published this slide that tells us ACI is growing at a “faster ahead of plan”! 
 


 
 
We question which plan management is referencing. 
 


• In 2009, Nidec predicted that Nidec Techno Motor Holdings Corp. would achieve FY 
2012 sales of approximately JPY 70 billion.167,168  Reality turned out to be JPY 41 billion, 
a miss of over 40%.169  This result also represented roughly zero growth from FY 2008. 


• In 2010, Nidec predicted FY 2015 Industrial and Home Appliance motor sales of JPY 
500 billion.170  Reality turned out to be JPY 283 billion, a miss of over 43%.171  Nidec is 
now predicting JPY 400 billion to 600 billion in sales for FY 2020.172 


• In 2013, Nidec predicted Nidec Techno Motor sales would reach JPY 100 billion in FY 
2016.173  This appears highly unlikely, given that its FY 2015 sales were only JPY 63 
billion.174 


																																																								
167 FY 2008 Presentation, Slide 18  
168 Nidec Shibaura and Nidec Power Motor were merged into Nidec Techno Motor Holdings in 2011. 
169 Nidec 2012 20-F, p. 35. 
170 H1 2010 Presentation, Slide 11.  This slide shows sales FY 2015 sales predictions for its “4 Pillars” (JPY 500 
billion each).  It materially missed the predictions for every pillar.  Nidec re-published the slide in its FY 2012 
Presentation, slide 15 with far more conservative FY 2015 targets.  It still missed three of these targets by 
appreciable margins. 
171 FY 2015 Presentation, Slide 19. 
172 FY 2014 Presentation, Slide 29. 
173 Q1 2013 Presentation, Slide 14. 
174 Nidec FY 2015 20-F, p.31.
Page 51 of 53	


• In 2013, Nidec predicted FY 2015 ACI OP margin of 15%.175  Less than three years later, 
reality turned out to be only 8.0%.176 


 
HDD / Small Precision Motors: 
 


• In 2010, Nidec predicted HDD market demand would exceed one billion units in 2014.177  
Reality turned out to be 442 million units, a miss of over 55%.178 


• In 2010, Nidec predicted it would sell 882 million HDD units in FY 2015.179,180  Reality 
turned out to be 362 million units, a miss of 59%.181 


• In 2010, Nidec published a slide predicting HDD Density would average 40% annual 
growth over the long-term.182  In 2012, Nidec published the same slide, but with a 
prediction that HDD areal density would average annual growth over the long-term of 
only 20%.183 


• In 2010, Nidec predicted FY 2015 Small Precision motor sales of JPY 500 billion.184  
Reality turned out to be JPY 448 billion, a miss of over 10%.185 


• In 2013, Nidec predicted that HDD and other small motors would only represent 33% of 
its revenue in FY 2015.186  Less than three years later, reality turned out to be 38%.187 





																																																								
175 H1 2013 Presentation, Slide 18. 
176 FY 2015 Presentation, Slide 23 – data extracted from the slide shows sales of JPY 280 billion and operating 
profit of JPY 22.5 billion. 
177 FY 2009 Presentation, Slide 18. 
178 FY 2015 Presentation, Slide 13. 
179 FY 2009 Presentation, Slide 18. 
180 Data points extracted from Nidec graphic using Plot Digitizer, available from http://plotdigitizer.sourceforge.net/   
181 FY 2015 Presentation, Slide 13, sum of quarters: 87+99+96+80. 
182 Q1 2010 Presentation, Slide 9. 
183 FY 2011 Presentation, Slide 9. 
184 H1 2010 Presentation, Slide 11.  This slide shows sales FY 2015 sales predictions for its “4 Pillars” (JPY 500 
billion each).  It materially missed the predictions for every pillar.  Nidec re-published the slide in its FY  2012 
Presentation, slide 15 with far more conservative FY 2015 targets.  It still missed three of these targets by 
appreciable margins. 
185 FY 2015 Presentation, Slide 19. 
186 H1 2013 Presentation, Slide 15. 
187 FY 2015 Presentation, Slide 35.
Page 52 of 53	


• In 2013, Nidec predicted that CY 2020 HDD market demand will be 543 million units.188  
As of Q2 2016, Nidec now predicts CY 2020 HDD demand will be only 338 million 
units.189  In its latest presentation, Nidec comically highlights that it has upsized market 
size predictions from its previous prediction.190   








• In 2014, Nidec predicted that “Big Data” would lead to CY 2020 market demand for 
HDD for data center applications to be 91 million units.191  In its H1 2016 presentation, 
Nidec revised the forecast down to 72 million units.192 


 
Other: 
 


• In 2010, Nidec predicted FY 2015 Other sales of JPY 500 billion.193  Reality turned out 
to be JPY 176 billion, a miss of 65%.194 





																																																								
188 H1 2013 Presentation, Slide 24. 
189 Q2 2016 Presentation, Slide 19. 
190 Id. 
191 FY 2014 Presentation, Slide 19. 
192 H1 2016 Presentation, Slide 19.. 
193 H1 2010 Presentation, Slide 11.  This slide shows sales FY 2015 sales predictions for its “4 Pillars” (JPY 500 
billion each).  It materially missed the predictions for every pillar.  Nidec re-published the slide in its FY 2012 
Presentation, slide 15 with far more conservative FY 2015 targets.  It still missed three of these targets by 
appreciable margins. 
194 FY 2015 Presentation, Slide 19.
Page 53 of 53	


Appendix B: Inventory Reconciliation for FY 2012 Write-Offs 
	


  Q4 FY2012 
  JPY millions 
Beginning balances     106,178.0  
      Add:   
     Inventory balances from M&A   6,000.0  
      112,178.0  
    Add:   
   Unknown addition   10,948.0  
Ending balances    123,126.0  
    
    
   123,126.0  
    Less:   
    Write off    (23,300.0)   


Ending balances    99,826.0
