Muddy Waters Capital, LLC 


 info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research:  Carson C. Block, Esq.	
  








not communicate the contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these 
same terms of service. If you download or receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are 
binding your principal to these same Terms of Service.  
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters Capital LLC 
(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our 
clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, 
swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize 
significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities 
of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, or neutral 
at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any 
security to or from any person through this site or reports on this site. Muddy Waters Capital LLC is not registered as an 
investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an 
investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) 
Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO.  
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be 
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise 
owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without 
warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters Capital LLC makes no representation, express or 
implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 
obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC does not undertake to update 
or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.  
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information 
(whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by 
providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters 
Research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link 
and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your use of this report and / or the 
Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, 
without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and 
exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other 
jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters Capital LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters 
Capital LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this 
right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the 
parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the 
provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this 
governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or 
cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after 
such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. 


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 25
April 28, 2016 
 


Ströer: the Pile Gets Bigger 
 


 
Disclaimer: Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters”) is an investment advisor to a private fund. 
Muddy Waters has analyzed the German listed stock corporation Ströer SE Co. & KGaA (together with its 
predecessor legal entities, “Ströer”) and is hereby publishing the outcome and the conclusions of our analysis.  
The fund Muddy Waters manages is short in Ströer and for this reason there might be a conflict of interest.  
For brevity purposes, the below response is to selected portions of Ströer’s responses to our initial 21 April 
2016 report, and is based on publicly available information.  We do not concede to Ströer any of the points we 
made in the initial report. 
 
 
We are unimpressed with Ströer’s response to our initial report.  There seems to be a cottage 
industry that has grown up around responding to criticism from short activists.  Accordingly, 
Ströer leaves major issues unaddressed, which we presume is because it has no good answers.  
Further, certain of its response were highly misleading.   
 
This response to Ströer is 10 pages long, plus a 14-page appendix.  It covers the following topics: 
 


1. Historic Organic Growth Remains Overstated 
2. Whether Ströer Reports Q1 Organic Growth that Exceeds Guidance is Irrelevant 
3. Müller Misleads in Response to a Question on Self Dealing 
4. Ströer’s Operational EBITDA Justification Does Not Hold Water 
5. Ströer’s Response Strengthens Our Conviction that the Cash Flow Statement is Prepared 


Erroneously (and Misleadingly) 
6. Ströer Appears to Contradict Itself on freeXmedia, and Strengthened Our Conviction this 


was an Improper Transaction 
7. Müller Appears to have told an Untruth 
8. “Project Zero” and Alleged Ballroom Material Misstatements 
9. Ströer Confirmed that Public Video is Unusually Profitable; Yet it Offered No 


Explanation as to Why 
10. Müller and Ströer’s Moaning is Disingenuous 
11. Dirk Ströer’s Relationship to Sambara Stiftung / Müller’s Failure to Address His 


Irregular Series of Share Transactions 
12. Dirk Ströer’s Bizarre “Temporary Retirement” 
13. Former CIA Behavioral Analyst and Polygrapher Found Numerous Indicia of Deception 


in Ströer’s Call and Written Response 
 





1. Historic Organic Growth Remains Greatly Overstated 
 
Ströer’s attempt to rebut our organic growth calculations is nonsensical.  The company appears 
to have no counter argument.  We assume that if we erred, Ströer would have published an 
organic growth reconciliation.  Instead, management seems to want to gloss over the problem of 
its lack of organic growth by providing details that might be too technical for the average 


Page 2 of 25
investor (even professional) to follow.  We call upon Ströer to publish 2014 and 2015 
reconciliations for organic growth for both its Digital Segment and overall. 
 
Ströer wrongly claims that we didn’t give credit to the company for ~€12 million in FX 
movements in 2014. In fact, we gave the company credit for a total of €15.1 million in FX 
movements.  This is shown in our reconciliation on Page 7 of the report.   
 
Ströer’s comment about our not giving credit for the JVs is irrelevant and misleading.  The 
consolidated JVs contributed revenue of €12.5 million in 2014, and €14.0 million in 2015.  The 
€1.5 million revenue growth in the consolidated JVs equals 0.21% of reported 2014 revenue.  
This obviously does not come close to bridging the gap between Ströer’s declared organic 
growth and our calculation.1 
 
We have seen a sell side report that erroneously claims to reconcile to Ströer’s organic growth 
calculations.  We show the reconciliation from this report in Appendix B, and we explain the 
material errors in it.  We therefore remain unaware of anybody who can reconcile Ströer’s 
organic growth claims. 
 
In addition to the forgoing issues, we continue to firmly believe that the adjustments to Ströer’s 
calculation methodology we discussed in pp. 7 – 11 of our report are prudent and warranted.  
 


2. Whether Ströer Reports Q1 Organic Growth that Exceeds Guidance is Irrelevant 
 
It now seems absurd to discuss the company’s expectations for organic growth, given that it 
seems wholly incapable of (or uninterested in) calculating organic growth accurately.  Ströer 
might as well report Q1 organic growth of 1,000%. 
 


3. Müller Misleads in Response to a Question on Self Dealing 
 


As shown in the following exchange, Udo Müller was asked a straight forward question about 
whether Ströer had bought other assets from Media Ventures.  His answer seems straight forward 
as well.  However, as seems typical with Ströer management, this was a misleading answer.  In 
February 2015, Ströer acquired 65% of a company called Evidero GmbH.  Media Ventures had 
invested in Evidero in March 2014.   
 
Below is an excerpt from the transcript:2 
 


Marcus Diebel JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division 
 
Yes. Given the allegations regarding freeXmedia and maybe to avoid allegations in the 
future, is there a scenario that Ströer Media buys further assets potentially from Media 
Ventures going forward? And has there been another potential issue in the past with 


                                                             
1 We did not include JVs in our initial report reconciliation because we believe most companies do not include them 
in organic growth calculations, and Ströer did not disclose that it included the JVs in its calculations.  As explained 
above, JVs have an immaterial effect on Ströer’s organic growth rates. 
2 Source: S&P CapitalIQ 


Page 3 of 25
Ströer Media buying assets from Media Ventures? 
 
Udo Müller Co-Founder, Chairman of Management Board and Chief Executive Officer 
 
No. This was the only assets literally that's acquired from Media Ventures…  
 


Müller’s response was technically correct, although in our opinion it veered far from being 
forthright.  Media Ventures transferred its stake in Evidero to one of the co-founders, Thimo 
Wittich, in November 2014.  Ströer bought its stake from Mr. Wittich in February 2015.   
 
We would expect Mr. Müller to deny that the price Media Ventures received from Wittich was 
influenced by the price Wittich expected to receive from Ströer.  We just don’t think we would 
believe him. 
 
Below is a screenshot from the Media Ventures website showing its past investment in 
Evidero:3,4 
 





4. Ströer’s Operational EBITDA Justification Does Not Hold Water 
 
The company did not discuss the fact that its Operational EBITDA has benefitted each year from 
increasing amounts of non-segment expenses, and from purportedly exceptional expenses. 
 
The company stated that the ~€7 million in concession refunds that it booked into Operational 
EBITDA in 2014 is rightly classified because “As this kind of compensation payment arises 
                                                             
3 Accessed 28 April 2016 at 00:15 CET. 
4 See also http://www.wuv.de/digital/media_ventures_steigt_bei_neven_dumonts_evidero_ein 


Page 4 of 25
regularly and in a planned fashion given the structure of our advertising concessions, we do not 
classify them as extraordinary items.”5  Where are examples of other significant concession 
refunds?  We haven’t seen any in recent years.  We therefore think this statement is 
disingenuous. 
 


5. Ströer’s Response Strengthens Our Conviction that the Cash Flow Statement is 
Prepared Erroneously (and Misleadingly) 


 
The company’s response here is jaw-dropping.  The company states that its borrowings are short-
term, and therefore net presentation is appropriate.  While the company correctly states the 
accounting standard for short-term borrowings, it fails to acknowledge that a) the bulk of its 
borrowings are shown as non-current borrowings on its balance sheet, and these appear to be 
borrowings from its revolver, b) revolvers, unless extremely short-term in nature, are classified 
as long-term (so the company’s classification on its balance sheet is correct), and c) the reference 
to the three-month Euribor is a refence to the interest rate it pays – not to the tenor.  (This is a 
very, very misleading statement.) 
 
Ströer classifies the bulk of its borrowings as non-current borrowings.  For example, in Q2 2015, 
non-current financial liabilities increased by €37 million, while current financial liabilities 
increased by only €18 million.6  The cash received from borrowings according to the cash flow 
statement was €46 million.7  If we generously assume that the entire €18 million increase in 
current financial liabilities were borrowings, then at least €28 million of the €46 million in cash 
flow from borrowings was non-current.  Therefore, Ströer’s response that its year end cash flow 
statement presentation of borrowings on a net basis is proper because the borrowings are short-
term is contradicted by its own quarterly accounts.  We maintain our view that Ströer’s auditor 
erred in not apparently identifying this issue.	
 


6. Ströer Appears to Contradict Itself on freeXmedia, and Strengthened Our 
Conviction this was an Improper Transaction 


 
The company’s response on the conference call “The company executed the acquisition of Ströer 
Interactive Group, including freeXmedia and businessAD, with diligence in every respect. The 
board of management and supervisory board were fully aware of  the special aspects of the 
transaction in terms of the related party position of the seller and took these into account in a 
particularly sensitive manner. All legal and valuation issues were examined step by  
step by legal firms of international repute, and their legality and correctness were documented in 
expert opinions. The supervisory board was informed of every step taken by the board of 
management and received detailed written and oral reports from the advisers. The company filed 
special valuation reports with the commercial register in connection with the capital increase 
performed during the transaction and made this publicly available at an Extraordinary 
Shareholder Meeting of the company in March 2013.” 
 


                                                             
5 Conference call transcript. 
6 Ströer Q2 2015 Quarterly Report, p. 28. 
7 Ströer Q2 2015 Quarterly Report, p. 29. 


Page 5 of 25
Yet despite this purportedly very diligent process, the company did not ascribe any price to 
freeXmedia, despite agreeing to acquire it before Media Ventures could have integrated it into 
the other businesses.  If this is true that there was no discussion of the specific purchase price of 
freeXmedia (and the other companies), then a) it’s hard to believe there was real diligence 
exercised, and b) it doesn’t mean the company cannot now allocate values at least on a rough 
basis in order to reassure shareholders that Müller and Dirk Ströer didn’t unjustly enrich 
themselves.  The company should of course also release details of Media Ventures’s investment 
basis in the other companies. 
 


7. Müller Appears to have told an Untruth 
 
On the call, management stated “I mean we spend only EUR 2 million in conducting fees on 
lawyers and accountants in Ströer to make 100% sure that everything what we do in connection 
with this transaction is 100% compliant.”  


Ströer’s 2013 AR discloses only €329,000 in transaction costs.8  Was the disclosure inaccurate 
then, or is it inaccurate now?  Or is there any other reason for the difference between the two 
numbers? 
 


8. “Project Zero” and Alleged Ballroom Material Misstatements 
 
Ströer never denied that a) it found material misstatements in any of the Turkey subsidiaries in 
2014, b) it codenamed the investigation and / or aftermath “Project Zero”, or c) it reported the 
materially misstated numbers in its 2014 financials. It would be interesting if the company had to 
answer questions about these items in a public or on the record forum. 
 


9. Ströer Confirmed that Public Video is Unusually Profitable; Yet it Offered No 
Explanation as to Why 


 
The company seemed to ratify our understanding that the company has told investors that 
Infoscreen’s EBITDA margins approximate 50%.  The company also seemed to acknowledge 
that these margins are much higher than the rest of the industry.  However, the company did not 
address the fact that when it reclassified Public Video in 2015, it made it appear more profitable 
by transferring €5.5 million of Public Video expenses to non-segment expenses (without 
explanation).  Nor did the company provide any additional explanation for why it appears to 
possibly be the best Public Video operator in the history of the world.  


 
10. Müller and Ströer’s Moaning is Disingenuous  


 
Our jaws also dropped to the floor when we hear Udo Müller state on the conference call that 
one of our third party investigators had declined Ströer’s invitation to introduce him to Ströer 
employees.  We believe this complete misstatement and twisting of the facts is typical of 
management’s seemingly estranged relationship to the truth.   
 


                                                             
8 We are assuming that Ströer did not defer recognition of these transaction costs into 2014, which if it did, would 
raise other questions. 


Page 6 of 25
The fact is that Christian Schmalzl had emailed the investigator, and offered to give him a list of 
former employees with whom to speak.  The investigator accepted Schmalzl’s offer.  Schmalzl 
then rescinded the offer, writing that German privacy laws prohibited the company from making 
good on the offer.   
 
Schmalzl wrote that the investigator could instead ask Schmalzl to contact specific former 
employees who were non-responsive.  (We include the entire email exchange between Schmalzl 
and the investigator in Appendix A.)  We felt this was a thinly disguised attempt by Schmalzl to 
try to influence what interviewees would say, and so did not accept quasi-offer number two.   
 
As a corollary, at the beginning and end of the call, Mr. Müller moaned that we had not sought to 
contact Ströer.  However, during the Q&A, he implied that our vendors had attempted to speak 
with approximately 150 employees.  For those who are wondering, as we researched Ströer, we 
recognized patterns of deception and ethical lapses that caused us to have no trust in 
management.  That is why we chose not to attempt to speak with management directly. 
 
The email exchange in Appendix A also shows that Ströer was likely aware when it contacted 
our investigator that a) Muddy Waters was the client (our testimonial is on the vendor’s website), 
and b) that Ströer was aware we had spoken with its investor relations representative 
pseudonymously.  (Schmalzl’s email read in part “we have been at least in indirect contact with 
you[r] client already.”)  Therefore, Müller’s statement at the beginning of the call “At no time 
has Muddy Waters Capital attempted to make contact with Ströer, let alone held a telephone 
conversation or personal conversation with Ströer” appears to be a knowing falsehood. 
 


11. Dirk Ströer’s Relationship to Sambara Stiftung / Müller’s Failure to Address His 
Irregular Series of Share Transactions 


 
Ströer was surprisingly reticent about potential connections between Dirk Ströer and Sambara 
Stiftung, a trust established in Liechtenstein. Ströer only published Dirk Ströer's statement that 
"he did not control the Sambara Trust (Sambara Stiftung) at any time".  A Liechtenstein Stiftung 
does not issue voting rights and, hence, legally you cannot control it like a subsidiary.  Therefore, 
in our opinion the Ströer’s response does not provide sufficient transparency at this point.  Why 
didn’t Dirk Ströer take the chance and state that neither he nor any related party is entitled to the 
economic benefits of Sambara Stiftung?  Ströer rather danced around the issue while it still 
appears that (i) Dirk Ströer transferred 2.8 million shares in Ströer to Sambara Stiftung for zero 
compensation in May 2013 and (ii) Sambara Stiftung disposed of all of its shares on the very 
same date in November 2015 on which also Media Ventures and Green Towers Holding (owned 
by former Ströer executive Matthias Rumpelhardt) disposed of their shares or financial 
instruments.9,10 These circumstances alone should cause Ströer and its boards to scrutinize the 
accuracy of the voting right notifications it has received from its major shareholder. 
 
On a related matter, we note that neither Ströer nor Mr. Müller ever addressed the strange series 
of transactions involving the stock Media Ventures received in the freeXmedia transaction.  


                                                             
9 Rumpelhardt’s ownership is indirect via his ownership of Avalanche GmbH, which owns Dacapo 2 GmbH, which 
owns Green Towers Holding B.V.   
10 http://www.dacapo2.com/Seite8.html 


Page 7 of 25
There was no discussion of why Matthias Rumpelhardt, who is a former Ströer executive, 
received financial instruments overlying this stock; and, why Mr. Müller waited approximately 
two and one-half years to notify Ströer of this transaction. 
 


12. Dirk Ströer’s Bizarre "Temporary Retirement"  
 
Ströer announced that the retirement of Dirk Ströer from the supervisory board was intended all 
along to be temporary, and solely related to "appointment rights" of Deutsche Telekom AG.  
However, in its latest annual report the company did not describe Dirk Ströer's retirement from 
the supervisory board as "temporary".  We would have expected a German listed company like 
Ströer to immediately announce that a supervisory board member has resigned and provide the 
public and its shareholders with full transparency on the resignation. Furthermore, if these 
changes solely related to so-called appointment rights of Deutsche Telekom, why didn't the 
EGM in September 2015 resolved upon those changes or why did it not vote on enlarging the 
supervisory board so that both Dirk Ströer and the Telekom appointee could be a member of the 
board?  
 
The transformation report also solely states that it was agreed that Deutsche Telekom would be 
represented in the Supervisory Board of Ströer SE & Co. KGaA for one term.  Nothing is said 
about a representation in the board of Ströer SE, nothing is said about "appointment rights" (it 
should be noted that neither Ströer SE & Co. KGaA’s articles as of today nor Ströer SE’s 
previous articles provided for "appointment rights"). Good corporate governance looks different 
in our eyes. We are also amazed about the fact that the composition of the current supervisory 
board differs from the voting results of the EGM in 2015 without finding relevant publications of 
Ströer that would explain the reasons. 
 
In addition, it should be worth for Ströer to scrutinize whether the "temporary retirement" of 
Dirk Ströer might relate to the massive disposal of shares of Ströer's insiders in fall 2015 and the 
late notifications of by then undisclosed insider deals in 2013.  Dirk Ströer resigned on 
November 2, a replacement candidate was appointed by court on November 12 and on 
November 20 these insider deals took place and were disclosed soon afterwards. With his 
resignation just a couple of days prior to these dealings he at least prevented them from being 
published in the company register – including inter alia the price – and notified to BaFin. He 
might also have circumvented a potential obligation as a board member to explain these dealings 
and / or the late notification in detail to the company. 


 
13. Former CIA Behavioral Analyst and Polygrapher Found Numerous Indicia of 


Deception in Ströer’s Call and Written Response 
 
We engaged a former CIA behavioral analyst and polygrapher to analyze Ströer’s written 
response and the transcript of the call.  He found numerous indicia of deception.  Below are three 
excerpts from his report.  The entire report is in Appendix C.   
 


A.  Udo Müller – Ströer SE 
 Third-party reviews, we are more than happy to do that. So we're more than happy to do 
that, so if there's really demand for a third-party review of what we're saying today, we're 


Page 8 of 25
absolutely willing to do that, yes. We have nothing to hide. And we are totally transparent 
and would be more than happy to answer every question and give other people also the 
opportunity to prove that whatever we say is 100% correct. You know what, let me add 
here one thing: There was -- I mean there's -- obviously, there was also here the idea that 
we created this story to push the stock because we sold stock and after 20 years or at the 
very end of last year. I mean -- and take into the account that, after that, the stock 
actually goes down. I mean, if you really -- I mean, obviously somebody just didn't 
understand what is a Germany family-owned business. Because if you have 80% of your 
wealth in the company, you must be the most stupid investor on the world if you -- and 
the company because you sell 20% of your stock. I mean this is really ridiculous. I mean, 
if I want to push the stock or whether I want to say something and take -- and tell people 
bull**** then take the [indiscernible], then I'd sell all of my stocks but not 20% on [ph] 
80%. And so that's -- it's really ridiculous 
 
Müller’s declaration that “We have nothing to hide” and “we are totally transparent” are 
two classic convincing statements (1) and non-specific denials (2). A non-specific denial 
is when someone makes a statement meant to serve as a denial of wrong-doing, but is 
broader than the specific allegation. For example, if one was accused of stealing a 
hammer from a hardware store, and when asked if he stole it responded “I didn’t do 
anything wrong”, you would be right to follow up with “But did you steal the hammer?” 
It should be noted that at no point in this call does a single member of the Ströer SE 
management team ever specifically deny a single allegation. Instead, they routinely 
implore us to trust them, their lawyers, and their board. We are told to just “talk to us”, 
and “if you want information, surely you will get it from us”. These statements side step 
the obvious concern that the information they provide is not reliable. Müller’s comment 
captures it best when he states, “I mean I never understand the concept where somebody 
who wants to find something out about you doesn’t want to talk to you about it.”  
 
Finally, the entire second part of Müller’s above response is a theme (3). Themes are not 
denials, but are a story designed to convince the listener that the allegations don’t make 
sense or could never apply to them. Some themes appeal to emotion, others to logic, and 
others to sentimentality. Müller’s theme is essentially saying “Why would I try to 
manipulate the stock of a company I have 80% of my wealth in?” I can think of a few 
reasons.  
 
B.  (Recall Evidero, discussed infra in #3) 
 
Marcus Diebel – JP Morgan Chase 
Have you purchased any further assets from Media Ventures in the past and do you plan 
to do it again in the future? 
 
Udo Müller – Ströer SE 
No. This was the only assets literally that's acquired from Media Ventures. And for sure, 
we're not going to do that in the future again. As I must underline again, I mean, our first 
step in Digital was clearly our sales house and because this was very close to our sales 
house activities already out of home. So the only independent sales house was actually 


Page 9 of 25
the one from Media Ventures because all the other sales houses are related to 
[indiscernible], so there was additional decision, "take it or leave it." And this would 
have at the end reside [ph] that we cannot enter really in digital space. So I understand 
that people were in -- I mean this is now 4 years ago, I must say, and we've probably 
discussed it 150 times, and it happened. But I mean, at the end, it was the right decision 
for everybody. And you can be sure -- I mean we spend only EUR 2 million in conducting 
fees on lawyers and accountants in Ströer to make 100% sure that everything what we do 
in connection with this transaction is 100% compliant. 
 
Müller’s initial response is clear and definitive, but soon ventures into justification for the 
transaction. Is it true that Ströer would never have another opportunity to enter the digital 
space unless it made this deal with Media Ventures? That seems unlikely, but creating 
that impression is beneficial for one who wishes to justify the transaction as a once-in-a-
life time opportunity. Müller’s repetitive use of the phrase “I mean” also stands out (1). 
This kind of phraseology is used when one wishes to convey that they had no choice in 
the matter or that anyone would have done the same thing in their shoes. It is similar to 
the use of the word “Well,” at the start of an answer. For example, if someone asked “Did 
you rob that bank?”, and the answer begins with “Well….” It really doesn’t matter what 
comes next. There is simply no reason for the truthful person to use those kinds of 
caveats. In isolation this usage would not be a significant indicator, but it is used three 
times in a narrow window, and is paired with the following Convincing Statements (2). 
The suggestion that the transaction was “the right decision for everybody” is a 
justification more than a fact. It further side-steps the underling spirit of the question, 
which is: Was it an ethical transaction? To cover the implication of the question without 
directly answering it Müller points Diebel to their legal process. This is an aversion 
designed to convince us of the legitimacy of his actions. It is also curious that if the 
transaction was “100% compliant” and “right…for everybody”, than why so adamant that 
“we’re not going to do that in the future again”?  
 
C.  (Regarding the written response) 
 
The following headlines are used by Ströer SE throughout their rebuttal: 
 


1) This claim by Muddy Waters Capital is incorrect! 
2) This adjustment by Muddy Waters Capital is incorrect! 
3) The entire claims regarding insider trading made by Muddy Waters Capital in this 


context are completely unfounded, slanderous and the conclusions Muddy Waters 
Capital comes to on the basis of these claims are downright wrong! 


4) This assertion by Muddy Waters Capital is tendentious and incorrect! 
5) This assertion by Muddy Waters Capital is wrong in its substance and intended 


implications! The implied assertion by Muddy Waters Capital that our guidance 
relating to the profitability of this product group is questionable is grossly 
incorrect! 
 


The collection of these statements are attacking statements (1) designed to re-direct the 
accusation back at the accuser. It should be noted that they all conspicuously contain an 


Page 10 of 25
exclamation mark (!) at the end, which is intended to convey conviction and moral 
outrage. Deceptive persons often respond with moral outrage and bewilderment when 
confronted with an accusation of wrong-doing. This reaction is meant to convince the 
observer that they couldn’t be guilty of the alleged actions. They also constitute a non-
specific denial (2), the most common of which is the phrase “I would never do something 
like that!”.  Collectively, these statements are designed to sell the idea that Stroër’s 
management “would never do something like that.” You will note that #3 and #5 are 
different than the others. It is my view that #3 in particular is the allegation Stroër SE is 
most concerned with. 





Page 11 of 25
Appendix A 
Christian Schmalzl Email Exchange 


 
From:	Schmalzl	Christian	<[redacted]@stroeer.de>	
Date:	Mon,	Apr	4,	2016	at	7:04	PM	
Subject:	Research	Support	für	Ströer	
To:	[redacted]@quinlanpartners.com	
	
	
Hi	[redacted],	
		
I	hope	this	finds	you	well.	I	was	wondering	if	there	is	anything	I	could	help	you	with.	I	am	constantly	getting	a	lot	of	
requests	from	former	employees	that	you	want	to	talk	to	–	and	all	of	them	are	struggling	with	the	way	you	
approach	them.	And	even	more	important:	it	costs	me	a	lot	of	time	and	effort	to	manage	their	questions	back	to	
me.	
		
So	maybe	I	could	support	you	directly	and	help	you	in	getting	what	you	are	looking	for	(when	I	know	what	you	are	
looking	for).	I	am	absolutely	convinced	that	both	of	us	could	save	a	lot	of	time.	
		
Two	concrete	ideas	to	support	you	from	our	side:	
·         Please	find	attached	an	invitation	to	our	Capital	Markets	Day	on	April	29th	in	London	(venue	details	on	page	
2)	–	we	want	to	avoid	that	you	are	collecting	information	that	is	a	bit	outdated	and	our	event	will	provide	the	
latest	news	and	numbers	for	Ströer.	
·         I	could	also	try	to	put	together	a	list	of	former	employees	that	are	open	for	an	interview	with	you	and	you	
could	randomly	chose	the	ones	you	want	to	approach;	and	I	would	make	sure	that	you	get	some	time	with	them	
and	they	are	open	for	questions.	Thus	we	would	ensure	highest	standards	for	your	research	sample.	And	it	would	
definitely	cost	me	less	time	to	help	you	talking	to	the	right	and	interested	ones	then	managing	the	irritated	
requests	from	all	the	other	ones	that	you	currently	try	to	talk	to.	
		
Hope	to	seeing	you	soon	and	London	and	always	happy	to	help!	
		
All	the	best,	Christian	
		
		
Christian Schmalzl	
Chief Operating Officer	
		
--- media for mobile people ---   Ströer SE & Co. KGaA	
Headquarter	
Ströer-Allee 1 . 50999 Cologne	
Tel. +49 2236 9645-[redacted] . E-Mail: [redacted]@stroeer.de	
www.stroeer.com	
 	
Board of Management: Udo Müller (CEO) . Christian Schmalzl (COO) . Dr. Bernd Metzner 
(CFO)  Supervisory Board: Prof. Dr. h.c Dieter Stolte (Chairman)   Trade Register: District Court Cologne 
. HRB 82548	
 	
	
	
		
Von:	Paul	Quinlan	[mailto:paul@quinlanpartners.com]	 	
Gesendet:	Donnerstag,	7.	April	2016	15:32 	
An:	Schmalzl	Christian	<[redacted]@stroeer.de> 	


Page 12 of 25
Betreff:	Follow-up	re:	Research	Support	für	Ströer	
		
Hi	Christian,	
		
My	colleague	[redacted]	forwarded	me	your	email.	Thank	you	for	reaching	out	and	for	your	willingness	to	assist.	
		
To	help	you	understand	what	we	are	doing,	we	have	a	client,	an	investment	firm,	who	has	engaged	us	to	perform	
pre-investment	due	diligence	on	Stroer.	As	part	of	that	process,	we	typically	conduct	interviews	with	a	broad	range	
of	former	employees	to	better	understand	all	aspects	of	the	business	and	its	management.	
		
As	you	know,	this	is	standard	qualitative	due	diligence	that	investors	perform	on	public	companies	every	day.	I	do,	
however,	apologize	for	any	inconvenience	that	these	interviews	may	have	caused	you.	
		
We	would	be	interested	in	a	list	of	former	employees	that	we	could	speak	with	if	you	would	be	willing	to	provide	
one	and	if	it	is	not	too	much	of	an	added	inconvenience.	This	would	make	our	job	a	bit	easier	and	hopefully	cut	
down	on	the	inquiries	you're	receiving	from	others	who	we	are	reaching	out	to.	
		
We	have	also	passed	along	your	invitation	to	the	Capital	Markets	Day.	Although	it	would	not	be	our	role	to	attend	
this	event,	I	am	sure	our	client	would	be	interested	in	doing	so,	if	they	were	not	planning	to	already.	
		
Thank	you	again	for	reaching	out	and	for	your	assistance.	
		
Best	regards,	
Paul	
		
--	
Paul	Quinlan	
Quinlan	Partners	
office:	[redacted]|	mobile:	[redacted]	
paul@quinlanpartners.com	
	
 
 
 
 
	
----------	Forwarded	message	----------	
From:	Schmalzl	Christian	<[redacted]@stroeer.de>	
Date:	Mon,	Apr	11,	2016	at	8:57	AM	
Subject:	AW:	Follow-up	re:	Research	Support	für	Ströer	
To:	Paul	Quinlan	<paul@quinlanpartners.com>	
	
	
Hi	Paul,	thanks	for	your	feedback	–	we	have	been	at	least	in	indirect	contact	with	you	client	already.	
		
I	have	spoken	to	our	legal	and	HR	department;	it’s	actually	tricky	to	provide	any	employee	details	without	approval	
from	the	employees	and	German	law	is	quite	strict	here.	
I	guess	the	easiest	way	is	that	you	let	us	know	when	you	struggle	with	getting	enough	feedback	from	former	
employees	and	we	can	pro-actively	support	you.	Or	you	give	us	the	list	of	people	you	want	to	talk	to	and	we	can	
help	arranging	the	interviews.	
		
All	the	best,	Christian	
	 	


Page 13 of 25
Appendix B 
Flawed Analyst Attempt to Reconcile to Ströer’s Stated Organic Growth 








The sell-side analyst table reconciles to Ströer’s claimed 2014 and 2015 organic growth 
numbers; however, the reconciliation above is incorrect.  We call upon Ströer to publish its own 
reconciliation for the Digital Segment and overall. 
 
2014 
 
The first step to determining 2014 organic growth is to calculate the comparable revenue base for 
2013.  In 2013, Ströer was fairly acquisitive, so its 2013 reported revenue included only stub 
years for the acquired companies.  Per the organic growth formula Ströer used in 2014, we need 
to add back the pre-acquisition revenue for the companies acquired in 2013 to calculate the 2013 
comparable base.  That makes sense because 2014 reported revenue includes a full year 
contribution from the companies acquired in 2013. 
 
The pre-acquisition revenue was €56.1 million.  This can be found in the 2013 AR by looking at 
the table on Page 107, which states that had all 2013 acquisitions been consolidated as of 1 
January, 2013, then the reported revenue would have been €678.1 million.  To find the pre-
acquisition revenue, we subtract the reported revenue of €622.0 million from €678.1 million, 
which equals €56.1 million.   
 
The major problem with the 2014 organic growth analyst reconciliation above is that the analyst 
doesn’t add any 2013 pre-acquisition revenue back to the 2013 base.  Therefore, it makes organic 
growth seem much higher.  (Note that in the 2015 reconciliation, the analyst does add the 2014 
pre-acquisition revenue of €39.3 million to the base – this adjustment is labeled “Pro-Forma 
Inorganic 2014”.) 
 
The analyst’s currency adjustment of only €12.1 million is not as favorable to Ströer as our 
currency adjustment of €15.1 million.  We made the adjustment by subtracting it from the 2013 
base, rather than adding it to 2014. Subtracting from the base is more favorable to Ströer.   
 
The “Plus Inorganic” line does not make sense to us – we are unsure what it represents, and why 
it would be added in 2014, as it seems closest to being an attempt to account for the 2013 pre-


Page 14 of 25
acquisition revenue (albeit the number would be wrong).  The line “Plus Organic” of €72 million 
seems to be a formula that is attempting to bridge the gap from the understated 2013 comparable 
base to reported 2014 revenue.  We are unable to find the €72 million number disclosed 
anywhere.   
 
It’s a small point, but the “2014 comparable revenues” should be reduced by €2.4 million to 
account for revenue contributed by acquisitions made in 2014.  The analyst table above is a little 
confusing, but to get to 2014 comparable revenue, we start with reported 2014 revenue of €721.2 
million.  We then add back the IFRS 2014 adjustment of €12.5 million.  Then we subtract the 
aforementioned €2.4 million to reach 2014 comparable revenue of €731.3 million.   
 
Dropping the corrected numbers and formula into the above table yields 2014 organic growth of 
only 8.7% (2014 comparable revenues of €731.3 / 2013 comparable base of €672.6 million - 1).  
Ströer claims to have generated organic growth in 2014 11.4%, which is a number that we 
continue to believe has no basis in reality.  


 
2015 
 
The analyst only made one material error in attempting to reconcile 2015 organic growth, and it 
was a repeat of one of the 2014 errors.  He did not add 2014 pre-acquisition revenue of €8.8 
million to the 2014 comparable revenue base. Making that addition would have lowered his 
organic growth calculation to 8.53%, versus Ströer’s claimed 9.8%.11  (Note that our 
methodology of subtracting the €3.0 million FX adjustment from the 2014 revenue base would 
be favorable to Ströer by three basis points.) 
 
It appears to us that Ströer’s organic growth claims have no basis in reality.  
  


                                                             
11 The “Plus Organic” line €74.9 million also appears to be a formula attempting to bridge the gap from the 
understated 2014 comparable base to reported 2015 revenue.   


Page 15 of 25
Appendix C 


Behavioral Analysis of Ströer and Management Responses Muddy Waters’s Initial Report 
 


CREDIBILITY ASSESSMENT of STRÖER SE 
Analysis by: a former United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) polygrapher 


23 April 2016 
 
This analysis, which includes a collection of Ströer SE’s earnings/sales calls and press releases, 
reveals multiple clusters of behaviors associated with deception. Below are the portions of these 
transcripts that demonstrate the greatest concentration of such indicators. This analytical 
commentary may provide context for the questions and answers as well as descriptions of the 
deceptive behaviors identified. Each indicator will be identified with a number in brackets (1) 
indicating its place in the cluster. As a general rule, the greater the concentration of indicators 
clustered within a response-onset-window, the higher the probability of deception.  For the sake 
of length we have in some places condensed or paraphrased the questions posed by the analysts. 
In other places, where it is more beneficial, we have included full transcription. 
The conclusions reached in this analysis are the independent opinions of [a former CIA 
polygrapher] and in no way or part constitute a buy or sell recommendation of the underlying 
security. Be advised that the deception detection protocol is not fool-proof, and errors and 
omissions may be contained herein. 
Section I: Q & A from Special Call conducted Friday, April 22, 2016 1:00 PM GMT 
Marcus Diebel – JP Morgan Chase 
Have you purchased any further assets from Media Ventures in the past and do you plan to do it 
again in the future? 
Udo Müller – Ströer SE 
No. This was the only assets literally that's acquired from Media Ventures. And for sure, we're 
not going to do that in the future again. As I must underline again, I mean, our first step in 
Digital was clearly our sales house and because this was very close to our sales house activities 
already out of home. So the only independent sales house was actually the one from Media 
Ventures because all the other sales houses are related to [indiscernible], so there was 
additional decision, "take it or leave it." And this would have at the end reside [ph] that we 
cannot enter really in digital space. So I understand that people were in -- I mean this is now 4 
years ago, I must say, and we've probably discussed it 150 times, and it happened. But I mean, at 
the end, it was the right decision for everybody. And you can be sure -- I mean we spend only 
EUR 2 million in conducting fees on lawyers and accountants in Ströer to make 100% sure that 
everything what we do in connection with this transaction is 100% compliant. 
Müller’s initial response is clear and definitive, but soon ventures into justification for the 
transaction. Is it true that Ströer would never have another opportunity to enter the digital space 
unless it made this deal with Media Ventures? That seems unlikely, but creating that impression 
is beneficial for one who wishes to justify the transaction as a once-in-a-life time opportunity. 
Müller’s repetitive use of the phrase “I mean” also stands out (1). This kind of phraseology is 
used when one wishes to convey that they had no choice in the matter or that anyone would have 
done the same thing in their shoes. It is similar to the use of the word “Well,” at the start of an 
answer. For example, if someone asked “Did you rob that bank?”, and the answer begins with 
“Well….” It really doesn’t matter what comes next. There is simply no reason for the truthful 


Page 16 of 25
person to use those kinds of caveats. In isolation this usage would not be a significant indicator, 
but it is used three times in a narrow window, and is paired with the following Convincing 
Statements (2). The suggestion that the transaction was “the right decision for everybody” is a 
justification more than a fact. It further side-steps the underling spirit of the question, which is: 
Was it an ethical transaction? To cover the implication of the question without directly 
answering it Müller points Diebel to their legal process. This is an aversion designed to convince 
us of the legitimacy of his actions. It is also curious that if the transaction was “100% compliant” 
and “right…for everybody”, than why so adamant that “we’re not going to do that in the future 
again”?  
 
Lisa Hau – Jefferies LLC 
Secondly, just on acquisitions made recently in social networks, data and analytics, can you 
please explain the market growth of each?  
Unknown Executive – Ströer SE 
Maybe rounding this up and coming a little bit back to your second question, how the most 
recent acquisitions fits into that structure, and maybe I'll try to give you 2 or 3 examples and 
linking it just back to what Udo said. Ströer Digital, for example, clearly fits into that vertical of 
news and services. It's extremely fast-growing subscription business where we can also collect 
and leverage a lot of data for our [indiscernible] business; and connects us with the content 
businesses, the publishing businesses that we have within the news and services area already. It's 
acquired, for instance, also StayFriends. I would also say community and subscription business 
within the services area, highly profitable, and we got it for a really reasonable price. So it fits 
into the news and services bucket; and improves both data, traffic and profitability in that area 
as well. A third example will be, for instance, BodyChange, subscription and e-commerce 
business within that weight management area which fits very nicely into our women vertical, 
where we can leverage the traffic that we have on our female-oriented publishing websites and 
convert that into subscription revenues or also e-commerce. 
Hau’s question is essentially: Can you explain the market growth of each acquisition made 
recently in social networks, data and analytics? Market growth is the Subject of the question. At 
no point in the above reply does Unknown Executive answer this question. This is considered a 
Non-Answer (1) and is evasive. Unknown Executive also re-frames the question (2), by pointing 
his answer to how the new acquisitions fit into their structure, avoiding the central topic of 
growth. A deceptive person will attempt to re-frame the conversation into a direction that is 
advantageous to them, steering it away from topics or facts they do not wish to discuss. This is 
especially noteworthy considering the backdrop of Muddy Waters (MWC) suggestion that 
organic growth has been misrepresented. Additionally, Unknown Executive engages a tactic long 
used by politicians, which is to hide the lie (3).  This is when an individual provides a lot of facts 
and information in reply to a question, but the response does not actually contain an answer to 
the question. The purpose of such a response is to make one think they’ve been given an answer, 
when in fact they’ve been given nothing.   
 
Lisa Hau – Jefferies LLC 
And also if you could confirm your growth guidance for Digital without acquisitions? 
Unknown Executive – Ströer SE 
And to take your third question up, Lisa, growth guidance for Digital. And as mentioned the last 
time already, there's nothing changed. We said we will grow at 10% for the full year 2016, and 


Page 17 of 25
the first quarter is confirming this. And the second thing was -- that Udo has guided and has also 
confirmed, that the profitability of 25% to 30%, because in the end, we want to balance growth 
and margin, in the end of the day. And that's the logic how we want to approach 2016. 
First, Unknown Executive re-frames the question (1) by strategically omitting the most pivotal 
portion of her question – without acquisitions. This is the crux of the matter given the MWC 
allegations and the very purpose behind the call. He further employs a referral statement (2), 
pointing her back to previously made statements concerning guidance for Digital. A referral 
statement is employed when one does not want to provide more information than they have 
previously given. In essence, they are hiding behind their first answer. Interestingly, if the first 
answer were adequate and left no doubt, then they would not be asked for more information.  
 
Catherine T. O’Neill – Citigroup, Inc 
On the supervisory board, of the 12, how many are going to be sort of properly independent? 
Udo Müller – Ströer SE 
Okay, from the 12 supervisory board members, it's -- 2 are coming from the main shareholders, 
so Dirk Ströer and my wife. So the other, 6 from the 10 are employees; are representative of the 
Gewerkschaften, labor unions, yes. And 2 are from Deutsche Telekom. And 1, [indiscernible], is 
from a local German -- local Cologne bank; and... 
Unknown Executive – Ströer SE 
Lawyer. 
Udo Müller – Ströer SE 
And 1 lawyer, yes. 
Unknown Executive – Ströer SE 
Christoph Vilanek. 
Udo Müller – Ströer SE 
And Christoph Vilanek, okay? All right. And so they have -- 2 from the 12 are representing the 2 
founding shareholder families. 
At no point is the issue of proper independence addressed by either Müller of Unknown 
Executive. This is a non-answer (1) and is evasive. Again, given the backdrop of MWR’s 
allegations about the Board and the appearance of unfair influence, rapid turnover and or rubber-
stamping, the issue of independence and fairness is critical for shareholders. It also appears to be 
a topic Müller and Unknown Executive do not want to discuss. For this reason it is noteworthy 
that Udo Müller returns to this topic after Unknown Executive has already moved on to discuss 
the relationship with Media Ventures. 
Udo Müller – Ströer SE 
And let me add one thing, Catherine. I mean I always see it as advantage for a company like 
Ströer that they have representation of the founding families in the supervisory board. 80% of -- 
at least 80% of the [indiscernible] -- of the value of the families are inside the stock of the 
company. So it's I think, for every shareholder, the best insurance that the founding families and 
their representatives in supervisory board will do everything to drive a sustainable value 
development for future generations.  
While it is generally true that a shareholder would prefer management with skin in the game, it is 
also true that Owners who have a lot to lose are thereby provided with motive for malfeasance 
should the company underperform or experience turbulence. Additionally, recall that O’Neill’s 
question pertained to proper independence, which has yet to be addressed.  
Udo Müller – Ströer SE 


Page 18 of 25
So that's, I think, should be positively seen by everybody because, I mean, independent, a lot of -- 
not independent -- at the end of the question [ph], if everything goes compliant and the stock is 
developing, imagine here. We have 100% alignment between the shareholders and the interests 
of the founding families. I think this --it can only be seen as an advantage for everybody. But 
again, it's 2 from 12. 
Finally, Müller utters the word “independent”, albeit in an incoherent statement (1) containing 
multiple stop-and-start (2) points. A stop-and-start point occurs when the speaker is headed in 
one direction, but quickly changes course to avoid saying that was on the tip of their tongue. The 
overall point he is making is that as long as “everything goes compliant and the stock is 
developing”, then no one should really care about the proper independence of the Board.  
Udo Müller – Ströer SE 
 Third-party reviews, we are more than happy to do that. So we're more than happy to do that, so 
if there's really demand for a third-party review of what we're saying today, we're absolutely 
willing to do that, yes. We have nothing to hide. And we are totally transparent and would be 
more than happy to answer every question and give other people also the opportunity to prove 
that whatever we say is 100% correct. You know what, let me add here one thing: There was -- I 
mean there's -- obviously, there was also here the idea that we created this story to push the 
stock because we sold stock and after 20 years or at the very end of last year. I mean -- and take 
into the account that, after that, the stock actually goes down. I mean, if you really -- I mean, 
obviously somebody just didn't understand what is a Germany family-owned business. Because if 
you have 80% of your wealth in the company, you must be the most stupid investor on the world 
if you -- and the company because you sell 20% of your stock. I mean this is really ridiculous. I 
mean, if I want to push the stock or whether I want to say something and take -- and tell people 
bull**** then take the [indiscernible], then I'd sell all of my stocks but not 20% on [ph] 80%. 
And so that's -- it's really ridiculous 
Müller’s declaration that “We have nothing to hide” and “we are totally transparent” are two 
classic convincing statements (1) and non-specific denials (2). A non-specific denial is when 
someone makes a statement meant to serve as a denial of wrong-doing, but is broader than the 
specific allegation. For example, if one was accused of stealing a hammer from a hardware store, 
and when asked if he stole it responded “I didn’t do anything wrong”, you would be right to 
follow up with “But did you steal the hammer?” It should be noted that at no point in this call 
does a single member of the Ströer SE management team ever specifically deny a single 
allegation. Instead, they routinely implore us to trust them, their lawyers, and their board. We are 
told to just “talk to us”, and “if you want information, surely you will get it from us”. These 
statements side step the obvious concern that the information they provide is not reliable. 
Müller’s comment captures it best when he states, “I mean I never understand the concept where 
somebody who wants to find something out about you doesn’t want to talk to you about it.”  
Finally, the entire second part of Müller’s above response is a theme (3). Themes are not denials, 
but are a story designed to convince the listener that the allegations don’t make sense or could 
never apply to them. Some themes appeal to emotion, others to logic, and others to 
sentimentality. Müller’s theme is essentially saying “Why would I try to manipulate the stock of 
a company I have 80% of my wealth in?” I can think of a few reasons.  
 
Section II: Detailed statement by Ströer SE & Co KGaA on the short attack by Muddy Waters 
Capital and outlook on current business development 
The Executive Summary 


Page 19 of 25
1. The report published yesterday by Muddy Waters Capital primarily consists of the manipulation of 
facts known and already published by Ströer… 


In fact, the MWC Report contained a considerable amount of analysis not previously known to 
the market or shareholders. Much of the information contained in the MWC Report was not 
addressed at all by Ströer SE. 


2. The conclusions drawn by Muddy Waters Capital are substantially incorrect. At no time has 
Muddy Waters Capital attempted to make contact with Ströer, let alone held a telephone 
conversation or personal conversation with Ströer. 


It is obvious that an Investigator would not tip his hand to the party being investigated by calling 
them directly or in true name. The very purpose of the investigation is due to the underlying 
assumption that the information provided by Ströer SE is not reliable. 


3. Muddy Waters Capital claims to hold a significant short position in Ströer and manages 
at least one private fund that also holds a short position in Ströer. Muddy Waters Capital 
therefore has a fundamental interest in damaging the reputation of Ströer by making false 
assertions and drawing incorrect conclusions in order to manipulate Ströer's share price 
and make significant speculative gains to the detriment of our shareholders when prices 
fall substantially. 


This statement is a form of impeachment (1), designed to erode the credibility and vilify the 
motive of the accuser. This is also a form of attacking behavior (2).  


4. In doing so, Muddy Waters Capital has overstepped ethical and legal lines. We hope that 
this case will form the basis for such business practices constituting unfair trading being 
made more difficult in the future. We will therefore take various legal measures and are 
already in dialog with the competent authorities, in particular with the Federal Financial 
Supervisory Authority ['Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht:' BaFin]. 


This statement is attacking behavior (1) which contains a premature declaration of victory. 
Posturing of this sort and referencing legal action is designed to scare off the accuser.  


5. Business development in the current year to date and the outlook stand in stark contrast to the 
assertions made by Muddy Waters Capital. In the first quarter of 2016, Ströer will exceed its own 
guidance of 10% organic growth clearly, posting 11.5%. Before the capital markets day on Friday 
next week, Ströer will publish preliminary figures for its successful first quarter of 2016. The start 
into the second quarter of 2016 will build on the pleasing performance in the first quarter. 


Obviously all of these figures have been brought into question by the MWC report. A 
regurgitation of this data is an attempt to color a negative in the positive (1) and avert attention 
back to the corporate message. 
The following headlines are used by Ströer SE throughout their rebuttal: 


6) This claim by Muddy Waters Capital is incorrect! 
7) This adjustment by Muddy Waters Capital is incorrect! 
8) The entire claims regarding insider trading made by Muddy Waters Capital in this 


context are completely unfounded, slanderous and the conclusions Muddy Waters Capital 
comes to on the basis of these claims are downright wrong! 


9) This assertion by Muddy Waters Capital is tendentious and incorrect! 


Page 20 of 25
10) This assertion by Muddy Waters Capital is wrong in its substance and intended 
implications! The implied assertion by Muddy Waters Capital that our guidance relating 
to the profitability of this product group is questionable is grossly incorrect! 
 


The collection of these statements are attacking statements (1) designed to re-direct the 
accusation back at the accuser. It should be noted that they all conspicuously contain an 
exclamation mark (!) at the end, which is intended to convey conviction and moral outrage. 
Deceptive persons often respond with moral outrage and bewilderment when confronted with an 
accusation of wrong-doing. This reaction is meant to convince the observer that they couldn’t be 
guilty of the alleged actions. They also constitute a non-specific denial (2), the most common of 
which is the phrase “I would never do something like that!”.  Collectively, these statements are 
designed to sell the idea that Ströer’s management “would never do something like that.” You 
will note that #3 and #5 are different than the others. It is my view that #3 in particular is the 
allegation Ströer SE is most concerned with. 
 
MWC:  
Ströer made its Digital segment appear to be growing 3.9% points faster by reclassifying public 
video as digital in 2015. We argue this is disingenuous. 
Ströer SE:  
Allocating public video products to the Digital segment has nothing to do with the question of whether 
these products are accessed via computers or mobile devices. On the contrary, these products follow the 
same marketing logic as online marketing and we steer them both in the same way. The development of 
public video products, which can also be linked to ad servers, is directly related to the development of our 
online marketing activities. The allocation of this business segment is therefore correct. 
The core accusation was regarding the appearance of new growth via the reclassification, not the likeness 
of the different marketing products. Why did they change the classification? No strategic reason is 
provided. And if there was a strategic reason for the reclassification, they would have certainly identified 
the impact such a reclassification would have on the growth figures and declared this indirect effect openly. 
Their failure to address the core question is considered a non-answer (1) and is evasive. 
 
 MWC:  
When Ströer reclassified Public Video into the Digital segment in 2015, it appears not to have 
correspondingly carried over into Digital 5.4 million expenses that used to be attributed to 
Public Video. 
Ströer SE: 
In the context of the strategic development and operational management of the Company, it was a 
transparent, objectively logical decision that was welcomed by the capital market to report Public Video in 
the newly created Digital segment. 
The use of the phrase “the strategic development and operational management of the Company” is 
extremely opaque and does not explain the purpose for the reclassification. If the reclassification was 
“objectively logical”, then there should be a very legitimate reason for it. They are being accused of 
making a reclassification for the purpose of padding their numbers, and to this point have not provided any 
alternative explanation or even offered a denial. The fact that the change was transparent, logical, or 
welcomed by the capital markets is secondary to the core question. This response attempts to justify the 
change but evades the core question. 
 


Page 21 of 25
MWC: 
We understand that digital agencies generally keep only approximately 30% of the advertising revenue 
paid. Ströer does not disclose, or otherwise make it possible to determine, what its payments to content 
owners are. 
….Ströer offered no post facto explanation as to how 2013 revenue improved so dramatically in the seven 
post-acquisition months. 
Ströer SE: 
We have not changed our revenue recognition policies over the last few years. We act as 
principal for most of our online business and therefore account for the revenue as net figures. 
Agency discounts and other trade discounts are deducted from gross revenue to arrive at net 
revenue. 
 
This response does not address the core question and is a non-answer (1). Ströer SA is being 
given opportunity to explain how revenue improved so dramatically and does not. Remember 
that the truthful person has facts on their side and will take any opportunity to insert favorable 
facts into the conversation. Honest answers leave no doubt and fully cover the scope of the 
original question. The brevity of this response indicates a reluctance to provide material 
information and is evasive (2).  
 
MWC: 
 
Müller and Dirk Ströer Buy a Business and Flip it to Ströer. 
 
Ströer SE: 
 
The entire claims regarding insider trading made by Muddy Waters Capital in this context are 
completely unfounded, slanderous and the conclusions Muddy Waters Capital comes to on the 
basis of these claims are downright wrong! 
 
As stated previously in this analysis, this response feigns moral outrage and righteous 
indignation while attacking the accuser. It should also be noted as a significant change in 
baseline from the previous “This claim by Muddy Waters Capital is incorrect!” responses to 
every prior allegation. This shift reveals that this accusation in particular has struck a chord with 
Ströer SE’s management and represents the accusation they fear the most. To this point they 
have been accused of overstating organic growth, artificially inflating EBITDA, and other 
significant accounting “shenanigans”, yet it is this accusation that elicits the significant shift in 
baseline and the longest response.  
 
A few features of Ströer SE’s very lengthy response to allegation VIII are noteworthy. For 
brevity, the response is not included herein. 
 
First, it contains the following convincing statement (1): 
 
The transaction was doubtlessly a great success for all shareholders because it laid the expected 
successful foundation for the digital transformation and subsequent positive share price 
performance of the last three years. 


Page 22 of 25
This statement is inserted within the narrative simply to justify the decision without addressing 
its legitimacy.  
 
Second, at no point is the issue of Müller and Dirk Ströer’s personal profit from these 
transactions addressed. This is a conspicuous omission. 
 
Third, the multiple references to the knowledge and participation of the board(s) in these 
decisions provides little comfort in light of the highly questionable composition of the board and 
the previously avoided topic of their “proper independence”.  
 
Fourth, the extreme brevity of their response (below) to the allegations surrounding the timing of 
three key employees and Board members leaving. The timing of these departures and their 
conjunction with the freeXmedia deal leaves little room for any other reason than they disagreed 
with the transaction. What did they disagree with? How were they treated for disagreeing? Why 
have no details been provided for why they left?  
 
The claim by Muddy Waters Capital that two officers resigned from office in connection with the 
transaction in December 2012 is false. 
 
How so? What alternative explanation can you provide to the extremely circumspect timing of 
their departure? Does this response eliminate doubt, or increase it?  
 
Extreme brevity is also an indicator in the following statement: 
 
There is also no link between the appointment of Mr. Vilanek to the supervisory board and the 
acquisition of freeXmedia; freeXmedia was only a smaller part of the entire Ströer Interactive 
transaction. 
 
How so? What alternative explanation can you provide to the extremely circumspect timing of 
the transaction, his rapid appointment to the Board and eventually ascension to Chairman? In 
general, where there is smoke there is fire.  
 
The abundance of circumstantial evidence is hard to ignore. In light of specific allegations the 
honest person will provide very detailed responses that eliminate doubt because they know the 
facts are on their side. The brevity and limited factual content of the above responses serve only 
to obfuscate and not clarify the events in question.  
 
 
MWC: 
 
Ströer Insiders’ Self-Dealing Goes Beyond freeXmedia.  
 
Ströer SE: 
 


Page 23 of 25
There is no self-dealing as suggested by Muddy Waters Capital and no transaction wrongly 
declared as being disadvantageous to Ströer. 
 
All related party transactions are presented to the supervisory board for approval in advance in 
accordance with Ströer's longstanding internal governance rules; the board of management and 
supervisory board members involved disclose any conflicts of interest and refrain from voting. 
Furthermore, all such transactions are subject to an annual review to verify that they were 
carried out at arm's length and properly processed.  
 
This example demonstrates that the board of management, supervisory board and major 
shareholders examine related party transactions with particular care and place the highest 
requirements on corporate governance and compliance. 
This also applies to MediaVentures as a client of Ströer SE & Co KGaA: We accept all orders 
that add value regardless of whether an employee is a shareholder provided that they comply 
with our general terms and conditions and that they are not to the detriment of the Company. 
The volume of business from MediaVentures accounts for less than 1% of our consolidated 
revenues. It is reviewed every year by our auditor to verify that it is properly executed and 
conducted at arm's length terms and was presented to the supervisory board when the orders 
were placed and whenever there was a change. 
 
The same applies with regard to Ströer SE & Co KGaA's business relationship with SAW under 
the marketing agreement with SAW, which allows Ströer SE & Co KGaA to market SAW 
advertising faces. This transparent contractual relationship of Ströer SE & Co KGaA was 
already explained in detail in the IPO and presented transparently in each annual report. Most 
recently, SAW expanded its portfolio in Berlin by some 1,000 traditional billboards. This 
transaction is in the interests of Ströer SE & Co KGaA as Ströer SE & Co KGaA had already 
announced at the time of the IPO that it no longer intended to invest in traditional billboards, but 
rather only increase its marketing reach in the area of traditional billboards existing at the time 
of the IPO by way of marketing orders from third parties (such as SAW). 
 
Regarding the expansion of our portfolio in the out-of-home segment, Ströer SE & Co KGaA 
exclusively focuses on modern backlit and digital advertising media and has not invested in 
traditional billboards for more than five years. 
 
This response, although very lengthy, is noteworthy for what is omitted. In this section MWC 
makes multiple specific allegations (see MWC Report). People and companies are called out by 
name – family ties, circular cash flow, significant insider stock transactions, and a foundation 
associated with an insider are provided. These issues, if addressed at all are done so in very 
broad terms. Again, few vindicating facts are provided to remove doubt. 
 
In the following sections (X, XI, and XV in particular), the pattern continues. Ströer SE offers 
extremely general and broad responses to very specific allegations, side-stepping the harder 
issues and focusing on trivial details. Their selective responses are often padded with convincing 
statements designed to bolster trust in their processes. Repeated references to the processes of the 
board(s), lawyers, and outside reviews are designed to convince rather than convey. When asked 
to explain an extreme jump in profit in the Infoscreen area, Ströer SE simply states, “On 


Page 24 of 25
principle, we do not make any detailed statements on margins or on the profitability of individual 
products, product groups or entities.” This stands in stark contrast to Udo Müller’s comments on 
22 April, “But if you want to have information, surely you will get it from us.”  
 
 
Summary 
 
The management of Ströer SA have displayed multiple behaviors associated with deception. 
Their rebuttal, ostensibly designed to increase confidence in their actions and methods has 
achieved the opposite. Primarily, they have failed to insert clear facts which unequivocally 
eliminate the viability of the allegations made against them. In the majority of their replies they 
focused on insignificant details and avoided the harder core accusations entirely. Many of the 
significant facts and issues raised by the MWC Report have gone un-addressed and demand 
further explanation. In light of the data sampled in this analysis, the following assumptions are 
highly probable.  
 


• Ströer SE’s management has exercised excessive influence over the Board(s) to 
approve questionable transactions. 


• A dysfunctional culture exists on the Board which appears to be dominated by the 
will or personality of the founding members. This poses a risk to investors. 


• Ströer SE’s management has stretched the ethical boundaries of their financial 
reporting and methodology to paint a better picture of company performance. 


• Müller and Dirk Ströer have designed and executed multiple complex transactions 
to obfuscate their personal profits, and they are particularly concerned about the 
allegations made in Section VIII of the MWC Report. 








Page 25 of 25
