Six Questions for Asanko
June 5th 2017
6 Questions for management
Inside:


• Six questions related to insufficient disclosures on share ownership, 
stockpiles, depletion and technical information.


• Three pictures of the Nkran pit from May 28, 2017, so investors can make 
their own judgement on the condition of Nkran. 


• Pictures of puppies and rainbows, which we feel is the theme of most of 
management’s statements.
West wall failure 
as of May 28th
probably within 
the transition 
zone.
Cracking in the east wall as 
of May 28th
Pit floor as of 
May 28th
1. The foregoing very recent images show significant cracking on both 
the west and the east walls.  You recently stated there is “no need for a 
$115 million pushback expense, as speculated by Muddy Waters”. In 
fact, MW gave an estimated range of $75 million to $115 million. 


How much do you expect to spend on pushbacks at Nkran?
2. Why did you include inferred ore and ounces in your depletion from 
reserves in February 2017 – isn’t doing so non-compliant?
3. Were Messrs. Breese and Steyn’s stakes always this immaterial, or did they in fact sell 
down?


• The company just stated Messrs. Breese and Steyn “have not sold any Asanko 
shares”,


• Highland Park invested “$32.5 million as a management team” which was 9,443,500 
shares at the then market price, but


• IR recently emailed an investor that “Management, directors and officers own 2.18%. 
Colin Steyn holds 2.4m shares Peter holds 680,000 shares” (total ~3.1 million shares)
4. Why did you stop disclosing the size and grade of your high 
medium and low stockpiles in Q1 2017?
5. You continue to dismiss criticism of your MREs. If you are confident 
your models and MREs are good, why do you not provide the following 
on your website (in full): 


• all 3-D mine models,
• all drill data,
• all parameters and constraints
• You’ve said there were five or six new failures since you started mining in 
2015,


• The latest failure is much bigger than those before it,
• You still don’t “expect the geo-technical designs of the mine to change 


materially”, which implies that the geo-technical designs and MREs do not 
have major problems.


6. Given the above facts, either a) the geo-technical designs and MREs are 
flawed, or b) you must have deviated from them.  Which is it?
