Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 


	
that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive this transcript as an agent for any 
other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters Capital LLC (possibly along 
with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors 
and/or their clients and/or investors, has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related 
to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either 
declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period of time, 
and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time regardless of our initial position and views as stated in our research. 
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to 
or from any person through this report or reports on the website. Muddy Waters Capital LLC is registered as an investment advisor 
only in the United States, but it does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship 
evidenced in writing. 
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 
"FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO.  
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences 
and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained 
herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not 
insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to 
the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy 
Waters Capital LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of 
analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC does not 
undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) 
in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained 
Muddy Waters Capital research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without 
going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your viewing and use of any 
reports or other materials on the Muddy Waters Research website shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without 
regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive 
jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable 
law, given that Muddy Waters Capital LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters Capital LLC to exercise or 
enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of 
these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court 
should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms 
of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless 
of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material 
herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. 


Page 1 of 6
August 29, 2016 
 


STJ: Still Non-Secure 
 
 
This past Friday, STJ published a response to the report MWC issued the day before.  STJ’s 
response contained very little substance, and actually included admissions to several key points.  
There are no changes to MedSec or our conclusions about the lack of security in the STJ device 
ecosystem, and our belief in the need for recall and remediation. 
 
There were two components to STJ’s response: substance (~20%) and fluff (~80%).  We first 
address the substance.1 
 
 
1. STJ responded that users would have to be within seven feet of a Merlin@home in order to be 
vulnerable to attacks, including the attacks that MedSec demonstrated.2  This struck us as a 
bizarre statement because:  
 


• It acknowledges that the hundreds of thousands of active Merlin@home users who sleep 
near their Merlin@homes would obviously be vulnerable to a large-scale attack when 
connected to the devices for a continuous time period.3 
 


• It completely ignores our comments about broadcasting an attack through a software-
defined radio (“SDR”), which can be paired with a significantly more powerful antenna.  
(MedSec has already demonstrated though a proof of concept this is possible via a SDR.)  
Because the security on the Merlin@home device is seemingly so poor, it would be 
relatively easy for an attacker to develop software that runs on a laptop, communicates 
with the implantable devices, and is broadcast from a more powerful antenna.  We 
discussed SDRs twice in the report, referring to a “software defined radio”.4  


 
2. STJ seems to want to give the impression that its software updates addressed “the majority” of 
the vulnerabilities MedSec identified.  The below statement from STJ’s response seems to be an 
admission that a) STJ is aware it distributed devices with serious vulnerabilities, and b) STJ 
believes some vulnerabilities still exist on the device.  Moreover, it is not an explicit statement 
that its updates have addressed these issues. 
 


“Our analysis concluded that the majority of the observations in the report apply to older 
versions of the Merlin@home™ devices (i.e., those that have not been updated through 
the automated remote upgrade process).” 





                                                             
1 This report is written for investors, and is deliberately non-technical.  
2 The crux of STJ’s argument seems to be that when an implantable device is inside a person, the range is greatly 
shortened compared to laboratory range in which the device is not implanted.  
3 As we stated in the August 25, 2016 report (the “Report”), it would be illegal to attempt to validate the theory that 
these (and other) attacks against STJ devices could be executed on a large scale basis. 
4 See Report, p. 15. 


Page 2 of 6
If STJ were to expressly state that its software updates addressed all of the findings, such a 
statement would strike us as completely wrong.  STJ seems not to understand that many of the 
issues identified by MedSec on the Merlin@home device cannot be addressed with software 
updates alone, in part due to open UART, JTAG, and SPI interfaces; and, removable NAND.  
The large number of available devices, combined with the seeming lack of protection makes the 
job of an adversary much easier. 
 
Finally, STJ did not address that it has produced programmers with removable, unencrypted hard 
drives.   
 
 
3.  STJ stated that MedSec’s claim that the ability to impersonate any device in the STJ 
ecosystem is speculative.  MedSec is confident it is correct because the communications protocol 
used between devices does not sufficiently authenticate the end points.  In other words, 
authentication was not built in to the communications protocol used between devices.  
 
 
4. STJ showed its poor understanding of security when it stated that Merlin@home encrypts 
communications it sends.  This appeared to be an attempt to impress readers with a specific 
purported security feature of the device. 
 


“The data transferred by Merlin@home are fully encrypted and meet or exceed all 
applicable national data privacy and security requirements in all countries where the 
Merlin.net PCN is used.” 


 
In actuality, STJ’s communications protocol uses a simple data mixing technique to address 
performance, not data protection.  St. Jude Medical’s own supplier, Zarlink, refers to this as 
"whitening" rather than encryption. In MedSec’s opinion, this method doesn’t even come close to 
the most basic encryption protections expected to protect patient data.5 
 
 
5. STJ disputes that its ICD was “crashed” by the attack.  We have posted a video of a crash 
attack test on a pacemaker.6  We invite STJ to explain what is going on with its pacemaker.  The 
video is available at https://vimeo.com/180593205 
 
 
We now address the fluff.  We engaged a firm to do a credibility analysis of STJ’s response.  The 
following analysis, prepared by a former Central Intelligence Agency behavioral analyst and 
polygrapher, indicates deception throughout the response.  Many of these indicia are in the 
portions of the response we label “fluff”.  The analysis is published as presented to Muddy 
Waters Capital LLC, and redacted only to protect the identity of the former CIA officer. 


 
Credibility Assessment: St. Jude Medical (STJ) 


27 August, 2016 
                                                             
5 http://www.microsemi.com/document-portal/doc_view/127877-zl70101-1645-19-fullds   
6 There was no video taken of the test with the particular ICD featured in the picture of the programmer. 


Page 3 of 6
This analysis of St. Jude Medical’s (STJ) 26 August, 2016 response to Muddy Waters Capitals’ 
(MWC) report, released 25 August, 2016, reveals multiple indicators associated with deception. 
Outlined below are the portions of their response which offer the clearest display of such 
indicators. It is not uncommon for indicators to appear in clusters within a response-onset-
window in a traditional question and answer exchange. In the case of a written response, such as 
this, a more global assessment is made. As a general rule the greater the number of indicators 
identified the higher the likelihood of deception. For the sake of length I have in some places 
condensed, paraphrased, or summarized statements made by each party. In other places, where it 
is more beneficial, I have included full transcription.  
 
The conclusions reached in this analysis are the independent opinions of the behavioral analyst 
and in no way or part constitute a buy or sell recommendation of the underlying security. Be 
advised that the deception detection protocol is not foolproof and is somewhat dependent on the 
size and quality of the data sample being analyzed.  Errors and omissions may be contained 
herein.  
 
Convincing Statements are used by deceptive persons in an attempt to manage the perception of 
their accuser towards the positive. The underlying goal of this linguistic device is to convince the 
other party that the accused would never do the thing they are accused of because they are not 
that kind of person, or in this case, that kind of company. When one cannot clearly show through 
the presentation of facts that they did not do the bad thing, then they must resort to another 
approach. Focusing on the kind of person/company they are is a subtle diversion away from the 
actual actions they took or failed to take – the bad thing they are being accused of. When used by 
corporations, as opposed to individuals defending themselves, Convincing Statements often take 
the form of sales language, canned corporate speak, and highly generalized statements that 
contain very little real information. STJ’s response contains a litany of these Convincing 
Statements: 
 


“Our top priority is to reassure our patients….” 
“St. Jude Medical stands behind the security and safety….” 
“St. Jude Medical will remain ever vigilant and dedicated….” 
“…..are not aware of such threats and will remain vigilant to the…..” 
“We recognize the importance of providing physicians with up-to-date and accurate 
information in a timely and responsible manner…” 
“Patient safety has always been our top priority and we have every reason to believe….” 


 
Don’t be fooled by the fact that this kind of language is used often – deception is a very common 
part of human communication. It is the dense cluster of these statements in a relatively short 
rebuttal that indicates deception.  
 
Exclusionary Qualifiers are used by deceptive persons when they wish to deny a specific portion 
of an accusation, while leaving the door slightly open to other portions. The below is a perfect 
example: 
 


Page 4 of 6
“Our analysis concluded that the majority of the observations in the report apply to older 
versions of the Merlin@home devices (i.e., those that have not been updated through the 
automated remote upgrade process).”  


 
By inserting the word “majority” they are indicating that some of the observations made by 
MWC apply to more current versions of the Merlin@home devices. If this is true, then they are 
acknowledging some legitimacy to MWC’s claims. If their primary goal is to ensure the 
complete security of all of their devices then they would use this opportunity to provide clear 
guidance to all customers on how to fully secure them. Instead, they offer an additional 
Convincing Statement coupled with a Perception Qualifier: 
 


“We are confident in the technology that we provide and in our process for continuously 
building upon our security protocols and processes.” 


 
This statement is a veiled admission to lesser security quality in previous devices – many of 
which are currently being used by patients – and the need to continue improving their existing 
security protocols and processes. The insertion of the phrase “We are confident…” is a 
commonly used Perception Qualifier. Its goal is to add credibility to their assertion without 
providing fact, as the facts are likely not their ally. Their statement offers no technical, 
measurable, or quantifiable reason for their confidence…we are just supposed to feel better 
because they are confident.  
 
Borrowed Credibility. When companies repeatedly refer to regulatory bodies, legal processes, 
and industry standards, one should be cautious. It is not hard to produce a long list of companies 
that satisfied all of these requirements while simultaneously committing fraud or gross 
negligence. Reference to these agencies and processes, therefore, is an attempt to borrow the 
credibility of those organizations when their credibility is taking a hit.  
 
These references are a critical piece of their Diversion Narrative – a story designed to “look 
away” from the specific issue to a better story about past compliance with regulatory processes. 
When your child brings home a report card with four A’s and one D, be prepared for him or her 
to divert the narrative away from the D to the four A’s. He or she may even be tempted to 
remind you of past report cards that did not contain any D’s.  
 
The real concern. It is my opinion that STJ tipped their hand in the following statement: 
 


“We recognize the importance of providing physicians with up-to-date and accurate 
information in a timely and responsible manner so that they can make informed patient 
care decisions. Our analysis reinforces the need for researchers and manufactures to 
work together to discuss and resolve potential issues together to avoid unnecessarily 
alarming patients.”  


 
Their analysis? Are they referring to their analysis of the MWC report? If so, are they consenting 
to the notion that MWC’s findings represent “potential issues” that require collaboration between 
“researchers and manufacturers”? Would it not be more correct to say “MWC’s analysis has 
brought to light multiple issues that underscore the need for researchers and manufacturers to 


Page 5 of 6
work together to discuss and resolve”? I’d say it does - and constitutes a veiled admission that 
significant security issues exist. It further points to their frustration with MWC’s public display 
of their findings, as does the following statement in their opening paragraph: “… while we would 
have preferred the opportunity to review a detailed account of the information…” The extremely 
rapid rebuttal produced by STJ, its lack of substance, and the clusters of deceptive behaviors it 
contains, suggests their core agenda is to inject optimism back into the market, not necessarily 
the “responsible working together to discuss and resolve potential issues…” tack they purport.  
 
Conclusion 
Given the density of the clusters of deceptive indicators in this rebuttal it is highly likely that STJ 
is being deceptive about the cyber security of its cardiac devices and their knowledge of their 
existing limitations. Their agenda is to manage the perception of the market in the short term 
from pessimism to optimism, erode the credibility of the MWC report and present confidence in 
the face of specific allegations while simultaneously failing (or choosing not) to insert inarguable 
facts to the contrary.   
 
 
 


Page 6 of 6
