Muddy Waters Capital, LLC 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 


Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 
 


 
amount to 2.8 million Turkish pounds, that is, di-
vided by 3.5, or 3.3. – by 3.3. A little more than 
€700,000 is a ballpark figure. 2.8 million Turkish 
pounds are our total claims for damages in eight 
civil cases.  


Dr. Metzner: Mr. Weimann, the second time you 
spoke - - it was specifically about Evolution Me-
dia. At the time you were very insistent that we 
avoid all consolidating into lump sums. You 
thought it important for us to state specifically the 
sales attained there in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and 
how much profit was made.  


From the company's standpoint I can only tell 
about the time span when we controlled the com-
pany – which practically speaking started in Sep-
tember 2013, that's why 2014 and 2015 are each 
12 months long --, in 2014 our net sales accord-
ing to IFRS from Evolution Media including its 
subsidiary Click Motion were € 2.6 million, and we 
made a loss of € 0.4 million. In 2015 revenue was 
€0.3 million and the operating result was minus € 
0.1 million. In 2014, net profit was minus €1.2 mil-
lion, and in 2015 net profit was minus €0.2 million.   


As I said, we didn’t start consolidating Evolution 
Media until we bought it in September 2013.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 88 


So on grounds of comparability I can say nothing 
about January to August 2013. I just told you the 
figures for 2014 and 2015.  


Vilanek, Chairman: I observe that the second 
round of questions has now ended. Pursuant to 
the announcement, the list of speakers is accord-
ingly now closed. However, two persons have al-
ready asked to speak, namely Mr. Jonas Kiel and 
Mr. Martin Weimann.  


Dr. Weimann: Ladies and gentlemen, I will be 
brief.   


– I agreed with the chairman of the meeting and 
the notary that we will use this opportunity to ad-
dress you in order to put on the record the ques-
tions that in my opinion are still pending. I will do 
so now. I handed the notary a copy of the ques-
tions I asked here today for the record. I will now 
read them into the record. The chairmain of the 
meeting has waived their full reading, so we can 
go home. Would you please confirm that for the 
record?  


Vilanek, Chairman:  That was said and that is 
the case.  


Dr. Weimann: Mr. Notary, would you be so kind 
as to put on the record that the full reading has 
been waived?  


Mr. Notary, please take note of two changes to 
point 3.1.  


3.1 reads: "Was a written report on the investiga-
tion made?  (If not, why not?)"   


Please insert by hand:  "Please state the relevant 
information - -" 


(Notary Dr. Piehler: Where?) 


In question 3.1 after the parenthesis please in-
sert:  "Please state the relevant information and 
the approximate figures involved." 


(Notary Dr. Piehler: Okay!) 


Then:  "What is Project Zero?"   


(Notary Dr. Piehler: Do you want me to insert that 
here directly?) 


– That should be added on. So two sentences 
come after that. I just read out the first one, and 


the second sentence reads: "What is Project Ze-
ro?", to question 3.1 at the end.  


Question 3.4 reads: Once Ströer had gathered 
the needed information in Turkey, did it go to the 
police or the publíc prosecutor's office? – Now 
please add on:   


"Were court proceedings initiated, and what is the 
cause of action?"  Which are the amounts at is-
sue?"  


That refers to what I gave you. We have agreed 
that I will now dictate either question and that the 
back-office makes a sound recording of what I 
dictate. The language that I will now dictate shall 
be added to the notary's minutes.  


The question reads:   


"The company supposedly incurred transaction 
costs in the amount of € 2.5 million. The 
[dis]proportion to the transaction volume and the 
amount involved are questionable. What is the 
breakdown of this amount?  Please disclose for 
each project the client, the entity accepting the 
order (the firm [name] or the partner responsible), 
the topic of the expert opinion or the order, a 
summary of the outcome, and costs (amount and 
hourly rate). What was the background or the oc-
casion for each order? Please also state the rele-
vant information." 


End of the question.  – Next question – that is, in 
principle, what I already said once – :   


"Please record the following question: Mr. Müller, 
today you spoke several times of a family firm. 
You were saying something here about long-term 
commitment and a majority of the shares. Per-
haps those words were not completely accurate. 
The fact is that once the families had consolidated 
their hold on the partnership limited by shares 
(KGaA), they sold about € 480 million worth of 
shares. Is that true?  


(Notary Dr. Piehler: You just put that on the rec-
ord.)  


I just wanted to make sure, if the language is 
identical - -  


(Notary Dr. Piehler: Then read it aloud again, 
please.)  


"Is that true? Is that your long-term commitment? 
Are you really still loyal to the interests of the
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 89 


business, or are you instead taking advantage of 
the interests of the business as a method of dis-
tributing subsidies to your other businesses?"  


– End of the record.  Please delete from the ques-
tion the remainder of what is written there.  


Next the final question. This refers again to Com-
plex 2:   


"Have I understood correctly: You just told us that 
you could only buy out adscale together with oth-
er businesses, since it was too small by itself. 
Then you could think of nothing better than of 
scurrying to the major shareholder in order to buy 
the business from him. Having noticed that you 
obviously needed it urgently, he compelled you to 
buy freeXmedia as well, which you actually didn't 
want at all. That is not conclusive at all. It would 
be better to stick to a single version of your story. 
If the new version with the covenants is true, why 
didn't you mention it in your statement concerning 
the Muddy Waters report? I concede that it's not a 
bad yarn, but it loses credibility on account of the 
sequel. Which version is the right one? Kindly al-
so explain your grounds for switching stories." 


End of the question. – And those, ladies and gen-
tlemen, were some aspects worth thinking about. 
Mr. Müller, I would like to say the following words 
to bring the event to a close. We all acknowledge 
that this is a family firm, and likewise your per-
sonal competence.  


(Interjection: Mr. Müller isn't here!)  


– He'll hear it from the back-office. Failing that, I 
ask you, chairman of the meeting, to please tell 
him very clearly once again that at least I and the 
people, my clients, fully acknowledge that this is a 
family business.  We likewise acknowledge the 
work he performs. But a joint-stock company is 
not a farm. You are morally obligated to conduct 
yourself with greater transparency. Consequently, 
it is preferable to say too much than to say too lit-
tle.I have the impression that today the quality of 
the answers has improved, but much more could 
have been said.   


I appeal to you once more to release the speech 
in some form or other during the next week. If 
what is spoken differs from what is written, take 
the writing and write at the top of the page "The 
spoken version is the valid one, or that's the way 
it happened more or less. These are not core is-
sues. But the inquisitive public should be shown 
the main thread of the speech and the diagrams, 


especially since no journalists were present to-
day.  – Many thanks for your attentiveness.  


(Applause)  


Vilanek, Chairman:  Thank you very much, Mr. 
Weimann.  – Now I invite the last speaker, Mr. 
Jonas Kiel, to take the floor.  


Kiel: I too will try to be as brief as possible. Only 
three question marks are written on this slip of 
paper.  


The first one: I made the same deal with the nota-
ry as Mr. Weimann did. He received the ques-
tions. If that is okay, thank you.  


This collective transaction was mentioned once 
again. KPMG assessed it at € 98 million. I don't 
want to be petty, but a summary of KPMG's as-
sessment results concerning the much mentioned 
collective transaction is displayed on top of the 
desk where speakers must register. Firstly, this 
summary reveals that the assessment is based 
on unaudited figures and that their source was 
the management of the buyout firm.  Now my 
question: How come?  


In the second place, the summary states, or ra-
ther it mentions on page 7 that the joint planning 
calculation was made based on the individual 
plans of the companies included in the package. 
If that is the case, then it cannot be a very difficult 
task simply to announce the results for this 
freeXmedia company. On that basis it must be 
possible to establish some kind of number that 
enables us to say, OK, that part of the package 
was this freeXmedia. And then comes the other 
question, namely, why didn't you disclose the ex-
pert opinion, instead of providing just a vacuous 
summary. 


Thank you all very much, that is all I have to say. I 
wish you all a pleasant evening.  


(Applause)  


Vilanek, Chairman: Many thanks to the final 
speaker. We therefore reach the conclusion of the 
general debate, since I have closed the list of 
speakers.  – Mr. Klein. 


(Klein: Regarding the questions I put on the rec-
ord - - Klein walks over to the notary and talks 
with him.
Ströer SE & Co. KGaA   Ordinary general meeting on June 22, 2016 in Cologne  Page 90 


For the public at large it is no secret: Mr. Klein fol-
lows the logic of his predecessor at the podium. 
Let's take a look at his questions over there. We 
will place them verbatim before him. Please make 
a check mark next to the ones that wind up on the 
record.  


(Klein: Please send me a copy of the notarial rec-
ord to my address for service that I am providing.) 


– Very well, so we'll take the indirect route.  


I thank all speakers for their words. Moreover I 
give thanks to the board of management of the 
general partner for her detailed replies to the 
questions and hereby close the debate with a fi-
nal question addressed to the CEO: are you of 
the opinion that the questions have been an-
swered comprehensively? 


Müller: Yes, I can attest to that in every respect. I 
think that in any case we answered most of the 
questions, it feels like five to ten times over.  





Vilanek, (Chairman): Then we will include that in 
the minutes as well. 





We will now proceed to vote on items 1 to 12 of 
the agenda. But please allow me to point some 
things out to you first: 





If you want to make use of your voting right, 
please do not leave or reenter this room … 





End of the general meeting: 9:30 p.m.
