1 





Off Wall Street  
Consulting Group, Inc. 


 
P.O. Box 382107  


Cambridge, MA 02238 
 


tel: 617.868.7880 
fax: 617.868.4933 


internet: research@offwallstreet.com 
www.offwallstreet.com 


 
 
All information contained herein is obtained by Off Wall Street Consulting Group, Inc. from sources believed by it to be accurate and reliable.  
However, such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind, and Off Wall Street Consulting Group, in particular, makes no 
representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the 
results to be obtained from its use. Off Wall Street has strict policies prohibiting the use of inside information.  We have also implemented 
policies restricting the use of experts.  Among other things, Off Wall Street:  (1) does not hire expert networking firms; (2) does not hire as 
experts employees of those companies we research; and (3) specifically instructs consultants whom we hire to not provide us with inside 
information. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Off Wall Street Consulting Group, Inc. does not undertake to 
update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. You should assume that Off Wall Street Consulting Group, Inc. and 
its employees enter into securities transactions which may include hedging strategies and buying and selling short the securities discussed in its 
reports before and after the time that Off Wall Street Consulting Group, Inc. determines to issue a report. Off Wall Street Consulting Group, Inc.  
hereby discloses that its clients and we the company, or our officers and directors, employees and relatives, may now have and from time to time 
have, directly or indirectly, a long or short position in the securities discussed and may sell or buy such securities at any time. 
 


Copyright 2016 by Off Wall Street Consulting Group, Inc. 
N.B: Federal copyright law (Title 17 of the U.S. Code) makes it illegal to reproduce this report by 
any means and for any purpose, unless you have our written permission. Copyright infringement carries a statutory 
fine of up to $100,000 per violation. We offer a reward of $2,000 for information that leads to the successful 
prosecution of copyright violators.  
 


 New Rec: Tempur Sealy Int’l   (TPX: $60.36)       January 18, 2016 
 
Position: Sell                         Target: $42  
 
$MM Dec-15e Mar-16e Jun-16e Sep-16e F2015e F2016e 
Revs 779.2 769.0 777.2 893.8 3,163 3,234 
Adj. EPS 0.99 0.67 0.61 1.17 3.18 3.57 
Y/Y Gr 16%      23% 14% 5% 20% 12% 
PE na na na na 18.9x 16.9x 
Cnsns Rev 786.3 787.4 810.0 931.4 3,170 3,292 
Cnsns EPS 0.99 0.68 0.71 1.31 3.18 3.88 


  
Shares Out:  62.9MM    Market Cap: $3.8B      FYE Dec 
Concept: 
1. High prospective ROIC and low barriers to entry are attracting new competition to the 
premium foam mattress market.
2 


2. As a result, the mattress duopoly enjoyed by TPX and Serta-Simmons appears to be breaking 
down. Mattress retailers appear to be coming under pressure from alternative channels.  
3. TPX’s reported numbers have been boosted by one-time tailwinds, which are now lapping. 
Without these tailwinds, the reported numbers appear to support the notion that Tempur-Pedic 
and Sealy have been losing market share to new competition. 
 
Summary: Tempur Sealy International (TPX) manufactures, markets and 
distributes premium mattresses, bases, and pillows in 100 countries under the 
Tempur-Pedic, Sealy, and Stearns & Foster brands. TPX’s largest competitor is 
Serta-Simmons. The two companies control roughly 68% of the US market for 
mattresses (with TPX holding market share of ~29% and Serta-Simmons ~39%). 
 
 We successfully recommended the sale of TPX shares in late 2011. Prior to 
that time, Tempur-Pedic mattresses were the only high quality premium foam 
mattresses on the market. Our thesis in 2011 was that, after years of facing sub-par 
knockoffs, Tempur-Pedic faced its first true competition in Serta’s recently 
introduced iComfort product line. Our thesis played out, as growth of Tempur-
Pedic mattress revenues deteriorated from +18% Y/Y (in 1Q12) to negative -16% 
Y/Y (by 1Q13), and TPX’s share price dropped from $85 to $25. 
 
 TPX’s numbers have since improved (Tempur N. America sales grew +9% 
Y/Y in 2014 and should grow +15% Y/Y in 2015), and the share price has now 
returned close to the prior peak. In 1Q13, TPX completed the acquisition of Sealy 
(which had also entered the market with an iComfort-like foam product, the 
Optimum) for $1.3B in enterprise value. Since the Sealy acquisition, bulls have 
been encouraged by what they view to be the emergence of a rational, quasi-
duopoly in the mattress industry (between Tempur-Sealy and Serta-Simmons).   
 


Pointing to the improvement in TPX’s growth numbers since mid-2014, it 
appears that TPX bulls attribute the iComfort-induced weakness at the Tempur-
Pedic brand to poor execution by TPX management at the time, rather than to a 
fundamental business model issue. Now, viewing Tempur-Pedic as the strongest 
brand in a rational, consolidated mattress industry, bulls think TPX can grow its 
revenues at least 6%-7% p.a. for the foreseeable future, driven by mid single-digit 
industry growth, plus a few percentage points of market share gains, as consumers 
continue to trade up from cheap innerspring mattresses.  


 
 Our bearish thesis on TPX is focused on competition. This thesis is based 
primarily on the fieldwork we have done over the past 2-3 months, during which 
time we visited over 50 mattress and other retail stores (roughly half of which we 
visited on multiple occasions) across five US states, and we also conducted an 
online survey of over 500 recent mattress buyers.
3 


 Effectively, our thesis is a continuation of the iComfort story from 2011: 
that the extremely high ROIC in the premium foam mattress business (with TPX’s 
ROIC peaking at over 40% in 2011 by our reckoning), combined with relatively 
low barriers to entry, continues to attract new competition to the market, and this 
competition will continue to drive down ROIC across the industry. Therefore, TPX 
bulls are likely too optimistic about TPS’s future results.  
 
 The most successful of these new competitors, according to our research, 
have been the online “bed-in-a-box” premium foam mattress companies (the most 
prominent of which is Casper), plus Sleep Innovations, which sells “bed-in-a-box” 
premium foam mattresses in Costco and other big box stores primarily under the 
Novaform brand.  
 
 While investors are aware of the emergence of online “bed-in-a-box” 
competitors (we haven’t noted any discussion of Sleep Innovations), bulls dismiss 
the threat to TPX, suggesting that the online “bed-in-a-box” companies are selling 
to a different customer base (namely, urban millennials), at a different price point 
($850 and below), and that they are primarily taking share from low-end 
innerspring mattresses rather than from TPX. Bulls would also counter that, in any 
event, Tempur-Pedic’s brand (though not Sealy’s) is strong enough to resist 
encroachment from lower-priced competitors.    
 


We are skeptical of these arguments. Our research suggests that Sleep 
Innovations and the online “bed-in-a-box” companies are tapping into much of the 
same customer base that buys premium foam mattresses from Sealy and Tempur-
Pedic, and that both of these brands are losing market share to “bed-in-a-box” 
competitors.  


 
Although we agree with the bulls that Tempur-Pedic enjoys very high brand 


recognition, we think bulls misunderstand exactly what this means for actual sales. 
Our research suggests that many customers, exposed to years of TV ads, use 
“Tempur-Pedic” to represent the memory foam category in general, the way we 
refer to a tissue as a “Kleenex” even if we are not specifically using that brand.  


 
The problem for TPX, we think, is that the quality gap between a Tempur-


Pedic brand mattress and its increasingly lower-priced competitors is not very 
great. Therefore, while Tempur-Pedic appeals to a specific customer base that is 
not very price sensitive and that recognizes and desires the Tempur brand 
specifically, we think this group will not be large enough to overcome the trend for 
consumers to consider good quality alternatives at lower price points. Presented 
with a mushrooming variety of “Tempur-Pedics” at much lower prices, across a 
growing array of channels (online, Costco, etc.), many consumers appear to be 
choosing TPX’s lower priced competitors.
4 


 
It appears the temporary duopoly enjoyed by TPX and Serta-Simmons in 


premium foam mattresses might be breaking down, and that specialty mattress 
retailers are beginning to show the effects of this emerging competition from new 
channels.  


 
For example, we note that Mattress Firm and others have, within the past 


few months, introduced to the sales floor their first premium foam mattresses 
below the $1,000 price point. Our conversations with store employees indicate that 
these sub-$1,000 mattresses are a response to new competition from other 
channels, that they have been selling well, and that they are cannibalizing sales of 
mid-range foam beds such as Sealy’s Optimum (the $1,299 version, which, we are 
told, might be getting pulled from Mattress Firm). Perhaps as a result, over the past 
month or two, we have observed increased promotional activity and price cuts on 
the $1,300-$2,500 premium foam beds at Mattress Firm, which we document, 
below.  


 
TPX’s reported numbers have been boosted by one-time tailwinds in 2014 


and 2015, as Tempur-Pedic increased sales of higher-priced adjustable bases and 
other add-ons, and entered the hybrid (springs + foam) market segment, while 
Sealy received a revenue boost when Mattress Firm replaced Serta’s iComfort with 
Sealy’s Optimum brand mattresses at many of its stores. However, as we discuss, 
below, these tailwinds now appear to be lapping, which should make revenue 
growth comparisons more difficult, especially in 2H16.    


 
Without these tailwinds, the reported numbers appear to support the notion 


that Tempur-Pedic and Sealy have been losing market share to new competition. 
Absent the one-time tailwind from increasing the attachment rate of adjustable 
bases, for example, we estimate that Tempur-Pedic’s TTM N. American revenues 
would be roughly unchanged from 2011 levels, suggesting that Tempur-Pedic has 
lost market share in the interim. TPX disclosed that Sealy’s US sales grew only 
“low single digits” in the US in 3Q15, and that Sealy’s mix shifted away from 
premium foam products to low-end innerspring mattresses, supporting our thesis.  


 
TPX’s share price has declined from $80 to $60 over the past few weeks 


while we completed our research. However, the market has also declined sharply, 
resulting in lower multiples across the board. Our $42 price target represents 11.2x 
our projected 2017 Adj. EPS of $3.76, and 7.9x our projected 2017 Adj. EBITDA 
of $517MM (we use FY17 because bulls are focused on whether TPX’s new CEO 
will hit his 2017 target). By comparison, Select Comfort (SCSS), which has been 
experiencing difficulties recently, trades at 10.9x 2017 EPS and 4.6x 2017 
EBITDA. Mattress Firm (MFRM) trades at 13.6x 2017 EPS and 6.4x 2017
5 


EBITDA, but the “street” is projecting 20% annual EPS growth for MFRM, 
compared to our 5% growth projection for TPX in 2017.   


 
We note that, in 2012, when it became clear that TPX was losing share to 


new competitors, the stock traded at 10x the “street’s” earnings projections for two 
years ahead. If our thesis plays out, and if investors begin to question TPX’s long-
term competitive positioning, we think they could place a similar valuation on TPX 
shares.            
 
Borrow information: TPX 
           Supply quantity Quantity on loan Available to borrow Date         
      16.7MM   1.9MM  15.3MM   1.18.16 
 
Source: Markit/Data Explorers 
While reasonable efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy and completeness of this data, no warranty of 
accuracy, completeness, appropriateness or any other kind is given by Off Wall Street, Markit/Data Explorers or 
their respective licensees or affiliates in relation to this data. Copyright in securities lending data: Markit/Data 
Explorers. All rights reserved. 
 
 
Background:  
 


Tempur-Sealy International (TPX), based in Lexington, KY, manufactures, 
markets and distributes premium mattresses, bases, and pillows in 100 countries 
under the Tempur-Pedic, Sealy, and Stearns & Foster brands. The current company 
was formed when Tempur-Pedic International acquired Sealy for a total enterprise 
value of $1.3B in 1Q13.  
 


Tempur-Pedic branded mattresses are made of high-density viscoelastic 
“memory foam” that conforms to the body and thus reduces pressure and helps 
support the neck and spine. In 2Q15, TPX launched its first “hybrid” (innerspring 
+ foam) product under the Tempur-Pedic brand, called the Flex. Tempur-Pedic 
branded mattresses range in price from $1,999 to over $5,000.  


 
TPX sells lower-end, innerspring-only mattresses under the “Sealy” brand, 


which start at $399 for a queen. It also sells a variety of “hybrid” models under 
both the Sealy and Posturepedic brands, which range in price from $599 to $1,299, 
plus the all-foam Sealy OPTIMUM series, which ranges from $1,299 to $2,999 for 
a queen (with most sales concentrated at the sub-$2000 price point). Stearns & 
Foster is a premium innerspring brand that starts at $1,499. 


 
Generally, the distinction between “innerspring” and “foam” mattresses is 


becoming less clear, as more innerspring mattresses are now being designed with a 
foam layer on top.
6 


 
TPX claims that the “vast majority” of its mattresses are sold together with a 


base. Traditional bases retail for $300 while adjustable bases (which move up and 
down, vibrate, etc.) range from $800 to $2,000 for a queen size. As we discuss, 
below, the attachment rate for adjustable bases (as opposed to traditional bases) has 
increased substantially in recent years, especially at Tempur-Pedic, where the 
attachment rate is now over 50%. This has boosted ASPs for the Tempur-Pedic 
brand.  


 
According to ISPA, 2014 mattress and foundation sales in the US totaled 


$7.5B at wholesale and $15B at retail. According to industry participants, online 
sales represent approximately $1.2B at retail, or 8% of total sales. With US sales of 
$2.2B in 2014, we estimate TPX held approximately 29% market share. We 
estimate that, combined, TPX and Serta-Simmons hold roughly 50% US market 
share (Serta-Simmons is owned by private equity firm Ares Capital, and doesn’t 
report its numbers publicly).  


 
The US represented 73% of TPX’s 2014 sales, Canada 7%, and other 


international markets 20%. In North America, the bricks & mortar retail channel 
accounted for 96% of TPX’s 2014 sales. “Direct and other” (which includes online 
sales, catalog sales, and commercial/institutional sales) accounted for the other 4%. 
For TPX’s international business, the equivalent figures were 75% and 25% in 
2014, respectively.  
 
 According to Furniture Today, an industry magazine, specialty mattress 
retailers accounted for 47% of US mattress sales in 2014, while furniture retailers 
accounted for 34%, department stores 5%, and “other” 14%.    
 


Mattress Firm (MFRM) is the largest specialty mattress retailer in the US, 
with 2,400 locations and 14% market share (based on 2014 revenues). In Nov-
2015, MFRM agreed to buy Sleepy’s, the #2 player, which has 463 locations and 
8% market share. MFRM is TPX’s largest customer, and we estimate the pro 
forma MFRM/Sleepy’s combination would represent over 25% of TPX’s US sales 
(i.e. 18%+ of total TPX sales).     


 
TPX makes its TEMPUR foam material, mattresses and pillows in facilities 


in Albuquerque, NM, Duffield, VA, and Aarup, Denmark. Industry sources have 
told us that foam mattress manufacturers purchase the base polyurethane foam 
from three primary sources: FXI (formerly Foamex International), Innocor Foam 
(part of Sleep Innovations, which we discuss below), and Carpenter.  


 
Sealy operates 17 manufacturing facilities and one warehouse in the US. It 


also operates 3 manufacturing facilities in Canada, and 5 facilities internationally.
7 


Sealy used to be vertically integrated, operating three innerspring manufacturing 
facilities, but it sold these facilities to Leggett and Platt in mid-2014.      


 
In May 2015, an activist hedge fund won a proxy fight to displace TPX’s 


existing management team, and brought in a new CEO, Scott Thompson (formerly 
of Dollar Thrifty and Group 1 Auto). The consensus holds Thompson to be a 
skilled cost-cutter, and TPX’s board has created a large RSU incentive payout 
(worth ~$60MM) that Thompson will receive only if TPX earns $650MM in Adj. 
EBITDA in 2017 (compared to management’s $455MM guidance for 2015).  


 
Discussion:  
 
1. Attracted by high prospective ROIC and low barriers to entry, new competition 
is entering Tempur-Pedic’s market.   


 
ROIC in the premium foam mattress market is extremely high. Table 1, 


below, shows TPX’s historical asset turnover, operating margin, and return on 
capital (before the Sealy acquisition). Note that Tempur-Pedic’s ROIC peaked at 
almost 44% in 2011.  
 
Table 1. TPX key metrics (pre-Sealy acquisition) 


   ($MM) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Revenues $1,107 $928 $831 $1,105 $1,418 $1,403 
Gross margin 48.3% 43.2% 47.4% 50.2% 52.4% 50.9% 
Advertising % of sales 9.4% 9.2% 8.3% 8.7% 10.5% 11.7% 
Other S&M % of sales 8.0% 9.4% 10.1% 9.3% 9.0% 11.0% 
Operating margin 22.1% 14.4% 17.4% 22.2% 24.0% 17.7% 


       Invested capital $617 $476 $456 $479 $504 $493 
ROIC* 26.2% 15.4% 19.6% 33.1% 43.6% 31.4% 
Asset turnover* 2.34x 2.11x 2.24x 2.94x 3.42x 3.03x 


       * NOPAT / average invested capital (taxed @ 37%) 
    ** Revenue / average tangible assets 


       Source: Company filings, OWS 
 


  It appears that ROIC in this business is very high due mainly to low capital 
requirements. According to industry participants, it is relatively simple to 
manufacture a premium foam mattress: “Making the foam is just like baking a 400-
foot loaf of bread,” and then slicing it up, as one contact put it.  
 


Tempur-Pedic’s business is more capital intensive than most of the new 
entrants because the company pours its own foam. We are told that other, newer 
competitors (such as the online “bed-in-a-box” companies) outsource all 
manufacturing and fulfillment to third parties, like FXI. This results in slightly
8 


lower gross margins than Tempur-Pedic (in the low 40% range, versus 45%-50% 
for Tempur) but also means initial capital requirements are very low. “Your cost of 
entry is pretty much limited to IT,” one contact said.  


 
The online “bed-in-a-box” company, then, is essentially a low-overhead 


marketing and e-commerce operation. Based on discussions with industry 
participants, we understand that at least one of the larger online “bed-in-a-box” 
companies earns gross margins in the low 40% range, spends roughly 11%-13% of 
revenue on fixed costs and payroll, and another 13%-15% on marketing / customer 
acquisition, resulting in mid-to-high teens operating margins, while still operating 
at a relatively small scale.  


 
Due to the high prospective returns on capital, plus the low barriers to entry, 


there has been a surge of new, online-only entrants over the past two years. The 
most visible of these have been Casper, Tuft & Needle, and Leesa, but the list 
includes Yogabed, Keetsa, Reverie, EYRI, Lull, plus dozens of copycats (Ameena, 
Ghostbed, etc.).  


 
2. The new competition appears to be growing rapidly and taking market share.  


 
According to one industry participant, online sales now represent 


approximately 7%-8% ($1.0B-$1.2B) of the $15B US mattress industry, of which 
Amazon, Costco, etc. account for roughly half, or $500MM-$600MM, while direct 
sales from “bed-in-a-box” companies make up the remainder. This person 
estimates that online sales could “easily” make up 20%-30% of the market within 
the next five years.  


 
This projection is supported by an online survey we conducted of recent 


mattress purchasers (with household incomes >$75k) using SurveyMonkey. Of the 
552 people who answered the question, “Would you buy a mattress online 
(assuming free shipping and free returns)?” 190, or 34%, said “Yes,” and a further 
134, or 25%, said “Maybe.” Even adjusting for the gap between consumers’ stated 
intentions and their actual behavior, and adjusting for the higher incomes of the 
people in our survey, this suggests that total online penetration of 20%-30% within 
a few years seems reasonable.  


 
Casper, which was founded in 2013, has recently disclosed that it is 


generating revenues at an annual run rate of $125MM. According to industry 
participants, one of the other large “bed-in-a-box” companies, which was founded 
in 2012, is generating revenues at an annual run rate of $60MM, with Y/Y revenue 
growth of roughly 600%.
9 


Notably, both Casper and Tuft & Needle introduced national TV ad 
campaigns earlier this month. The ad campaigns seem to have substantially raised 
brand awareness for these companies, especially Casper. Figure 1, below, 
compares Google search volume data (sourced from Google Trends) for Casper, 
Tuft & Needle, and Tempur-Pedic. We note that, according to iSpot.tv, the Tuft & 
Needle commercial has had only 4 national airings over the past 30 days (one of 
which was during the Rose Bowl), compared to 1,163 for (the well-funded) Casper 
and 1,188 for Tempur-Pedic.  
 
Figure 1. Google search volumes


 
Source: Google Trends, OWS 


    
Anecdotally, our field research supports the notion that these and other 


online “bed-in-a-box” companies are growing rapidly. For example, industry 
participants suggest that FXI, which provides foam, manufacturing, and fulfillment 
services, has been experiencing rapid growth in this area and has been expanding 
capacity. We also had discussions with a major US producer of ticking and covers 
that is now investing in online fulfillment capacity for “bed-in-a-box” customers, 
anticipating a “huge” opportunity in the online mattress market over the next few 
years.  


 
Notably, during our visits to over 50 different mattress and other retailers 


over the past 2-3 months, substantially all of the mattress salespeople with whom 
we spoke were aware of the online “bed-in-a-box” competitors and, despite it
10 


being against their interests, a large majority of these salespeople communicated to 
us that they either knew someone personally who had bought one, or had read a 
review of one, and expressed the opinion that it was a high quality product.  


 
The other major competitor that appears to be gaining traction is Sleep 


Innovations, which sells premium foam mattresses (retailing for $499-$899) under 
the Novaform brand at Costco, and under the Sleep Innovations brand at other big 
box retailers (Home Depot, Target, Kohl’s, Wal-Mart, etc.).  


 
Perhaps due to increasing customer interest in, and acceptance of the bed-in-


a-box product, our field research indicates that Sleep Innovations, which has been 
around since the early 2000s, is also experiencing accelerating growth.  


 
According to salespeople at Costco and other big box stores, Sleep 


Innovations beds have been selling very well, with one salesperson noting that his 
store (a Costco) was selling 1-2 Novaform beds per day (with a ~10% return rate), 
plus “ten times as many” memory foam toppers 
(http://www.costco.com/NovaForm%C2%AE-3%22-Pure-Comfort-Memory-
Foam-Mattress-Topper.product.11765557.html).  


 
Between our first visit to a certain Costco in November, and a second visit 


roughly three weeks later (a seasonally slow time for mattresses), we noted that the 
Novaform beds had been moved to a more prominent position within the store (i.e. 
moved from the corner of the store to a center aisle) and that inventory of these 
mattresses had notably expanded. Figures 2 and 3, below, show the change.
11 


Figure 2. Costco – November 17, 2015 


    
Source: OWS 
 
Figure 3. Costco (same store as above) – December 9, 2015 
 


    
Source: OWS
12 


These numbers are substantial. Assuming each of the 569 Costco stores in 
North America sells 365 Novaform beds a year (one per day), that’s 207,865 beds 
sold annually via the Costco channel alone. By comparison, we estimate that 
Tempur-Pedic sells roughly 600,000 mattresses per year.    


 
Industry participants have also reported that Sleep Innovations has greatly 


expanded its bed-making capacity at its plant in northern Mississippi, over the past 
two years (from a single building and ~20 employees to three buildings and ~200 
employees), and that its “business is booming.”  


 
3. Contrary to some bullish assumptions, our research suggests that “bed-in-a-box” 
competitors are tapping into much of the same customer base that buys premium 
Sealy and Tempur-Pedic mattresses. We think the Sealy and Tempur-Pedic brands 
are losing share, and, as the “alternative” brands gain mindshare, their market share 
gains should accelerate.  
 


While investors are aware of the emergence of “bed-in-a-box” competitors, 
some bulls dismiss the threat to TPX, arguing that the online “bed-in-a-box” 
companies are selling to a different customer base (i.e. urban millennials), at a 
different price point ($850 and below), and that they are primarily taking share 
from low-end innerspring mattresses rather than from TPX, whose core customer 
base (especially for Tempur-Pedic brand) is older and richer. 


 
 We think this is unlikely. To estimate the demographic profile of the Casper 
buyer (using Casper as a proxy for the typical “bed-in-a-box” customer), we 
tabulated the customer ages from 465 reviews left by confirmed buyers on 
Casper’s website (most Casper reviewers disclose their age and location). Since it 
appears a substantial proportion of Casper buyers leave a review (there are dozens 
of reviews left per day), we think that the reviewer population is generally 
representative of the overall population of Casper buyers.  
 
 The average age of the 465 Casper buyers whose data we collected was 44.3 
years. By comparison, Mattress Firm has disclosed (in its Oct-2015 investor day 
presentation) that the average customer in the mattress industry is 49 years old. 
Based on this data, it does not appear that, on average, the typical Casper buyer is 
substantially younger than industry average.    
 
 We also broke down the Casper demographic by age group. Figure 4, below, 
shows the age distribution for Casper reviewers (i.e. the 465 we tabulated from the 
website), for all the recent mattress buyers (with household incomes >$75k) from 
our SurveyMonkey survey (N=548), and for the total US population over 18 years 
of age.
13 


Figure 4. Age group distribution: Casper, Industry, US population 


      
Source: Casper.com, SurveyMonkey, US Census Bureau, OWS 
 
 As might be expected, Casper (black bar) appears to be more indexed to the 
18-29 age group than the industry average (dark gray bar). This might be because 
Casper has been successful in promoting itself via social media, particularly in the 
form of “unboxing” videos on YouTube. This CBS news report (ironically, 
available on YouTube) describes Casper and the “unboxing” phenomenon: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ST141MKcXSg.  
 


It is also possible that our results are skewed by the fact that we are forced to 
measure Casper reviewers: younger Casper buyers might be more willing to leave 
a review than older buyers. This might also explain why, in the above chart, Casper 
appears slightly over-represented in the 60+ age group: older, retired people seem 
more likely to leave a review than (generally busier) people aged 30-59.    
 
 In any event, the age demographic of Casper reviewers does not appear far 
off the industry average (as represented by our SurveyMonkey survey of higher-
income mattress buyers). It does not appear that the online “bed-in-a-box” 
companies are selling primarily to young millennials.    
 
 Nor does it appear that Casper customers are necessarily much less well off 
than Tempur-Pedic customers. According to Alexa.com, which tracks the 
demographic information of website visitors, visitors to Casper.com are over-
indexed to the $60k-$100k household income group (left hand side, below), much 
like visitors to Tempurpedic.com (right hand side, below).
14 


Figure 5. Annual income of visitors to Casper.com (LHS) and Tempurpedic.com (RHS) 


  
Source: Alexa.com, OWS 
 
 Our survey results also support the notion that online competitors are likely 
taking market share from Tempur-Pedic. Of the 611 recent mattress buyers (with 
incomes >$75k) who answered the question in our survey, 76 of them, or 12%, 
purchased online (N.B. only one of the 76 online buyers chose a Tempur-Pedic). 
When the online buyer group was asked, “Which other mattress brands did you 
consider?” a full 33% of them claim to have considered Tempur-Pedic.  
 
 The other key consideration is that many Tempur-Pedic buyers do not enter 
a mattress store intending to buy only a Tempur-Pedic. Rather, the mattress store 
sales process is based on aggressive up-selling. Customers (who almost invariably 
have little knowledge about mattresses) are shown the high-end Tempur-Pedics 
first, and a substantial number of them are “up-sold.” The growth of alternative 
channels, by keeping higher-income people out of mattress stores altogether, 
eliminates the opportunity to up-sell customers to the Tempur-Pedic brand.    
 
4. Is the Tempur-Pedic brand strong enough to remain untouched by new 
competition? 
 


Bulls might argue that, even if these new competitors are tapping into much 
of the same customer base that buys premium Sealy and Tempur-Pedic products, 
the Tempur-Pedic brand (though probably not Sealy’s) is strong enough to be 
unaffected by lower-priced competition.  


 
Tempur-Pedic, which has been advertising on national TV for many years, 


clearly enjoys very high brand recognition. However, this advertising has done a 
great deal to create popular awareness around the “memory foam” category more 
generally (from which awareness TPX’s new competitors appear to be benefitting), 
at the same time that it has distinguished Tempur-Pedic as a specific brand among 
mainstream consumers.
15 


Our research and fieldwork suggests that many customers use the term 
“Tempur-Pedic” as a stand-in for the memory foam category in general, the way a 
tissue is known as a “Kleenex,” even if the tissue is another brand.  


 
This is a subtle issue, and based on anecdote, but there are several data 


points that support the notion. First, according to Google Trends, the volume of 
Google searches for “tempurpedic” specifically has been gradually declining for 
several years, since peaking in 2011 (which is also when TPX revenues peaked, 
just before the iComfort introduction). Meanwhile, search volume for “memory 
foam” has grown steadily, as category awareness has grown. See Figure 6, below.   
 
Figure 6. Google search volumes 


 
Source: Google Trends, OWS 
 


Second, this idea is supported by the results of our online SurveyMonkey 
survey of recent mattress buyers with household incomes >$75k. The survey asked 
customers which brand of mattress they bought (allowing them to choose from a 
list of 11 popular brands, including Tempur-Pedic, or else select “Other” and fill in 
the brand manually). It also asked them, “How much did you initially budget for 
your mattress purchase?” and “How much did you end up spending?” 


 
60 respondents to the survey reported that they had bought a “Tempur-


Pedic,” and also disclosed how much they budgeted and paid. Revealingly, of this 
60, 22 of them (37%) claimed to have budgeted and spent less than $1,000 on their
16 


“Tempur-Pedic.” Another 9 respondents (15%) claimed to have spent between 
$1,000 and $1,500. Note that the cheapest Tempur-Pedics are $2,000 at MSRP 
and, in our experience, rarely fall below $1,500 even on clearance. Of course, it is 
quite possible that a few respondents entered incorrect data for the amount paid. 
However, given that over half of the self-reported “Tempur-Pedic” buyers reported 
paying below $1,500 (several of whom referred to the “good price” they paid in the 
comment box), this suggests many of them may actually have purchased a different 
brand of memory foam mattress, which they called a “Tempur-Pedic” in the 
survey.           


 
A related bull argument is that the wide gap in price between Tempur-Pedic 


(which generally ranges from $2,000-$5,000) and the new “bed-in-a-box” entrants 
(which are priced from $500-$900) insulates Tempur-Pedic from competition. The 
price gap, this argument goes, signals to consumers that these products are at a 
different level of quality, and that a consumer who is willing to pay $3,000 for a 
Tempur-Pedic mattress, wouldn’t even consider these other options, much like 
someone who is thinking about purchasing a Mercedes S-Class doesn’t also test 
drive a Honda.    


 
Putting aside the obvious fact that many people who want a Mercedes and 


are unwilling to consider a Honda are driven more by what their neighbors think 
than by the quality difference, and not too many of your neighbors can see the 
label on the bed you are sleeping on, it seems that Tempur-Pedic’s own history 
also appears to contradict the notion that consumers are unwilling to trade down in 
price if the quality difference is not obvious. In 2012, in response to the iComfort 
and other new competition, the company introduced the Tempur-Pedic 
“Simplicity” product line. Starting at $1,099, the Simplicity was priced much 
lower than other Tempur-Pedic branded mattresses, and was meant to provide 
Tempur-Pedic (which hadn’t yet acquired Sealy) with a product to compete in the 
$1,000-$2,000 price range.  


 
At the time, TPX management argued that the Simplicity would appeal to 


those consumers who wanted the Tempur-Pedic brand, but couldn’t afford the 
price tag. Management dismissed suggestions that the Simplicity would 
cannibalize sales of higher-priced Tempur-Pedics, arguing that customers would 
clearly identify that a $3,000 Tempur-Pedic is of vastly different quality than a 
$1,500 one. This argument appears to have been off the mark, and TPX 
discontinued the Simplicity line when it started to cannibalize sales of Tempur-
Pedic’s other, higher-priced mattresses.  


 
Second, many of the “bed-in-a-box” companies openly state that their 


product is of equal quality to a Tempur-Pedic, and advertise that their prices are 
much lower simply because they are “cutting out the middleman” and selling
17 


online. This is a convincing argument that consumers understand, and it seems to 
be resonating.  


 
Tuft & Needle, for example, shows a detailed breakout of mattress COGS on 


its website and openly attacks high-priced competitors for their “scams” and 
“gimmicks” (https://www.tuftandneedle.com/about/truth). Loom & Leaf 
(https://www.loomandleaf.com/), a $999 mattress by Saatva (which is sold online 
but is not a “bed-in-a-box”), openly states on its homepage: “Objectively 
measured, Loom & Leaf is best compared to iComfort and Tempur-Pedic, but our 
efficient online business model allows us to charge significantly less.” Casper’s 
website reads, “If our products cost less than the competition, it’s because we 
found a better way of doing things, not because we cut corners or went with the 
lesser option.”  


 
As this idea gains wider currency (i.e. that a Tempur-Pedic costs more 


simply because of “inflated” profit margins and “inefficient” bricks & mortar 
distribution), it may become difficult for TPX to sustain the image that its 
mattresses are priced so high because of a vast quality difference.  


     
A central problem for TPX, then, is that the quality gap between a Tempur-


Pedic brand mattress and its newer, lower-priced competitors is not great 
(remember, they are all made basically from the same ingredients, with slight 
variations). In our experience, the salespeople at mattress specialty retailers don’t 
seek to obscure this fact: the sales pitch we commonly heard is that “each mattress 
is different, and you need to choose what feels right to you,” not, “the Tempur-
Pedic is much more comfortable than these other options.” One salesperson told us 
that Tempur-Pedic is merely a product for “snobs.”    


 
Therefore, while Tempur-Pedic may appeal to a specific customer base that 


is very price insensitive and that recognizes and desires the Tempur brand 
specifically, we think this group will not be large enough to overcome the trend for 
consumers to consider good quality alternatives at lower price points.  


 
As more competition enters, and as prices on premium mattresses continue 


to fall, we think consumers, presented with a mushrooming variety of “Tempur-
Pedics” at much lower prices, and across a growing array of channels, will 
increasingly choose TPX’s lower priced competitors.  
 
5. The recent duopoly enjoyed by TPX and Serta-Simmons in premium foam 
mattresses appears to be breaking down.  
 
 Our fieldwork suggests that specialty mattress retailers are coming under 
pressure from competition in alternative channels.
18 


 
This notion is based, first, on anecdotal evidence. Nearly a dozen 


salespeople with whom we spoke expressed the opinion that the “bed-in-a-box” 
offerings were having a noticeable impact on their business, and that traffic was 
“slower than normal.” For example, one area manager at Mattress Firm with eight 
years’ experience told us that “bed-in-a-box” was impacting his business “for 
sure,” and told us that the introduction of the Kozma bed (see below) was Mattress 
Firm’s response to this new competition. We note that, during the roughly ~150 
hours we spent in mattress stores, we saw less than a dozen other customers (albeit 
we conducted most of our visits on weekdays, during a seasonally slow period for 
mattress buying).  


 
Second, it appeared during our recent mattress store visits that promotional 


intensity had increased. At Mattress Firm, for example, a “Black Friday” sale 
transitioned immediately to a “Year-End Sale,” during the period we were visiting 
stores (Figure 7, below). In our experience, retailers have tended to run their 
promotions during the spring or on Labor Day, which are seasonally stronger 
periods for mattress buying.      
 
Figure 7. Mattress Firm / Sleep Experts: “Black Friday” sale segues to “Year-End Sale” 


     
Source: OWS 


 
Third, the recent introduction of high-quality foam mattresses below the 


$1,000 price point at Mattress Firm and other retailers appears to be, as suggested
19 


by the store manager discussed above, a needed response to “bed-in-a-box” 
competition.   
 


It appears that, starting around October 2015, Mattress Firm introduced the 
“Kozma” (part of Serta’s “Perfect Sleeper” line of premium foam beds) to the sales 
floor. The Kozma (which is called the “Kiernan” at hhgregg) is priced at $999 
MSRP for a queen. However, we note that, since we have been visiting stores in 
mid-November, the Kozma has consistently been on sale for $799 ($200 off 
MSRP), and, in our most recent visit to a Mattress Firm this past weekend, MSRP 
had been reduced to $799.   


 
It appears the Kozma is selling well. Each of the Mattress Firm salespeople 


with whom we spoke indicated that the store had sold somewhere between 1-4 
Kozmas since the SKU was introduced to the sales floor roughly a month earlier. 
In one Mattress Firm we visited, the salesperson told us he had sold two Kozmas 
that same day (we estimate that a typical Mattress Firm store sells ~75 mattresses 
per month). Each Mattress Firm salesperson with whom we spoke also confirmed 
that no customers had returned the Kozma mattress, and multiple salespeople noted 
“customers really like the price.” 


 
Similarly, sometime during Summer 2015, Sleepy’s introduced a $799 


premium foam mattress under the Broyhill brand, and this also appears to be 
selling well. According to one store manager with whom we spoke, multiple 
salespeople at the store (including himself) had bought the Broyhill for themselves, 
and were generally telling customers that it was the “best deal” in the store. When 
we asked why the Broyhill was priced so much lower than $1,000-$2,000 beds of 
seemingly comparable quality, one store manager at Sleepy’s suggested there was 
no quality-based reason, but that “it’s just a really aggressive price point.”    


 
Perhaps in response to the success of these sub-$1,000 SKUs, we also noted 


an increase in promotional intensity around the mid-range ($1,000-$2,000) foam 
segment during our store visits. For example, Serta began running a promotion that 
offered a free “pivot” adjustable base (the lower-end model) with purchase of an 
iComfort or iSeries mattress (Figure 8, below). This adjustable base normally costs 
$800.
20 


Figure 8. Serta adjustable base promotion 


  
Source: OWS 


 
Importantly, we were also told by a salesperson at Mattress Firm that the 


lowest-priced Sealy Optimum (which starts at $1,299) has not been selling well, 
and that Mattress Firm was closing out the inventory of this model in order to pull 
it from the sales floor. We note that, in our visits, this Optimum was typically 
located right next to the Kozma.  


 
Bulls might argue that Mattress Firm has little incentive to push sub-$1,000 


foam beds that cannibalize its higher-priced, higher-gross profit mattresses. 
However, it seems that, faced with a consumer that is increasingly aware of the 
burgeoning number of high-quality memory foam options for less than $1,000 via 
other channels, the specialty retailers like Mattress Firm might have no choice but 
to compete at this price point.  


 
The signs in the window at the Mattress Firm shown in Figure 9, below, 


illustrate this point.
21 


Figure 9. Mattress Firm window signs: “MEMORY FOAM starting at $295” 


   
Source: OWS 


 
If our thesis is correct, we think it likely that more display space will be 


allocated to sub-$1,000 SKUs at Mattress Firm and other retailers, as they are 
increasingly forced to compete with alternative channels.  


 
In fact, this might already be happening. This past weekend, during a visit to 


a Mattress Firm in Florida, we observed that a new, Mattress Firm-branded 
memory foam mattress ($699 for a Queen) had been introduced. Salespeople in the 
store told us that this mattress (which is made for Mattress Firm by Sherwood 
Bedding) had “just come in” and was intended to compare against the Kozma. We 
note this new offering was of notably higher quality than the existing private label 
foam SKUs at the store (which are branded with Mattress firm’s “Hampton” 
brand), which are priced at $599 and below.
22 


Figure 10. New Mattress Firm-branded SKU 


   
Source: OWS 
 
6. TPX’s reported numbers have been boosted by one-time tailwinds, which are 
now lapping. Without these tailwinds, the reported numbers appear to support the 
notion that Tempur-Pedic and Sealy have been losing market share to new 
competition.  
 
 Figure 11, below, shows an index of Tempur-Pedic’s North American 
revenues compared to an index of wholesale US mattress revenues as reported by 
ISPA. Although Tempur-Pedic regained some ground in 2014 and 2015 (we 
discuss possible reasons for this, below), it appears that Tempur-Pedic’s market 
share remains below the peak level it achieved in 2011, just before the first 
(serious) new competition started entering Tempur-Pedic’s market with the 
introduction of the iComfort.
23 


Figure 11. Annual revenues: Tempur-Pedic NA versus total US industry (2011 = 1.00).  
*Includes both mattress and foundation revenues  


  
Source: Company filings, OWS, ISPA / Mattress Firm 2015 Analyst Day presentation 
 


It appears that Sealy may also have started losing market share in the 
premium foam market over the past few quarters. TPX management disclosed that 
Sealy’s US sales grew “mid single-digits” in 2Q15 and “low single digits” in 
3Q15, with gross margins down Y/Y in both quarters due to a shift in mix away 
from premium foam beds and toward low-end innerspring beds. As noted above, 
our fieldwork indicates that sales of the Sealy Optimum line might be weakening, 
and that the lowest-priced model might be pulled from the sales floor at Mattress 
Firm. 


 
These market share losses by Tempur-Pedic and Sealy might have been 


partially masked by a series of one-time tailwinds in 2014 and 2015.  
 
First, Tempur-Pedic appears to have substantially boosted sales of add-on 


functionality over the past two years.  
 
In 2Q12, the company introduced the “Breeze” upgrade, which adds an extra 


layer of “climate control” foam to the top of a Tempur-Pedic mattress for an 
additional $1,000 (for a queen). This addressed a key concern among Tempur-
Pedic owners, that the mattress slept too hot.  


 
Starting around 2Q14, Tempur-Pedic also substantially boosted its sales of 


adjustable bases. Recall that an adjustable base costs between $800-$2,000,
24 


compared to only $300 for a traditional foundation without moving parts. Based on 
management’s commentary, it appears that the attachment rate of adjustable bases 
increased from ~30% in early 2014 to 55%-60% now. Assuming an ASP for 
adjustable bases of $800 (at wholesale), on an annual base of roughly ~600k 
mattress units, we estimate the increase in the adjustable attachment rate added 
roughly ~$100MM to Tempur-Pedic’s revenues. Excluding this ~$100MM, we 
estimate that Tempur-Pedic’s North American revenues over the TTM period 
would have been roughly ~$1.0B, unchanged from 2011. Note that management 
has indicated that the growth tailwind from increasing the attachment rate of 
adjustable bases has now largely played out.               


 
Tempur-Pedic’s success in selling these high-priced add-ons accords with 


our thesis that there is a relatively small group of core Tempur-Pedic buyers who 
are not very price sensitive, and who are willing to pay substantially more for 
added functionality.  


 
Note, also, that in 1Q15 Tempur-Pedic implemented a 3% price increase that 


was passed through by retailers. Bulls might point to this price increase as 
evidence that the Tempur-Pedic brand is very strong. However, per our discussion 
of the Tempur-Pedic brand, above, there may be a different way to think about this. 
Indeed, by raising prices, Tempur-Pedic might be trying to maximize the revenues 
it can extract from this small core of less price-sensitive buyers. This may well be 
the case. However, the problem is that, by further widening the price gap between 
Tempur-Pedic and other high-quality options, Tempur-Pedic risks becoming 
increasingly marginalized, as more consumers opt to trade down to (increasingly) 
less expensive alternatives.  


 
The other problem is that, while the growth tailwinds from the Breeze and 


from adjustable bases have now lapped, it is not clear what more add-on 
functionality Tempur-Pedic can now sell to these less price sensitive customers.  


 
The other tailwind that has boosted Tempur-Pedic’s sales growth was the 


introduction of the Tempur-Flex hybrid (foam + springs) mattress in 2Q15. This 
was Tempur-Pedic’s first hybrid mattress (hybrids are also sold under the Sealy, 
Serta, and Simmons brands), and it appears to have addressed a key market niche: 
customers who wanted a “Tempur-Pedic,” but don’t like foam-only mattresses 
(which have a very distinctive feel from traditional mattresses with springs).  


 
TPX management has said that most retailers have allocated an additional 


spot on the sales floor to Tempur-Pedic for the Flex hybrid. During our store visits, 
we observed that the typical Mattress Firm store had 8-10 slots allocated to 
Tempur-Pedic, of which one was for the Flex. Assuming that sales are generally
25 


correlated with slots, the introduction of a new slot implies perhaps an 11%-13% 
sales boost to TPX from the Flex hybrid, which will lap in 2Q16.  


 
Data reported by Mattress Firm and Leggett & Platt confirm that hybrid beds 


are growing in popularity. The proportion of “conventional” beds sold by Mattress 
Firm (which is defined as any mattress with springs) have rebounded to multi-year 
highs, while AUPs have also been increasing, which MFRM management 
attributes to a mix shift to premium hybrid beds. Meanwhile, LEG has disclosed 
that “ComfortCore” innerspring volumes, which it sells mainly into hybrid beds, 
now account for almost 30% of total innerspring volumes, up from 17% a year 
ago. Notably, LEG has revealed that the company is in discussions with several 
“bed-in-a-box” companies to develop hybrid beds of their own.          


 
  Finally, in 2Q14 Tempur-Pedic completed a major refresh of its flagship 


Contour and Cloud product lines. This was the first major change in these products 
for 5-7 years, and appears to have boosted sales. This product launch has now 
lapped. 


 
Table 2, below, shows a timeline that illustrates the product launches and 


tailwinds discussed above. Note that management stopped highlighting adjustable 
bases as a growth driver after this tailwind lapped in 2Q15.  


 
Table 2. Tempur-Pedic: N.A. bedding sales growth and management commentary 





1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 1Q15** 2Q15** 3Q15** 


Bedding revs Y/Y% -2.5% 12.2% 19.5% 18.4% 8.0% 17.0% 17.0% 


Product launches   
Contour, 
Cloud       Flex   


Mgmt commentary 
re: adjustables 


Increased as 
% of mix 


Increased 
as % of 
mix 


Attach rates 
"nearly 
double" Y/Y, 
Sales growth 
>50% Y/Y 


"Attach rates 
now >50%" 
[Feb-15 
conference]       


Revenue growth 
drivers*  ND 


Contour / 
Cloud, 
Breeze, 
Adj. bases 


Contour / 
Cloud, Adj. 
bases 


Contour / 
Cloud, Adj. 
bases 


Contour / 
Cloud, 
Adj. 
bases 


Flex, 
Adj. 
bases, 
Breeze 


Flex, 
Breeze 


*These are called out by management each quarter in conference call prepared remarks. 
  ** Beginning 1Q15, management stopped disclosing Tempur N.A. sales figures. On conference calls, however, 


management said that Tempur NA sales were up "High single-digits" in 1Q15, and "High teens" in 2Q15 and 3Q15. 
Source: Company filings, conference call transcripts, OWS 


 
As for Sealy, it appears the brand received a substantial tailwind to its 


premium foam business starting 2Q14. At that time, it seems that Mattress Firm 
replaced the iComfort with Sealy’s Optimum line of products at many of its stores 
(excluding Texas, California, and other scattered areas). TPX management does 
not appear to have disclosed this win publicly, except to note on its 3Q14
26 


conference call that “Increased distribution with some of our more important 
customers” contributed to sales growth that quarter. As recently as 1Q15, 
management noted that Optimum was growing sales at a “double digit” rate. 
However, the iComfort replacement appears to have lapped in 2Q15. In 3Q15, 
management disclosed that total Sealy revenues grew only “low single-digits” in 
the US, and that its mix of premium foam mattresses (namely Optimum) declined.    


 
7. Recent results 
 
 TPX reported 3Q15 results on Oct-29, and is expected to announce 4Q15 
results on Feb-4.  
 


Total 3Q15 revenues of $880MM roughly matched consensus of $874MM, 
while Adj. EPS of $1.11 beat consensus of $1.08. North America revenues (which 
includes both Tempur-Pedic and Sealy) of $741MM grew +8% Y/Y. Management 
disclosed that Tempur-Pedic US revenues grew in the “high teens” while Sealy US 
revenues grew in the “low single digits.”  Management called out the Tempur-
Flex, Sealy Posturepedic (relaunched in 2Q15), and the Tempur Breeze as the key 
revenue growth drivers in the quarter.  


 
International sales of $139MM fell -2% Y/Y but increased +14% Y/Y in 


constant currency, driven by Sealy in Latin America. Growth has also been 
boosted by Sealy’s return to selling in Europe earlier this year, though management 
noted on the 3Q15 call that Sealy’s Euro rollout had been “disappointing” so far.  


 
Total 3Q15 gross margin of 40.9% was up +240bps Y/Y but only +30bps 


from 3Q13. The Y/Y increase was driven by Tempur-Pedic in North America. 
Management disclosed that Sealy’s N. American gross margins were down Y/Y, 
which implies an increase of ~700bps Y/Y at Tempur-Pedic. We attribute +300bps 
of the GPM expansion to the 2Q15 price increase, and another +400bps primarily 
to falling commodity prices and operating leverage.   


 
Advertising expenses increased +60bps Y/Y as a % of sales (to 11.7%) 


while other sales & marketing expenses declined -80bps Y/Y (to 8.2%), resulting 
in total S&M leverage of +20bps Y/Y. G&A expense totaled $79.8MM on a 
GAAP basis, up +50bps Y/Y as a % of sales (to 9.1%). After backing out $9.8MM 
in “integration” and other costs, we estimate Adj. G&A expense was $70.0MM, up 
+40bps Y/Y. In 3Q15, management announced layoffs at the corporate level that 
are expected to save $15MM in operating expense p.a. Due to GPM expansion, 
only partially offset by SG&A deleverage, GAAP OPM expanded +210bps Y/Y, to 
12.6%.
27 


 Management’s updated 2015 guidance implied 4Q15 revenues of $779MM 
and Adj. EPS of $0.96 (both at the midpoint). It is expected that management will 
provide 2016 guidance on its next earnings call.  
    
8. Financial assumptions 
 
 We project total TPX revenues of $779MM in 4Q15 (versus $786MM 
consensus), $3,234MM in 2016 (vs. $3,363MM) and $3,291MM in 2017 (vs. 
$3,600MM). Our Adj. EPS projections are $0.99 in 4Q15 (same as consensus), 
$3.57 in 2016 (vs. $3.88) and $3.76 in 2017 (vs. $4.44).  
 


Our model projects a shortfall in revenue growth (versus “street” 
expectations of 6%-7% p.a.) at both Tempur-Pedic and Sealy in 2016 and 2017. 
For Tempur-Pedic N. America, we project revenue growth of +15% Y/Y in 4Q15 
and +10% Y/Y in 1Q16, driven by the 2Q15 introduction of the Flex (which, as 
discussed above, we estimate added roughly 11%-13% to revenue growth) and the 
2Q15 price increase of +3%. Once these anniversary in 2Q16, we model 2.5% Y/Y 
growth for Tempur-Pedic in 3Q16 and 4Q16, consisting of ~1% volume growth 
and ~1.5% from additional price increases (management has indicated that it 
intends to raise prices on several Tempur-Pedic products in 2016), resulting in 
+4.0% Y/Y growth in 2016. Our projection for 2017 revenue growth is +2.5% 
Y/Y, based on the same assumptions.  


 
To put this number into context, assume that online sales were to roughly 


double, from 8% of US mattress industry sales in 2015 ($1.2B), to 14% in 2017 
($2.5B), assuming a 6% industry CAGR. This seems reasonable: we note that at 
least one of the leading online “bed-in-a-box” companies is forecasting that its 
revenues will triple Y/Y in 2016 alone. We estimate this would result in roughly 
$1.3B of market share gains for the online companies. If only 10% of these market 
share gains were to come from Tempur-Pedic, that’s $130MM, or 12% of Tempur-
Pedic’s current revenue base in N. America. All told, we project revenues of 
$1.21B in 2017 for Tempur N.A., roughly ~$150MM below the “street.”   


 
 We project Sealy N. America revenue growth to be flat in 4Q15, and fall -
1.0% Y/Y in 2016 and 2017 (US sales grew “low single digits” in 3Q15), resulting 
in a roughly ~$150MM shortfall versus “street” projections. We assume ~1% Y/Y 
growth in Sealy’s innerspring products and low- to mid-single digit Y/Y declines 
in the premium foam products, including Optimum (based on management’s 
disclosures, it appears that growth in these products was slightly negative in 
3Q15). As discussed above, our fieldwork indicates that competitive pressure on 
Sealy’s mid-range foam business is intensifying, and this might accelerate if 
mattress retailers continue to roll out additional sub-$1,000 SKUs.
28 


 At Tempur-Pedic North America, we project +520bps of gross margin 
expansion in 2016 (on top of an estimated +660bps of GPM expansion in 2015), 
and another +30bps expansion in 2017. This assumes 150-250bps of expansion 
from price increases in 2016 (plus a small benefit to 2017), with the remainder of 
the 2016 GPM increase driven by falling raw material (i.e. foam and steel) costs, 
which make up 30% of COGS, according to management. Meanwhile, we project 
that the decline in Sealy N.A. gross margins will continue (margins fell Y/Y the 
past two quarters), with the commodity tailwind more than offset by negative mix 
shift (from high-margin premium foam beds to lower-margin innerspring ones) and 
volume deleverage.  
 
 We project a slight deleveraging of S&M expenses in 2016 (-10bps Y/Y) 
and 2017 (-10bps Y/Y), driven by higher advertising expenses and weakening 
sales growth. This is offset by a decline in G&A as a % of sales, by -50bps Y/Y in 
2015 and -50bps Y/Y in 2017, as management’s recent cost-reduction efforts flow 
through the income statement. Altogether, we project GAAP operating margins of 
12.7% in 2016 (+230bps Y/Y) and 13.4% in 2017 (+70bps Y/Y). 
 
 Our model assumes that TPX uses its free cash flow to pay down debt, rather 
than for stock repurchases. We project interest expense to decrease to $72MM in 
2016 (versus $93MM in 2015) and $60MM in 2017, and project a slight increase 
in share count over the same time period.          
 
9. Valuation 
 


Our $42 price target represents 11.8x our projected 2016 EPS of $3.57, and 
11.2x our projected 2017 Adj. EPS of $3.76. By comparison, TPX peer Select 
Comfort (SCSS), which has been experiencing difficulties recently, due in part to a 
problematic ERP implementation that has affected sales, trades at 12.7x 2016 EPS 
and 10.9x 2017 EPS. Mattress Firm (MFRM) trades at 16.8x 2016 EPS and 13.6x 
2017 EPS, but the “street” is projecting 20% annual EPS growth for MFRM, 
compared to our 5% growth projection for TPX in 2017.   


 
Many investors appear to be focused on TPX’s 2017 EBITDA, given the 


CEO’s “aspirational” target of $650MM, discussed above. We project Adj. 
EBTIDA of $517MM in 2017, compared to $579MM projected by the “street.” 
The $4.1B EV implied by our price target represents 7.9x our EBITDA projection. 
By comparison, SCSS and MFRM trade at 4.6x and 6.4x projected 2017 EBITDA, 
respectively.   


 
We think the most likely catalyst for our thesis is disappointing results, 


followed by a renewed appreciation by investors of the long-term, structural 
competitive pressures that have been facing TPX since the introduction of the
29 


iComfort in 2011, when we last wrote about this stock. We note that, in 2012, 
when it became clear that TPX was losing share to new competitors, the stock 
traded at 10x the “street’s” earnings projections for two years ahead. If our thesis 
plays out, and investors begin to question TPX’s long-term competitive 
positioning, we think they will likely place a similar valuation on TPX shares.            
 
10. Risks 
 
 With regard to the top line, the biggest risk to our thesis is that we’ve 
underestimated TPX’s ability to extract additional revenues by selling more add-
ons to its “hard core” of less price sensitive customers. In part, this will depend on 
TPX’s ability to introduce new product innovations that gain substantial traction, 
and this is difficult to predict. We note that the annual mattress conference in Las 
Vegas, where companies announce new product launches for the spring, will be 
held in a few weeks.  
 
 Another key risk to our thesis is the potential for greater than expected 
margin expansion. We have been conservative in projecting margin expansion at 
Tempur-Pedic, but, as we discuss above, we are making more bearish margin 
assumptions for Sealy (where margins continue to deteriorate). TPX’s cost 
structure is opaque and it is difficult to predict how successful the company’s new 
management team will be at cost cutting.     
 
11. Financial projections
30 


Annual projections 
     ($MM) 2013 2014 2015E 2016E 2017E 


Revenue 2,464.3 2,989.8 3,163.1 3,234.1 3,291.9 
COGS 1,449.4 1,839.4 1,893.3 1,874.6 1,899.3 
Gross profit 1,014.9 1,150.4 1,269.8 1,359.5 1,392.6 
S&M 522.9 619.9 660.4 678.5 693.7 
Royalty income 13.7 18.1 18.4 18.8 18.8 
Equity method earnings 4.4 8.3 11.3 13.4 13.4 
G&A 266.3 280.6 308.6 302.0 290.0 
EBIT 243.8 276.3 330.5 411.2 441.1 
Interest expense 110.8 91.9 93.3 72.2 60.0 
Loss on disposal, net 0.0 23.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Other income (expense) 5.0 -13.7 12.7 0.0 0.0 
EBT 128.0 174.9 224.5 339.0 381.1 
Income taxes 49.1 64.9 78.4 125.4 141.0 
Net income b/f NCI 78.9 110.0 146.1 213.6 240.1 
NCI 0.3 1.1 2.8 3.2 4.4 
GAAP net income 78.6 108.9 143.3 210.4 235.7 
GAAP EPS (FD) $1.28 $1.75 $2.28 $3.32 $3.70 
FD shares 61.6 62.1 62.7 63.4 63.8 


      Non-GAAP adjustment 
     GAAP net income 78.6 108.9 143.3 210.4 235.7 


Transaction costs, net 13.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Integration costs, net 18.1 30.6 21.2 16.0 0.0 
Restructuring, net 0.0 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 
Other adjustments 20.5 8.8 33.9 0.0 4.0 
Normalized tax rate 
adjustment 11.0 16.3 -0.3 0.0 0.0 
Adj. net income 141.3 164.6 199.8 226.4 239.7 
Adj. EPS (FD) $2.39 $2.66 $3.18 $3.57 $3.76 


      % of sales 
     Revenues 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 


COGS 58.8% 61.5% 59.9% 58.0% 57.7% 
Gross profit 41.2% 38.5% 40.1% 42.0% 42.3% 
S&M 21.2% 20.7% 20.9% 21.0% 21.1% 
Royalty income 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 
Equity method earnings 0.2% 0.3% 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% 
G&A 10.8% 9.4% 9.8% 9.3% 8.8% 
EBIT 9.9% 9.2% 10.4% 12.7% 13.4% 
Interest expense 4.5% 3.1% 2.9% 2.2% 1.8% 
Loss on disposal, net 0.0% 0.8% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Other income (expense) 0.2% -0.5% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 
EBT 5.2% 5.8% 7.1% 10.5% 11.6% 
Income taxes 2.0% 2.2% 2.5% 3.9% 4.3% 
Net income b/f NCI 3.2% 3.7% 4.6% 6.6% 7.3% 
NCI 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 
GAAP net income 3.2% 3.6% 4.5% 6.5% 7.2%
31 


Y/Y% 
     Revenues 75.7% 21.3% 5.8% 2.2% 1.8% 


COGS 110.6% 26.9% 2.9% -1.0% 1.3% 
Gross profit 42.0% 13.4% 10.4% 7.1% 2.4% 
S&M 63.9% 18.6% 6.5% 2.7% 2.2% 
Royalty income NM 32.1% 1.7% 2.2% 0.0% 
Equity method 
earnings NM 88.6% 36.1% 18.6% 0.0% 
G&A 80.9% 5.4% 10.0% -2.1% -4.0% 
EBIT -1.8% 13.3% 19.6% 24.4% 7.3% 
Interest expense 489.4% -17.1% 1.5% -22.6% -16.9% 
Loss on disposal, net NM NM NM NM NM 
Other income 
(expense) NM NM NM NM NM 
EBT -44.2% 36.6% 28.4% 51.0% 12.4% 
Income taxes -59.9% 32.2% 20.8% 60.0% 12.4% 
Net income b/f NCI -26.1% 39.4% 32.8% 46.1% 12.4% 
NCI NM 266.7% 154.5% 14.3% 37.5% 
GAAP net income -26.4% 38.5% 31.6% 46.8% 12.0% 
GAAP EPS (FD) -24.9% 37.4% 30.2% 45.4% 11.3% 
FD shares -2.1% 0.8% 0.9% 1.1% 0.6% 
Adj. EPS (FD) -8.2% 11.3% 19.7% 12.2% 5.2%
32 


Quarterly projections 
     ($MM) 2Q15 3Q15E 4Q15E 1Q16E 2Q16E 


Revenue 764.4 880.0 779.2 769.0 769.0 
COGS 466.9 520.4 445.2 455.7 455.7 
Gross profit 297.5 359.6 334.0 313.3 313.3 
S&M 168.6 175.6 162.4 162.2 162.2 
Royalty income 4.8 4.7 4.7 4.7 4.7 
Equity method earnings 3.4 2.0 2.9 3.4 3.4 
G&A 85.1 79.8 66.0 78.0 78.0 
EBIT 52.0 110.9 113.2 81.3 81.3 
Interest expense 20.5 33.2 19.2 19.0 19.0 
Loss on disposal, net 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Other income (expense) 2.2 11.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 
EBT 29.3 65.9 94.0 62.3 62.3 
Income taxes 8.3 25.0 34.8 23.0 23.0 
Net income b/f NCI 21.0 40.9 59.2 39.2 39.2 
NCI -0.2 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 
GAAP net income 21.2 40.2 58.5 38.5 38.5 
GAAP EPS (FD) $0.34 $0.64 $0.93 $0.61 $0.61 
FD shares 62.4 62.9 63.1 63.2 63.2 


      Non-GAAP adjustment 
     GAAP net income 21.2 40.2 58.5 38.5 38.5 


Transaction costs, net 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Integration costs, net 4.7 4.2 4.0 4.0 4.0 
Restructuring, net 0.0 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Other adjustments 8.0 23.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Normalized tax rate 
adjustment -0.6 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Adj. net income 33.3 69.9 62.5 42.5 42.5 
Adj. EPS (FD) $0.53 $1.11 $0.99 $0.67 $0.67 


      % of sales 
     Revenues 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 


COGS 61.1% 59.1% 57.1% 59.3% 59.3% 
Gross profit 38.9% 40.9% 42.9% 40.7% 40.7% 
S&M 22.1% 20.0% 20.8% 21.1% 21.1% 
Royalty income 0.6% 0.5% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 
Equity method earnings 0.4% 0.2% 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% 
G&A 11.1% 9.1% 8.5% 10.1% 10.1% 
EBIT 6.8% 12.6% 14.5% 10.6% 10.6% 
Interest expense 2.7% 3.8% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 
Loss on disposal, net 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
Other income (expense) 0.3% 1.3% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 
EBT 3.8% 7.5% 12.1% 8.1% 8.1% 
Income taxes 1.1% 2.8% 4.5% 3.0% 3.0% 
Net income b/f NCI 2.7% 4.6% 7.6% 5.1% 5.1% 
NCI 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 
GAAP net income 2.8% 4.6% 7.5% 5.0% 5.0%
33 


Y/Y% 
     Revenues 6.9% 6.4% 4.5% 4.0% 1.7% 


COGS 4.5% 2.3% -1.4% -1.1% -1.6% 
Gross profit 10.9% 12.9% 13.6% 12.4% 6.8% 
S&M 8.6% 5.3% 4.8% 5.4% 2.0% 
Royalty income NM NM NM NM NM 
Equity method 
earnings NM NM NM NM NM 
G&A 22.4% 12.7% -5.7% 0.4% -6.0% 
EBIT 3.4% 27.3% 48.0% 49.4% 43.1% 
Interest expense -10.9% 31.2% -10.3% -6.9% -9.3% 
Loss on disposal, net NM NM NM NM NM 
Other income 
(expense) NM NM NM NM NM 
EBT 295.9% 10.0% 37.4% 76.4% 90.5% 
Income taxes -15.3% 11.6% 64.1% 123.6% 148.8% 
Net income b/f NCI NM NM NM NM NM 
NCI NM NM NM NM NM 
GAAP net income NM NM NM NM NM 
GAAP EPS (FD) NM NM NM NM NM 
FD shares 2.6% 1.3% 1.6% 1.6% 1.4% 
Adj. EPS (FD) 35.2% 25.9% 15.7% 22.7% 13.6%
34 


Financial metrics 
   


    Price $60.36 
  Shares 62.9 
  MV $3,797 
  


    Net debt $1,415 
  EV $5,212 
  


    Book value $299 
  TBV -$1,116 
  


    ($MM) FY15E FY16E FY17E 
Adj. EBIT 378.1 427.2 445.1 
Adj. EBITDA 451.0 501.2 521.1 
SCF (NI + D&A - 
CapEx) 207.1 242.4 257.7 
CFFO 155.8 284.3 315.5 
CapEx 65.6 58.0 58.0 


    EV/EBITDA 11.6x 10.4x 10.0x 
EV/(EBITDA-CapEx) 13.5x 11.8x 11.3x
