1


Full Legal Disclaimer


This research presentation expresses our research opinions.  You should assume that as of the publication date of any presentation, report or letter, Spruce 
Point Capital Management LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our subscribers 
and clients has a short position in all stocks (and are long/short combinations of puts and calls on the stock) covered herein, including without limitation iRobot 
Corporation (“IRBT”), and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any presentation, 
report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our 
initial recommendation.  All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Spruce Point Capital Management does not undertake to update 
this report or any information contained herein.  Spruce Point Capital Management, subscribers and/or consultants shall have no obligation to inform any 
investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading activities.


This research presentation expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon interpretation of certain facts and observations, all of which are 
based upon publicly available information, and all of which are set out in this research presentation.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including 
complete loss of capital. Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or 
gain. Any information contained in this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections. You 
should assume these types of statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond 
Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s control. This is not investment or accounting advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Spruce Point Capital 
Management LLC’s research is at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and 
tax experts, before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. All figures assumed to be in US Dollars, unless specified 
otherwise.


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state material facts 
necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, 
and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, 
or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Spruce Point Capital Management LLC. However, Spruce Point 
Capital Management LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the possession of IRBT or other insiders of IRBT that has not been publicly 
disclosed by IRBT. Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Spruce Point 
Capital Management LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with 
regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 


This report’s estimated fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation of a specific security, and is not 
expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which 
such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC is not registered as an investment advisor, 
broker/dealer, or accounting firm.


All rights reserved. This document may not be reproduced or disseminated in whole or in part without the prior written consent of Spruce Point 
Capital Management LLC.
2


Spruce Point Reiterates Strong Sell on IRBT, 20%-50% 
Risk Following Shark Ninja’s Ion Robot Release


Spruce Point’s June report predicted that SharkNinja would enter the US robotics market by holiday season. In fact, on 
9/12/17 Shark introduced a robotic vacuum to compete directly with iRobot’s Roomba


• Product Offering:  Shark will offer three different versions of their robotic vacuums (RV750, RV720, RV700).  The RV750 is 
WIFI-enabled with app compatibility, voice controlled through the Google Assistant and Shark Skill for Alexa, and 
possesses many of the same functionality as the iRobot Roomba 890.  The RV720 and RV700 are remote controlled and 
lack voice control, but seem to carry all of the other functionality of the RV750.


• Pricing:  The RV750 has a MSRP of $350, a significant discount to the Roomba 890 and comparable to the lower 
functioning Roomba 690.  It appears clear to Spruce Point that Shark will compete with iRobot by offering comparable 
functionality at a lower price point.  Pricing has yet to be released on the RV720 and RV700, but we anticipate them to be 
at lower price points given lack of connectivity and each vacuum’s identified distribution partners.  


• Distribution Strategy:  The Shark RV series has independently aligned each of their product offerings against different 
brick and mortar retailers in an attempt to optimize pricing and avoid consumers trading down.  Given SharkNinja’s 
existing dominance in the traditional vacuum space, they have already secured shelf space at 10 traditional retailers and 
Amazon to compete directly with the Roomba. 


• Marketing:  In addition to the RV700 series looking very similar to the Roomba, Shark has also adopted an extremely 
similar marketing strategy to iRobot.  Shark promotes the RV series features in a similar manner, uses near identical 
imagery and has similar taglines.  The selection of the 700 series name is another astute branding tactic to attack the core 
Roomba 600 series offering.  The timing of the Shark RV launch also positions the Company to compete directly with 
Roomba during the critical holiday season.  


SharkNinja has entered the robotic vacuum market with a “functionality at a reasonable price” strategy to compete 
directly with the Roomba.  The RV700 series has similar, and in many cases near identical product functionality, 


channel distribution and marketing as the Roomba.  Given Shark’s historical success, we assume that their entry into 
the market will translate into sales and margin pressure for iRobot beginning with Q4 2017.  



http://www.sprucepointcap.com/irobot-corp-update/
3


Recap of Shark and Recent Events


As discussed in our June 27th update, SharkNinja is a fierce and capable competitor. iRobot controls an estimated 88% 
of the US robotic vacuum market. We believe it is inevitable that iRobot will lose share and see margin compression


• We believe SharkNinja strives to be the #1 or #2 leader in markets it enters. Based on its track record in traditional 
vacuums and blenders, we believe SharkNinja is a credible threat to iRobot


• SharkNinja’s displacement of Dyson in vacuums was a result of a laser-like focus on the consumer, and its ability to 
engineer a superior product at a value price point.  As an organization, Linkedin data shows that SharkNinja 
employs more engineers than sales or marketing people


• We believe Dyson failed to gain traction with its robotic vacuum because its price point of >$1,000 was simply too 
high, and it did not deliver meaningful performance advantage to the customer. Simply stated, Dyson could not 
offer a compelling value proposition while SharkNinja appears well positioned to do so


• Given SharkNinja’s marketing prowess stated to be $130m annually (2014 figures), we wouldn’t be surprised to see 
it spend at least 10% or more of this annual budget to ensure the success of its debut robotic vacuum series


Post the release of our June 27th report highlighting the Shark risk, we note that: 


• iRobot declined to directly comment on the Shark entry risk, but instead tried to spin a positive tune:
“Other companies are realizing what iRobot has known all along — that some jobs, like vacuuming and mopping, 
are best suited for a robot”  (source: NY Post)


• What will iRobot say now that it is clear that Shark is going directly against it with an offering of superior value?
• iRobot then acquired its European distributor for an expensive price. Our August 18th report provided irrefutable 


evidence to suggest financial anomalies from the margins implied from iRobot’s guidance; iRobot remained silent


• It seems clear now that Shark is entering the US market that iRobot’s distributor acquisitions appear to be 
defensive moves meant to temporarily deflect margin pressure


• The only action we’ve seen is iRobot’s Director sell a meaningful % of this stock – 10,000 shares at $92.71 (form 4)



http://nypost.com/2017/06/26/roomba-to-face-competition-from-more-affordable-gadgets/

http://www.sprucepointcap.com/irobot-corp-update-2/

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1159167/000120919117050795/xslF345X03/doc4.xml
4


SharkNinja’s Complete Product Suite


Product Suite


Distribution Partner


Shark’s robotic vacuum will be available at Amazon, Best Buy, Home Depot, Bed Bath and Beyond and Walmart


Source: Shark website



https://www.sharkclean.com/vacuums/shark-ion-robot-vacuum-series/
5


A Closer Look At Shark’s Core Product vs. 
Roomba Offerings


Shark RV750 New Roomba 890 New Roomba 690


Size / Weight 12.6 x 2.6 / 5.5 lbs 13 x 3.6 / 8.4 lbs 12.6 x 2.6 / 7.8 lbs


Mobile App Compatible


Run Time / Scheduling 60 minutes / Yes 60 minutes / Yes 60 minutes / Yes


Compatible with Google Home
and Alexa


Multi-Room


Tangle Free Brushes


Dirt Detection Optical / Acoustic Acoustic


Filters
Allergens, Pollen, Hair, 


Lint, Fuzz
Allergens, Pollen, Micro 
Particles, Hair, Lint, Fuzz


Hair, Lint, Fuzz


Price MSRP $350 $594 $375


Source: www.irobot.com, www.sharkclean.com, www.amazon.com, top product comparisons
Note: We believe Shark offers multi-room cleaning, but are awaiting confirmation


 



  





RV750 has the features of the Roomba 890 at the price point of the Roomba 690
In other words, in our view Shark delivers a better value to the customer at a cheaper price



http://www.irobot.com/

http://www.sharkclean.com/

http://www.amazon.com/

http://www.topproductcomparisons.com/compare-wi-fi-supporting-irobot-roomba-robots-980-vs-960-vs-690.html
6


Shark Ninja Appears to Be Taking a 
Page Directly From iRobot’s Marketing
7


IRBT At Irrational Premium To Price 
Targets, No Brokers Say Buy


iRobot is trading at 13% above the average analyst price target despite an intensifying competitive 
environment and margins that are bound to compress. 


What do current investors know that its seasoned analysts don’t? 


Broker Recommendation Target


Canaccord Genuity Hold $95.00


Sidoti Neutral $90.00


Dougherty Neutral --


Piper Jaffray Neutral $92.00


JP Morgan Underweight $79.00


Average Price Target
% Downside From Current (1)


$89.00
-13%


1) Based on $101 share price


There is only 1 Greater FOOL That Says Buy: “3 Reasons iRobot Stock Could Sweep In Huge Returns”



https://www.fool.com/investing/2017/09/10/3-reasons-irobot-stock-could-sweep-in-huge-returns.aspx
8


Spruce Point Estimates 20% – 50% Downside


Valuation Low Price High Price Note


Revenue Multiple
IRBT Sales Guidance


US Robot Vacuum Market Size
% Claimed by Shark


Spruce Point 2017E IRBT Sales
Enterprise Value


Plus: Cash (1)
Less: Debt
Dil. Shares
Price Tgt.


% Downside


1.5x
$840
$440
6%


$813.0
$1,220
$79.2
($0)
28.5


$45.60/sh
-49%


2.5x
$860
$440
10%


$816.0
$2,040
$79.2
($0)
28.5


$74.36/sh
-21%


Sales is the cleanest metric to value IRBT given 
our various concerns about earnings quality. 


iRobot is guiding 2017E sales to $840-$860m. 
SharkNinja aims to be at least #2 in the US 
market, which we estimate it can claim 6%-
10% share at the expense of iRobot with an 


aggressive holiday marketing campaign. IRBT 
trades at 3x 2017E sales but we believe the 


multiple should compress now that the 
competitive dynamics have changed and 


margins will be under pressure


Multiple of Earnings
IRBT EPS guidance


Spruce Pt 2017E EPS
Price Tgt.


% Downside


20x
$1.35
$1.15


$23.00/sh
-77%


33x
$1.70
$1.45


$$47.90/sh
-53%


IRBT trades currently at a preposterous 64x P/E
ratio for an increasingly commodity vacuum 


hardware provider. Its valuation multiple could 
easily be cut in half given the new competitive 


threats and margin / share loss we expect.   


$ in millions, except per share amounts
Normalized Price Target For IRBT’s Shares


1) Pro forma for $141m Robopolis acquisition
