1
2


Full Legal Disclaimer


This research presentation expresses our research opinions.  You should assume that as of the publication date of any presentation, report or letter, Spruce Point Capital 
Management LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our subscribers and clients has a short position 
in all stocks (and are long/short combinations of puts and calls on the stock) covered herein, including without limitation DexCom, Inc. (“DXCM”), and therefore stand to 
realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any presentation, report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the 
securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  All expressions of opinion are subject to 
change without notice, and Spruce Point Capital Management does not undertake to update this report or any information contained herein.  Spruce Point Capital 
Management, subscribers and/or consultants shall have no obligation to inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading 
activities.


This research presentation expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon interpretation of certain facts and observations, all of which are based upon publicly 
available information, and all of which are set out in this research presentation.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital. Any forecasts or 
estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in this report may include 
forward looking statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections. You should assume these types of statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, 
estimates, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s control. This is not investment or accounting advice nor 
should it be construed as such. Use of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s research is at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence, with 
assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. All figures assumed to be in US 
Dollars, unless specified otherwise.


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state material facts necessary to 
make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was 
breached by the transmission of information to Spruce Point Capital Management LLC. However, Spruce Point Capital Management LLC recognizes that there may be non-
public information in the possession of DXCM or other insiders of DXCM that has not been publicly disclosed by DXCM. Therefore, such information contained herein is 
presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as 
to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. You should assume all statements made are 
our opinions, unless sourced as facts where practical. 


This report’s estimated fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or 
implied as, assessments of the quality of a security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. This is not an offer to Sell or a 
solicitation of an offer to Buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the 
securities laws of such jurisdiction. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC is not registered as an investment advisor, broker/dealer, or accounting firm. You should consult 
your own tax, accounting, and financial advisor before making any investment decision. 


All rights reserved. This document may not be reproduced or disseminated in whole or in part without the prior written consent of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC.
3


Spruce Point’s Activist Successes With 
Companies Experiencing Revenue Inflections


Spruce Point Capital Is A Globally Recognized Research Activist Investment Firm Founded In 2009
• Founded by Ben Axler, a former investment banker with 18 years experience on Wall Street
• Ranked the #1 Short-Seller by Sumzero after a study of 12,000 analyst recommendations dating to 2008 (March 2015)
• Ranked the #13 Most Influential FinTweeter on Twitter according to Sentieo (Dec 2016)


Past performance is no guarantee of future performance. Short-selling involves a high degree of risk, including the risk of infinite loss potential. Please see Full Legal Disclaimer at the front of the presentation.


Weis / WMK Maxar / MAXR BazaarVoice / BV


Report Sep 2018 Aug 2018 May 2012


Enterprise Value $1.1 billion $6.3 billion $1.2 billion


Company 
Promotion / 


Situation 
Overview


Stable supermarket chain generating free cash 
flow and paying a steady dividend.


Satellite cycle expected to improve in H2 FY18 
while $60-120M of M&A synergies provide 
tailwind. Expanding commercial business 


opportunity combined with increasing ability to 
compete for U.S. government business.


Disruptive provider of social commerce solutions 
that help clients capture, display and analyze 
online word-of-mouth, including consumer-


generated ratings and reviews


Our Criticism Poorly-positioned regional supermarket in 
hypercompetitive Northeast region that is a 


step behind supermarket megatrends. Big data 
and consumer insights suggest decline in 
unique shoppers, avg. transactions per 


shopper, and avg. ticket price. Poor reporting 
standards and governance.


MDA’s acquisition of DigitalGlobe driven by need 
to cover problems in satellite business. Brazen 


accounting scheme including inflation of 
intangible assets and overstatement of non-FIRS 


EPS. Dangerously levered at 5.8x when off-
balance sheet liabilities are taken into account. 


Impending asset impairments.


Our research revealed that BV’s solution was 
nothing more than a money losing, rapidly 


commoditized service that would not scale. Its 
IPO prospectus was littered with social media 


buzz words at a time when Facebook was being 
taken public, and $25 analyst price targets would 


prove unrealistic.


Successful 
Outcome


Numerous store closures and wholesale price 
cuts across all products threaten longer-term 


profitability in increasingly competitive 
grocery industry. Amazon continues to lay 


groundwork for grocery business.


Maxar made several attempts to “refute” our 
conclusions, yet share prices have fallen 90% 


since our report on impairment losses (validating 
our concerns), significant revenue misses, and 


dividend cuts. 


BV’s CFO and CEO eventually resigned and its 
share price fizzled to low single digits before


ultimately being acquired for just $5.50/sh, 54% 
below its $12 IPO price and 70% below our 


initiation price.


Spruce Point’s Activist Successes With Companies Experiencing Revenue Inflections



http://www.businessinsider.com/ten-best-short-sellers-on-sumzero-2016-3

https://sentieo.com/blog/are-you-tracking-2016s-most-influential-fintweeters/

https://www.sprucepointcap.com/weis-markets-inc/

https://www.sprucepointcap.com/maxar-technologies-ltd/

https://www.sprucepointcap.com/liquidmetals/

https://progressivegrocer.com/weis-markets-slashes-prices-7k-plus-items

https://www.reuters.com/article/us-amazon-grocery/amazon-plans-new-grocery-store-business-wsj-idUSKCN1QI568

https://finance.yahoo.com/news/maxar-technologies-reports-third-quarter-110000756.html

https://seekingalpha.com/news/3438923-maxar-minus-15-percent-revenue-miss-dividend-cut

https://seekingalpha.com/news/3438923-maxar-minus-15-percent-revenue-miss-dividend-cut

https://www.bazaarvoice.com/press/bazaarvoice-inc-enters-into-definitive-agreement-to-be-acquired-by-marlin-equity-partners/

https://www.reuters.com/article/bazaarvoice/update-1-bazaarvoice-ipo-raises-114-mln-priced-above-range-underwriter-idUSL4E8DO04I20120224
Executive Summary
5


Spruce Point Sees 45-60% Near-Term Downside Risk 
In Dexcom (NASDAQ: DXCM): $65-$85 Per Share.
Longer-Term Tail Risk Even More Significant.


• Abbott Set To Close Technological Gap Between Libre And Dexcom G-Series: Until now, Dexcom’s alarm-equipped, accurate G-Series has been considered the gold 
standard of stand-alone CGMs, with Abbott’s Libre (new in the U.S. as of 2018) a low-cost, easy-to-use alternative. Abbott, however, is set to release the Libre 2, 
which includes a similar high/low glucose alarm and is sufficiently accurate to serve the needs of most, if not all, diabetics. Priced at an ~80% discount to the G6, the 
Libre is the far more sensible option for T2 diabetics, and even T1 diabetics – a surprisingly price-sensitive population, per our proprietary survey – will be drawn to 
the cheap yet advanced Libre 2. Whereas Dexcom was once a technologically-superior first mover, it is now fighting with near-equals for mass-market adoption.


• Dexcom Has Few Avenues To Near-Term Patient Growth: U.S. T2 patients did not adopt CGMs in material size until the release of the far cheaper Libre 1. Abbott is 
now taking >95% incremental share of U.S. T2 patients, suggesting that T2 patients may have never been part of the G-Series TAM. Dexcom will effectively be locked 
out of the T2 market until it releases a cheaper, down-market CGM similar to the Libre (late 2020-21 at earliest, per management, after having failed to meet its 
initial target of 2018). Libre is also taking >70% incremental share of U.S. T1 patients, even before the technologically-comparable Libre 2 hits the market. With the 
U.S. T1 market already ~50% penetrated (with a likely ceiling of 70-80%), Dexcom has limited room for patient growth through the next 1-3 years as T1 patient 
adoption decelerates, as it competes against the cheap yet technologically-comparable Libre 2 in its core T1 market, and as it fails to make significant headway in the 
T2 market – by far the largest source of CGM patient growth through FY19-21 and beyond.


• Abbott’s Economies Of Scale As A Large Medical Device Player Could Overwhelm Dexcom Amidst Industry Pricing Pressure: The leveling of the technological 
playing field between Abbott’s and Dexcom’s CGMs will likely bring downward price pressure to the space, particularly given the Libre’s current ~80% discount to 
the G6. Abbott is the low-cost CGM manufacturer by a factor of 4, and could overwhelm the one-product Dexcom in an aggressive price war. If Dexcom is forced to 
price its current CGM lineup on par with the Libre, Abbott could wipe out Dexcom’s gross profit in its entirety given Dexcom’s while taking only a 100 bps hit to its 
own gross margin, per our estimates. Dexcom’s vast scale disadvantage could also potentially prevent it from ever producing a cheaper T2-targeted CGM profitably.


• Investors Misinterpreting Recent Growth Acceleration As Growth In Patient Base: Bulls believe that recent sales growth acceleration to >50% yoy has been driven 
largely by patient base expansion. However, the decoupling of transmitter sales growth from sensor sales growth suggests that the growth acceleration is a 
consequence of A) recent effective sensor price hikes and B) stockpiling of cheaper legacy G-Series sensors ahead of the release of the more expensive G6. 
Management no longer discloses patient base growth as of February 2019, hiding any recent slowdowns in patient base growth from investors’ view.


• A Risky One-Product Company Valued As A Growth Story: DXCM is valued at a 57% premium to peers on its seemingly exciting growth story despite exposure to 
competition / TAM saturation. Even bullish sell-side analysts see only ~5% upside, and smart money seems to be wary of DXCM’s growth prospects. We see 45-60% 
near-term downside in DXCM shares on disappointing sales growth and a multiple rerating, and even more potential future downside on longer-term price pressure.


Dexcom, Inc. (“Dexcom,” “DXCM,” or “the Company”) manufactures continuous glucose monitoring systems (“CGMs”) for diabetic patients. It 
competes with Abbott’s FreeStyle Libre in the stand-alone CGM space. Dexcom’s G-Series has until now been considered the gold standard, 


with the Libre a cheaper, user-friendly alternative. However, Abbott is set to release the Libre 2 in the U.S. imminently – in a matter of weeks or 
months, we believe – and will close most, if not all, of the technological gaps which separate it from Dexcom’s G-Series. CGM commoditization 


will promote heavy price competition – and Abbott, as the low-cost manufacturer by a factor of 4, can put heavy pressure on Dexcom profits 
with little downside to its own margins. The Street believes that the down-market Libre is not a serious threat to Dexcom’s market, but the Libre 


has taken >70% incremental share of the U.S. Type 1 (“T1”) market and >95% incremental share of the U.S. Type 2 (“T2”) market since first 
being released in the U.S. – even before the release of the more advanced Libre 2. We believe that the G6’s target U.S. T1 market offers just 1-2 
years of remaining patient growth, severely restricting Dexcom’s patient base until the release of the T2-oriented G7 in late 2020-21 at earliest. 
Importantly, we also find evidence that Dexcom’s recent sales growth acceleration was driven by an effective price increase and stockpiling of 


cheaper legacy G-Series models – and is not an indication of recent patient growth (which management conveniently stopped disclosing).
6


0


500


1,000


1,500


2,000


2,500


2016 2017 2018 2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E


To
ta


l R
ev


en
ue


 ($
M


)


Dexcom Revenue: Guidance vs. Spruce Point Estimates


Historical & Forward Guidance Spruce Point Estimate


Sugar High On Unsustainable Sales Growth:
The Market Is Misinterpreting Recent DXCM Results


The market interprets Dexcom’s recent blow-out sales growth as proof that the bull case is playing out: as T1 and insulin-dependent T2 
diabetics increasingly embrace CGMs as the future of diabetes care, Dexcom is in position to benefit as the provider of the gold-standard 


stand-alone CGM. However, we believe that recent sales growth offers a false image of patient base growth, and that Dexcom’s patient growth 
opportunity will be severely limited over the coming ~18 months at the very least.


A. Spruce Point Interpretation
• Accelerated sales growth driven by effective price 


increase & stockpiling of legacy G4/G5 sensors
ahead of release of more expensive G6


• Widespread adoption of CGM as standard of care for 
T1 diabetics rapidly depletes U.S. T1 TAM. Majority of 
U.S. CGM patient growth will come from T2 patients 
going forward.


B. Bull Interpretation
• G-Series technological superiority supports premium 


price vs. Libre 2
• The “market-opening” Libre recruits T2 diabetics into 


the addressable market, and some are converted to 
the technologically-superior G6


B. Spruce Point Interpretation
• Libre 2 is technologically-comparable to G6, but 


priced at an ~80% discount. Abbott captures almost 
all T2 adopters and many T1 adopters, as well as 
Dexcom patients willing to switch.


• U.S. T1 CGM market becomes largely saturated. 
Dexcom’s growth opportunities become severely 
limited with no CGM appropriate for T2 diabetics.


A. Bull Interpretation
• “Increased awareness” contributes to accelerated 


sales growth. Accelerated growth suggests 
expanding patient base despite removed disclosure.


• Abbott Libre not directly competitive with G-Series, 
but expands CGM addressable market to T2 diabetics


C. Bull Interpretation
• Growth in patient base w/ more T1 uptake, expansion 


into T2 market w/ introduction of down-market G7
• Some pressure on avg. revenue per customer due to 


channel headwinds and product mix, but patient base 
growth offsets declining avg. revenue per customer.


C. Spruce Point Interpretation
• If G7 is released, price headwinds and Libre 


competition weigh on sales growth. Dramatic scale 
disadvantage could limit profitability.


• If G7 is not released, patient growth would be 
severely limited by inability to penetrate T2 
population. Price reductions to compete in T2 market 
would also undermine sales growth and margins.


A B C
7


Forthcoming Libre 2 Nearly Technologically 
Equivalent To G6, At Far Lower Price Point


Until now, Dexcom has been the only true stand-alone CGM with a high/low glucose alarm – a critical feature for T1 and some ID T2 diabetics. 
However, the forthcoming Libre 2 from Abbott will also have this feature, in addition to an accuracy level comparable to that of the G6 – all while 


being priced at an ~80% discount. We believe that this – combined with the fact that G6 are still searching for ways to extend the lives of their 
sensors, as they did with the G5 – will encourage widespread adoption of the cheaper Libre 2 among T1 and T2 diabetics, particularly since the 
remaining population of unpenetrated T1 and ID T2 diabetics must represent the most price-sensitive segment of the addressable population. 


Unless it cuts the price of the G6 heavily (which it may not have the capacity to do), Dexcom’s remaining growth runway will be severely limited.


Before G6 Release After G6 Release and G5 Transmitter Repricing1


Dexcom G5
w/o Extended 


Life


Dexcom G5
with Extended 


Life


Dexcom G6 
(Cannot Extend


Life)


Dexcom G5
w/o Extended 


Life


Dexcom G5
with Extended 


Life
Abbott Libre 2


Sensor Cost to Payor / Patient $89.50 $89.50 $116.33 $89.50 $89.50 $37.50


Sensor Life (Days) 7 122 10 7 122 14


Sensor Cost to Payor per Day $12.79 $7.46 $11.63 $12.79 $7.46 $2.68


Sensor Cost to Payor per Year $4,666.78 $2,722.29 $4,246.05 $4,666.78 $2,722.29 $977.68


Transmitter Cost to Payor / Patient1 $300.00 $300.00 $237.50 $599.00 $599.00 -


Transmitter Life (Days) 91.25 91.25 91.25 91.25 91.25 -


Transmitter Cost to Payor per Day $3.28 $3.28 $2.60 $6.56 $6.56 -


Transmitter Cost to Payor per Year $1,200.00 $1,200.00 $950.00 $2,396.00 $2,396.00 -


Sensor and Transmitter Cost to Payor 
per Year


$5,866.78 $3,922.29 $5,196.05 $7,062.78 $5,118.29 $977.68


Discount to G5/G6 - 33% - -35% 1% 81%


If, per our survey, 70% of G5 users were willing to assume the risks involved in hacking their transmitters for the sake of 33% annual cost 
savings, we suspect that a material proportion of Dexcom G-Series users will be willing to switch to the now-comparable Libre 2 for the sake of 


over 80% annual cost savings.
1. Dexcom recently increased the price of its G5 transmitters from $300 to $599 to encourage all G5 users (including “hackers”) to switch to the G6
2. Average G5 sensor life of 12 days when “hackers” are included, per our survey
8


Dexcom
4%


Abbott
96%


RECENT U.S. T2 INCREMENTAL MARKET SHARE


Dexcom
28%


Abbott
72%


RECENT U.S. T1 INCREMENTAL MARKET SHARE


0


500,000


1,000,000


1,500,000


2,000,000


2,500,000


2015 2016 2017 2018


Pa
ti


en
ts


Remaining U.S. T1 Market Opportunity


Dexcom Abbott U.S. T1 Total Market U.S. T1 Effective Market


0


500,000


1,000,000


1,500,000


2,000,000


2,500,000


2015 2016 2017 2018


Pa
ti


en
ts


Remaining U.S. Insulin-Dependent T2 Market Opportunity


Dexcom Abbott U.S. Insulin-Dependent T2 Total Market U.S. Insulin-Dependent T2 Effective Market


Remaining Growth Runway In Dexcom’s Target 
U.S. Market Is Severely Limited


After just one year on the market, Abbott’s FreeStyle Libre already has 25% of the U.S. T1 CGM market and a whopping 82% of the U.S. T2 CGM 
market – which appears to not even have been an addressable market until the Libre was released. The technologically-inferior, yet cheap and 
easy-to-use Libre 1 is already taking 72% incremental share of the U.S. T1 market and 96% of the U.S. T2 market. The forthcoming U.S. release 
of the Libre 2 – which will be just as cheap and user-friendly as the Libre 1, yet nearly technologically-equivalent to Dexcom’s G6 – could put 


Abbott in a tremendously dominant position in the U.S. stand-alone CGM market. To the extent that T1 diabetics still prefer Dexcom’s G-Series 
CGMs, the U.S. T1 TAM is rapidly becoming exhausted, severely limiting Dexcom’s realistic growth runway. The vast majority of the remaining 


U.S. market opportunity lies among T2 customers, who appear to be untouchable by Dexcom at the G-Series’ current price point.


Remaining Effective 
T1 Runway:


0.3M Patients


Remaining Effective 
ID T2 Runway:


1.3M Patients


Source: Spruce Point Estimates


1.3M U.S. ID T2 Market Runway
x


4% Incremental Market Share
=


51K Dexcom U.S. ID T2 Patient Runway


0.3M U.S. T1 Market Runway
x


28% Incremental Market Share
=


92K Dexcom U.S. T1 Patient Runway


143K remaining U.S. patients for Dexcom at prevailing incremental market share levels
9


Dexcom Is Too Late To Bridge The Gap From The 
T1 Cliff To The T2 Ramp


Had Dexcom moved faster to produce a CGM fit for the T2 market, management’s patient growth expectations for FY19 and FY20 would look 
more realistic (though a shift in mix to a down-market CGM would weigh on average revenue per patient and, therefore, sales growth). However, 
with management having failed to come to market with its down-market product as originally scheduled, it has nothing with which to bridge the 
gap between FY18 – the last year in which the G-Series was effectively free of competition in the increasingly-saturated T1 CGM market – and 


FY21 – the first year in which it might have had a CGM capable of competing with the Libre on a broader basis.


For at least ~18 months, Dexcom will be dramatically outpriced by the Libre 2 in its (dwindling) core T1 market, and will effectively be incapable 
of making material headway into the expanding T2 market, severely limiting the Company’s near-term growth opportunity and setting it back in 


the nascent T2 market.


0


50,000


100,000


150,000


200,000


250,000


300,000


2016 2017 2018 2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E


New U.S. CGM Adopters By Diabetes Type


Type 1 Type 2 ID Type 1, Estimate Type 2 ID, Estimate
Source: Spruce Point Estimates


FY16-18: Dexcom patient base grows with rapid 
adoption among U.S. T1 diabetics


FY19: DXCM management STOPS 
REPORTING PATIENT BASE GROWTH
just as U.S. T1 adoption inflects down


FY19-20: Low Dexcom patient growth with no T2-
targeted CGM and limited U.S. T1 runway


FY21 On: Price-competitive environment with CGM 
commoditization and lower prices for T2 market
10


0%


10%


20%


30%


40%


50%


60%


Q2-2017 Q3-2017 Q4-2017 Q1-2018 Q2-2018 Q3-2018 Q4-2018


Sensor Revenue Growth vs. Transmitter Revenue Growth


Sensor Revenue Growth, YoY Transmitter Revenue Growth, YoY


The market interprets Dexcom’s recent sales growth acceleration as proof that the bull case is playing out, and that it has been growing its patient 
base at a healthy rate. However, we believe that the decoupling of sensor sales growth from transmitter sales growth suggests otherwise. Our 


diligence reveals that a significant share of G4 and G5 users “hack” their sensors to extend their usable lives by an average of ~70%. The 
unhackable G6 forces users to purchase sensors more frequently, forcing an effective ~56% sensor price increase on Dexcom CGM users on a 


cost-per-day basis. Our diligence also reveals that many G4 and G5 users stockpiled “cheaper” legacy sensors ahead of the commercialization of 
the G6 in Q2 FY18, thus accelerating sensor sales growth in Q2.


Sensor sales growth (and total revenue growth) should rerate to a lower normalized level once the effective price increase lapses in Q2 FY19. 
Meanwhile, slower transmitter sales growth is a more accurate indicator of underlying patient base growth of late (yet itself is likely inflated by 


accelerated transmitter purchases around the time of the release of the new G6).


Recent Sales Growth Gives Misleading 
Appearance Of Underlying Patient Growth


0%


10%


20%


30%


40%


50%


60%


Q2-2017 Q3-2017 Q4-2017 Q1-2018 Q2-2018 Q3-2018 Q4-2018


Revenue Growth, YoY


Revenue Growth, YoY


Source: Dexcom SEC Filings


Interestingly, management stopped breaking out the size of its patient base as of the end of FY18, thus hiding any deceleration in patient base 
growth that this suspicious segment-level sales pattern may be revealing.


Spruce Point believes that the market interprets Dexcom’s total revenue growth as a sign of healthy growth in its underlying patient base. We 
believe that Dexcom’s recent aggregate revenue growth is inflated by one-time factors unrelated to patient base growth, and that sales growth 


will revert to a lower normalized level once these factors subside.
11


0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000


10,000
12,000
14,000
16,000
18,000
20,000


01
/1


8


02
/1


8


03
/1


8


03
/1


8


04
/1


8


05
/1


8


06
/1


8


07
/1


8


08
/1


8


09
/1


8


10
/1


8


11
/1


8


12
/1


8


01
/1


9


02
/1


9


03
/1


9


Dexcom Abbott


0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%


100%


01
/1


8


02
/1


8


03
/1


8


03
/1


8


04
/1


8


05
/1


8


06
/1


8


07
/1


8


08
/1


8


09
/1


8


10
/1


8


11
/1


8


12
/1


8


01
/1


9


02
/1


9


03
/1


9


Dexcom Abbott


The Smart Money Knows That The Growth Story 
Is Entering The Later Innings


Patient adoption trends through the pharmacy channel demonstrate that the Abbott has dominated Dexcom in recent share gains. Data 
provided by Symphony Health Solutions dating back to the first week of 2018 show that Abbott is capturing >90% of the pharmacy channel 


when compared directly to Dexcom. We believe that this demonstrates that, after 4-5 years of CGM adoption among T1 diabetics, the strongest 
opportunity for future adoption lies among ID T2 diabetics – and that the Libre is by far the best solution for these patients at current prices.


Source: Bloomberg Symphony Health Solutions
1. Abbott new prescription data includes both Libre 10-Day and Libre 14-Day sensors. Dexcom new prescription data includes G4, G5, and G6 sensors.


Bloomberg Weekly New Prescriptions Written 
Relative Pharmacy Market Share, Dexcom vs. Abbott1


Bloomberg Weekly New Prescriptions Written 
Total New Prescriptions Written, Dexcom vs. Abbott1


Source: Bloomberg


Meanwhile, while DXCM share price appreciation was driven largely by multiple 
expansion through H1 FY18, the stock has been range-bound since the middle of FY18 


despite continued revenue beats, and the multiple has contracted to some extent on 
recent sales growth. We believe that the smart money has observed recent prescription 
trends via Bloomberg and other sources, and sees that Libre share gains have inflected 


higher since July ‘18. Insider sales have also accelerated over the same period.


We believe that the multiple will contract further towards early FY18 levels as Dexcom’s 
true underlying patient growth trajectory becomes more obvious to the broader market.


Early FY18:
DXCM stock price 


appreciation driven largely 
by multiple expansion


Late FY18 / 
Early FY19:
Stock range-


bound despite 
continued 


revenue beats 
– suggests 


investor 
wariness of 


recent growth 
trends and 


concerns over 
Libre share 
gains since 


July ‘18


Multiple Expansion-Driven Share Price Appreciation Is Losing Steam
12


Abbott’s CGM FDA Approvals Have Not Been 
Kind To Dexcom’s Stock Price


Abbott’s Libre has dominated Dexcom’s G-Series in recent head-to-head competition for market share even before the release of 
the Libre 2, which should close most or all of the technological gaps which remain between the Libre and G-Series. The U.S. 


launch of the technologically-strong, yet inexpensive Libre 2 could undermine what remains of the G-Series’ competitive position.


The market expects the release of the Libre 2, of course – but it also knew that Abbott was set to release new CGMs in 2017 and 
2018, yet Dexcom’s stock still suffered in the immediate aftermath. The forthcoming Libre 2 is at least as consequential as 


Abbott’s past two CGMs from a competitive perspective, and could cause a more drastic move in DXCM shares.


Event
FDA Approval of FreeStyle Libre 


Flash Glucose Monitoring 
System1


FDA Approval of FreeStyle Libre 
14-Day Flash Glucose Monitoring 


System2
FDA Approval of FreeStyle Libre 2 
With Optional Real-Time Alarm


Date Sep 27, 2017 July 27, 2018 Mid 2019 (Expected)


Device Features
First device to eliminate need for 


fingerstick glucose reading
Longest-lasting sensor on the 


market (14 days)
Optional high/low glucose alarm, 


inexpensive full-service CGM


Price Reaction (End-Of-
Day Price)


-33% -7% ?


Source: Spruce Point Research
1. FDA Approval of FreeStyle Libre (9/27/17)
2. FDA Approval of 14 day Libre FreeStyle Sensor (7/27/18)



https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2017-09-27-No-More-Routine-Finger-Sticks-1-for-Americans-with-Diabetes-Abbott-s-FreeStyle-R-Libre-Approved-in-the-U-S

https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-07-27-Abbotts-FreeStyle-R-Libre-14-Day-Flash-Glucose-Monitoring-System-Now-Approved-in-U-S
13


Capitalization And Valuation


Source: Bloomberg, Company Financials and Spruce Point estimates


$ in mm, except per share figures
CGM And The Market Landscape:
A Primer
15


What Is A CGM?


A continuous glucose monitoring system (CGM) is a device which continuously monitors the user’s blood glucose level. Historically, people 
with diabetes have monitored their blood glucose levels using “fingerprick” tests: at regular intervals over the course of the day, they take 
small samples of blood from their fingers and apply them to test strips, which are then run through a device which measures their blood 


glucose (glycemia). This system provides the user with only a snapshot of his blood glucose level at a single point in time. CGMs, however, 
continuously monitor users’ glucose levels by drawing from their interstitial fluid. This provides users with live data on their glucose levels, and 


allows them to catch hyperglycemic or hypoglycemic events which might have otherwise occurred between fingerpricks.


Traditional Blood Glucose Test Continuous Glucose Monitor


Gives blood glucose reading at a single point in 
time


Collects data on interstitial fluid glucose levels 
at regular intervals (every few minutes)
16


Basic CGM Componentry


All CGMs consist of at least a sensor and a transmitter. The sensor is a small needle which extends into the user’s interstitial fluid and samples 
glucose levels. The transmitter sits above the sensor and is attached to the user using adhesive tape. It transmits glucose readings to the 


receiver, which relays data to the user. More recently, CGM manufacturers have issued apps which allow users to read glucose data through 
their phones, but most CGM manufacturers also issue proprietary receivers and require that users purchase them as part of a starter pack.


Source Source


Closed-loop systems consist of a CGM tied in with a wearable insulin pump. Diabetes patients who use closed loop systems receive insulin at 
the instruction of their CGMs, which relay real-time data on the user’s glycemic status to the pump. This system is also known as an “artificial 


pancreas.”


Closed-loop systems are used primarily by Type 1 diabetics. Most CGM users do not use closed-loop systems.


Closed-Loop System


Source



https://www.ontrackdiabetes.com/type-1-diabetes/what-continuous-glucose-monitor-cgm

https://www.healthxchange.sg/diabetes/essential-guide-diabetes/continuous-glucose-monitoring-blood-glucose-control

https://www.ontrackdiabetes.com/type-1-diabetes/what-continuous-glucose-monitor-cgm
17


The CGM Competitive Landscape


The competitive landscape for CGMs is not straight-forward, as each of the four major players provide slightly different products. Until recently, 
Medtronic did not sell stand-alone CGMs, but rather offered CGMs only to users of its insulin pump. It recently re-entered the stand-alone CGM 


space in 2018, but it remains a small player.1 Senseonics sells a CGM which is implanted into the patient and replaced with subsequent 
procedures every 90 days.1 This device – typically paired with an insulin pump – is generally reserved for Type 1 diabetics with intensive needs, 


and medical professionals with whom we spoke believe that it is not yet practical for a wider market. The Dexcom G-Series CGM and Abbot 
FreeStyle Libre CGM are the most comparable products: both are stand-alone CGMs which are worn outside the body and replaced by the user 


at regular intervals, generally between 7 and 14 days.


1. Source


Medtronic CGM and Insulin Pump
CGM historically not offered separately from pump


Senseonics Eversense – Implantable CGM
Recurring surgery required – limits market


Abbott FreeStyle Libre Dexcom G-Series


Most common 
stand-alone CGMs



https://medcitynews.com/2019/01/dexcom-glowing-from-fabulous-results-dismisses-medtronic-as-a-viable-cgm-competitor-at-jpm/?rf=1
18


The Legacy Libre vs. The Dexcom G-Series: 
Different Target Markets


While the most comparable CGMs on the market, even the Libre and G-Series have, until now, been thought to target different patient bases. 
The Libre currently available in the U.S. is a “flash” glucose monitoring system which provides data only when the user scans the transmitter 
with the receiver: data is collected through the day, but can be accessed only on-demand. The Libre therefore cannot send active alarms in 


anticipation of a hyperglycemic or hypoglycemic event. This, combined with a slight disadvantage in measurement accuracy as measured by its 
mean absolute relative deviation (MARD), has given the Libre the reputation of being a step down from the G-Series technologically.


Product Specifications


Product Feature Comparison:
Dexcom G5 vs. Abbott FreeStyle Libre


Dexcom G5
Abbott FreeStyle 


Libre
Notes


TECHNOLOGICAL
FEATURES


High/Low Alarm ✔ ✖


MARD (Accuracy) 9.0% 9.4% Lower MARD =More Accurate


Live Continuous 
Monitoring


✔ ✖
User must scan 


transmitter to see data 
(Source)


EASE
OF


USE


Sensor Life
(Official)


7 days 14 days G5 up to 14 days with user modification


No-Fingerstick 
Calibration


✖ ✔ Libre calibrated at factory


Fingerpricks
Required per Day


2 -


Disposable 
Transmitter


✖ ✔


No Separate 
Transmitter 


Required
✖ ✔


Libre transmitter 
integrated with sensor


(Source)


Transmitter Life 3 months -


Sensor Size 11.1 cm3 4.8 cm3 Libre less than half the size of G5


However, what the Libre lacks in 
technological advancement, it makes up 


for in ease of use and lower price.


The Libre is therefore widely considered 
to be optimal for T2 diabetics with less-
intensive medical needs and who value 
user-friendliness over state-of-the-art 


technology for its own sake.


Dexcom G5 technologically superior to 
the Libre on most measures



https://medcitynews.com/2019/01/dexcom-glowing-from-fabulous-results-dismisses-medtronic-as-a-viable-cgm-competitor-at-jpm/?rf=1

https://diatribe.org/abbotts-freestyle-libre-approved-us-replace-routine-fingersticks
19


The Libre Is Priced To A Population With
Less-Intensive Needs


Importantly, the Libre is priced at a heavy discount to the more technologically-advanced Dexcom G-Series. We estimate that the annual 
recurring cost of using the Libre is less than $1,000 to the payor, versus over $5,000 for the G-Series. Note that the Libre’s sensor is integrated 


with the transmitter – and, therefore, that Libre users need not purchase transmitters in addition to sensors.


Annual Cost Comparison: Dexcom G-Series vs. Abbott FreeStyle Libre


Dexcom G5
(Before G6 
Release1)


Dexcom G6 Abbott Libre


Sensor Cost to Payor / Patient $89.50 $116.33 $37.50


Sensor Life (Days) 7 10 14


Sensor Cost to Payor per Day $12.79 $11.63 $2.68


Sensor Cost to Payor per Year $4,666.78 $4,246.05 $977.68


Transmitter Cost to Payor / Patient1 $300.00 $237.50 -


Transmitter Life (Days) 91.25 91.25 -


Transmitter Cost to Payor per Day $3.28 $2.60 -


Transmitter Cost to Payor per Year $1,200.00 $950.00 -


Receiver Cost (One-Time Cost) $599.00 $365.00 $65.00


Sensor and Transmitter Cost to Payor 
per Year – Year One


$6,465.78 $5,561.05 $1,042.68


Discount to G5/G6 - - 84% / 81%


Sensor and Transmitter Cost to Payor 
per Year – Recurring


$5,866.78 $5,196.05 $977.68


Discount to G5/G6 - - 83% / 81%


1. Dexcom recently increased the price of its G5 transmitters from $300 to $599 to encourage all G5 users to switch to the G6
20


Libre Significantly Cheaper For Patients Covered 
By Medicare Or Private Insurance


The Libre remains the far cheaper option for both diabetic patients covered by Medicare (20% co-pay) and patients covered by various other 
forms of private insurance. Coverage arrangements under private insurance plans can vary dramatically, making it impossible to conduct a 


universal head-to-head price comparison between the Libre and G-Series. However, we suspect that, under most plans, the Libre would remain 
the far cheaper option. Insurance companies have already begun to grant the Libre preferred status to encourage users to opt for the cheaper 


Libre over the G-Series, effectively passing on their own cost savings to the customer.


Sensor and Transmitter Recurring Cost Comparison – Out-Of-Pocket Costs


Insurance Status


Dexcom 
G5


(Before G6 
Release)


Dexcom G6
Abbott 
Libre


Likely Maximum Out-Of-
Pocket Payment


No Insurance $5,866.78 $5,196.05 $977.68


Likely Minimum Out-Of-
Pocket Payment


Medicare (20% co-pay) $1,173.36 $1,039.21 $195.54


With the additional cost of the Dexcom G-Series potentially a heavy burden on health insurance providers, we suspect that insurers will 
continue to incentivize patients to choose the Libre through preferred status designations, as they have already begun to do. We question the 
extent to which insurers will be willing to reimburse spending on Dexcom CGMs at their current price point when the Libre 2 will offer most, if 


not all, of the same technological features of the G6.


Medical professionals with whom we have spoken also acknowledge that patients often cite price as an important consideration when selecting 
a CGM, and that they will highlight the cost savings offered by the Libre when the patient shows some reluctance to use a CGM due to the 


associated costs.


Source: Spruce Point Estimates
21


Dexcom Bull Narrative: The G-Series Is For 
Diabetics With Serious Medical Needs, While 
The Libre Is A “Market-Expanding Technology”


Dexcom bulls see the G-Series as close to untouchable in the Type 1 diabetes market: the system’s alarm is a potentially life-saving technology, 
while insulin-dependent diabetics value the G-Series’ superior accuracy. They see the Dexcom CGM as a similarly superior choice for insulin-
dependent Type 2 (“ID T2”) diabetics – who, like T1 diabetics, require insulin injections, but whose medical needs are not quite as intensive as 


those of T1 diabetics. Bulls contend that the technologically-lesser Libre is better left to ID T2 patients with lesser needs, and to non-ID T2 
diabetics interested in monitoring their glucose levels throughout the day. However, bulls also believe that, as CGM adoption expands, even 


some of these patients will be drawn to the technological advantages of the top-flight G-Series.


Type of 
Diabetes


% of U.S. 
Diabetic 


Population
Description


Monitoring & Treatment 
Required


Dexcom Bull Opinion:
Best CGM For Market


Type 1 (T1)
5-10%


(1.25M)


• An autoimmune disease that occurs when the 
body's immune system attacks and destroys 
the cells in the pancreas that make insulin 
(beta cells), which helps the body absorb and 
use the energy from food


• Most commonly diagnosed in childhood and 
remains throughout adult life


1. Frequent monitoring of 
glucose levels and multiple 
injections of insulin per day


2. Nutrition management
3. Exercise


• Dexcom G-Series


• Abbott FreeStyle Libre almost 
out of the question due to 
lack of alarm and inferior 
accuracy


Type 2 (T2)
90-95%


(29.05M)


• Condition which occurs more often in adults 
who are overweight or obese


• Caused by lack of a normal response to insulin,
in addition to the pancreas not making enough 
insulin


1. Nutrition management
2. Exercise
3. Oral Medication
4. Glucose monitoring


• Abbott FreeStyle Libre


• Dexcom G-Series for 
patients who want the most 
cutting-edge technology


Insulin-
Dependent 


Type 2
(ID T2)


5-10%
(1.95M)


• Type 2 diabetes – a progressive disease – can 
result in insulin dependence, particularly 
among older diabetes patients


1. Monitoring glucose / 
injections (insulin 
dependent only)


2. Nutrition management
3. Exercise
4. Oral Medication


• Dexcom G-Series


• Abbott FreeStyle Libre 
acceptable to some with less-
intensive needs


We agree that the Libre’s lack of an alarm has been a major hurdle preventing wider Libre adoption among T1 diabetics, who were the earliest 
CGM adopters. However, with the impending inclusion of an alarm in the Libre 2, we believe that the playing field between Abbott and Dexcom 


will largely be leveled – and that the economic consequences of this could be devastating for Dexcom.
22


Critical Risk To The Bull Case:
The Impending U.S. Release Of The Libre 2


We agree that the Libre’s lack of an alarm has been a major hurdle preventing wider Libre adoption among T1 diabetics, who were naturally the 
earliest CGM adopters. However, Abbott is poised to release the second version of its Libre CGM into the U.S. market imminently – we believe 
within the coming weeks or, at most, months. This CGM, which has been available in Europe since Q4 2018, includes both an alarm similar to 
that of the Dexcom G-Series and a MARD below 10% (note that the U.S. version may be even more accurate, as Abbott has released improved 
intermediate versions of Libre in the past with improved accuracy levels). Our conversations with medical experts lead us to believe that the 


Libre 2 will be sufficiently technologically advanced to compete directly with the Dexcom G-Series at nearly every level of the diabetes market.


The impending release of the Libre 2 is no secret to the Street. Nor are its new technological features. However, as we discuss, we believe that 
the evened playing field between the Libre 2 and G-Series will bring downward pricing pressure on the increasingly-commoditized CGM market 


– and that this could have disastrous consequences for Dexcom to an extent ignored by the sell side. We also believe that the Street’s 
perceived growth runway for Dexcom is far too optimistic, and that recent blow-out sales growth numbers – which the sell side sees as the 


proof in the pudding – are unsustainable.


Source



https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-10-01-Abbott-s-FreeStyle-R-Libre-2-with-Optional-Real-Time-Alarms-Secures-CE-Mark-for-Use-in-Europe

https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-07-27-Abbotts-FreeStyle-R-Libre-14-Day-Flash-Glucose-Monitoring-System-Now-Approved-in-U-S

https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-10-01-Abbott-s-FreeStyle-R-Libre-2-with-Optional-Real-Time-Alarms-Secures-CE-Mark-for-Use-in-Europe
Abbott Has Closed The 
Technological Gap Between The 
Libre And Dexcom G-Series
24


Dexcom’s Technological Advantage Is Shrinking: 
Abbott Is Closing The Feature Gap


Medical professionals with whom we have spoken highlight the importance of Dexcom’s alarm as vital for diabetics with insulin dependence: 
the G5 and G6 both alert users when their glucose levels are moving above or below a user-specific high or low threshold. Dexcom users can 


therefore take steps to regulate their glucose levels in advance of a hyperglycemic or hypoglycemic event.


Abbott’s legacy Libre CGM lacks this feature: the sensor does not constantly transmit data to the monitor in real time, and therefore cannot 
trigger a live alarm. However, an (optional) alarm feature similar to Dexcom’s is available on the Libre 2. Accordingly, the most critical 


differentiating factor between Dexcom’s and Abbott’s CGMs will be erased once the Libre 2 is introduced in the U.S.


Dexcom G5: Active High/Low Alarm


Dexcom G6: Active High/Low Alarm


Abbott Libre: No Active Alarm
User must scan sensor to access data


Abbott Libre 2: Active High/Low Alarm
Live data feed allows for device-driven alerts


Source


SourceSource


Source



https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-10-01-Abbott-s-FreeStyle-R-Libre-2-with-Optional-Real-Time-Alarms-Secures-CE-Mark-for-Use-in-Europe

https://www.diabettech.com/cgm/abbotts-freestylelibre2-announced-today-at-easd2018-more-questions-than-answers/

https://www.freestylelibre.co.uk/libre/

https://www.dexcom.com/g5-mobile-cgm

https://www.dexcom.com/en-IE
25


Dexcom Accuracy Advantage Is Overblown


Dexcom bulls point out that Dexcom’s CGMs take more accurate readings than the Libre. A CGM’s accuracy is measured by its mean absolute 
relative deviation (MARD), or the average percentage by which its reading will deviate from the true blood glucose level. Dexcom’s G5 and G6 


both demonstrate MARDs of 9.0%, compared to the 14-day Libre’s MARD of 9.4% (down from the 10-day Libre’s 9.7% MARD). However, medical 
experts with whom we have spoken agree that, at MARDs of less than ~10%, CGMs are sufficiently accurate to replace blood glucose self-


monitoring, and that differences in CGM accuracy below 10% are relatively less important. This is confirmed by clinical studies.


Accordingly, we believe that the sell side overestimates the value of Dexcom’s accuracy advantage. We believe that the critical factor limiting 
Libre adoption among Type 1 and insulin-dependent Type 2 diabetics has been the lack of an alarm system, and that these patients will be far 


more open to the alarm-equipped Libre 2 once it is released in the U.S.


Below MARDs of 10%, medical professionals view improvements in a CGM’s MARD as less important than its sensitivity to rates of change in 
glucose levels, and its ability to predict whether a user may be moving into a hyperglycemic or hypoglycemic range. We have learned that, 


under current CGM hardware technology, this depends less on the mechanism itself than on its internal software and alarm algorithms, which 
can be developed and improved upon independently of the mechanism.


With the Libre set to add an alarm, and with differences between Dexcom’s and Abbott’s accuracy not significant, the medical professionals 
with whom we spoke see little room for material differentiation between the Libre 2 and the G5/G6. Spruce Point believes that the CGM market 


is on a clear path towards commoditization.


“Research into automated insulin delivery - both ours and academic - has 
demonstrated that any sensor with a MARD below 10 will be suitable for use 
in closed loop systems, which means that all four commercially available 
sensors (Senseonics, Medtronic, Dexcom, Abbott) operate in an acceptable range 
for closed loop, effectively rendering the conversation about MARD moot.... 
Any concerns about bias in any particular sensor can be accounted for in 
software….”


- Current Employee, Diabetes-Related Medical Tech Company


Source



https://beyondtype1.org/comparing-the-dexcom-g6-to-the-g5/

https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-07-27-Abbotts-FreeStyle-R-Libre-14-Day-Flash-Glucose-Monitoring-System-Now-Approved-in-U-S

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4346608/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4346608/
26


Patent Filings Reveal Progress Towards Material 
Software Improvements


Source:  Patent No.: US 9,913,619 B2


Recent patent filings suggest that Abbott is actively working on software improvements and has material developments in the pipeline. In 
particular, Spruce Point has identified a patent filed by Abbott for an algorithm designed to minimize CGM false alarms – i.e. alerts which falsely 
indicate that the user is entering a hypoglycemic range. This is an important development, as patients report that frequent alerts are among the 


most significant downsides to using an alarm-equipped CGM. It also emphasizes that, despite the slight difference in MARD versus Dexcom, 
Abbott is actively working to improve the Libre’s internal software, which should help to narrow any disadvantage created by the current 


accuracy difference, and thus to erase the market’s perception of the Libre as a technologically-inferior CGM.


Abbott Patent For CGM Alarm Algorithm (March 2018) Patent Disclosure


ABSTRACT: Methods of determining when to activate an analyte, e.g. glucose, related alarm, 
such as a hypoglycemia alarm, of a continuous analyte monitor is provided. Also provided are 


systems, devices and kits.


Addresses A Real Problem…


Source


“It is possible, using clinical data and insulin delivery information, to trust a CGM system to 
provide a balance between hypoglycemic detection sensitivity and reasonable specificity 
that minimizes false alarms under a wide range of glucose profiles. With good glycemic 
control, the proportion of true-hypoglycemia may be reduced significantly enough that signal 
artifacts of the CGM system become an important factor in causing false alarm rates.


In one embodiment of the present system, a combination of glucose level measurements, known 
as CGM signal artifact characteristics, and the best-estimate of relevant physiological states, such 
as, for example, plasma glucose, interstitial glucose, insulin on board, and effective insulin, are 
used to delay the enunciation of a CGM based hypoglycemic alarm and determine whether or not 
the alarm should persist. In this embodiment, instead of using an artifact detector which relies on a 
mechanism that is sensitive to the artifacts in the signal, the alarm instead is tuned to be insensitive 
to the artifacts, yet at the same time maintain a safe level of sensitivity to hypoglycemic events.”



https://patentimages.storage.googleapis.com/57/18/d9/8f3d7a70f397d3/US9913619.pdf

https://diabetesstrong.com/fit-with-diabetes-part-4-the-pros-and-cons-of-cgm/
27


Libre 2 Still More User-Friendly Than G6, But 
Also Nearly As Technologically Advanced


Again, while Dexcom has until now been viewed as technologically superior to the Libre, the Libre is widely considered the more user-friendly 
product – and, with the introduction of an alarm system and perhaps improved accuracy, it will also soon be considered nearly technologically 


equivalent. Though the G6 no longer requires that users take fingerprick blood glucose readings to calibrate their devices, the fact that the 
Libre 2 is disposable, smaller, and factory-calibrated without the need to scan a code – in addition to the fact that its alarm system is optional –
continues to make the Libre the easier-to-use CGM. Accordingly, we suspect that the Libre 2 will have significant appeal among T1 diabetics.


Product Specifications


Product Feature Comparison:
Dexcom G5 vs. Abbott FreeStyle Libre


Product Feature Comparison:
Dexcom G6 vs. Abbott FreeStyle Libre 2


Dexcom G5
Abbott FreeStyle 


Libre
Notes Dexcom G6


Abbott FreeStyle 
Libre 2


Notes


TECHNOLOGICAL
FEATURES


High/Low Alarm ✔ ✖ ✔ ✔ Libre alarm is optional (Source)


MARD (Accuracy) 9.0% 9.4% 9.0% ?


Live Continuous 
Monitoring


✔ ✖
User must scan 


transmitter to see data 
(Source)


✔ ✔
Live data collection 


allows for unprompted 
alarm


EASE
OF


USE


Sensor Life
(Official)


7 days 14 days G5 up to 14 days with user modification 10 days 14 days
G6 life not extendable as 


of March 2019


No-Fingerstick 
Calibration


✖ ✔ Libre calibrated at factory ✔ ✔ G6 user must scan sensor to ensure calibration


Fingerpricks
Required per Day


2 - - -


Disposable 
Transmitter


✖ ✔ ✖ ✔


No Separate 
Transmitter 


Required
✖ ✔


Libre transmitter 
integrated with sensor


(Source)
✖ ✔


Libre transmitter 
integrated with sensor


(Source)


Transmitter Life 3 months - 3 months -


Sensor Size 11.1 cm3 4.8 cm3 Libre less than half the size of G5 7.1 cm
3 ? G6 still bigger thanoriginal Libre



https://www.diabettech.com/cgm/abbotts-freestylelibre2-announced-today-at-easd2018-more-questions-than-answers/

https://medcitynews.com/2019/01/dexcom-glowing-from-fabulous-results-dismisses-medtronic-as-a-viable-cgm-competitor-at-jpm/?rf=1

https://diatribe.org/abbotts-freestyle-libre-approved-us-replace-routine-fingersticks

https://diatribe.org/abbotts-freestyle-libre-approved-us-replace-routine-fingersticks
28


Partner Companies See Libre As Sufficiently 
Accurate vs. Dexcom, And Value Usability


Importantly, partners in the diabetes device space see the Libre as sufficiently accurate to include within their own ecosystems. Of particular 
note is Bigfoot Biomedical, which has developed a closed-loop insulin delivery system which includes the Abbott Libre as its CGM. Our 


conversations with Bigfoot employees and other industry professionals indicate that, with no CGM demonstrating materially superior accuracy, 
Bigfoot partnered with Abbott because it views the Libre as more cost-effective and user-friendly than Dexcom’s CGMs.


The fact that a well-respected medical device company in the diabetes space sees the Libre as sufficiently accurate to include within its own 
closed-loop system as an exclusive partner gives us confidence that the Libre’s slightly higher MARD versus the G5 and G6 is neither a 


significant technological nor competitive disadvantage.


“[We] evaluated many sensor candidates for our system over a 2+ year evaluation period - all the sensors and sensor companies 
that you've heard of and some that you most likely have not. In addition, we were well apprised of these potential partners' 
pipelines in terms of planned future sensor technologies. Any concerns about bias in any particular sensor can be accounted 
for in software, so factors like ease of use, cost, comfort, ease of training, and risks introduced to the system become 
criteria by which a company might measure a sensor. As the only sensor that requires neither fingerstick nor sensor code 
calibration, FreeStyle Libre won out for introducing the least amount of risk or use error into the system. Add that it's the most 
affordable, easiest to apply, fully disposable, simple to learn, longest wear, lowest profile sensor, FreeStyle Libre hit a lot 
of important user-centric marks for [us], as we care about bringing down system costs, simplifying use, and providing a 
delightful user experience.”
- Current Employee, Diabetes-Related Medical Tech Company


Source (Paywall)



https://asweetlife.org/bigfoot-biomedical-ditches-dexcom-cgm-for-abbott/

https://www.innovationinmedtech.com/product/article-purchase-diabetes-devices-bigfoot-abbott-match-made-heaven-interview-bigfoot-biomedical-ceo-jeffrey-brewer-mary-thompson/
29


Medical Experts Agree: CGMs Are Heading 
Towards Commoditization


In the course of our diligence, we interviewed numerous manufacturers, endocrinologists, engineers, and medtech experts to better understand 
the most important characteristics needed in a CGM. It seems well-understood in the medical community that the Libre will likely largely close 


any remaining gaps in accuracy versus Dexcom’s CGMs prior to FDA approval. We believe that a high / low glucose alarm is the most important 
differentiating feature of a CGM for more intensive users. Abbott’s FreeStyle Libre 2 system, which will be approved in 2019, will offer this 


feature at a significantly lower price point than Dexcom.


Source: Diabetes Connections Podcast, “A T1D Geek Squad? / Bigfoot’s Lane Desborough [44:05]


“Once something is good enough, then you standardize it, and then you can interoperate. I use the metaphor of screws, once you converge on how many 
threads per inch and diameters of screws then innovations stops at the screw level and it goes up a level to machines. What machines can we build from those 
screws. So that commoditizes the screws. So, vendors are generally reluctant to do this. If you are a screw maker, ‘look I got a fancy screw. I should get more 
money for my screw. Fortunately or unfortunately, many of these base technologies like CGM and insulin pumps are now sort of at that screw level that 
they are all good enough. They are serving the needs, they are accurate enough. Now we are going to see innovation one level up, at the machine level at 
the automated insulin delivery system.”


- Lane Desborough – Chief Engineer and Co-Founder, Bigfoot Biomedical


“We looked at lot of detailed performance data for the Libre sensor. The difference in accuracy [between Abbott and Dexcom] is not that significant when it 
comes to feedback control.”


“For closed loop feedback systems [the] absolute measurement of the sensor is not that important. What is more important is the rate of change of the 
continuous glucose monitor…. When you take all of these things into account, the better performance of the Dexcom washes out…it is not as significant.”


"I don't think the error rates between [Abbott and Dexcom] are consequential.“


"Abbott has been in a very similar path [compared to Dexcom in regards to improving accuracy in hypoglycemic range]. I would not be surprised if the next generation 
of the Libre system gets even better in [the hypoglycemic range] as well. If you look at both of them. The core technology that both Abbott and Dexcom have been 
using, is the exact same core technology that they started using ten years ago. It is exactly the same technology."


- Former Senior Engineer, Diabetes-Related Medical Tech Company


“From a clinical perspective, we are now nitpicking [in regards to accuracy of CGMs]. As long as the patient know that [they need to react] that is more 
important…. In the life of the user, the differences [in accuracy between Dexcom and Abbott's CGMs] will not change what the patient will do. Whether the reading 
is 52 or 62, the patient behaves the same way. I don't think the accuracy argument negates [Abbott over Dexcom].”


“It does not make a difference to me which [CGM] they use, the data is the data. As long as it is accurate enough for decision making [which they all are].”


“[Libre 2] having the alarms will even the playing field because this is the most common complaint for the [current version].”


“The Libre 2 is going to level the playing field.  The Libre 2 is going to be a significant improvement.”


“A patient who is seriously thinking about a CGM, it is going to be more about cost, [logistics of obtaining the device, and ease of use] rather than 
worrying about the nuances of accuracy.”


- Renowned Endocrinologist With Significant Patient Treatment Experience



https://www.diabetes-connections.com/a-t1d-geek-squad-bigfoots-lane-desborough/
30


Universal CGM And Pump Interoperability Will 
Promote CGM Commoditization


Recent changes to the FDA’s closed-loop system approval process encourage wider CGM-pump interoperability. Whereas, historically, the FDA 
would evaluate and approve a closed-loop system as a whole, it now evaluates and approves CGMs and pumps independently for use in generic 
closed-loop systems. Once granted an iCGM (Integrated Continuous Glucose Monitor) or iPump (Integrated Pump) designation, a CGM or pump 


is authorized for use in any closed-loop insulin-delivery system with other pumps or CGMs given the analogous designation.1


Because closed-loop systems have until now been evaluated by the FDA as a whole, CGM and pump manufacturers have partnered with each 
other to produce proprietary closed-loop systems (e.g. Tandem and Dexcom, Bigfoot and Libre). However, we believe that wider CGM


compatibility sets up the industry for commoditization, and that Abbott is best positioned to benefit from this change as the low-cost provider.


The Old FDA Approval Process: System Approval2
Closed-loop system evaluated and approved by FDA at the system level


The New FDA Approval Process: Interoperability2
Components evaluated & approved for closed-loop systems individually by the FDA


Automated 
Insulin 


Delivery 
Algorithm


Pump CGM


Automated 
Insulin 


Delivery 
Algorithm


iPump iCGM


“Yes, that’s a beautiful thing about this pathway that the FDA has 
created. If they were able to reach special controls then certainly it 
could be a very easy clinical path to integration of their sensor in, for 
example, Horizon down the road.”


- Shacey Petrovic – President and CEO, Insulet Corporation


Insulet Corporation Q4 FY18 Conference Call


“Can the Omnipod be configured with Libre 2.0 if they receive a high 
designation?”


- Suraj Kalia – Analyst, Northland Securities


Pump manufacturers such as Insulet – makers of OmniPod – have been anticipating this change and are eager for the new interoperability 
standard to open their products to new users. Interoperability will expand Abbott’s current U.S. market opportunity by over 70,000 CGM users.


Libre Market Opportunity Following Wider Insulin Pump Interoperability


Tandem Pump
Insulet Pump


(Omnipod)


Estimated U.S. Installed Base 98,0003 110,0004


% of Users with CGM (Dexcom) 40% 30%


Dexcom Users With Pump 39,200 33,000


Total Market Opportunity 72,200


1. Source, 2. Source, 3. Spruce Point Estimate, 4. Spruce Point Estimate



https://seekingalpha.com/article/4244106-insulet-corporation-podd-ceo-shacey-petrovic-q4-2018-results-earnings-call-transcript

https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/cdrh_docs/pdf17/DEN170088.pdf

http://investor.tandemdiabetes.com/static-files/3b687ef0-f701-4efa-a176-8a2c3297fb72
31


Major Players In The Diabetes Device Ecosystem 
Are Already Moving Towards Wider Compatibility


Novo Nordisk, a major player in the diabetes care space, has announced partnerships for its connected insulin pens with both 
Dexcom (October 2018) and, more recently, Abbott (February 2019). This is a clear indication that CGMs are becoming a 


commoditized component of insulin delivery systems. Insulin delivery systems – pumps, insulin pens, etc. – are increasingly 
growing agnostic to the user’s choice of CGM.


Bagsværd, Denmark, 1 October 2018 - Novo Nordisk today announced plans to 
make the durable, connected insulin pens NovoPen® 6 and NovoPen Echo® 
Plus commercially available across key markets commencing in early 2019. In 
parallel, to support the future integration of its connected pens with 
broader digital health solutions, Novo Nordisk has signed new partnership 
agreements with leading diabetes technology companies that share Novo 
Nordisk's vision to improve the lives of people with diabetes: Dexcom, 
Glooko and Roche.


The partnerships aim to advance the solutions available for people living with 
diabetes and their healthcare professionals. Building upon its existing work with 
IBM Watson Health® and Glooko, Novo Nordisk aims to seamlessly integrate 
insulin dosing data from connected pen devices with its partners' open 
ecosystems and diabetes management solutions, such as data from continuous 
glucose monitoring (CGM) systems and blood glucose meters (BGM).


"Our non-exclusive partnership strategy allows us to integrate with the 
various digital platforms that people are already using to help manage their 
diabetes," said Camilla Sylvest, executive vice president of Commercial Strategy 
& Corporate Affairs at Novo Nordisk. "We firmly believe that this will help more 
people realise the full benefit of our innovative medicines and begin to ease the 
mental burden of diabetes treatment for those individuals."


The launch of Novo Nordisk's first connected insulin pens, NovoPen® 6 and 
NovoPen Echo® Plus, will commence in the first quarter of 2019 and roll out to 
over 50 countries in the coming years. NovoPen® 6 and NovoPen Echo® Plus 
will eventually be phased in to replace NovoPen® 5 and NovoPen Echo® in 
countries where those devices are currently available.


Novo Nordisk Partners with Dexcom
October 1, 2018


Novo Nordisk Partners with Abbott
February 20, 2019


Abbott and Novo Nordisk enter partnership to provide integrated digital 
solution to people with diabetes using insulin


Collaboration will enable insulin data to be shared between Novo Nordisk 
connected insulin pens and digital health tools compatible1 with FreeStyle 
Libre portfolio of products.


Abbott Park, Ill, US and Bagsværd, Denmark 20 February 2019 – Abbott and 
Novo Nordisk today announced a non-exclusive partnership that will 
integrate insulin dose data from Novo Nordisk pre-filled and durable 
connected pens directly into the digital health tools compatible with the 
FreeStyle Libre system (FreeStyle LibreLink2 mobile app and LibreView3 
cloud-based system). The partnership reflects both companies′ commitment to 
make diabetes management easier by connecting key technologies such as 
continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and connected insulin pens.


Integrating these two products will enable healthcare professionals, caregivers 
and people with diabetes to view glucose and insulin data together to help them 
make more informed treatment decisions and to have a more meaningful and 
productive conversation about health outcomes.


Source


Source



http://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/10/01/1600412/0/en/Novo-Nordisk-plans-first-global-launch-of-connected-insulin-pens-and-announces-key-digital-health-partnerships.html

https://www.novonordisk.com/bin/getPDF.2235735.pdf
32


Litigation Reveals Breadth Of Technological 
Competition And Competitive Threats


Since 2016, Dexcom has exchanged a number of patent infringement lawsuits over glucose sensor technology with AgaMatrix, which sells 
blood glucose test strips, glucose meters, and glucose-tracking apps to diabetes patients. Dexcom lost one of these suits in May 2018 and was 
ordered to pay AgaMatrix’s attorneys’ fees for filing a “weak patent infringement case…that became objectively baseless following the Court’s 


Markman order.”1 Dexcom’s language relating to its outlook of the AgaMatrix litigation has also grown more negative in recent filings.


Sources indicate that AgaMatrix has just ~130 employees as of March 2019 and has raised ~$100M in six venture funding rounds. The fact that 
such a small, start-up-type company could plausibly develop the same or superior technology as has Dexcom should remind investors that the 
CGM space is ultimately technology-driven, and that Dexcom could easily be unseated as the industry “gold standard” with new technological 
developments superseding existing CGM technology. Product cycles also appear to be relatively fast in the CGM space, with new products and 


technologies supplanting old ones in relatively short order.


Dexcom FY16 10-K


Dexcom FY17 10-K


Dexcom FY18 10-K


1. Case No.: CV 16-05947 SJO (Asx), Civil Minutes


Court Motion
May 9, 2018



https://agamatrix.com/

https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/federal-court-judge-awards-agamatrix-attorneys-fees-while-admonishing-dexcom-for-bad-faith-lawsuit-300659857.html

https://www.linkedin.com/company/agamatrix/insights/

https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/agamatrix-inc#section-funding-rounds

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1093557/000109355717000048/dxcm-12312016x10k.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1093557/000109355718000018/dxcm-12312017x10k.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1093557/000109355719000041/dxcm-12312018x10k.htm

https://ecf.cacd.uscourts.gov/doc1/031128128481

https://ecf.cacd.uscourts.gov/doc1/031128128481
CGM Commoditization Exposes 
Dexcom To Devastating Price 
Competition
34


In A Commoditized CGM Market, Abbott’s Cost 
Advantage Will Support Drastically Lower Prices


We recognize that the impending release of the Libre 2 in the U.S. is no secret to Dexcom bulls. However, we believe that they underestimate 
the potential economic consequences of heightened price competition between Abbott and Dexcom as Dexcom’s technological advantage 
erodes. As the CGM market moves towards commoditization, we expect that pricing pressure will intensify – and that Abbott, a diversified, 


$130B market cap medical product behemoth, will have a major cost advantage against the single-product $13B market cap Dexcom. 
Specifically, Abbott’s economies of scale will allow the company to produce the Libre at a fraction of Dexcom’s cost of producing the G6.


Production Cost Comparison: Dexcom G6 vs. Abbot Freestyle Libre 2


Dexcom G6 Abbott Freestyle Libre 21


Sensor Cost to Payor / Patient $116.33 $37.50


Sensor Life (Days) 10 14


Sensor Cost to Payor per Day $11.63 $2.68


Transmitter Cost to Payor / Patient $237.50 -


Transmitter Life (Days) 91.25 -


Transmitter Cost to Payor per Day $2.60 -


Total Cost to Payor per Day $14.24 $2.68


Distributor Margin %2 24% 24%


Distributor Margin $3.42 $0.64


Net Revenue to Manufacturer per 
Payor per Day


$10.82 $2.04


Estimated Manufacturer Gross Margin 70% 60%


Manufacturer COGS per Payor per Day $3.25 $0.82


We estimate that, on a per-
patient-per-day basis, 


Dexcom spends 59% more 
to produce the G6 system 


than Abbott will generate in 
revenue on the Libre 2.


Adjusting for differences in sensor life between the G6 and Libre 2.0, Abbott spends just ~25% what Dexcom spends to produce CGM sensors 
and transmitters. With the Libre 2 largely technologically equivalent to the G6, we believe that Abbott will be able to put tremendous pricing 


pressure on the G6 while reducing its own margins only minimally, if at all.
1. Analysis assumes Libre 2 pricing will be consistent with Libre 1 pricing, as is suggested by this press release, and as would be consistent with Dexcom’s pricing of the G6 versus the G5.
2. Spruce Point Estimates



https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-10-01-Abbott-s-FreeStyle-R-Libre-2-with-Optional-Real-Time-Alarms-Secures-CE-Mark-for-Use-in-Europe
35


Pricing At Par With Libre Would Erase 75% Of 
Dexcom Revenue And All Gross Profit


Consensus estimates imply that Dexcom is expected to generate $7.73 in combined sensor and transmitter revenue per patient 
per day in FY19. Recall from the previous slide that Abbott generates $2.04 in sensor revenue per patient per day, and that the 


Libre does not require the purchase of separate transmitters. If Dexcom were to reduce sensor and transmitter prices such that its 
combined sensor & transmitter revenue per patient per day was on par with that of the Libre, FY19 gross profit would be slashed 


from $798M to ($22M), and gross margin from 66% to -6%.


$, Millions, Except Per Patient Figures FY19: Consensus


Sensor Revenue $906


Transmitter Revenue $208


Sensor & Transmitter Revenue $1,114


Receiver Revenue $104


Total Revenue $1,218


COGS $420


Gross Profit $798


Gross Margin 66%


Beginning Patients (Thousands) 345


Net Adds (Thousands) 100


Ending Patients (Thousands) 445


Average Patients (Thousands) 395


Average Sensor & Transmitter Revenue 
per Patient


$2,820


Average Sensor & Transmitter Revenue 
per Patient per Day


$7.73


$, Millions, Except Per Patient Figures At Par With Libre vs. Consensus


Average Sensor & Transmitter 
Revenue per Patient per Day


$2.04 -74%


Average Sensor & Transmitter 
Revenue per Patient


$744.60 -74%


Average Patients (Thousands) 395 -


Sensor & Transmitter Revenue $294 -74%


Receiver Revenue $104 -


Total Revenue $398 -67%


COGS $420 -


Gross Profit ($22) -103%


Gross Margin -6% -7200 bps


If, in order to maintain market share, Dexcom is forced to slash 
sensor and transmitter prices to achieve parity with the Libre’s 


daily cost of use to the payor, the Company’s gross profit would 
be wiped out in its entirety, even if revenue from up-front receiver 


purchases were to hold steady.
36


Abbott Could Comfortably Maintain CGM 
Profitability Amidst A Price War With Dexcom


Abbott’s economies of scale in production are such that it can undercut Dexcom’s pricing while still earning a comfortable profit on its CGMs. 
At an average sensor and transmitter revenue per patient per day of $2.00 – close to the Libre’s current level of $2.04 – Abbott would realize a 


gross margin of 59% on the Libre 2 (vs. our estimate of 60% today), while Dexcom would realize a gross margin of -7% on the G6 (vs. our 
estimate of 70% today). We believe that, if Abbott and Dexcom were to engage in a price war, or if Dexcom’s narrowed technological advantage 


naturally lends to downward pricing pressure, the economics behind Dexcom’s one-product business model could completely unravel.


$, Millions, Except Per 
Patient Figures Dexcom G6 Abbott Libre 2 Dexcom G6 Abbott Libre 2 Dexcom G6 Abbott Libre 2 Dexcom G6 Abbott Libre 2


Avg. Sensor & 
Transmitter 


Revenue per Patient 
per Day


$4.00 $3.00 $2.00 $1.00


Avg. Sensor & 
Transmitter 


Revenue per Patient
$1,460 $1,460 $1,095 $1,095 $730 $730 $365 $365


Avg. Patients (000) 
(Consensus / 


Estimate)
395 395 395 395 395 395 395 395


Sensor & 
Transmitter 


Revenue
$577 $577 $433 $433 $288 $288 $144 $144


Receiver Revenue 
Estimate


$104 $19 $104 $19 $104 $19 $104 $19


Total Revenue $681 $595 $537 $451 $392 $307 $248 $163


COGS Estimate $420 $126 $420 $126 $420 $126 $420 $126


Gross Profit $261 $470 $117 $325 ($28) $181 ($100) $37


Gross Margin 38% 79% 22% 72% -7% 59% -31% 23%
37


-80%


-60%


-40%


-20%


0%


20%


40%


60%


80%


100%


$5.00 $4.00 $3.00 $2.00 $1.00G
ro


ss
 M


ar
gi


n


Avg. Sensor & Transmitter Rev. per Patient per Day


Gross Margin Sensitivity To Sensor And Transmitter Revenue


Dexcom G6 Abbott Freestyle Libre 2


Price War Economics, Visualized


If the G6 and Libre 2 are viewed as substitute or near-substitute products by consumers, Abbott could put tremendous pressure 
on Dexcom’s gross profit while maintaining a comfortable level of profitability on the sale of its Libre 2 CGM.


Abbott’s Libre pricing is currently set 
such that it generates $2.04 in revenue 
per patient per day on CGM sensors, 


and it does not require patients to 
purchase additional transmitters.


Dexcom is already in a position to face 
tremendous pressure on gross profit.


If consumers treat the G6 and Libre 2 as near-perfect substitutes, could the one-product Dexcom survive as a viable business 
amidst a vigorous price war, or as competitive dynamics naturally drive down industry pricing?


Libre – Current 


Abbott has the capacity to cut 
prices to a point at which 


Dexcom’s economics would be 
devastated


Hypothetical 
Price War
38


Abbott Aware Of Superior Cost Structure And 
Prepared To Take Advantage


Rather than maintain a low price on the Libre 2 to attempt to pressure Dexcom into cutting G-Series prices to unsustainable levels, 
might Abbott management instead raise prices on the technologically-advanced Libre 2 to increase its own margins? As 


management has already priced the Libre 2 in line with original Libre prices in Europe, we suspect that the Libre 2 will be priced in 
line with the original Libre in the U.S. as well. Further, and importantly, when asked about the possibility of competing with 


Dexcom at the “upper end” of the market, Abbott management made it clear that it is well-aware of the cost pressures facing 
Dexcom, and that it is prepared to leverage its cost advantage to keep prices low and take share.


Abbott management is aware that, given current G-Series prices and its own production cost advantages, offering the Libre at a 
lower price point allows it to take overwhelming incremental market share while still earning attractive margins.


We should expect management to continue to price the Libre aggressively with respect to the G-Series.


Abbott Laboratories Q3 FY18 Conference Call


“And maybe a follow-up on Libre. This is a product that's been wildly successful. You're now over $100 
million run rate in the U.S., over $1 billion globally, and you really have one major competitor here that's --
let's call it at the upper end of the technology scale. And Abbott, I view as the low-cost, easy-to-access, 
very easy-to-use product in continuous glucose monitoring. So, as we think about the evolution of Libre 
over the next few years, how do you think about Libre staying at the lower end of the cost and ease-
of-use curve versus moving up and trying to compete with your main competitor there? Thanks.”
- Robbie Marcus – Analyst, J.P. Morgan


“Well, I'll tell you, interestingly enough, I don't actually look at it the way you just described. I think Libre is 
a pretty different product. It's got tremendous capability, but given that value point that we have it 
priced at, it is accessible to patients all over the world…. And in our case, we have a much lower 
cost and far greater automated manufacturing capability to not only allow that cost, but to allow 
for mass production. And that’s the path we’ve taken….
So I’d say, at this point, we’re making healthy profits on this product. We have no intention of changing 
the value proposition at all. And your question sort of suggests that we would raise price in order to be 
competitive, I’d say, you want to be asking the other side, what they’re going to do to make 
themselves a value proposition, because this product is incredibly good value proposition, which 
is why it’s got such high demand.”
- Miles White – CEO, Abbott Laboratories



https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-10-01-Abbott-s-FreeStyle-R-Libre-2-with-Optional-Real-Time-Alarms-Secures-CE-Mark-for-Use-in-Europe

https://seekingalpha.com/article/4212204-abbott-laboratories-abt-ceo-miles-white-q3-2018-results-earnings-call-transcript
39


Abbott’s Expanding CGM Production Capacity 
Will Only Magnify Its Scale Advantage


Through recent earnings calls and investor conferences, Abbott has emphasized that it is in the process of expanding capacity for 
Libre production ahead of the U.S. rollout. We believe that this will only extend Abbott’s cost advantage and create further 


downside risk in CGM pricing.


• “We have probably number-one cost position, number-one volume of patients position. I think we can pretty easily declare ourselves the 
leader in continuous glucose monitoring and growing faster than everybody else. So I'd just say that all the things you would expect us to be 
doing, including working with other third-party partners who would benefit from this technology all underway have been for some time.”


• “We're investing several hundred million dollars in expansion.”


• “We're investing significant capital to expand manufacturing capacity, which will allow us to meet anticipated demand over the coming 
years.”


• “Our manufacturing's extremely automated. It gives us a big advantage in terms of costs.”


• “We have a much lower cost and far greater automated manufacturing capability to not only allow that cost but to allow for mass 
production. And that's the path we've taken. And we've gone at this from an access standpoint that's far more retail and direct to consumer
oriented. It's made a big difference.”


• “I'd say you ought to be asking the other side [Dexcom] what they're going to make to do to make themselves a value proposition because this 
product is an incredibly good value proposition which is why it's got such high demand.”


• “We're making a large investment in capacity expansion for Libre that I think you'll see drive even more growth out of Libre than you can 
see now and fulfill kind of the larger mass market ramp up we see for that product.” 


• “The market is for ours to go get, and we have built capacity knowing that we have a unique advantage of the complexity that goes
around making this product. There's a lot of complexity that goes into the chemistry of this product, the automation of producing something 
that's so highly exacting as Libre is. And that's what we're investing for, because we know that while we're at 1 million patients today, we know 
that we're going to build the capacity to serve millions.”


Sources: Abbott Conferences (4Q17 CC (1/24/18), 1Q18 CC (4/18/18), 2Q18 CC (7/18/18), 3Q18 CC (10/17/18), JPM HC (1/8/19), 4Q18 CC (1/23/19)
40


CGMs Trending Towards Commoditization, 
And Dexcom Customers Are Willing To Switch


The extent to which Dexcom is forced to slash prices to maintain market share will ultimately hinge on (1) its technological 
superiority, (2) the customer’s price sensitivity, and (3) customer inertia. We have already established that the G6 will have at best 
a narrow technological edge over the Libre 2 – but just how sensitive are diabetic patients to CGM prices, and how willing are they 


to entertain new and unfamiliar CGMs?


Our research reveals that customer loyalty is surprisingly limited in the CGM space. Spruce Point surveyed 170 CGM users with
Type 1 diabetes – patients who are believed to put a relatively high premium on technology and dependability over price. Of the 93 
respondents who currently use a Dexcom CGM, 81% said that they would consider the Libre 2 when informed of its key features.


The next generation of Abbott’s CGM, the FreeStyle Libre 2 system, is currently available in parts of Europe.


This version currently offers:


• Optional glucose alarms for high / low levels
• No finger pricks
• 14 day sensor wear period
• Smart device capability


When this version is approved in the U.S., would you consider using it?


G4 Users G5 Users G6 Users Total


Respondents
% of 


Respondents
Respondents


% of 
Respondents


Respondents
% of 


Respondents
Respondents


% of 
Respondents


Yes 28 90% 25 78% 24 75% 77 81%


No 3 10% 7 22% 8 25% 18 19%


Total 31 100% 32 100% 32 100% 95 100%


The vast majority of surveyed Dexcom users with Type 1 diabetes do not feel strongly about remaining with Dexcom – even G6 
users, who must have adopted their current CGM within just the last several months.


Note that Type 2 diabetes patients – generally considered to be more price-sensitive and interested in user friendliness over 
technological superiority and dependability – would likely be even less wedded to Dexcom, and that the population of Type 2 


diabetes patients represents the vast majority of the untapped CGM market.
41


Type 1 Diabetes Patients Willing To Sacrifice 
Technology And Dependability For Price


Dexcom bulls argue that, while the Libre may play well among T2 diabetics – whose needs are less intensive than those of T1 diabetics – T1 
diabetics demand the most dependable and advanced CGMs available to them, and are willing to pay a premium for the top-flight G-Series. 


However, our survey reveals that T1 Dexcom patients are surprisingly price-sensitive. In particular, G4 and G5 users have discovered that their 
sensors can be “hacked” to last longer than 7 days. Though it can come at the expense of product reliability, 70% of surveyed G4 and G5 users 


admit to hacking their CGMs, extending the life of their sensors by an average of just under 100% of the advertised 7-day life.


Do you extend the use of your sensors?


How many days do you typically wear your sensor?


G4 Users G5 Users Total


Respondents % of Respondents Respondents % of Respondents Respondents % of Respondents


To Save Money 19 61% 15 47% 34 54%


Sensors get more accurate 
with time


8 26% 10 31% 18 29%


Don’t like process of changing 
sensor


3 10% 6 19% 9 14%


Other 0 0% 1 3% 1 2%


Do not extend sensors 5 16% 9 28% 14 22%


What are the main reasons that you extend the life of your sensor? (Please check all that apply)


G4 Users G5 Users Total


Respondents % of Respondents Respondents % of Respondents Respondents % of Respondents


Yes 21 68% 23 72% 44 70%


No 10 32% 9 28% 19 30%


Total 31 100% 32 100% 63 100%


G4 Users G5 Users Total


(Average Response) 11.6 12.9 12.2



https://forum.tudiabetes.org/t/restarting-dexcom-g5-sensor/74748
42


Questions Over Ability To Hack G6 Should 
Encourage Dexcom Users To Switch To The Libre


By extending sensor life to an average of 12 days, consumers saved an average of 33% on annual CGM costs. This was enough 
incentive for 70% of users (per our survey) to assume the risks involved in hacking sensors.


As of today, the Dexcom user community is still searching for ways to hack the G6, and G5 transmitters have been re-priced such 
that there are virtually no savings to be had from continuing to use the G5 with hacked transmitters versus switching to the G6.
However, opting for the now technologically-similar Libre 2 would save the consumer over 80% per year versus using the G6.


Before G6 Release After G6 Release and G5 Transmitter Repricing1


Dexcom G5
w/o Extended 


Life


Dexcom G5
with Extended 


Life


Dexcom G6 
(Cannot Extend


Life)


Dexcom G5
w/o Extended 


Life


Dexcom G5
with Extended 


Life
Abbott Libre 2


Sensor Cost to Payor / Patient $89.50 $89.50 $116.33 $89.50 $89.50 $37.50


Sensor Life (Days) 7 12 10 7 12 14


Sensor Cost to Payor per Day $12.79 $7.46 $11.63 $12.79 $7.46 $2.68


Sensor Cost to Payor per Year $4,666.78 $2,722.29 $4,246.05 $4,666.78 $2,722.29 $977.68


Transmitter Cost to Payor / Patient1 $300.00 $300.00 $237.50 $599.00 $599.00 -


Transmitter Life (Days) 91.25 91.25 91.25 91.25 91.25 -


Transmitter Cost to Payor per Day $3.28 $3.28 $2.60 $6.56 $6.56 -


Transmitter Cost to Payor per Year $1,200.00 $1,200.00 $950.00 $2,396.00 $2,396.00 -


Sensor and Transmitter Cost to Payor 
per Year


$5,866.78 $3,922.29 $5,196.05 $7,062.78 $5,118.29 $977.68


Discount to G5/G6 - 33% - -35% 1% 81%


If, per our survey, 70% of G5 users were willing to assume the risks involved in hacking their transmitters for the sake of 33% annual cost 
savings, we suspect that a material proportion of Dexcom G-Series users will be willing to switch to the now-comparable Libre 2 for the sake of 


over 80% annual cost savings.
1. Dexcom recently increased the price of its G5 transmitters from $300 to $599 to encourage all G5 users (including “hackers”) to switch to the G6
2. Average G5 sensor life of 12 days when “hackers” are included, per our survey



https://sixuntilme.com/wp/2018/05/17/i-tried-to-restart-my-dexcom-g6-sensor/
43


$0


$1,000


$2,000


$3,000


$4,000


$5,000


$6,000


$7,000


$8,000


G5 - Normal Life G5 - Extended Life


Sensor and Transmitter Cost to Payor per Year -
Before G6 Release


Annual Cost Savings From Switch To Libre 2, 
Visualized


Per our survey, the draw of 33% annual cost savings was enough to encourage 70% of Dexcom users to assume the risks 
involved in extending the lives of their sensors. Users are still searching for ways to extend the life of the G6 sensor, and there are 
no cost savings to be had from continuing to use the G5 following the recent G5 transmitter price hike. However, the Libre 2 – now 


technologically comparable to the Dexcom G-Series CGM – offers a whopping 80% annual cost savings versus the Dexcom G6.


We believe that this will encourage a material migration of Dexcom customers to the Libre.


$0


$1,000


$2,000


$3,000


$4,000


$5,000


$6,000


$7,000


$8,000


G6 G5 - Normal Life G5 - Extended Life Libre 2


Sensor and Transmitter Cost to Payor per Year -
After G6 Release and G5 Transmitter Repricing


33% cost savings


Encouraged 70% of users (per our survey) to extend the lives of their 
G5 transmitters


80% cost savings, no G6 hacking option


We believe that this will spark a material migration of Dexcom users to 
the Libre, which is now technologically comparable


Note also that the one-time up-front receiver cost of adopting the Libre is a relatively low $65, compared to $599 for the G-Series. This 
limits switching costs for G6 users considering the Libre, and makes it even more economical for current G4/G5 users to adopt the 


Libre over the G6.
44


0


50


100


150


200


250


300


350


2015 2016 2017 2018e
Th


ou
sa


nd
s


CGM Users By Company - United States


DXCM ABT Others


0


200


400


600


800


1,000


1,200


1,400


2015 2016 2017 2018e


Th
ou


sa
nd


s


CGM Users By Company - Worldwide


DXCM ABT Others


Customers Already Responding To Incentives


Diabetes patients appear to be responding to the new economics of the CGM landscape already. In Europe, where the Libre 2 is 
already available as of 2018, Libre uptake has been rapid, driving worldwide customer base growth of over 100% in every year 


since 2016 (versus <50% in every year for Dexcom). Further, in just its first year in the U.S. market, the Libre’s customer base has 
already surpassed those of Dexcom and other competitors. Bulls argue that Dexcom’s and Abbott’s CGMs address separate 


markets, but we believe that the relatively rapid uptake of the Libre helps to demonstrate the price sensitivity of the population of 
diabetes patients – even T1 patients with relatively intensive healthcare needs.


Rapid worldwide adoption of the Libre Abbott’s share of the U.S. CGM market has already 
surpassed that of Dexcom and all other players after just 
one year of sales – even before the release of the Libre 2


Sources: Dexcom, Abbott, Medtronic, Eversense, Spruce Point Estimates
45


Insurers Are Incentivizing Patients To Choose 
The Lower-Cost Libre


The potentially high cost of the Dexcom to health insurance providers is driving insurers to incentivize patients to choose the Libre over the G-
Series. In particular, Abbott is in the process of obtaining “preferred co-pay” status with major PBMs and insurers. Our diligence reveals that 
Abbott has obtained Tier 2 (preferred co-pay) status across almost all Anthem insurance plans (166 out of 168). By comparison, only 15 of 168 


Anthem plans offer Tier 2 coverage on Dexcom CGMs. Tier 2 co-pays generally range from $15 to $50 versus Tier 3 co-pays that range from $50 
to $150. We believe that the price difference between Libre and the G-Series gives insurers a vested interest in swaying diabetes patients to 


choose the Libre over Dexcom CGMs, and that the launch of the technologically-competitive Libre 2 could threaten Dexcom insurer 
reimbursement rates at its current price point.


Case Study: Anthem, Inc. Coverage Comparison
Number of Plans With Product Coverage At Various Levels


Libre Dexcom


Tier 2 – Preferred (Generic Pricing) 166 15


Tier 3 – Covered (Branded Pricing) 1 152


Not Covered 1 1


Total Plans 168 168


Further, Dexcom seems to be downplaying Abbott’s recent traction with major payors. 


Source: Formulary Lookup


“In the U.S., we saw an accelerating trend of new users as we ramped up our awareness efforts during the second half of the year and 
pharmacy insurance coverage continued to increase including an emerging trend of seeing Libre granted preferred co-pay status versus 
competitive systems due to its compelling overall value proposition.”


“As you think about co-pay status and the way payers use it, that is essentially what they're trying to do is they're trying to incent a preferred 
offering with respect to the value proposition that that offering brings.”


“So as we progressed through the second half of the year in our payer dialogue, we saw that certain payers were starting to put Libre in a 
in a higher tier, tier two, which would result for the end-patient in a lower co-pay, quite frankly. And again, I think as they look at the 
overall value proposition and the outcomes of that and what not, they see a compelling argument to do it and we're starting to see that trend.”


- Abbott Q4 FY18 Earnings Call – January 23, 2019


“There's nothing of significance that we could point to in either direction where we've been advantaged or any 
other competitor has been advantaged to our knowledge. So we hear rumblings of it here or there. Usually it's 
on a very small scale.”


- Dexcom Q4 FY18 Earnings Call – February 21, 2019


Abbott achieving Tier 2 status across 
166 plans on one of the largest health 


insurers in the U.S. is NOT “small scale”



https://formularylookup.com/

https://seekingalpha.com/article/4235043-abbott-laboratories-abt-ceo-miles-white-q4-2018-results-earnings-call-transcript

https://seekingalpha.com/article/4243194-dexcom-inc-dxcm-ceo-kevin-sayer-q4-2018-results-earnings-call-transcript
46


Does Dexcom Really Have A Future If It Can’t 
Match Abbott’s Scale?


Spruce Point believes that, given the technological capabilities of the Libre 2 and the surprising price sensitivity of T1 diabetics, the Libre will 
take (and has taken) significant share from the G-Series, and Dexcom will face tremendous pressure to cut prices. Bulls argue that T1 diabetics 
and many T2 diabetics will continue to prefer the most advanced technology in a device on which their lives may ultimately depend – or, at the 
very least, will stick with what’s familiar, even if more expensive. However, in what is an increasingly commoditized space with product cycles 


of one to two years – and one in which competitors have rapidly matched Dexcom’s technology – we question whether Dexcom’s technological 
edge (or what’s left of it) is at all sustainable, and whether Dexcom CGMs will be able to command a premium even one to two generations out.


As CGMs move inevitably and inexorably towards near-complete commoditization, a bet on Dexcom is effectively a bet on the 
Company’s ability to match Abbott’s scale in production and low-cost manufacturing. We believe that the chances of this are 


effectively zero, and would be surprised to find anyone who thinks otherwise.


2016 2017: New Market Leader 2018: New Market Leader


Dexcom: 43% Core Market Share


Medtronic: 57% Core Market Share Dexcom: 51% Core Market Share


Medtronic: 49% Core Market Share


Medtronic: 27% Core Market Share


Dexcom: 35% Market Share


Abbott: 38% Market Share


Source: Spruce Point Estimates
47


-80%


-60%


-40%


-20%


0%


20%


40%


60%


80%


100%


$5.00 $4.00 $3.00 $2.00 $1.00G
ro


ss
 M


ar
gi


n


Avg. Sensor & Transmitter Rev. per Patient per Day


Gross Margin Sensitivity To Sensor And Transmitter Revenue


Dexcom G6 Abbott Freestyle Libre 2


Recap: Libre Has Closed The Technological Gap With 
Dexcom’s G-Series, And Abbott Can Win The Price War


We have thus far established that (1) the Libre 2 will be nearly technologically equivalent to the G6, (2) Abbott has the financial 
capacity to drive CGM pricing to unsustainable levels for Dexcom with only limited consequences for its own profitability, and


(3) even Dexcom’s most technology-dependent Type 1 diabetes customers could switch to the Libre 2 given its new technological 
capabilities and the potential degree of cost savings to be had from switching.


The Street continues to believe that Dexcom’s recent blow-out sales growth is proof that the bull case is playing out. In the next 
series of slides, we will demonstrate that analysts are mistaking one-time events for sustainable growth, and are overestimating


Dexcom’s remaining growth runway.


Dexcom G6: Active High/Low Alarm Abbott Libre 2: Active High/Low Alarm


SourceSource


1. The Libre Has Closed The Technological Gap With The G-Series


2. Abbott Has The Capacity To Win A Price War With Dexcom 3. Customers Open To Switching, And Incentivized To Do So


$0


$1,000


$2,000


$3,000


$4,000


$5,000


$6,000


$7,000


$8,000


G6 G5 - Normal Life G5 - Extended Life Libre 2


Sensor and Transmitter Cost to Payor per Year -
After G6 Release and G5 Transmitter Repricing



https://www.diabettech.com/cgm/abbotts-freestylelibre2-announced-today-at-easd2018-more-questions-than-answers/

https://www.dexcom.com/en-IE
Dexcom’s Near-Term Growth 
Runway Is Rapidly Becoming 
Exhausted
49


Sell-Side Consensus: Accelerating Revenue 
Growth Proof That The Bull Story Is Playing Out


Dexcom has posted what appears to be very impressive growth through the last several quarters. Quarterly revenue recently hit
an all-time high of almost $350M, and year-over-year revenue growth has accelerated in each of the last five quarters, recently 


rising to 53%. The consensus view is that the CGM is a relatively new piece of technology with only ~25% penetration among U.S. 
diabetics at present, but that CGMs are quickly becoming a standard device used by all diabetes patients (or by all T1 diabetics at 


the very least), and that Dexcom is well-positioned to take a large piece of the pie as the manufacturer of the gold standard of
stand-alone CGMs.


We agree that CGMs likely represent the future of diabetes care, but believe that the Street is misinterpreting both Dexcom’s
realistic TAM and its recent record of growth.


$0


$50


$100


$150


$200


$250


$300


$350


$400


Q1-2017 Q2-2017 Q3-2017 Q4-2017 Q1-2018 Q2-2018 Q3-2018 Q4-2018


M
ill


io
ns


Total Revenue


0%


10%


20%


30%


40%


50%


60%


Q1-2017 Q2-2017 Q3-2017 Q4-2017 Q1-2018 Q2-2018 Q3-2018 Q4-2018


Revenue Growth, YoY


Source: Dexcom SEC Filings
50


2015 2016 2017 2018


Abbott 0 0 0 300,000
% Share 0% 0% 0% 38%


Dexcom 116,000 160,000 216,000 280,000
% Share 36% 43% 51% 35%


Medtronic and Senseonics(1) 210,000 210,000 210,000 210,000
% Share 64% 57% 49% 27%


Total US CGM Patients 326,000 370,000 426,000 790,000


The Current U.S. CGM Landscape


We see the core CGM market as T1 and insulin-dependent T2 diabetics. As discussed, the Libre performed impressively in its first
year on the market, achieving 38% share in just one year. Note that, before the introduction of the Libre in 2018, Dexcom’s 


impressive growth came against no real competition in the stand-alone CGM market, as Medtronic and Eversense do not fit this 
definition. The market remains a two-man race between Abbott and Dexcom. We see the total U.S. CGM market as 25% penetrated.


U.S. Diabetes Statistics and Core U.S. CGM Market Opportunity


Source:  Spruce Point Estimates ABT, DXCM, MDT, SENS SEC Filings, Transcripts and Corporate Presentations, American Diabetes Association
1. Other includes US patient estimates for Medtronic and Eversense


Market Shares of Core U.S. CGM Market Opportunity


Core U.S. CGM Market Penetration


2015 2016 2017 2018


Total US Diabetes Patients 30,300,000 30,300,000 30,300,000 30,300,000


Type 1 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Type 2 -- Insulin Dependent 1,950,000 1,950,000 1,950,000 1,950,000


US Core CGM Market Size 3 ,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000


2015 2016 2017 2018


US CGM Patients 326,000 370,000 426,000 790,000
US Core CGM Market Size 3,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000 3,200,000


% of Core Market Penetrated 10% 12% 13% 25%


We define the core U.S. CGM market as T1 diabetics and 
T2 diabetics who take insulin with either multiple daily 
injections (MDI) or with an insulin pump, and who have 
an insulin plan that requires frequent changes based on 


CGM readings


Abbott’s FreeStyle Libre gained FDA Approval on 
September 27, 2017 and was launched commercially in 
2018.  We estimate that the Libre now has 38% market 


share and has already passed Dexcom after just one full 
year of commercial operation.


We believe that the impending release of the 
technologically-superior, yet still affordable Libre 2 puts 
Abbott in a position to take even more share in the near 


future.


Exiting 2018, we believe that the U.S. CGM market is 25% 
penetrated



https://professional.diabetes.org/content/fast-facts-data-and-statistics-about-diabetes
51


# % Share


Abbott 150,000 82%
Dexcom 28,000 15%
Other 4,200 2%
Total 182,200 100%


Type 2 - Insuli ln Dependent 1,950,000
% Pentration -- Type 1 9%


# % Share


Abbott 150,000 25%
Dexcom 252,000 41%
Other 205,800 34%
Total 607,800 100%


Type 1 Patients 1,250,000
% Pentration -- Type 1 49%


# % Share


Abbott 300,000 38%
Dexcom 280,000 35%
Other 210,000 27%
Total 790,000 100%


Total Core Market 3,200,000
% Pentration 25%


Dexcom’s Likely TAM Smaller Than
The Market Believes


Analysts see Dexcom’s core U.S. TAM as T1 and insulin-dependent T2 diabetics. While they acknowledge that T1 patients value Dexcom’s 
purported technological advantages more than T2 diabetics, they say that the Libre is a “market-opening product” which will promote wider 


adoption of the superior G-Series. However, given that the Libre 2 is set to close much of the technological gap between itself and the G-Series, 
and given the overwhelming cost benefits of the Libre, we believe that, at current prices, Dexcom’s current CGMs make little sense for T2 


diabetics, insulin-dependent included. This view is informed by extensive conversations with expert medical professionals. Accordingly, we 
believe that the sell side’s view of Dexcom’s near-term TAM is aggressive and unrealistic despite the appearance of accelerating adoption.


25%


75%


49%51%


9%


91%


DXCM U.S. Penetration:
Sell Side Perception


Dexcom Market Penetration:
Spruce Point Analysis


Optimal Dexcom Market Opportunity:
Full U.S. Diabetes Population


Optimal Dexcom Market Opportunity:
T1 U.S. Population


Outside Realistic Dexcom Market:
Insulin-Dependent T2 U.S. Population


The sell side believes that Dexcom’s target U.S. market is 25% penetrated, leaving significant room for continued CGM adoption. However, 
under Spruce Point’s view of Dexcom’s optimal market opportunity, Dexcom’s current target market is already ~50% penetrated. We also 


believe that T1 penetration will likely top out between 70-80% in the near-to-medium term. Accordingly, Dexcom’s remaining target U.S. TAM 
may be as little as ~300K patients. We believe that the rate of CGM adoption among T1 diabetics has already peaked or will peak in the near 


future. The vast majority of the remaining market opportunity is in the T2 market, to which the Libre is far better suited at current prices.


25% 
Penetrated


Remaining 
Opportunity: 


75%


49% 
Penetrated


Remaining 
Opportunity: 


51%


9% 
Penetrated


Remaining 
Opportunity: 


91%
52


34%


56%


0%


10%


20%


30%


40%


50%


60%


2017 2018


U.S. T1 CGM Penetration Year-End Estimates: 
Sell-Side Institution


Sources Agree: The U.S. T1 Market Is Highly-
Penetrated


Market participants tend to paint a rosy picture of the remaining U.S. T1 CGM growth opportunity. Abbott, for example, recently offered an 
estimate of U.S. T1 CGM penetration of ~33% at a sell-side healthcare conference. However, we find numerous credible sources which estimate 


U.S. T1 penetration closer to 50%. This includes two well-respected sell-side firms with detailed CGM market models. Importantly, a team of 
academics and medical doctors found that U.S. T1 CGM penetration was 38% as of March 2018, and that penetration grew by ~7% annually 


through the last two years. With penetration now accelerating, we believe that this corroborates our view that the U.S. T1 CGM market is ~50% 
penetrated.


6% 7%
8%


12%


18%


24%


31%


38%


0%


5%


10%


15%


20%


25%


30%


35%


40%


2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018


% Of U.S. T1 Survey Respondents Using CGM
(March 2018)


Source: Foster et al. “State of Type 1 Diabetes Management and Outcomes from the T1D Exchange in 
2016-2018.” Diabetes Technology & Therapeutics. Volume 21, Number 2, 2019.
53


2017 2018


Abbott 0 150,000
Dexcom 21,600 28,000


Medtronic and Senseonics(1) 4,200 4,200
Type 2 CGM Population 25,800 182,200


Incrementa l  Growth 5,600 156,400


Total Type 2 - Insulin Dependent 1,950,000 1,950,000
Penetration 1% 9%


Inc remental  Growth 5,600 156,400
Abbot 0 150,000


% of incremental Growth 0% 96%


Dexcom 5,600 6,400
% of incremental Growth 100% 4%


Medtronic and Senseonics(1) 0 0
% of incremental Growth 0% 0%


2017 2018


Abbott 0 150,000
Dexcom 194,400 252,000


Medtronic and Senseonics(1) 205,800 205,800
Type 1 CGM Population 400,200 607,800


Incrementa l  Growth 50,400 207,600


Total Type 1 1,250,000 1,250,000
Penetration 32% 49%


Inc remental  Growth 50,400 207,600
Abbot 0 150,000


% of incremental Growth 0% 72%


Dexcom 50,400 57,600
% of incremental Growth 100% 28%


Medtronic and Senseonics(1) 0 0
% of incremental Growth 0% 0%


As The T1 CGM Opportunity Nears Saturation, 
Growth Will Come From U.S. T2 Adoption


The U.S. T1 CGM market will likely approach a near-saturation point within the next one to two years. As T1 adoption decelerates, 
the battleground for new customer adoption will move to the insulin-dependent T2 market, for which Dexcom’s current CGM 
lineup is ill-suited. Notably, we estimate that the Libre claimed a tremendous ~96% of incremental CGM market share through 


2018. This is corroborated by prescription data.


We also estimate that the Libre took ~72% of incremental T1 market share through 2018, demonstrating the Libre’s appeal to T1
diabetics even before the anticipated improvements of the Libre 2. We expect even stronger migration to the Libre among T1 


diabetics once the new version is released in the U.S.


Sources: Spruce Point Estimates ABT, DXCM, MDT, SENS SEC Filings, Transcripts and Corporate Presentations, American Diabetes Association
1. Other includes US patient estimates for Medtronic and Eversense


CGM Incremental Growth:
T1 U.S. Market


Total U.S. Diabetes Patients Using CGM 
Systems


CGM Incremental Growth:
Insulin-Dependent T2 U.S. Market


Abbott is currently capturing 96% of the 
incremental growth among U.S. insulin-


dependent T2 diabetics (and 72% of 
incremental T1 growth).


U.S. T1 CGM penetration is already at 50%. If it 
tops out at 70-80%, growth should begin to 


decelerate in the coming quarters.


Dexcom has found little success penetrating the 
insulin-dependent T2 market. We believe that it will 
continue to struggle as most of its technological 


advantages are erased.


2016 2017 2018


Abbott
Type 1 0 0 150,000
Type 2 0 0 150,000


Total 0 0 300,000


Dexc om
Type 1 144,000 194,400 252,000
Type 2 16,000 21,600 28,000


Total 160,000 216,000 280,000


Medtronic  and Senseonic s( 1 )


Type 1 205,800 205,800 205,800
Type 2 4,200 4,200 4,200


Total 210,000 210,000 210,000


Total
Type 1 349,800 400,200 607,800


Incremental Growth 50,400 207,600


Type 2 20,200 25,800 182,200
Incremental Growth 5,600 156,400


Total 370,000 426,000 790,000



https://professional.diabetes.org/content/fast-facts-data-and-statistics-about-diabetes
54


Market Share Gains By Patient Type, Visualized


After just one full year on the U.S. market, the Libre commands 25% of the T1 market and 82% of the T2 market, and is dominating incremental 
share. The data make clear that Dexcom is not suited to T2 patients at current prices: after Dexcom added 4,500-6,500 T2 patients per year from 
2016-18, Abbott added a massive 150,000 T2 patients in 2018 alone. We believe that the rapid uptake of the Libre among T2 patients compared 
to their much more muted adoption of the G-Series demonstrates that the (current) technological advantages of the more expensive G-Series 


are superfluous for T2 diabetics, and that the rest of the T2 market is almost entirely open for the taking by the cheaper and easier-to-use Libre.


While the G-Series is a more appealing option among T1 diabetics, prospective users who valued the premium features of the G-Series most 
strongly were likely among the product’s early adopters. The remainder of the T1 market is likely more price-sensitive or does not value the 


features of the G-Series, giving the Libre an advantage among the untapped T1 market. Abbott’s advantage will be particularly strong once the 
Abbott releases the Libre 2, which will be technologically similar to the G-Series but priced more similarly to the current Libre.


0


50,000


100,000


150,000


200,000


250,000


2016 2017 2018


Type 2 Patient Additions


Dexcom Abbott


0


50,000


100,000


150,000


200,000


250,000


2016 2017 2018


Type 1 Patient Additions


Dexcom Abbott


0


100,000


200,000


300,000


400,000


500,000


600,000


700,000


2016 2017 2018


Total Type 1 Patients


Dexcom Abbott Other


0


100,000


200,000


300,000


400,000


500,000


600,000


700,000


2016 2017 2018


Total Type 2 Patients


Dexcom Abbott Other


Incremental ABT 
Market Share:


72%


Incremental ABT 
Market Share:


96%


Total ABT
Market Share:


25%


Total ABT
Market Share:


82%


Source: Spruce Point Estimates
55


0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000


10,000
12,000
14,000
16,000
18,000
20,000


01
/1


8


02
/1


8


03
/1


8


03
/1


8


04
/1


8


05
/1


8


06
/1


8


07
/1


8


08
/1


8


09
/1


8


10
/1


8


11
/1


8


12
/1


8


01
/1


9


02
/1


9


03
/1


9


Dexcom Abbott


0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%


100%


01
/1


8


02
/1


8


03
/1


8


03
/1


8


04
/1


8


05
/1


8


06
/1


8


07
/1


8


08
/1


8


09
/1


8


10
/1


8


11
/1


8


12
/1


8


01
/1


9


02
/1


9


03
/1


9


Dexcom Abbott


Recent Pharmacy Trends Confirm:
Abbott Dominates Dexcom In New Patient Adds


Patient adoption trends through the pharmacy channel demonstrate that the Abbott has dominated Dexcom in recent share gains. 
Data provided by Symphony Health Solutions dating back to the first week of 2018 show that Abbott is currently capturing over 


90% of the pharmacy channel when compared directly to Dexcom. We believe that this demonstrates that, after 4-5 years of CGM 
adoption among T1 diabetics, the strongest opportunity for future adoption lies among insulin-dependent T2 diabetics – and that 


the Libre is by far the best solution for these patients at current prices, and given Dexcom’s current lineup of CGMs.


Bloomberg Weekly New Prescriptions Written 
Relative Pharmacy Market Share, Dexcom vs. Abbott1


Bloomberg Weekly New Prescriptions Written 
Total New Prescriptions Written, Dexcom vs. Abbott1


We believe that Abbott’s demonstrated share dominance (92%) 
should grow even more pronounced in the near future with the 


release of the Libre 2


“We saw an accelerating trend of new users as we ramped up our awareness 
efforts during the second half of the year and pharmacy insurance coverage 
continued to increase including an emerging trend of seeing Libre granted 
preferred co-pay status versus competitive systems due to its compelling 
overall value proposition.”
- Abbott 4Q FY18 Conference Call (Jan 23, 2019)


Source: Bloomberg Symphony Health Solutions
1. Abbott new prescription data includes both Libre 10-Day and Libre 14-Day sensors. Dexcom new prescription data includes G4, G5, and G6 sensors.
56


Remaining Growth Runway In Dexcom’s Near-
Term Target U.S. Market Is Severely Limited


With the U.S. T1 market ~50% penetrated, only ~640K U.S. T1 patients remain for the taking. However, our conversations with medical 
professionals suggest that 20-30% of T1 patients will likely not adopt CGMs for reasons including cost, comfort, etc. This leaves just ~330K 


unclaimed patients in the U.S. T1 runway, just half the perceived remaining T1 market. Further, with only price-sensitive late adopters remaining 
in this market, we believe that Abbott will claim material share of the remaining U.S. T1 market. If Abbott continues to claim ~70% incremental 


share of the U.S. T1 market, only ~90,000 U.S. T1 patients remain for the taking by Dexcom. The vast majority of the remaining U.S. market 
opportunity lies among T2 customers, who, again, are largely untouchable by Dexcom at the G-Series’ current price point.


If Dexcom fails to cut prices by a substantial (yet unsustainable) margin to better match Abbott, its near-term growth runway is severely limited.


Dexcom
4%


Abbott
96%


RECENT U.S. T2 INCREMENTAL MARKET SHARE


Dexcom
28%


Abbott
72%


RECENT U.S. T1 INCREMENTAL MARKET SHARE


0


500,000


1,000,000


1,500,000


2,000,000


2,500,000


2015 2016 2017 2018


Pa
ti


en
ts


Remaining U.S. T1 Market Opportunity


Dexcom Abbott U.S. T1 Total Market U.S. T1 Effective Market


0


500,000


1,000,000


1,500,000


2,000,000


2,500,000


2015 2016 2017 2018


Pa
ti


en
ts


Remaining U.S. Insulin-Dependent T2 Market Opportunity


Dexcom Abbott U.S. Insulin-Dependent T2 Total Market U.S. Insulin-Dependent T2 Effective Market


Remaining Effective 
T1 Runway:


0.3M Patients


Remaining Effective 
ID T2 Runway:


1.3M Patients


Source: Spruce Point Estimates


1.3M U.S. ID T2 Market Runway
x


4% Incremental Market Share
=


51K Dexcom U.S. ID T2 Patient Runway


0.3M U.S. T1 Market Runway
x


28% Incremental Market Share
=


92K Dexcom U.S. T1 Patient Runway


143K remaining U.S. patients for Dexcom at prevailing incremental market share levels
57


0


50,000


100,000


150,000


200,000


250,000


300,000


350,000


400,000


450,000


2015 2016 2017 2018 Bear Case Future
Dexcom U.S.
Patient Base


U
.S


. P
at


ie
nt


s


Dexcom U.S. Patient Growth Will Soon Be Exhausted


Market Overestimates Future Patient Growth, 
Which Could Fall Off A Cliff In 1-2 Years


With only ~143K unpenetrated U.S. patients available to Dexcom given the remaining U.S. market opportunity and recent incremental share 
data, we estimate that Dexcom may be able to grow its U.S. patient base by only another ~50%. Approximately two thirds of this will come from 
T1 patients, whose adoption rates were much faster than those of T2 patients, and who may be saturated within then next 1-2 years. Further, we 
expect more price-sensitive Dexcom users to migrate to the Libre through 2019-20, due both to apparent limits to G6 hacking and the release of 


the technologically-similar yet far cheaper Libre 2.  Accordingly, we believe that growth in Dexcom’s U.S. patient base is potentially set up to 
collapse in ~2 years unless it drastically cuts the price of its CGM, which could have just as dramatically negative consequences for sales and 


margins. There is no easy solution for Dexcom in this case: it will take a hit to revenue and earnings regardless of whether it cuts prices or 
keeps its patient growth runway limited.


It could alternatively offer a down-market CGM technologically on par with the current Libre, but it has failed to do so in the past, and we 
question whether the Company could sell such a CGM profitably given its scale disadvantage. Even if it succeeds in launching the “user-


friendly” G7 on schedule (late 2020 / early 2021), sales growth through 2019-20 will disappoint as the U.S. T1 market is tapped out.


Just one to three years’ 
worth of U.S. patient growth 
remaining given the recent 
rate of U.S. patient growth


Bear Case: Assuming 
historical incremental share 


trends continue


Source: Spruce Point Estimates
58


International Markets Likely Offer Limited 
Opportunities For Growth For Dexcom


Dexcom management and sell-side analysts also cite international markets as potential growth opportunities. However, we do not believe that 
management can count on this as a dependable and sizable source of CGM patient growth. Developed market countries account for the lion’s 


share of diabetes spending, with the U.S. alone accounting for ~50%.  Market opportunities outside of the U.S. present challenges given 
differences in health care systems and regulations. Even developed markets outside the U.S. generally favor cheaper medical devices given the 
prevalence of socialized medicine in Europe. The disparate non-U.S. opportunity presents major scale challenges, particularly for single product 
companies like Dexcom. Meanwhile, Abbott – a large international medical device company – has already established itself as the first mover in 
the international stand-alone CGM space. We believe that a strong push into Europe by Dexcom would be expensive and yield limited returns.


Source: International Diabetes Federation 2017
59


6,767 


468 
70 


575 


152 


1 
0


100


200


300


400


500


600


0


1,000


2,000


3,000


4,000


5,000


6,000


7,000


High-Income Countries Middle-Income Countries Low-Income Countries


To
ta


l H
ea


lt
hc


ar
e 


Ex
pe


nd
it


ur
e 


(B
ill


io
n 


U
SD


)


M
ea


n 
H


ea
lt


hc
ar


e 
Ex


pe
nd


it
ur


e 
pe


r P
er


so
n 


(U
SD


)


Total Healthcare Expenditure and Mean Healthcare Expenditure per 
Person and per Income Group


Mean Healthcare Expenditure per Person (USD) Total Healthcare Expenditure (Billion USD)


Ex-U.S. CGM Opportunities Are Likely To Be 
Either Small Or Difficult To Access


The top 10 countries for number of adults with diabetes – the majority of which are large developing-market countries – account for 
69% of global healthcare expenditure on diabetes. However, ~80% of global healthcare expenditure on diabetes is spent by high


income countries, with, again, ~50% coming from the U.S. alone.  The U.S. is responsible for the significant overlap between these 
two populations and appears to represent one of the sole scale addressable markets for CGMs (particularly high-end CGMs like 


Dexcom’s) at the moment.


We believe that management’s and the sell side’s discussion of international markets as a significant growth opportunity inflates 
Dexcom’s apparent TAM to investors. Dexcom’s market opportunity beyond the U.S. is currently limited.


Source: International Diabetes Federation 2017


Source: International Diabetes Federation 2017
60


Management’s Long-Term Market Opportunity 
Unachievable Without Drastic Price Cuts


While management cites the U.S.’s 3.2M insulin-dependent diabetes patients (40/60 split between T1 and insulin-dependent T2) as its “core 
intensive business,” it suggests that Dexcom’s longer-term potential U.S. market opportunity could be as large as 132M with the inclusion of 


non-intensive T2 diabetics, prediabetic patients, and others. However, with much of its core market seemingly reluctant to adopt CGMs at the G-
Series’ current price point, we believe that populations beyond the core will remain entirely unaddressable until Dexcom dramatically cuts its 


price or releases a down-market CGM. We question whether Dexcom currently has the scale to produce a down-market CGM profitably in light 
of our earlier profitability analysis of the G-Series. Regardless, with the G7 set to be released in late 2020/early 2021 at the earliest, Dexcom is 


still set up to disappoint investors on FY19 and FY20 sales growth.


Source: Dexcom Investor Day 
Presentation - Dec 6, 2018


As Dexcom’s remaining market opportunity is rapidly exhausted at its current price point, long-term Dexcom bulls are effectively betting that 
the Company will be able to overcome its extensive failures in bringing a down-market CGM to market – in addition to its monumental scale 


disadvantage – to produce a low-cost CGM at a reasonable margin. Yet, even if they are willing to make this wager, they will be forced to hold 
out through a two-year period of almost certain top-line disappointment to see if their bet pans out.


We believe that there is little reason to hold the stock at current share prices given the near-term downside, even for an investor more bullish 
on Dexcom’s longer-term efforts to make headway in the broader T2 market.


c



https://dexcom.gcs-web.com/static-files/a84457ab-bf7f-4411-adf4-d891f9c1ff76
61


Dexcom Has Been Trying – And Failing – To 
Develop A Down-Market CGM Since 2015


Without a down-market CGM suited to the price-sensitive T2 market, Dexcom’s U.S. growth runway is rapidly becoming exhausted. We believe 
that Dexcom management has been aware of the impending need to produce such a down-market CGM to bridge the gap to the T2 market, but 
has failed to execute on its plans to develop one for five years. In 2015, Dexcom announced a partnership with Verily – Google’s life sciences 
research division – to produce a small, low-cost CGM targeted at T2 diabetics.1 In many ways, this concept presaged the Libre by three years.


At the time of the announcement, management said that the Verily CGM would go to market “in the next two to three years, with a second 
product moving towards commercialization within the next five years.” Four and a half years have since passed with no product releases.


Dexcom recently amended its licensing agreement with Google whereby royalty payments were replaced by an up-front payment of $250M in DXCM shares 
(source). We believe that this reflects Verily’s loss of confidence in Dexcom’s ability to come to market in a timely manner.


1. Source: Dexcom Business Update Call – Aug 11, 2015


Source Source


Source



https://www.drugdeliverybusiness.com/dexcom-inks-250m-amended-license-deal-with-verily-for-next-gen-diabetes-tech/

https://www.mobihealthnews.com/content/dexcom-plans-launch-g6-cgm-first-fruits-verily-partnership-2018

https://medcitynews.com/2019/01/dexcoms-first-gen-cgm-sensor-developed-with-verily-wont-see-light-of-day-at-least-in-the-u-s/?rf=1

https://medcitynews.com/2015/08/google-dexcom-to-lower-cost-size-of-continuous-glucose-monitors/
62


Dexcom Knows That It Can’t Play Outside Its 
Core Market At Its Current Price Point


From management’s language on the 2015 call on which it first announced its Verily partnership, it is clear that Dexcom was well-aware that, at 
its current price point, the G-Series priced out virtually all potential CGM users outside of its core market, and that growth in the patient base 
would inevitably have to come from a cheaper device targeted towards the T2 diabetic market. As delays have mounted for the Verily CGM, 


management has been more bullish in its language on the outlook for its current CGMs among a wider patient population, but we believe that 
management tipped its hand before it failed to get the Verily product to market: it knows that the G-Series prices out the broader TAM.


Dexcom’s growth outlook beyond 2020 depends critically on its ability to come to market with its down-market CGM after years of failure.


Management also admitted that it would have to “develop economics” around producing a low-cost CGM, suggesting that it would have a hard 
time manufacturing and selling a down-market CGM profitably. We believe that this, and not R&D on the product itself, has been the major 


hurdle keeping Dexcom from coming to market with the Verily CGM: it clearly saw a runway to product development when it first announced 
the Verily partnership, and has had nearly half a decade to work on the technology since then, during which time a competitor effectively 


developed the same product for itself. They are likely being held back by the challenges involved in producing it cheaply at scale.


If Dexcom hasn’t found a way to sell a competitively-priced down-market CGM profitably after nearly five years of development, we wonder if it 
will ever find a way to do so, and whether it faces fundamental scale limitations versus Abbott as a one-product company.


“We can't see selling, for example, our current hardware configuration of the starter 
kit, at an ASP of $850 to a broad population of patients who aren't going to wear it 
each and every single day. So the configuration needs to be easy to use, it needs 
to be small, it needs to be disposable and it needs to be inexpensive. We are not 
going to go in and charge people $200, $300 for a two week sensor session, 
so we have to develop economics around that.”
- Kevin Sayer – President & CEO, Dexcom


Dexcom – Business Update Call on Google Collaboration
August 11, 2015


$200 per Two-Week 
Sensor Session


G6 Sensors – Actual


Daily Sensor Spend $14.29 $11.63


Annual Sensor Spend $5,214.29 $4,246.05


Current annual sensor spend required for G6 is still 80% of 
the $200 per two-week sensor session that management 


suggested was too high for a down-market CGM


This suggests that management knew that its CGMs were (and 
are) pricing out potential customers outside its core market, 


and that it can’t grow without a successful G7 launch


Relative CGM Feature Comparison


G6 FreeStyle Libre


Ease of Use ✖ ✔


Smallness ✖ ✔


Disposable ✖ ✔


Inexpensiveness ✖ ✔
63


Dexcom Is Too Late To Bridge The Gap From The 
T1 Cliff To The T2 Ramp


Had Dexcom moved faster to produce a CGM fit for the T2 market, management’s patient growth expectations for FY19 and FY20 would look 
more realistic (though a shift in mix to a down-market CGM would weigh on average revenue per patient and, therefore, sales growth). However, 
with management having failed to come to market with its down-market product as originally scheduled, it has nothing with which to bridge the 
gap between FY18 – the last year in which the G-Series was effectively free of competition in the increasingly-saturated T1 CGM market – and 


FY21 – the first year in which it might have a CGM capable of competing with the Libre on a broader basis.


For at least ~18 months, Dexcom will be dramatically outpriced by the Libre 2 in its (dwindling) core T1 market, and will effectively be incapable 
of making material headway into the expanding T2 market, severely limiting the Company’s near-term growth opportunity and setting it back in 


the nascent T2 market.


0


50,000


100,000


150,000


200,000


250,000


300,000


2016 2017 2018 2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E


New U.S. CGM Adopters By Diabetes Type


Type 1 Type 2 ID Type 1, Estimate Type 2 ID, Estimate
Source: Spruce Point Estimates


FY16-18: Dexcom patient base grows with rapid 
adoption among U.S. T1 diabetics


FY19: DXCM management STOPS 
REPORTING PATIENT BASE GROWTH
just as U.S. T1 adoption inflects down


FY19-20: Low Dexcom patient growth with no T2-
targeted CGM and limited U.S. T1 runway


FY21 On: Price-competitive environment with CGM 
commoditization and lower prices for T2 market
Apparent Growth Built On An 
Unsustainable Foundation
65


0%


10%


20%


30%


40%


50%


60%


Q2-2017 Q3-2017 Q4-2017 Q1-2018 Q2-2018 Q3-2018 Q4-2018


Sensor Revenue Growth vs. Transmitter Revenue Growth


Sensor Revenue Growth, YoY Transmitter Revenue Growth, YoY


Management and the sell side cite accelerated sales growth as evidence that Dexcom continues to grow its patient base. However, due to unusual 
trends in Dexcom’s recent product-level growth, we question whether this acceleration can in fact be attributed to expanded patient penetration. 


Notably, in Q2 FY17, Dexcom began breaking out product-level sales between sensors, transmitters and receivers. Since this time, growth in 
sensor sales and transmitter sales have tracked each other closely. Yet, in Q2 FY18 – the same period in which the G6 was launched (June) –


these numbers suddenly diverged materially. Why could this be?


Recent Sales Growth Gives Misleading 
Appearance Of Underlying Patient Growth


0%


10%


20%


30%


40%


50%


60%


Q2-2017 Q3-2017 Q4-2017 Q1-2018 Q2-2018 Q3-2018 Q4-2018


Revenue Growth, YoY


Revenue Growth, YoY


Source: Dexcom SEC Filings


As the G6 as released in June 2018, Q2 reflected only one months’ worth of G6-related sales at most. Would this have been sufficient to drive 
the accelerated growth?


If so, why didn’t transmitter sales grow at a similar rate? New G6 users would have had to purchase new transmitters in addition to sensors…
66


Sensor Cost Comparison: Dexcom G5 vs. G6


Dexcom G6 Dexcom G5
Dexcom G5


w/ Extended Life1


Sensor Cost to Payor / Patient $116.33 $89.50 $89.50


Sensor Life (Days) 10 7 12


Sensor Cost to Payor per Day $11.63 $12.79 $7.46


Sensor Cost to Payor per Year $4,246.05 $4,666.78 $2,722.29


Prospective % Price Increase From Shift 
To G6


- -9% 56%


We believe that the observed sales growth in Dexcom sensors can be attributed in part to an effective sensor price increase with the 
release of the G6 CGM. While the daily sensor cost to the payor actually fell from $12.79 to $11.63 between the G5 and the G6 if users 
did not use their sensors beyond their recommended duration, the sensor cost per day increased from $7.46 to $11.63 assuming that 


patients use their sensors for an average of 12 days, as we gleaned from our survey.


We believe that this 56% increase in effective daily sensor cost contributed to observed revenue growth. Sensor sales growth (and 
total revenue growth) should rerate to a lower normalized level once the effective price increase lapses in Q2 FY19.


Sensor Sales Growth Driven In Part By Effective 
Price Increase


We also believe that this helps to corroborate our survey’s finding that a significant share of Dexcom users extend the lives of their sensors, 
and that they are more price-sensitive than bulls generally believe. Had it not been for the fact that many Dexcom users hack their sensors, and 


thus artificially reduce their annual sensor prices, we would not have observed such a strong decoupling of sensor sales growth from 
transmitter sales growth, as annual sensor spend would have fallen by 9% rather than increase by 56%.
67


Price-Sensitive Dexcom Users Stockpiling G4/G5 
Ahead Of G6 Release


Interestingly, and crucially, our survey also indicates that legacy Dexcom CGM users stockpiled their older and cheaper G4 and G5 
sensors in anticipation of the release of the G6. We found that 63% of respondents who used the Dexcom G4 or G5 stockpiled legacy 


Dexcom CGMs in anticipation of the release of the G6 and its more expensive sensors (taking into account the fact that the G6
cannot be hacked).


We believe that the divergence between sensor sales growth and transmitter sales growth can be attributed in part to this “pre-
buying” of legacy sensors ahead of the release of the G6. The apparent pervasiveness of G4/G5 sensor stockpiling also further 


corroborates our finding that Dexcom users are more price-sensitive than bulls believe, and that the Libre 2 will be a greater draw 
among Dexcom users than the sell side expects.


Have you purchased more sensors in the last year because you are fearful that you may not be able to get 
them in the future?


G4 Users G5 Users Total


Respondents
% of 


Respondents
Respondents


% of 
Respondents


Respondents
% of 


Respondents


Yes 25 81% 15 47% 40 63%


No 6 19% 17 53% 23 37%


Total 31 100% 32 100% 95 100%
68


Management Fails To Explain Divergence In Segment-
Level Growth, Deflects Questions On Stockpiling


On the Q2 FY18 earnings call, management admitted that outsized sales growth in Q2 was largely driven by G5 sales rather than G6 sales. When 
asked why sales growth would be so strong for the G5 when the impending release of the G6 was known to customers, management offered a 


weak explanation which failed to account for the divergence between sensor sales growth and transmitter sales growth. When then asked directly 
about the divergence, CFO Quentin Blackford suggested that transmitter growth was slowed by a $5M revenue deferral related to a “promotional 


program,” and that the divergence would reverse once the $5M was recognized in H2 FY18. This $5M was in fact recognized in Q3 – but 
transmitter growth continued to lag sensor growth by a significant margin. We feel that the relative acceleration in sensor growth is much better 


explained by the fact that customers stockpiled legacy sensors ahead of the release of the more expensive G6, as our survey confirms.


Dexcom Q2 FY18 Conference Call


“…just a follow-up on the product. If I look at the same conversation [on high sequential growth from Q1 into Q2] 
from a product mix standpoint, you guys have mentioned that on the call here that the demand was mostly 
for G5, and I'm curious, it seemed to me the market or at least patients were aware that G6 was coming, it was 
obviously going to be a big improvement. So why would demand for G5 ramp so much sequentially if 
patients knew G6 was around the corner?”
- Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs


“It comes back to general awareness. I just think awareness in this marketplace is increasing significantly. You've got big 
players out here who are putting big dollars to work to advertise and create awareness around the space, and I think as 
we've said from day one multiple players are going to have success here. It's not going to be one player or another. All of 
us are going to win together, and I think that's exactly what you just saw play out in Q2.”
- Quentin Blackford – CFO, Dexcom


“Hi. Thanks for taking the question. So just to piggyback on Isaac's question there, but just curious, versus our 
numbers at least the sensor outperformance was pretty significant, suggesting transmitter and receiver 
beats while nice were not as strong as that. Just curious given that G5 and G6 is going to have some 
transition at some point, do you see any higher reorder rates from existing customers, particularly stocking 
up on sensors given that they know a fixed life is coming down the pike?”
- Ravi Misra, Berenberg Capital Markets “…We talked about this promotional program of G5 into G6. That played out in the quarter and there's still a bit of 


deferral that will come back in the back part of the year over the next six months at some point roughly $5 million or so 
that didn't come in in Q2. You normalize for that and you've got a growth rate in your transmitter business that's right 
back up in line close to that sensor business, which then I think you can triangulate that back to the combination of obviously 
a ramp in new patients coming into the business as awareness is being created in the space and continued strong utilization 
from your existing user base.”


- Quentin Blackford – CFO, Dexcom
Transmitter sales growth did not 


accelerate in Q3 despite the recognition of 
the $5M of deferred transmitter revenue. 
So was accelerated sensor growth ahead 
of transmitter growth caused by legacy 


sensor stockpiling?


If “general awareness” drove accelerated 
growth in Q2, wouldn’t transmitter sales 


grow in line with sensor sales?


Why did sensor sales grow faster?


Source: Dexcom FY18 Q3 10-Q



https://seekingalpha.com/article/4193480-dexcom-dxcm-q2-2018-results-earnings-call-transcript

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1093557/000109355718000230/dxcm-93018x10q.htm
69


0%


10%


20%


30%


40%


50%


60%


Q2-2017 Q3-2017 Q4-2017 Q1-2018 Q2-2018 Q3-2018 Q4-2018


Sensor Revenue Growth vs. Transmitter Revenue Growth


Sensor Revenue Growth, YoY Transmitter Revenue Growth, YoY


While we believe that legacy sensor stockpiling is but one factor among several which might have contributed to the sensor growth / transmitter 
growth decoupling, we note that observed growth patterns in sensor revenue and transmitter revenue match what we would expect to see if G4 


and G5 users did in fact stockpile sensors.


Note that the hypothesized drivers behind this observed sales growth are largely one-off factors. Investors should expect sales growth (both 
overall and at the component level) to revert to trend in the coming quarters.


Sensor Revenue Growth Pattern vs. Transmitter 
Revenue Growth Conforms To Stockpiling Hypothesis


Q1 to Q2 FY18:


DXCM announces G6 under review by FDA in Q1.


In Q2, G4 and G5 users begin to stockpile legacy 
sensors in anticipation of a forced switch to a 


more expensive and potentially unhackable G6.


Sensor sales growth accelerates in Q2.


Q2 to Q3 FY18:


FDA approves G6 in Q2. Management 
accelerates G6 rollout to end of Q2.


Stockpiling of G4 and G5 continues through 
Q2-Q3. Sensor sales growth levels off but 


remains elevated due to stockpiling.


Q3 to Q4 FY18:


Management raises price of G5 transmitter to $599 
from $300 to force customers to switch to G6.


Stockpiling ceases, but sensor AND transmitter sales 
see accelerated growth at similar rates as G4 and G5 


users purchase new G6 equipment en masse.


We find it interesting that management raised the price of G5 transmitters such that the annual cost of continuing to use a hacked G5 is now 
almost identical to the annual cost of using a G6.


We suspect that management may have been aware of the G4/G5 stockpiling and recognizes that recent sales growth may be inflated due to 
this behavior.
70


Until recently, management disclosed its CGM patient base dating back to early 2016. The Company suddenly stopped disclosing 
this figure in FY18. We find it extremely suspicious that management conveniently chose to stop disclosing this number this year, 
just as their TAM runway is beginning to run out by our estimates, and just as product-level sales growth patterns appear to reveal 


sales growth has been driven by factors other than growth in the patient base.


Management Conveniently Hiding Disclosures 
Which Would Reveal Disappointing Patient Growth


“…we're disclosing patient base numbers for the 
first time – so investors and analysts alike can 
kind of reset their bar in their models – between 
140,000 and 150,000 patients around the world.”


- JP Morgan Healthcare Conference (1/12/16)


Dexcom Patient Base Growth and Product-Level Sales Growth


$, Million, 
unless noted World-Wide Patients Sensors Transmitters


Year Number Growth % Revenue Growth % Revenue Growth %


2015 145,000 - - - - -


2016 200,000 38% $410 - $111 -


2017 270,000 35% $516 26% $145 31%


2018 ??? ??? $758 47% $189 31%


“Our worldwide patient base we now peg at about 
200,000 patients.”


- JP Morgan Healthcare Conference (1/10/17)


“…we're not going to talk about the install 
base or the patient number.”
- Q4 FY18 Earnings Call (2/21/19)


“Last year we set a patient base goal at this 
conference saying we would exit this year with 
approximately 270,000 patients in our patient 
base and we have achieved that goal as well.”


- JP Morgan Healthcare Conference (1/9/18)
Source: Dexcom conference calls and investor meetings
71


While management no longer explicitly discloses its patient base, it has been communicating to the sell side through the last several 
quarters that it expects revenue per customer to fall due to (1) the shift in distribution from the DME (Direct Medical Equipment) 
channel to the pharmacy channel, (2) rising uptake among Medicare patients, and (3) growth into international markets, where 


average revenue per customer is lower. Some analysts have been extrapolating from guided headwinds in revenue per customer to
back out strong implied patient growth guidance – yet management refuses to provide the actual figures even amidst the 


widespread sell-side guesswork.


Management Leaving The Sell Side To Do Potentially 
Misleading Guesswork On Patient Base Growth


“This morning, Dexcom management presented and hosted a Q&A break-out session at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare 
Conference. In the break-out session, CFO Quentin Blackford provided incremental color on the company’s outlook for 
2019, specifically that guidance contemplates $20-25M in revenue headwinds per quarter from the transition from 
the DME to the pharmacy channel, similar to the ~$20M headwind that the company saw impact sales in 4Q18. This 
accounts for a ~10% top-line headwind and implies that underlying volume guidance is +25-30%, versus the +15-
20% overall revenue guidance issued ($1.175-1.225B).”
- JP Morgan Research Note (1/4/19)


Are these back-of-the-envelope calculations correct? It’s impossible to know without management’s patient base disclosure. Yet management 
continues to lead analysts to believe that the patient base is growing robustly without disclosing the size of its patient base explicitly.


We find that, in reality, (1) Abbott is taking overwhelming incremental market share, and (2) higher effective sensor prices and G4 / G5 sensor 
stockpiling helped to fuel recent sales growth, flying in the face of management’s claim that revenue per customer has been falling.


We call on management to once again disclose the size of its patient base rather than issue oblique, unverifiable claims about trends in revenue 
per customer. Why leave breadcrumbs for investors to estimate the size of the patient base when you can disclose this figure outright?
Estimates and Valuation
73


2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E CAGR


345 445 565 705 865
100 120 140 160 180
445 565 705 865 1,045
395 505 635 785 955 25.4%


28.5% 27.8% 25.7% 23.6% 21.7%


$7.67 $7.34 $6.91 $6.46 $6.03
$2,801 $2,679 $2,521 $2,357 $2,201


1,106.4 1,352.8 1,600.8 1,850.4 2,101.5 17.3%


$0.65 $0.60 $0.54 $0.48 $0.43
$237 $217 $196 $175 $155
93.6 109.7 124.2 137.1 148.5 12.0%


$8.32 $7.93 $7.44 $6.94 $6.45
$3,038 $2,896 $2,717 $2,532 $2,356


1,200.0 1,462.5 1,725.0 1,987.5 2,250.0 16.9%
16.3% 21.9% 17.9% 15.2% 13.2%


1,106.4 1,352.8 1,600.8 1,850.4 2,101.5
93.6 109.7 124.2 137.1 148.5


$1,200.0 $1,462.5 $1,725.0 $1,987.5 $2,250.0 16.9%
420.0 511.9 603.8 695.6 787.5


$780.0 $950.6 $1,121.3 $1,291.9 $1,462.5 17.1%
65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0%


($M, Unless Otherwise Noted) 2016 2017 2018


REVENUE MODEL


Patients (Thousands)
Beg Patients 145 200 270
    Net Adds 55 70 75
Ending Patients 200 270 345
Avg. Patients 173 235 308


        YoY Growth 34.2% 36.2% 30.9%


Sens / Avg. Patient / Day - Actual $8.27 $7.70 $8.44
Sens / Avg. Patient - Actual $3,020 $2,810 $3,080


Sensor and Transmitter Revenues 520.9 660.3 947.2


Receiver Revs / Avg. Patient/ Day - Actual $0.83 $0.68 $0.75
Receiver Revs / Avg. Patient - Actual $304 $248 $274


Receiver Revenues 52.4 58.2 84.4


Rev / Avg. Patient / Day - Actual $9.11 $8.38 $9.19
Rev / Avg. Patient - Actual $3,323 $3,057 $3,355


Total Revenues 573.3 718.5 1,031.6
        YoY Growth 42.6% 25.3% 43.6%


Revenue
    Sensor and Transmitter Revenue 520.9 660.3 947.2
    Receiver Revenue 52.4 58.2 84.4
Total Revenues $573.3 $718.5 $1,031.6
    COGS 194.9 226.4 367.7
Gross Profit $378.4 $492.1 $663.9
    GM% 66.0% 68.5% 64.4%


Management Wants To Have Its Cake And Eat It Too: 
Can’t Have Both Stable Pricing And Patient Growth


Dexcom’s long-term guidance anticipates growth in the patient base at a ~25% CAGR through 2023, together with a steady but shallow decline 
in average revenue per customer with the shift to the pharmacy channel, rising Medicare exposure, and international growth. However, without 
ramping down the price of its CGMs closer to the price of the Libre 2, or offering a down-market product, management cannot expect to achieve 
substantial growth in its patient base as the population of relatively price-insensitive T1 diabetics is exhausted. Even if it lowers CGM prices or 


comes to market with the G7 to capture T2 share, average revenue per customer will fall materially as it is forced to compete with Abbott on 
price. Management will inevitably have to choose between patient growth and price, and revenue growth will suffer either way.


Historical DXCM LT Guidance1


Source: Spruce Point Research.  
1. Dexcom issued long term guidance at their investor day on December 4, 2018.  


We assume the midpoint of its revenue guidance of $2B to $2.5B in 2023 and 65% gross margins


Importantly, analysts appear to 
anticipate steady growth through the 


near-to-medium term, despite the 
challenges which Dexcom appears 
set to face from mid-FY19 through 


FY20.
74


2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E CAGR


345 445 565 705 865
100 120 140 160 180
445 565 705 865 1,045
395 505 635 785 955 25.4%


28.5% 27.8% 25.7% 23.6% 21.7%


$6.96 $5.74 $4.74 $3.91 $3.23
$2,541 $2,097 $1,730 $1,427 $1,177


1,003.8 1,058.8 1,098.3 1,120.2 1,124.3 3.5%


$0.60 $0.48 $0.39 $0.31 $0.25
$220 $176 $141 $112 $90
86.7 88.7 89.2 88.3 85.9 0.4%


$7.56 $6.23 $5.12 $4.22 $3.47
$2,761 $2,272 $1,870 $1,539 $1,267


1,090.5 1,147.5 1,187.6 1,208.4 1,210.2 3.2%
5.7% 5.2% 3.5% 1.8% 0.1%


1,003.8 1,058.8 1,098.3 1,120.2 1,124.3
86.7 88.7 89.2 88.3 85.9


$1,090.5 $1,147.5 $1,187.6 $1,208.4 $1,210.2 3.2%
420.0 511.9 603.8 695.6 787.5


$670.5 $635.6 $583.8 $512.8 $422.7 -8.6%
61.5% 55.4% 49.2% 42.4% 34.9%


2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E CAGR


345 445 565 705 865
100 120 140 160 180
445 565 705 865 1,045
395 505 635 785 955 25.4%


28.5% 27.8% 25.7% 23.6% 21.7%


$7.67 $7.34 $6.91 $6.46 $6.03
$2,801 $2,679 $2,521 $2,357 $2,201


1,106.4 1,352.8 1,600.8 1,850.4 2,101.5 17.3%


$0.65 $0.60 $0.54 $0.48 $0.43
$237 $217 $196 $175 $155
93.6 109.7 124.2 137.1 148.5 12.0%


$8.32 $7.93 $7.44 $6.94 $6.45
$3,038 $2,896 $2,717 $2,532 $2,356


1,200.0 1,462.5 1,725.0 1,987.5 2,250.0 16.9%
16.3% 21.9% 17.9% 15.2% 13.2%


1,106.4 1,352.8 1,600.8 1,850.4 2,101.5
93.6 109.7 124.2 137.1 148.5


$1,200.0 $1,462.5 $1,725.0 $1,987.5 $2,250.0 16.9%
420.0 511.9 603.8 695.6 787.5


$780.0 $950.6 $1,121.3 $1,291.9 $1,462.5 17.1%
65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0%


($M, Unless Otherwise Noted) 2016 2017 2018


REVENUE MODEL


Patients (Thousands)
Beg Patients 145 200 270
    Net Adds 55 70 75
Ending Patients 200 270 345
Avg. Patients 173 235 308


        YoY Growth 34.2% 36.2% 30.9%


Sens / Avg. Patient / Day - Actual $8.27 $7.70 $8.44
Sens / Avg. Patient - Actual $3,020 $2,810 $3,080


Sensor and Transmitter Revenues 520.9 660.3 947.2


Receiver Revs / Avg. Patient/ Day - Actual $0.83 $0.68 $0.75
Receiver Revs / Avg. Patient - Actual $304 $248 $274


Receiver Revenues 52.4 58.2 84.4


Rev / Avg. Patient / Day - Actual $9.11 $8.38 $9.19
Rev / Avg. Patient - Actual $3,323 $3,057 $3,355


Total Revenues 573.3 718.5 1,031.6
        YoY Growth 42.6% 25.3% 43.6%


Revenue
    Sensor and Transmitter Revenue 520.9 660.3 947.2
    Receiver Revenue 52.4 58.2 84.4
Total Revenues $573.3 $718.5 $1,031.6
    COGS 194.9 226.4 367.7
Gross Profit $378.4 $492.1 $663.9
    GM% 66.0% 68.5% 64.4%


Case Study: Dexcom Sets Price On Par With 
Libre Over Time Amidst Price War


Should Dexcom set its CGM sensor + transmitter prices on par with Libre’s sensor prices through the next three years without 
improving its cost efficiencies, the Company may be able to continue to grow its patient base at a steady rate as it participates in 
the T2 market , but growth would be slowed to a ~3% CAGR over the next five years, with annual growth shrinking by the year as 
prices fall back. Note, however, that this case does not capture the near-term growth risk that we anticipate under more realistic 


circumstances, in which Dexcom keeps G6 prices largely steady while waiting for the delayed G7 to hit the T2 market.


Historical DXCM LT Guidance1 Spruce Point Estimate


Source: Spruce Point Research.  
1. Dexcom issued long term guidance at their investor day on December 4, 2018.  


We assume the midpoint of its revenue guidance of $2B to $2.5B in 2023 and 65% gross margins
75


2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E CAGR


345 421 472 511 548
76 51 39 37 37


421 472 511 548 585
383 446 491 530 567 13.0%


24.5% 16.6% 10.1% 7.8% 7.0%


$7.67 $7.34 $6.91 $6.46 $6.03
$2,801 $2,679 $2,521 $2,357 $2,201


1,072.2 1,195.4 1,238.9 1,248.7 1,247.2 5.7%


$0.65 $0.60 $0.54 $0.48 $0.43
$237 $217 $196 $175 $155
90.7 96.9 96.1 92.5 88.1 0.9%


$8.32 $7.93 $7.44 $6.94 $6.45
$3,038 $2,896 $2,717 $2,532 $2,356


1,162.9 1,292.3 1,335.1 1,341.2 1,335.4 5.3%
12.7% 11.1% 3.3% 0.5% -0.4%


1,072.2 1,195.4 1,238.9 1,248.7 1,247.2
90.7 96.9 96.1 92.5 88.1


$1,162.9 $1,292.3 $1,335.1 $1,341.2 $1,335.4 5.3%
407.0 452.3 467.3 469.4 467.4


$755.9 $840.0 $867.8 $871.8 $868.0 5.5%
65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0%


Should Dexcom fail to come to market with the G7 – or any other down-market CGM within the next five years – while maintaining prices 
roughly in-line with those implied by long-term guidance, we believe that the Company’s potential patient growth runway would for the most 


part be restricted to a limited subset of T1 and price-insensitive ID T2 patients in the U.S., along with a limited quantity of international patients. 
Patient switching from the G-Series to the Libre would also weigh on patient growth. The introduction of the Libre 2 and the exhaustion of 
Dexcom’s optimal TAM would therefore result in significant deceleration in the rate of patient growth. Note that our estimated downside to 


patient growth could be conservative given Dexcom customers’ price sensitivity and propensity to switch as revealed by our survey.


Case Study: Dexcom Does Not Cut Prices For 
T2 Penetration


Source: Spruce Point Research.  
1. Dexcom issued long term guidance at their investor day on December 4, 2018.  


We assume the midpoint of its revenue guidance of $2B to $2.5B in 2023 and 65% gross margins


2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E CAGR


345 445 565 705 865
100 120 140 160 180
445 565 705 865 1,045
395 505 635 785 955 25.4%


28.5% 27.8% 25.7% 23.6% 21.7%


$7.67 $7.34 $6.91 $6.46 $6.03
$2,801 $2,679 $2,521 $2,357 $2,201


1,106.4 1,352.8 1,600.8 1,850.4 2,101.5 17.3%


$0.65 $0.60 $0.54 $0.48 $0.43
$237 $217 $196 $175 $155
93.6 109.7 124.2 137.1 148.5 12.0%


$8.32 $7.93 $7.44 $6.94 $6.45
$3,038 $2,896 $2,717 $2,532 $2,356


1,200.0 1,462.5 1,725.0 1,987.5 2,250.0 16.9%
16.3% 21.9% 17.9% 15.2% 13.2%


1,106.4 1,352.8 1,600.8 1,850.4 2,101.5
93.6 109.7 124.2 137.1 148.5


$1,200.0 $1,462.5 $1,725.0 $1,987.5 $2,250.0 16.9%
420.0 511.9 603.8 695.6 787.5


$780.0 $950.6 $1,121.3 $1,291.9 $1,462.5 17.1%
65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0%


($M, Unless Otherwise Noted) 2016 2017 2018


REVENUE MODEL


Patients (Thousands)
Beg Patients 145 200 270
    Net Adds 55 70 75
Ending Patients 200 270 345
Avg. Patients 173 235 308


        YoY Growth 34.2% 36.2% 30.9%


Sens / Avg. Patient / Day - Actual $8.27 $7.70 $8.44
Sens / Avg. Patient - Actual $3,020 $2,810 $3,080


Sensor and Transmitter Revenues 520.9 660.3 947.2


Receiver Revs / Avg. Patient/ Day - Actual $0.83 $0.68 $0.75
Receiver Revs / Avg. Patient - Actual $304 $248 $274


Receiver Revenues 52.4 58.2 84.4


Rev / Avg. Patient / Day - Actual $9.11 $8.38 $9.19
Rev / Avg. Patient - Actual $3,323 $3,057 $3,355


Total Revenues 573.3 718.5 1,031.6
        YoY Growth 42.6% 25.3% 43.6%


Revenue
    Sensor and Transmitter Revenue 520.9 660.3 947.2
    Receiver Revenue 52.4 58.2 84.4
Total Revenues $573.3 $718.5 $1,031.6
    COGS 194.9 226.4 367.7
Gross Profit $378.4 $492.1 $663.9
    GM% 66.0% 68.5% 64.4%


Historical DXCM LT Guidance1 Spruce Point Estimate
76


2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E CAGR


345 439 523 660 800
94 84 137 140 146


439 523 660 800 946
392 481 592 730 873 23.2%


27.5% 22.8% 23.0% 23.4% 19.6%


$7.50 $6.65 $5.75 $4.89 $4.15
$2,738 $2,427 $2,099 $1,784 $1,516


1,073.2 1,168.2 1,241.9 1,302.3 1,323.4 6.9%


$0.65 $0.52 $0.36 $0.20 $0.13
$238 $190 $131 $74 $49
93.2 91.4 77.3 53.9 42.8 -12.7%


$8.15 $7.17 $6.11 $5.09 $4.29
$2,975 $2,617 $2,229 $1,858 $1,565


1,166.5 1,259.6 1,319.2 1,356.2 1,366.2 5.8%
13.1% 8.0% 4.7% 2.8% 0.7%


1,073.2 1,168.2 1,241.9 1,302.3 1,323.4
93.2 91.4 77.3 53.9 42.8


$1,166.5 $1,259.6 $1,319.2 $1,356.2 $1,366.2 5.8%
416.9 487.8 539.8 599.4 644.9


$749.6 $771.8 $779.4 $756.8 $721.3 1.7%
64.3% 61.3% 59.1% 55.8% 52.8%


The release of the G7 would allow Dexcom to participate in the growth of the CGM industry into the T2 market. However, competing with the 
Libre for T2 patients would force Dexcom to price the G7 aggressively, weighing heavily on sales growth even after it successfully bridges the 


~18 month gap (at minimum) to competition in the T2 market. A shift in product mix to the cheaper G7 would also weigh on margins, but we 
consider our margin downside estimate to be conservative, as we wonder if Dexcom has the capacity to sell the G7 profitably at all given its 


scale disadvantage.


Base Case Estimate: G7 Supports T2 Penetration 
After FY20, But Lower Price Weighs On Growth


Most importantly for the near-term future, we believe that Dexcom faces a particularly steep revenue growth cliff of at least ~18 months as the 
rate of incremental U.S. T1 CGM penetration decelerates, as the Libre 2 competes directly with the G6 at an ~80% discount, and as the 


Company fails to make traction in the T2 market without a down-market CGM offering until late 2020 / early 2021 at the earliest.


($M, Unless Otherwise Noted) 2016 2017 2018


REVENUE MODEL


Patients (Thousands)
Beg Patients 145 200 270
    Net Adds 55 70 75
Ending Patients 200 270 345
Avg. Patients 173 235 308


        YoY Growth 34.2% 36.2% 30.9%


Sens / Avg. Patient / Day - Actual $8.27 $7.70 $8.44
Sens / Avg. Patient - Actual $3,020 $2,810 $3,080


Sensor and Transmitter Revenues 520.9 660.3 947.2


Receiver Revs / Avg. Patient/ Day - Actual $0.83 $0.68 $0.75
Receiver Revs / Avg. Patient - Actual $304 $248 $274


Receiver Revenues 52.4 58.2 84.4


Rev / Avg. Patient / Day - Actual $9.11 $8.38 $9.19
Rev / Avg. Patient - Actual $3,323 $3,057 $3,355


Total Revenues 573.3 718.5 1,031.6
        YoY Growth 42.6% 25.3% 43.6%


Revenue
    Sensor and Transmitter Revenue 520.9 660.3 947.2
    Receiver Revenue 52.4 58.2 84.4
Total Revenues $573.3 $718.5 $1,031.6
    COGS 194.9 226.4 367.7
Gross Profit $378.4 $492.1 $663.9
    GM% 66.0% 68.5% 64.4%


Historical DXCM LT Guidance Spruce Point Estimate
2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E CAGR


345 445 565 705 865
100 120 140 160 180
445 565 705 865 1,045
395 505 635 785 955 25.4%


28.5% 27.8% 25.7% 23.6% 21.7%


$7.67 $7.34 $6.91 $6.46 $6.03
$2,801 $2,679 $2,521 $2,357 $2,201


1,106.4 1,352.8 1,600.8 1,850.4 2,101.5 17.3%


$0.65 $0.60 $0.54 $0.48 $0.43
$237 $217 $196 $175 $155
93.6 109.7 124.2 137.1 148.5 12.0%


$8.32 $7.93 $7.44 $6.94 $6.45
$3,038 $2,896 $2,717 $2,532 $2,356


1,200.0 1,462.5 1,725.0 1,987.5 2,250.0 16.9%
16.3% 21.9% 17.9% 15.2% 13.2%


1,106.4 1,352.8 1,600.8 1,850.4 2,101.5
93.6 109.7 124.2 137.1 148.5


$1,200.0 $1,462.5 $1,725.0 $1,987.5 $2,250.0 16.9%
420.0 511.9 603.8 695.6 787.5


$780.0 $950.6 $1,121.3 $1,291.9 $1,462.5 17.1%
65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0%
77


Downside In Sensor Pricing And Patient Growth 
A Potentially Powerful Drag On Sales


We see at most very little upside in Dexcom FY19 revenue versus consensus under almost any realistic combination of net patient 
adds and average sensor and transmitter revenue per patient per day. Most combinations imply material downside.


FY20 revenue will disappoint even more significantly as the U.S. T1 market approaches its realistic ceiling, and as the Libre 2 
achieves increasingly more significant share from among both new adopters and former Dexcom patients.


Dexcom FY19 Revenue Sensitivity


Percent Change in FY19 Revenue Versus Consensus


Sensitivity 
Table


Net Patient Adds, FY19 (Thousands)


Average 
Sensor and 
Transmitter 
Revenue per 
Patient per 


Day


70 90 110 130 150


$8.00 0.0% 2.6% 5.3% 7.9% 10.5%
$7.00 -11.6% -9.2% -6.9% -4.6% -2.3%
$6.00 -23.1% -21.1% -19.1% -17.0% -15.0%
$5.00 -34.7% -33.0% -31.2% -29.5% -27.8%
$4.00 -46.2% -44.8% -43.4% -42.0% -40.6%


As management admits that average revenue 
per customer will be down through the 


foreseeable future, we expect this figure to be 
no greater than $7.50 in a best-case scenario


Beating management revenue guidance 
would require a significant beat in net 
patient adds given likely downside in 


average revenue per customer per day


Dexcom revenue sensitivity suggests asymmetric downside risk to revenue guidance:


Beating on patient adds would yield only limited upside: 10K more net adds generates ~1.0% greater revenue beat


Missing on average revenue per patient per day would yield significant downside: $0.50 decrease results in ~6.1% greater revenue miss
78


Widespread Bullishness Despite Limited 
Upside In The Stock


Despite a widespread bullish tone among analysts, the average sell-side price target offers little upside to current levels. 
Consensus estimates largely ignore the changes which we expect to observe in the CGM competitive landscape with the 


impending U.S. release of the Libre 2, largely tabling the potential entry of the technologically-competitive Libre 2 as an outside 
threat until the event occurs – even though they are in agreement that the Libre 2 will in fact enter the U.S. market in 2019.


Source: Bloomberg
1. Based on share price as of March 2019


Broker Rating Price Target


Baird Buy $180
J.P. Morgan Buy 175
Cowen Buy 175
Jefferies Buy 175
Stephens Inc Buy 170
SVB Leerink Buy 170
Oppenheimer & Co Buy 167
BMO Capital Markets Buy 167
Piper Jaffray Buy 165
Morgan Stanley Neutral 160
Raymond James Buy 160
Canaccord Genuity Buy 160
Berenberg Buy 157
Goldman Sachs Neutral 147
Northland Securities Inc Neutral 125
Morningstar Sell 74
Average Price Target $158
% Upside1 5%
79


Heavy Insider Selling, Particularly As The Stock 
Has Run Up Of Late


Insiders have been aggressive sellers of DXCM shares throughout the history of the Company, and sold in particular size as the 
stock ran up in 2015. Insiders and directors now own just 1.8% of shares, down from 8.2% in 2012.


Source: Bloomberg


0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
8%
9%


2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018


DXCM Insider Ownership


Source: Bloomberg
80


Event
FDA Approval of FreeStyle Libre 


Flash Glucose Monitoring 
System1


FDA Approval of FreeStyle Libre 
14-Day Flash Glucose Monitoring 


System2
FDA Approval of FreeStyle Libre 2 
With Optional Real-Time Alarm


Date Sep 27, 2017 July 27, 2018 Mid 2019 (Expected)


Device Features
First device to eliminate need for 


fingerstick glucose reading
Longest-lasting sensor on the 


market (14 days)
Optional high/low glucose alarm, 


inexpensive full-service CGM


Price Reaction (End-Of-
Day Price)


-33% -7% ?


Abbott’s CGM FDA Approvals Have Not Been 
Kind To Dexcom’s Stock Price


Abbott’s Libre has dominated Dexcom’s G-Series in recent head-to-head competition for market share even before the release of 
the Libre 2, which should close most or all of the technological gaps which remain between the Libre and G-Series. The U.S. 


launch of the technologically-strong, yet inexpensive Libre 2 could undermine what remains of the G-Series’ competitive position.


The market expects the release of the Libre 2, of course – but it also knew that Abbott was set to release new CGMs in 2017 and 
2018, yet Dexcom’s stock still suffered in the immediate aftermath. The forthcoming Libre 2 is at least as consequential as 


Abbott’s past two CGMs from a competitive perspective, and could cause a more drastic move in DXCM shares.


Source: Spruce Point Research
1. FDA Approval of FreeStyle Libre (9/27/17)
2. FDA Approval of 14 day Libre FreeStyle Sensor (7/27/18)



https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2017-09-27-No-More-Routine-Finger-Sticks-1-for-Americans-with-Diabetes-Abbott-s-FreeStyle-R-Libre-Approved-in-the-U-S

https://abbott.mediaroom.com/2018-07-27-Abbotts-FreeStyle-R-Libre-14-Day-Flash-Glucose-Monitoring-System-Now-Approved-in-U-S
81


DXCM Trades Far Above Peers On Unrealistic 
Growth Expectations


Analysts justify DXCM price targets with aspirational multiples, ignoring forthcoming pricing pressure and the likely exhaustion of 
the Company’s realistic near-term TAM. Peers trade at an average 5.8x EV/Sales multiple on FY20 sales, versus Dexcom at 9.1x – a


premium of 57%. The market assumes that DXCM will grow top-line revenues at 18%, a slight premium to peers, but we see 
material risk of revenue disappointment. 


Source: Bloomberg


$ in mm, except per share figures
82


Multiple Expansion-Driven Share Price 
Appreciation Is Losing Steam


The dramatic run-up in DXCM share prices since the beginning of FY18 was driven almost entirely by multiple expansion due to investor 
enthusiasm over the Company’s near-term growth prospects, as suggested by recent blow-out revenue growth. However, as discussed 
throughout this report, we believe that Dexcom’s recent growth history has been inflated by unsustainable short-term factors and is not 


indicative of future growth potential. Accordingly, we believe that DXCM shares would be more properly valued at 5-6x sales – about where they 
traded prior to the 2018 run-up.


Source: Bloomberg


Interestingly, since the middle of the year, the stock has generally been range-bound despite continued revenue beats, and the multiple has 
contracted to some extent on recent sales growth. We believe that the smart money has been observing recent prescription trends via 


Bloomberg and other sources, and sees that the Libre share gains have inflected higher since July ‘18. Insider selling has picked up over the 
same period, perhaps motivated by the same trends. We believe that the multiple will contract further towards early FY18 levels as Dexcom’s 


true underlying patient growth trajectory becomes more obvious to the broader market.


Early FY18:
DXCM stock price 


appreciation driven largely 
by multiple expansion


Late FY18 / Early FY19:
Stock range-bound despite 
continued revenue beats –


suggests investor wariness of 
recent growth trends and 
concerns over Libre share 


gains since July ‘18
83


Spruce Point Sees 45-60% Near-Term Downside In 
DXCM Shares, With Significant Longer-Term Tail Risk


We see ~45-60% near-term downside in DXCM as the U.S. T1 market is increasingly exhausted, as Dexcom fails to participate in 
the growth of the U.S. T2 CGM market, and as the release of the Libre 2 brings downward pricing pressure on the industry.


Going forward, we see the potential for even greater downside as either A) Dexcom experiences heavy contraction in average 
revenue per customer as the low-cost G7 cannibalizes its higher-priced G6 product, or as B) Dexcom fails to release the down-


market G7 and does not participate in the future growth of the T2 market in a material fashion.


$,M, Unless Otherwise Noted Low Estimate High Estimate Notes


FY20 Revenue $1,161 $1,260


Multiple 5x 6x
In line with multiple range prior to H1 


FY18 run-up, and more in-line with peers
(5.8x EV/Sales multiple on FY20 sales)


Enterprise Value $5,805 $7,560


Senior Convertible Notes 1,400
Fair-market value of convertible notes as 


disclosed in FY18 10-K


Less: Cash and Equivalents (1,386)


Less: Equity Investment in 
Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.


(71)
Dexcom owns 1M TNDM shares, 


currently priced at ~$71 per share


Net Debt (57)


Equity Value $5,862 $7,617


Diluted Shares Outstanding 91.4


Price per Share $64.14 $83.34


Downside -56% -43%



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1093557/000109355719000041/dxcm-12312018x10k.htm
