January 27, 2017 





Well Investments Research releases letter to SMC management 
Raises new question about SMC's finances 


Asks SMC to provide clarification at financial results announcement in February 





Well Investments Research (“WIR”) has announced that on January 16, 2017 it sent a letter 


to seven members of SMC Corporation (TSE: 6273, “SMC”), namely the representative 


director and chairman, representative director and president, executive managing director, 


outside directors, and outside corporate auditors. 





WIR asked SMC to respond to the letter by January 20, 2017. WIR is now making the letter 


public in response to SMC’s failure to respond to the points raised or provide any clarification. 





The letter is attached to this release and is also available from the link below: 


http://www.wellinvestmentsresearch.com/ja/%E3%83%9B%E3%83%BC%E3%83%A0/ 





In the letter, WIR requested clarification on 18 points, including areas identified in the 


research report released by WIR in December 2016, such as notarized bank statements from 


each of SMC’s banks to support claims made in consolidated financial statements regarding 


cash balances, and the reasons for pledging SMC stock. The letter also requests clarification 


on new doubtful items that came to light through subsequent research. 





Since the release of its report on SMC, WIR has received inquiries and requests for new 


information from institutional investors in Japan and overseas who are the shareholders of 


SMC, as well as from other stakeholders and financial authorities in jurisdictions where SMC 


operates. Criticism of SMC’s corporate governance and disclosure has increased both at 


home and abroad and a number of major international securities firms have commented on 


the extremely low level of corporate governance at SMC. In its 2016 ESG research report, 


one firm downgraded SMC to its lowest rating of “CCC” for governance. 





Commenting on the release of the letter to SMC management, WIR’s Research Director Yuki 


Arai said, “We received many inquiries from investors and stakeholders immediately after we 


released the report on SMC. Many people expressed dissatisfaction towards the information 


disclosure by SMC, and encouraged us to pursue clarification from SMC on the issues raised 


in our report. As I also stated in the letter, ordinary citizens may also hold SMC stock through
Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) and ETF purchases by the Bank of 


Japan, and we believe that SMC has a social responsibility to respond to the issues we have 


raised. SMC will disclose its third-quarter results at the beginning of February, and we hope 


that they will use that opportunity to provide clarification in response to the issues raised in 


our report and letter.”
SMC Corporation 


Representative Director and Chairman Yoshiyuki Takada 


Representative Director and President Katsunori Maruyama 


Executive Managing Director Ikuji Usui 


Outside Director Masanobu Kaizu 


Outside Director Toshiharu Kagawa 


Outside Corporate Auditor Yoshiaki Ogawa 


Outside Corporate Auditor Tatsuo Suzue 








Inquiry regarding SMC’s financial information 
 





January 16, 2017 


Well Investments Research 


Research Director Hiroki Arai 





Sirs, 


 
	 As you are aware, Well Investments Research released a report on December 13, 2016 


that surveyed and analyzed financial information in connection to disclosures by SMC 


Corporation. The subsequent press releases issued by your company on December 13 and 


14 (titled “Regarding reports in some media about our Financial Statements”) provided 


explanations for several points raised in our report and were beneficial for your company’s 


shareholders and other stakeholders.  





Nevertheless, following the release of our report, we have received a number of inquiries 


and comments from Japanese and international analysts and institutional shareholders 


regarding points that were not addressed in the above-mentioned press releases, and 


bringing to our attention issues additional to those raised in our report. 





	 Corporate governance and stewardship codes—key policies of the Abe Administration—


have in recent years been adopted by most listed companies and institutional investors. With 


large amounts of public funds—constituting the assets of ordinary Japanese citizens—


invested in your company through the Bank of Japan, GPIF, and other institutions, we believe 


that the public should have an accurate understanding of your company’s financial position.
The press releases issued by your company in response to our report do not sufficiently 


address the important issues raised about your company’s financial information and do not 


provide satisfactory explanation to your company’s stakeholders, Japan’s capital markets, 


and ordinary Japanese investors. We believe your response is out of step with current 


government initiatives that are at the core of Japan’s economic policy.  





We request that you respond to each of the following questions by the 20th of this month by 


press release or other form, for the benefit of your company’s stakeholders. 





Questions 





1) Please disclose bank balance certificate clearly dated to back up the cash 


balances in your company’s consolidated financial statements. 


2) Please specifically explain why you do not employ a single audit firm with a 


structure capable of conducting a single integrated audit over all of your 


company’s subsidiaries in both Japan and overseas. 


3) Have your main banks, Resona Bank or Mizuho Bank, ever requested your 


company to consider changing O. Yu Kyodo or Seiyo Auditing Corporation to 


another audit firm with a structure capable of conducting a single integrated 


audit over all of your company’s subsidiaries in both Japan and overseas? If so, 


could you explain why such a request was refused? 


4) As mentioned in our report dated the 13th of last month and in a report from Citi 


Research dated the 11th of this month, many investors have expressed doubts 


towards the effectiveness of the audit of your subsidiary SMC Manufacturing 


(Singapore) because that audit was completed in just a few days following the 


end of the accounting period. Please provide a detailed explanation of the 


specific audit structure used for that audit. 


5) Please disclose why TON Finance pledged shares in your company, the value 


of the pledged shares, who the obligor is, the date the pledge was made, the 


terms and conditions, etc. 


6) Please disclose whether the shares of your company held by current or former 


directors of your company or other related parties of your company other than 


TON Finance including holdings not stated in the large shareholdings report,
and if so, the number of shares pledged, the timing, the reason, the pledge 


holder, the amount of the pledge claim, the obligor, the date the claim is 


incurred, the reasons, terms, etc. 


7) According to disclosed financial statements related to TON Finance, TON had 


pledged 1,450,000 shares of SMC as of December 31, 2013 and 3,443,500 


shares of SMC at December 31, 2014, this amount does not match the number 


stated in the large shareholdings report submitted in September 2008 


(3,836,2000). Please explain. 


8) Please explain the relationship between your company and Tatsuya Omura who 


is a director of TON Finance and son of your company’s founder and former 


chairman, Susumu Omura. Disclosure of this point is important to stakeholders 


because the large shareholdings report submitted by Tatsuya Omura on 


December 19, 2005 disclosed that Tatsuya Omura has pledged shares of your 


company held directly or indirectly to Resona Bank in the same manner as 


shares of your company held by TON Finance. Incidentally, there is also much 


interest regarding Tatsuya Omura because his name was also mentioned in the 


Panama Papers. 


9) Please explain the relationship between SMC and its subsidiaries and Kazutada 


Yashima of Resona Bank’s Market Operations Management Department who is 


also the representative director of TON Finance and is listed as the 


administrative contact person and representative on the large shareholdings 


report submitted on January 28, 2009 by TON Finance. 


10) Representative Director Yoshiyuki Takada has sold a total of 166,900 shares of 


your company over a period of several years starting from March 31, 2011. 


What is the reason for this and what were the proceeds from the sales used 


for? 


11) Please explain why key employees of your company in Japan and overseas 


hold considerable shares of your company, despite the fact that your company 


does not have an employee shareholding incentive plan or stock compensation-


type stock option plan? In particular, looking at the local notification documents 


concerning the holdings of your company’s shares that have been filed by
Minoru Yoshida, who is an employee at your company’s subsidiary in 


Singapore, his shareholdings have repeatedly changed, ranging from 3,084 


shares on April 1, 2002, 5,084 shares on March 31, 2003, 84 shares on March 


31, 2014, 0 shares on March 31, 2015, and 2,500 shares on March 31, 2016. 


Your company’s stakeholders have much interest in whether your company has 


regulations on trading in your company’s shares by employees and the details 


of such regulations. 


12) Please disclose the audited financial statements of your subsidiaries in the US 


for the past 5 years. Many investors would like to have an accurate 


understanding of the status of your company’s business in the US, and there 


appears to be no reasonable grounds for avoiding disclosure of the status of 


significant subsidiaries. 


13) Please provide a concrete explanation of why it appears that negative interest 


rates were applied on SMC cash balances excluding Japan and China from FY 


2012 to FY 2014. 


14) While your company explained that cost reductions were achieved by factoring 


your company’s payables to Resona Kessai in the press release dated 


December 14, 2016, we would like a concrete explanation of specifically how 


much of a cost reduction was achieved and in what manner for this payment 


practice that does not appear to be customary at other companies. 


15) Regarding your company’s payables, please provide a disclosure of the 


creditors that have factored receivables to Resona Kessai and the amounts 


factored. 


16) Please provide a specific explanation on how the inventories held by European 


Central Warehouse, SMC Logistics Service Europe, and SMC Belgium are 


valuated or recorded on the consolidated financial statements (or whether they 


are not recorded). 


17) Please disclose all sales companies and customers that SMC has capital 


relationships with in Japan and overseas. 


18) Please disclose a complete list of all subsidiaries, including whether or not they 


are in the scope of consolidation.
We believe that specific and clear response to each of these inquiries above would not 
only foster a clearer understanding and evaluation of your company’s business for all of 
the participants in Japan’s capital markets in addition to your company’s current 
stakeholders, but would also make a significant contribution to an improved market 
assessment of your company’s information disclosure stance. 
 


In closing, it is our hope that your company’s response to our report and this document, 
and continued dialog with your company in the future, can contribute to greater 
transparency and more pro-active information disclosure in Japan’s capital markets. 





Thank you.
