1	





December	15,	2016	





SMC	(6273):		
Accounts	Beg	Questions;		
SMC	Keeps	Plug	on	Answers.	








	
SMC responses, dated December 13, 2016 and December 14, 2016, to our original 
report “SMC (6273): Puncturing the Myth” barely address the key issues we have 
raised. The company claims there is "no problem" with their accounts and offers no 
evidence to support its position. The company’s comment on Seiyo is simply that they 
"have been with the auditor since 1987." We didn’t expect anything else. We and the 
investment community have yet to hear any empirical response on the important 
issues.  
 
1. Pledged shares by TON Finance BV.  The pledge could be oddly similar to the 


Satyam fraud case in India where the Chairman pledged shares to use cash to 
inject into the company. 


a) Why are these shares pledged and where has the cash gone? 
b) Why are the Dutch and Japanese regulatory disclosures different in 


terms of how many shares were pledged and when? 
c) Which disclosure is correct? 
d) Kazumasa Yajima is listed as the Resona representive for TON finance in 


the 2009 Edinet filings. What role does he play?  
 





 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Well Investments Research  
www.wellinvestmentsresearch.com  
whistleblower@wellinvestmentsresearch.com  
Director of Research: Yuki Arai
2	


2. Cash. We believe that interest income ex. Japan and China being negative is 
a smoking gun.  SMC conveniently claim that the missing cash sits in USA, Hong 
Kong, Taiwan and Brazil. As we demonstrated in the report, however, it is 
unlikely that those entities hold any significant cash.  


a) This should not be difficult to verify. SMC, when can we expect to see 
notarized copies of cash balances for the remaining subsidiaries? 


b) Why should investors rely on the audit of SMC’s manufacturing subsidiary 
in Singapore, which holds JPY49 billion in cash(JPY41 billion in 2014), 
when its audit takes less than 14 days to complete and the company 
secretary is married to a recently retired partner of the audit firm 
overseeing the account? 


c) A significant portion of SMC’s purported cash, JPY24 billion in SMC 
(Beijing) Mfg. Co. Ltd. (in 2014), sits in its manufacturing subsidiary in 
Beijing China. Considering that a large portion of sales from this 
subsidiary are to Japan, why does SMC want to park cash in China from 
where it is difficult to extract cash? 


  
3. Relationship with Seiyo Audit.  The company justifies using Seiyo by claiming 


that "we have been with them since 1987". It sounds like a touching sense of 
loyalty. However, with a business as large, complicated, and diverse as SMC’s this 
is not an appropriate business justification. Tokyo Electron, which is similar in 
size to SMC, used O.Yu/Seiyo until 2004 and has since changed to KPMG. SMC 
shareholders deserve to know the honest state of the company’s accounts. We 
call for a robust audit firm to be appointed by SMC, one that has the scale and 
scope to do a complete global audit. At the very least, given the grave nature of 
evidence unearthed by our research, we call on SMC to appoint a large auditor to 
do a one-time global audit. Our questions remain: 


a) How can Seiyo properly audit and oversee SMC’s consolidated 
financials?   


b) Six of Seiyo’s seven public clients all have financial years ending in 
March. As Seiyo only had 16 accountants until July 2016, we want to 
know: How many were overseeing SMC?  


c) Why are some consolidated subsidiaries unaudited, particularly in Japan 
and including the Toyo Warehouse, which is located in the same office 
building as Seiyo?  


 
4. Auditor churn.  SMC fails to provide a trustworthy audit for its international 


operations as well as for the Japan business. 
a) Why does SMC use disparate small local auditing firms overseas and why 


are they replaced on a haphazard basis?  
b) The company claims that the local subsidiaries choose their own 


auditors. Then why does it look like there was a coordinated effort to 
change the overseas auditors en-masse between 2011-2012?  


c) Why did the UK subsidiary rehire an auditor that had hitherto made 
“material errors” in the accounts?
3	


d) Why has the British subsidiary failed to file details on its auditor 
resignation? When can we expect this to be remedied? We believe this is 
a violation of the UK Companies Act. 


 
5. Inventory. We demonstrated that a number of subsidiaries have written down far 


more of their own stock in percentage terms than the consolidated entity yet SMC 
provided this negligible response on the issue: “On inventory valuation, SMC uses 
relevant accounting standards and carries out appropriate inventory devaluation. 
Contrary to the claims made by the report, it is not the case that SMC carried 
useless inventory”. 


a) What are those accounting standards? Who applies them? 
b) Why are UK accounting rules on inventory NOT applied to the rest of the 


Group?  
c) Indeed, and this is the key issue with SMC, why is there no UNIVERSAL 


application of accounting standards? 
 
6. Consolidation. In their response SMC claims the following “[T]he report alleges 


that ‘SMC frequently changes the scope of consolidation.’ This is not true.” It 
should be noted that with numerous non-consolidated subsidiaries and related 
party entities SMC can effectively fabricate revenue all day long and to its 
heart’s content. 


a) We challenge SMC to publish a current and historical list of its 
consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries. 


b) We call on SMC to provide a detailed breakdown of the entire group and 
all related party transactions. 


 
7. Operating margin.  Analysts following SMC have glossed over the operating 


margin issue. As can be seen in the table below, operating profit at the parent 
level, which includes intersegment sales, is almost identical to that on the 
consolidated level for third-party sales originating in Japan. With the Parent and 
Consolidated OP in Japan almost matching it implies that intersegment sales are 
made at cost and that the margins in Japan’s third-party sales have increased 
dramatically.
4	


 
 
8. Resona Kessai. SMC claims in its response that “…to streamline the costs 


associated with issuing and managing promissory notes, SMC changed over to 
factoring." 


a) It is unlikely that the supplier is bearing the cost of the factoring. So, is 
SMC paying a fee to Resona Kessai to manage its payables? If so, how 
much are you paying to Resona Kessai and what is the size of the savings 
SMC has made by introducing this scheme? 


b) If there is a substantial saving, why does no other competitor use this 
scheme? 


c) Why is SMC unable to process its own bills (even though SMC is “cash 
rich”)? 


d) Why issue promissory notes instead of paying in cash (which incurs no 
commission)?   


 
9. Benelux entities – related party transactions? We demonstrated that there are 


SMC entities not owned by SMC but by the Nauta Group. These share office space 
with Ton Finance and a deconsolidated SMC subsidiary called Shoketsu Finance. 


a) What is SMC’s relationship with the Nauta Group and the other Benelux-
based related parties?  


b) How is inventory accounted for in the European Central Warehouse? Is 
this off- or on-balance sheet? 


c) Why does SMC co-own the European Central Warehouse with the Nauta 
Group?  


d) Why has SMC not disclosed the Benelux-based businesses as related 
parties? 


e) How does SMC account for the sales between the SMC’s group companies 
and “unrelated companies” under Nauta Group? 








SMC	Japan	OP	Analysis FY08 FY16
JPYBn


Japan	Parent
Sales	(Third	party	and	Intersegment) 242.8						 302.8						
Operating	profit	(Third	party	and	Intersegment) 57.0									 84.3									
OPM 23% 28%


Japan	Consolidated
Consolidated	Japan	Revenue	by	Origin	(Third	party	only) 167.5						 154.5						
Operating	profit	(Third	party	only) 61.5									 89.0									
OPM 37% 58%


Japan	Parent	OP	as	a	%	of	Consolidated	Japan	OPM 93% 95%
5	


NEW ISSUES 
  
In addition to the above, there are other significant issues and discrepancies which 
we do not believe the investment community is aware of, including:  
  
10. Chairman Takada and management have been selling down shares for years.  If 


you follow the number of shares held by Chairman Takada in his name in the Yuho 
financial disclosures, his directly owned shares have decreased steadily from 
176,900 at the end of March 2011 to only 10,000 shares at the end of March 
2016.  In addition, in years past, several board members including corporate 
auditors have held (and in many cases have sold) significant shares in SMC despite 
the company NOT having a management incentive program or stock options 
program.  In some cases, the number of shares represented millions of dollars.  
 


11. Related Party Sales. Our report shows that the company uses  intragroup sales to  
manage inventory writedowns. Related  party  sales  at  SMC  Pneumatics 
Singapore have been running at around 16% of sales for the past two years. 


a) Why  are  these  related  party  sales  NOT  disclosed  in the  consolidated 
accounts?  
b) Who   are   these   related   party   sales   to?   Are   they   to   non-
consolidated  subsidiaries?  If  so,  how  are  they  accounted  for  in  the 
consolidated accounts? 


 
12. Unreasonably fast audits.  Manufacturing Singapore is not the only subsidiary 


with a suspiciously fast audit, the others include:  
a. SMC Industrial Czech: 9 days (FY 3/15)  
b. SMC Germany: 10 days (FY 3/13)  
c. SMC Shoketsu Philippines: 15 days (FY 3/15)  
d. SMC Pneumatics Philippines: 11 days (FY 3/12)  
e. Malaysia Shoketsu Engineering: 16 days (FY 3/15)  
f. SMC Pneumatics Malaysia: 16 days (FY 3/15)  
 


13. Who audits the US?  Interviews with former employees claim the auditors 
are from Japan. We know it is not Seiyo, so who is auditing SMC USA?  


  
14. Cash.  If Japan is so profitable, why is the majority of cash purportedly overseas? 
  
 
Investors should demand that SMC appoint an independent, impartial third-party 
committee to investigate its accounting of all consolidated, non-consolidated group 
entities and related parties.  Furthermore, SMC should disclose the names of all 
consolidated and non-consolidated subsidiaries, as well as clarify its numerous related 
party transactions.  
  
We strongly encourage investors to look further into SMC accounts. Anyone can verify 
our claims by accessing all of the publicly-available filings which we listed in Appendix
6	


D of the original report dated December 13, 2016.  
 
We continue our research into SMC. The more we dig, the more problematic SMC’s 
affairs look. We plan on having another update for subscribers soon.
