February	9,	2017	


Questions	relating	to	SMC	Corporation	





Dear	Resona	Holdings	Board	Members,	


Mr.	Kazuhiro	Higashi,	Director,	President	and	Representative	Executive	Officer,	
Mr.	Tetsuya	Suga,	Director	and	Representative	Executive	Officer,	
Mr.	Yuji	Koga,	Director	and	Representative	Executive	Officer,	
Mr.	Koaru	Isono,	Director,	
Ms.	Emi	Ozono,	Non-executive	Director,	
Mr.	Toshio	Arima,	Non-executive	Director,	
Ms.	Yoko	Sanuki,	Non-executive	Director,	
Mr.	Mitsudo	Urano,	Non-executive	Director,	
Mr.	Tadamitsu	Matsui,	Non-executive	Director,	
Mr.	Hidehiko	Sato,	Non-executive	Director.	


As	you	may	be	aware,	we	at	Well	Investments	Research	published	a	report	on	December	13,	2016	which	
noted	our	concerns	with	regards	to	your	client	SMC	Corporation	(“SMC”).		Through	our	extensive	due	
diligence,	it	has	come	to	our	attention	that	Resona	Holdings	(“Resona”)	is	involved	in	potentially	serious	
accounting	and	corporate	governance	issues	at	SMC.		We	outline	these	below.	


According	to	our	analysis,	the	potential	risk	exposure	Resona	has	to	SMC	is	significant.	Based	on	the	
reported	consolidated	capital	of	1,879.1	billion	yen	as	of	Dec.	31,	2016,	Resona’s	exposure	to	SMC	may	
be	as	high	as	12.8%	of	Resona’s	book	value,	or	239.5	billion	yen.	(Calculated	based	on	an	estimated	
credit	balance	of	25	billion	yen,	estimated	receivables	through	factoring	facilities	of	43.6	billion	yen,	a	
direct	equity	holding	of	1,959,800	SMC	shares	of	[equivalent	to	62.0	billion	yen	at	31,620	yen	per	share],	
and	3,443,500	shares	of	SMC	shares	pledged	by	TON	Finance	[equivalent	to	108.9	billion	yen	at	the	
31,620	yen	per	share	level]).			


We	believe	that	as	a	leading	Japanese	company	who	prides	itself	on	its	corporate	governance,	you	have	
a	responsibility	to	investigate	the	raised	concerns,	to	find	out	the	truth	and	to	provide	answers	for	your	
stakeholders.		As	such,	we	would	very	much	appreciate	if	you	could	probe	the	issues	stated	listed	below,	
and	disclose	your	findings	publicly	through	a	press	release	or	by	other	means	at	least	by	the	15th	of	this	
month.		For	your	information,	we	plan	to	make	the	content	of	this	letter	public	in	the	coming	days.	


1. Every	single	Chief	Financial	Officer	and	many	members	of	the	senior	management	team	at	SMC	
Corporation	are	from	Resona	Bank	(formerly	Asahi	Bank,	Kyowa	Bank).		Please	explain	whether	any	
measures	are	taken	to	prevent	a	conflict	of	interests	between	these	individuals	and	Resona	Bank?	
	


2. Resona	not	only	extends	a	large	amount	of	credit	through	lending	and	factoring	of	receivables	to	
SMC,	but	also	seems	to	extend	credit	to	TON	Finance,	a	holding	company	of	SMC,	as	well	as	other
entities	that	seem	to	be	related	to	the	families	of	SMC	founders.		How	does	Resona	regard	the	
conflict	of	interests	that	lies	between	SMC	and	its	founders,	and	what	specific	measures	has	Resona	
implemented	to	prevent	any	problems	rising	from	this?	


	
3. As	per	filings	in	Japan	and	in	the	Netherlands,	TON	Finance	has	pledged	a	significant	number	of	SMC	


shares	to	Resona	Bank	as	collateral	for	an	undisclosed	loan.		(We	note	that	based	on	the	filings	
made	in	the	Netherlands,	there	seems	to	be	not	one	but	multiple	pledges	on	the	said	shares.)		
Resona	Bank	is	also	named	in	the	filings	as	the	representative	of	TON	Finance	in	Japan.		Please	
explain	what	these	pledges	are	for,	the	terms	and	the	amount	of	the	extended	credit,	and	who	are	
the	borrowers.		


	
4. According	to	TON	Finance’s	regulatory	filings	in	the	Netherlands,	the	number	of	pledged	SMC	shares	


at	the	end	of	Dec	2013	was	1,450,000.	This	increased	to	3,443,500	shares	by	the	end	of	Dec	2014.	
These	figures,	however,	are	different	from	the	ones	in	the	filings	made	in	Japan,	which	state	that	the	
number	of	pledged	SMC	shares	is	3,836,235.	Please	note	that	Mr.	Kazumasa	Yajima,	an	employee	of	
Resona	Bank,	is	named	as	the	contact	person	in	the	regulatory	filings,	and	as	such	Resona	Bank	is	
accountable	to	explain	why	such	discrepancies	exist	in	regulatory	filings.		
In	addition,	based	on	the	regulatory	filings	in	the	Netherlands,	it	appears	that	shares	of	SMC	held	by	
TON	Finance	were	sold	down	significantly	in	2012.	Based	on	our	estimates,	the	sales	amounted	to	
approximately	2,720,000	shares	(i.e.,	3,836,235	shares	x	6,288,445,380	/	8,883,958,880).	Hence,	we	
estimate	that	the	SMC	stake	held	by	TON	Finance	decreased	to	around	1,112,000	shares	at	the	end	
of	2013.	However,	the	number	of	pledged	shares	as	disclosed	in	the	Dutch	regulatory	filing	as	of	the	
end	of	2013	was	1,430,000	shares	(as	noted	above,	this	figure	differs	from	the	Japanese	regulatory	
filing	made	on	Jan	28th,	2009).	Then,	the	number	of	pledged	shares	increased	to	3,443,500	at	the	
end	of	2014.	As	the	statutory	proxy	for	TON	Finance	in	Japan,	we	believe	Resona	Bank	has	the	
responsibility	to	explain	these	discrepancies	in	regulatory	filings.	


	
5. Based	on	SMC	corporate	filings,	we	believe	that	Resona	Bank	has	a	significant	amount	of	loans	


outstanding	to	SMC	and	to	the	families	of	company	founders.		What	is	your	total	amount	of	loans	
outstanding	with	SMC,	the	families	of	its	founders,	and	other	related	entities	including,	but	not	
limited	to,	TON	Finance?	
	


6. Through	a	private	investigator	and	discrete	interviews,	we	have	discovered	the	following:	
	
a. TON	Finance	BV,	an	Amsterdam-based	paper	company,	is	acting	as	the	de	facto	auditor	for	a	


large	number	of	consolidated	and	non-consolidated	overseas	SMC	subsidiaries.	
b. The	statutory	representative	for	TON	Finance	in	Japan	is	Mr.	Kazumasa	Yajima,	who	is	an	


employee	of	Resona	Bank.		However,	former	SMC	employees	say	in	interviews	that	Mr.	
Yajima	acts	as	SMC’s	“internal	auditor”	despite	the	fact	that	he	is	a	Resona	Bank	employee.	


c. Resona	is	aware	of	accounting	issues	at	SMC’s	overseas	subsidiaries.
d. Toyo	Warehouse,	a	consolidated	SMC	subsidiary	(whose	President	is	a	former	employee	of	
Resona,	and	which	is	located	in	the	same	building	as	SMC’s	external	auditor	Seiyo	Audit	
Corporation)	is	“audited”	by	an	SMC	employee	and	a	former	Resona	Bank	employee.			


We	would	like	to	hear	your	comments	on	the	above.	


7. From	SMC	filings,	it	appears	that	your	subsidiary,	Resona	Kessai,	holds	a	significant	amount	of	SMC’s	
accounts	payables.		These	are	explained	to	have	been	factored	by	SMC	counterparties	to	Resona	
Kessai.		Can	you	please	explain	the	nature	of	this	agreement,	the	terms	of	the	receivables	and	the	
scale	of	this	exposure,	as	well	as	the	cost	benefit	that	is	achieved	through	such	transactions?	





Your	assistance	in	investigating	the	outlined	concerns	and	in	providing	explanations	to	the	investment	
community	is	greatly	appreciated.	Thank	you	for	your	time	and	for	fulfilling	your	duties	as	independent	
directors	to	improve	the	corporate	governance	at	Resona	Holdings	and	in	Japan	at	large.	


We	wish	your	company	a	highly	prosperous	future	and	look	forward	to	your	contribution	to	making	
proactive	disclosure	a	standard	practice	in	Japan’s	capital	market,	which	we	feel	sure	will	deepen	the	
trust	of	the	international	investment	community	toward	our	market.	





Best	regards,	


	
Yuki	Arai,	Research	Director	
Well	Investments	Research
