1 | P a g e  
 


               GlassHouse Research 


04/11/17 





Potential Sale to GE gives Varian Managers Financial Motive to 


Cosmetically Enhance Earnings 























Who is GlassHouse Research? GlassHouse Research (GHR), a division of GlassHouse, LLC is 


made up of forensic accountants/analysts who have worked for prominent hedge funds on 


Wall Street, as well as boutique forensic accounting firms. Our purpose is to expose public 


companies that have been taking advantage of US GAAP as well as IFRS accounting 


standards for their benefit. We seek to find companies where GAAP (or even worse, non-


GAAP) earnings are deviating from true economic earnings of the target firm. 


Overall, we search for evidence of a “culture of fraud” within public companies. 


Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, GlassHouse, LLC and others that contributed research to this report and 


others that we have shared our research with (collectively, the “Authors”) have short positions in, and own put option positions 


on, the stock of Varian Medical Systems Inc. (VAR) and stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. 


Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the company covered herein. All content in 


this report represent the opinions of GHR. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be 


accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied. The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 


information or with regard to the results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, 


and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any information contained herein. Please read our 


full legal disclaimer at the end of the report.
2 | P a g e  
 


Initiating Coverage Report: Varian Medical Systems Inc. (VAR) with a Target Price of $51.75 


GlassHouse Research focuses on Varian’s significant financial motive to enhance earnings in 


order to entice potential suitors as competitive threats loom: 


• Recent reports of General Electric possibly acquiring Varian may have led to lenient accounting: 


At the end of FY2016, it appeared as though management had decided to use a plethora of 


accounting gimmicks, such as financing customer’s Proton Centers, pulling revenue forward, 


extending relaxed credit terms and not impairing obsolete inventory to beautify its financials. 


And with VAR’s failed attempt at a sale at the end of FY2016, GHR analysts believe that the 


impact of many of these accounting gimmicks will reverse violently over the next twelve 


months.  





• Cash flow metrics have deteriorated greatly over the past five years: The bifurcation of cash 


flow metrics and earnings have achieved their largest divergence ever at VAR with non-


GAAP income and free-cash-flow differing by $194.3 million of accruals in FY 2016. 





• VAR finances its own Proton Therapy Center in order to manufacture customers: Currently 


VAR finances three of its Proton Therapy Centers in a peculiar transaction that nets VAR 


not only interest income, but unbilled revenue as well. The problem being that some of their 


Proton Therapy Centers are having trouble attaining patients. Thus, VAR now has $130.6 


million in loans at risk, not including the loss of material revenue streams in its Varian 


Particle Therapy (VPT) segment.    





• VAR’s receivable metrics have ballooned to levels not seen since the 2008 recession: With 


VAR’s overall receivables portfolio (including loans) constituting a current mess, the firm’s 


risky and highly subjective unbilled receivables increased 41.1%, while deferred revenues 


plummeted by 74.5% in FY2016. These drastic YOY deltas have rarely ever been seen by 


GHR analysts in a one year time period where total sales increased only by 3.8%. 





• Inventory continues to build up dust in VAR’s warehouses as customer demand falls: In the 


highly adapting oncology industry, inventory is constantly improving/changing with 


technological advances. With a 10-year high DSI balance of 138 days, we believe the 


company is failing to write-off its older/obsolete inventory in this ever-adapting industry.  





• Seeing the handwriting on the wall for VAR’s future, executives continue to unload a material 


amount of ownership: Two highly predictive executives (one being VAR’s CEO Dow Wilson) 


unloaded a material amount of shares over the past six-months. These divestitures give GHR 


analysts high confidence in our thesis of VAR’s material share-price underperformance over 


next twelve months based on our accounting concerns.
3 | P a g e  
 


Company Background 


Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (VAR) designs, manufactures, sells, and services medical 


devices and software products for treating cancer and other medical conditions worldwide. As 


of 01/28/17, VAR operates through its “Oncology Systems” and “Other” segments. The 


Oncology Systems segment provides hardware and software products for treating cancer with 


radiotherapy, fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation 


therapy, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, stereotactic body 


radiotherapy, and brachytherapy.  


VAR’s Oncology Systems’ products include linear accelerators, brachytherapy afterloaders, 


treatment simulation, verification equipment, and accessories; as well as information 


management, treatment planning, image processing, clinical knowledge exchange, patient 


care management, decision-making support, and practice management software. This 


segment serves university research and community hospitals, private and governmental 


institutions, healthcare agencies, physicians’ offices, oncology practices, radiotherapy 


centers, and cancer care clinics. The Other segment includes its Varian Particle Therapy 


(VPT) and R&D centers.  


VAR spun-off its previously owned Imaging Components segment into the public company, 


Varex Imaging Corporation (VREX) as of 01/28/17. This prior segment accounted for 18.6% 


of VAR’s FY2016 revenues (20.0% of operating income).  


Varian was founded in 1948 and is headquartered in Palo Alto, California.  Formerly known 


as Varian Associates, Inc., VAR changed its name to Varian Medical Systems, Inc. in April 


1999.
4 | P a g e  
 


Potential Sale to GE gives VAR Managers Financial Motive to Cosmetically Enhance Earnings 


On October 20, 2016, the publication online source, Intereconomia.com, released an article 


stating that General Electric was negotiating a purchase price for VAR of between $11 


billion and $12 billion.1 The market took notice of the proposed acquisition chatter resulting 


in VAR’s stock pricing jumping 10.4% to a high of $106.70, before settling at $100.29 at the 


close of the day. While there is no way to fully confirm the validity of the purchase price 


(inasmuch as no acquisition ever occurred), we note that several earnings quality metrics 


trended significantly into the “red flag” area during that same timeframe. Specifically, we 


noticed many of the following accounting metrics trending abnormally for VAR at a time 


when negotiations were allegedly underway:  


• While VAR’s free-cash-flow and cash-from-operating activities metrics have trended 


negatively for the past 4 years, the divergence was significantly apparent at the end of 


FY2016 (09/30/16). 





• The firm’s highly subjectively recognized revenue of costs in excess of billings 


(unbilled receivables) and billings in excess of costs (deferred revenues) materially 


benefited revenues cosmetically at the end of FY2016. 





• VAR’s use of financing its Proton Therapy Centers drastically accelerated near the 


end of FY2015 and into FY2016. These circular transactions consisting of firms 


lending money to their customers to buy their own products are rarely seen in the 


U.S. and most often attributable to suspect Chinese companies.   





• The firm choose not to impair its failing California Proton Treatment Center (CPTC) 


in San Diego until a quarter after the alleged negotiations of its sale to GE occurred. 


Based on filings, this center was not keeping up to date with its payments prior to Q1 


FY2017, so why the impairments now and not before?  





• Curiously, VAR chooses to account for its CPTC loan balance in available-for-sale 


securities under “short-term investments” and “other assets”. We believe this loan is 


misclassified and should therefore should be included in VAR’s own DSO calculations 


(in which the loans are not currently included).  





                                                           
1 https://intereconomia.com/mercados/bolsa/general-electric-negocia-la-compra-varian-medical-20161020-1915/
5 | P a g e  
 


• In the Q4 conference call, VAR’s previous CFO admitted to using lenient credit terms 


to customers in order to entice sales. This is extremely apparent when viewing VAR’s 


unfavorable AR metrics and DSO levels that have spiked. 





• VAR’s inventory levels continue to skyrocket relative to sales at levels not seen in 


company history. It is entirely possible that the firm is unwilling to write-off excess 


inventory that would hurt earnings at a time of negotiating a sale. 





• VAR’s Chief Financial Officer Elisha Finney (who we note has no CPA license or even 


a BA in accounting), announced her resignation on October 26, 2016. She will remain 


in her position until a successor is name in FY2017, although we do find it convenient 


that she planned to retire at a time when many of our red flags brought up in this 


report are coming to fruition.  GHR does question her apparent lack of an accounting 


education or professional certification; for example, can she fully comprehend VAR’s 


complex accounting as regards its VPT centers and inventory that rapidly depreciates 


in the oncology industry? 





• As of 04/05/17, VAR finally named a new successor to Elisha Finney. Gary E. 


Bischoping, Jr. of Dell Technologies will assume the position as of 05/08/17. Unlike 


Ms. Finney, Mr. Bischoping possesses extensive accounting experience with an 


accounting degree and CPA license along with extensive CFO experience. Based on 


our experience and research, we believe it is highly likely the new CFO will shore up 


the books quickly as this is in his best interests at the firm. This would result in what 


we call a “big bath” period, where many balance sheet assets are written down and 


impaired along with heightened liabilities taken. These unexpected impairments and 


liabilities could result in a ferocious negative reaction in the firm’s share price after 


earnings are reported. 





A reasonable conclusion from the foregoing exhaustive list is the possibility that 


management aesthetically enhanced VAR’s financials in order to gain a favorable multiple in 


its buyout offer. While GHR recognizes that the presumed buyout offer may have been pure 


conjecture at the time, what is not typical in our experience is the abnormal amalgamation of 


accounting gimmicks being used by VAR at the end of FY2016. As the reader will see in 


perusing this report, each item listed above will be discussed and explained as to how they 


will tend to eventually bring down the firm’s revenues/earnings in future periods, regardless 


if they were management’s premeditations or not.
6 | P a g e  
 


As the reader will come to see in our fraud section below, GlassHouse Research believes that 


managers commit accounting “liberties” when there is a high financial motivation such as an 


acquisition. The point of this table is to show that while managers can “pretty up” the numbers for 


a short period of time before a sale, however the accounting accruals will always reverse negatively 


in future periods as these aesthetic accounting changes reverse.  


Recent Completed Acquisitions 
Accounting Red Flags prior to 


Acquisition 
End Outcome 


After much deliberation about 


who was planning to buy who, 


The Men’s Wearhouse (MW) 


acquired Jos. A. Bank (JOSB) 


for an all cash deal of $65 per 


share or $1.8 billion in early 


2014. The price represented a 


56% premium over JOSB closing 


share price on 10/08/13. 





The new company was later 


renamed Tailored Brands, Inc. 


under the new ticker TLRD.  


While both MW and JOSB had 


their inventory issues, it was 


JOSB that drew the most ire 


from short sellers prior to 


acquisition. 


Short-sellers argued that the firm 


failed to write-down its out-of-


style inventory suits on the 


balance sheet. This caused 


margins to stay at unsustainably 


high levels. JOSB’s prior CEO 


Neal Black also had a 


questionable past working at the 


now defunct Venture Stores. 


Subsequent to the acquisition, 


JOSB’s comparable store sales 


plummeted in Q3 and Q4 of 2015 


by 35.1% and 31.9%, 


respectively. Once the parent 


company realized JOSB’s prior 


“buy 1 suit get 3 free” 


promotions were unsustainable, 


sales fell off a cliff.  


The stock price of TLRD has 


languished ever since with a 


minuscule market cap currently 


of $615 million. 





On 12/07/15, the private-equity 


firm JAB Holding acquired 


Keurig Green Mountain (GMCR) 


for $13.9 billion. 





The selling price at $92 per share 


represented a 77.9% premium 


over the stock price on 12/05/15.   


Many notable short-sellers, 


including David Einhorn, had 


GMCR in their sights as the 


company was under scrutiny for 


its revenue recognition practices 


from the SEC on 03/20/13. This 


was on top channel-stuffing 


accusations and questionable 


Keurig “Kold” guidance given by 


management.  


While GMCR was taken private 


with no updated financials 


afterwards, the firm ended up 


firing 108 employees and axed its 


previously touted Keurig Kold 


product line as it failed miserably 


with customers. The company 


also reported subsequent to the 


sale that its holiday K-Cups sales 


were declining at a material rate.
7 | P a g e  
 


According to the Hollinger and Clark study that focused on why managers and employees 


commit fraud, the researchers concluded that the most common reason employees (including 


top executives) commit fraud has little to do with opportunity, but rather with financial 


motivation. GHR’s talented team of CPAs understand that under GAAP, especially in 


complex industries, the opportunity arises to use accounting to one’s advantage in many 


circumstances, including the ability of managers to subjectively estimate revenues and 


earnings based on milestones within a given project.  


According to a 2010 Forbes2 article that detailed which balance sheet accounts managers use 


to commit corporate fraud, Inventory and Accounts Receivable were misstated 51% and 


43% of the time when fraud occurs, respectively and included the fraud techniques listed 


below. As the reader will see, many of the red flags detailed in this report coincide with the 


listed methods. Overall, GHR believes that too many salient metrics have triggered red flags 


over the past twelve months, and investors will see that many of these accounting gimmicks 


will cause a violent reversal of VAR’s financial performance going forward. 








                                                           
2 https://www.forbes.com/2010/06/10/corporate-fraud-executive-compensation-personal-finance-risk-list-2-10-
kaplan.html
8 | P a g e  
 


Free-Cash-Flow Declines for Four Consecutive Fiscal Years 


As evident in our earnings Annual Profitability Figures for VAR Chart (page 10), we find 


that VAR’s free-cash-flow3 (FCF) has persistently diverged from the firm’s earnings metrics 


reported over the past five years. These metrics have diverged in the last two years by a 


material amount. In our experience, when a firm’s accruals have increased to the levels of 


VAR’s, often there is a violent reversion to the mean with regards to both non-GAAP and 


GAAP earnings metrics.  


• To illustrate this trend, we find that cash-from-operating activities (CFOA) have 


fallen by 24.1% to $356.4 million at the end of FY2016. While this number is positive, 


this pales in comparison to the $492.8 million figure reported at the end of FY2012. 


From a margin perspective, CFOA declined 408 bps to a five-year low of 11.1% 


reported at the end of FY2016.  





• Looking at more recent Q1 figures, we find a similar story with TTM CFOA falling 


22.8% YOY to $361.3 million. This represents a CFOA margin of only 11.2%, again 


near the five-year low achieved in the previous quarter. 





• Turning to FCF, we find correlating trends to CFOA, with FCF falling 9.9% to $254.9 


million at the end of FY 2016. This metric has fallen for the past four years to a level 


not seen in the past five fiscal years. As we would expect, FCF fell by 121 bps to 


7.9%, again a five-year low for VAR. 





• This dwindling cash issue was finally brought up by an analyst in the Q4 FY2016 


conference call: 


Analyst 
So 2 questions here. One, I guess, just on cash flow. So cash flow was down, 
I think, on the year, down about 25%. It looks like it's kind of the lowest 
level we've seen since fiscal 2009, in fact, as I was going back. And if I add 
back some of the non-GAAP cash charges, even if I add those back, it's still 
down below $400 million. And it looks like receivables were up, I think 
about $120 million year-on-year, and even $50 million up sequentially. So 
just trying to figure out if it's a receivables issue, what's going on there? Or 
what's going on basically with your cash flow at this point? 
 


                                                           
3 GlassHouse’s FCF calculation includes cash acquisitions
9 | P a g e  
 


Elisha W. Finney 
Sure. So Jeff, the Oncology AR increased about 8%, and that compares to 
their year-to-date sales up 5%. And as we've been talking all through this 
fiscal year, early in the year, we moved our collections staff. We had a 
Salesforce IT implementation. And I think that slowed down collections in 
the first half, and we are continuing to feel that effect. Although we're 
making good progress, collections in Q3 and Q4 were very strong, but as we 
move into FY '17, absolutely, AR collections is going to be a big focus for the 
entire team. Little bit of it has to do with more extended terms. In a 0 
interest-rate environment, we can continue to win high-margin business by 
offering terms. And then some of it also, both inventory and AR, up in the 
proton business as we continue to grow that business. And with percentage 
of completion accounting, it gets a little funky in proton because a lot of 
times we're taking revenue and creating an AR under the percentage of 
completion long before the bills are actually due by the customer. But it will 
be a big focus as we move into this year. 





• According to the firm’s statement of cash flows, we find that both accounts receivable 


and inventories have consumed a material amount of CFOA in each of the last five 


fiscal years (AR and inventory consumed $168.4 million and $27.7 million, 


respectively in FY2016). Again, the analysts at GHR have seen this before with 


similar companies and we know that this trend is not sustainable. And once we go 


down the rabbit hole of digging in to both AR and inventory metrics, we will reveal 


how serious VAR’s earnings quality issues are in the next sections.   





• Pay attention to the CFO’s quote regarding the reasoning behind depressed cash flow 


in the quote above; notice the percentage-of-completion accounting. This type of 


accounting is highly subjective to management when it comes to revenue recognition. 


Our analyst team at GHR find it highly peculiar at a time when a company is 


potentially gearing itself up for a sale, the divergence between earnings and CFOA is 


at its highest point going back over 10 years at $194.8 million. Again, we know that 


companies cannot fake cash in the bank (for the most part), but also that 


management does have major discretion over revenue/earnings, especially in highly 


subjective areas such as the aforementioned percentage-of-completion accounting.
10 | P a g e  
 


Annual Profitability Figures for VAR 















































0.0


50.0


100.0


150.0


200.0


250.0


300.0


350.0


400.0


450.0


500.0


201620152014201320122011


Free-Cash-Flow (includes cash acquisitions) GAAP Net Income Non-GAAP Net Income
11 | P a g e  
 


Circular Transactions with VPT Clients End up with Impairments and Faux Revenues 


Dating back to FY2013 and accelerating into FY2016, VAR management turned to 


providing financing to their Proton Therapy Centers customers. The three centers that the 


company has provided financing for the construction and start-up operations are the Scripps 


Therapy Center (CPTC), Maryland Proton Therapy Center (MPTC), and New York Proton 


Center (NYPC). In our experience, we find these types of transactions where the target firm 


lends money to customers in order to produce revenue as extremely risky. This is especially 


true in a business where loaning money is not a normal part of business operations (such as a 


car dealership). In fact, we now see that some of these centers have issues with making loan 


payments, as management currently discloses that 3 of the 15 centers (20%) are not making 


their loan payments. 


• While VAR’s management touts the efficacy of its new revenue stream from its 


Proton Therapy business,4 our GHR analysts find that these types of circular 


transactions likely end up being disastrous for similar firms. While in the short run, a 


firm can continue to show revenue generated in each quarter from these transactions, 


there can also be situations where no cash payments are coming in, as in VAR’s case.  





• Let’s walk through this transaction step by step where a company lends money to its 


customers to purchase its products and what can eventually go wrong. In our 


experience, GHR sees this type of transaction rarely being used by U.S. firms, but 


rather Chinese companies, for the most part, using fraudulent methods: 





1) VAR wants to sell its VPT products to customers to treat cancer, but the costs 


to open these centers are extremely expensive with no definite revenue stream 


in place. So VAR, being the reputable firm that they are, lends money to 


customers in order for them to construct and start up Proton Therapy Centers. 


Why don’t banks make the loans to the Centers instead? Well, inasmuch as the 


                                                           
4 In the 10/28/15 Conference Call, CEO Dow Wilson stated, “Let me now turn to proton therapy, which drew a lot 
of customer attention at ASTRO. We have real momentum in this business. In the fourth quarter, we booked more 
than $135 million in orders for 3 multi-room systems, including 2 in the U.K. and 1 in New York. This brought the 
number of proton orders booked in the year to 6 systems, totaling more than $300 million. At this point, we have 
11 projects in backlog and we are currently working on more than 6 installations. Treatments are expected to 
commence at the University of Maryland early next year, which will bring the total number of centers treating 
patients with Varian proton technology to 4. The key to making the proton therapy business profitable are 
continued success in the market, reducing product costs and scaling up the service business. We feel like we have 
momentum in these areas.”
12 | P a g e  
 


loans are risky with no set payment dates, most banks decline this ‘generous’ 


offer. So VAR fills the gap by making these loans to their customers with rates 


of interest anywhere between 10% and 15%.  





2) VAR now gets interest income from their customers who then proceed to build 


their Proton Therapy Centers. And as part of the deal, the Proton Therapy 


Centers can get their products from VAR which gladly provides them with 


Varian Particle Therapy (VPT) products.  





3) So VAR’s customers take the loan money given to them by VAR and use it to 


purchase VPT products, correct? Not so much. VAR’s customers need the 


loans to construct the centers and for initial start-up operations.  





4) So how can the Proton Therapy Centers afford to buy the VPT products? Well 


our old friend Varian will sell their VPT products on credit of course! From an 


accounting standpoint, the VAR will accrue interest revenue from the initial 


loan and, in addition, VAR will be able to recognize revenue on its VPT 


products as well! A win/win for everybody!  





5) But how can VAR recognize revenue without cash? Ah, that’s an easy one, 


VAR will now credit revenue on their income statement and debit CFOs’ 


favorite balance sheet account – unbilled receivables!  





6) Does GHR even need to explain how this win/win situation could ever go 


wrong? Well don’t take our word for it, let’s instead take a look at VAR’s own 


Risk Factor disclosures in the firm’s FY2016 10-K: 


AS A STRATEGY TO ASSIST OUR VPT SALES EFFORTS, WE MAY PARTICIPATE 


IN PROJECT FINANCING OR OFFER EXTENDED PAYMENT TERMS, WHICH 


MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS 





We have provided financing for the construction and start-up operations of the Scripps 


Proton Therapy Center, MPTC and the New York Proton Center, and we may provide or 


be requested to provide financing to other potential VPT customers in the future. As of 


September 30, 2016, we had loaned $95.3 million, $40.7 million and $18.5 million to 


CPTC, MPTC and MM Proton I, LLC, respectively. Providing such financing could 


adversely affect our financial results, since we cannot provide assurance that a center will 


be completed on time or within budget, that the center can or will generate sufficient 


patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to facilitate a 


refinancing, or that the borrower will have the financial means to pay off any financing at 


maturity. In addition, in connection with our financing of the Scripps Proton Therapy
13 | P a g e  
 


Center, we cannot provide any assurance that any additional portion of our loan can be 


syndicated to third parties, or that the loan facility can be successfully refinanced upon the 


maturity of the loan. In November 2015, we and the other lenders of the CPTC loan for the 


Scripps Proton Therapy Center agreed to forbear principal and interest payments until April 


2017, subject to certain extensions. At the end of fiscal year 2016, even though patient 


volumes continued to increase, CPTC was not in compliance with a patient volume 


covenant under the forbearance agreement, which would allow the lenders to call the loan 


or cease further funding under the loan agreement. If a borrower does not have the financial 


means to pay off its debts, and if we cannot recover the amounts due us from the sale of 


any collateral, we may be required to write-off all, or a portion of the loan, which would 


adversely affect our financial results. 





• We know, a lot to read there. But an interesting note to take from this “circular 


transaction” Risk Factor is that the CPTC loan for the Scripps Proton Therapy 


Center was already having issues with VAR already agreeing to forbear principal and 


interest payments until April 2017. Adhering to GAAP accounting principles, 


specifically conservatism, a company must take a loss on the income statement as 


soon as possible when there is uncertainty about the outcome. So why wasn’t this 


loan impaired prior to Q4 FY2016? In fact, the opposite occurred in Q4 FY2016, here 


VAR continued to recognize revenue and interest from the Scripps Center on the income 


statement! Specifically, we find that the company recorded $32.6 million and $25.2 


million of revenue (classified as unbilled receivables) in FY 2016 and FY2015, 


respectively. 





• So how bad are things relating to the firm’s Proton Therapy Centers? Pretty bad. At 


the end of FY2016 (per the firm’s 10-K) we find that VAR accounts for its Proton 


Therapy Centers under the percentage-of-completion method, which is based on 


contract costs incurred to dated compared with estimated contract costs. As noted 


above and in some of our previous reports, this method of accounting depends on 


elevated subjectivity with management; basically, it is up to management’s 


discretion when to recognize revenue and expenses with regard to the specific project. 


Also, detailed in this footnote is that unbilled receivables (the riskiest form of 


receivable) increased 41.1% to $111.6 million at the end of FY2016. Furthermore, 


GHR finds that deferred revenues related to the Proton Therapy Centers declined an 


astonishing 74.5% to only $13.7 million. Make no mistake about it, the drastic move in 


these accounts are highly abnormal and material to the firm’s earnings. 





• To show the materiality here, we note that the firm’s “Other” segment revenue 


(which consists of VPT revenue), only increased 13.3% ($19.2 million) YOY to $163.1
14 | P a g e  
 


million. We would expect the firm’s unbilleds and deferred revenues to trend 


similarly (+13.3%), obviously though this was not the case. The net AR impact 


(unbilled receivables delta net of deferred revenue delta) of $72.6 million over 


FY2016 absolutely dwarfs the additional $19.2 million of VPT revenue. This means 


that the majority if not all of the increase of VPT revenue came from either previous 


deferred revenue or from increasing the riskiest type of receivable, which usually has 


no price or scope agreed upon with the customer.  





• To top it all off, management chose to classify these unbilled receivables under both 


accounts receivable and other assets. Therefore, this would obfuscate many analysts’ 


AR metrics or DSO calculations inasmuch as a material portion of the unbilled 


receivables would be hidden in other assets. Even if the expected payment date is 


over one year, virtually all other companies classify their unbilled receivables only 


under AR on the balance sheet. 





• And let’s not confuse ourselves with what is going on here, this is revenue that the 


company has recognized on the income statement, not just loan interest payments 


(which the company recognized $29.0 million as interest income from these loans as 


well).  





Variable Interest Entity, CPTC, was Established to Finance and Operate Scripps Proton 


Therapy Center 


In September 2011, VAR and ORIX (as loan agent), through a Swiss subsidiary, committed 


$165.3 million to CPTC (Variable Interest Entity called California Proton Therapy Center) 


for the development, construction and initial operations of the Scripps Proton Therapy 


Center in San Diego. As of FY2016, VAR had loaned $80.5 million under a Tranche A loan, 


$11.4 million under the Tranche B loan, and $3.4 million under the Tranche C loan. The total 


$95.3 million in loans was up 13.6% from the prior year, because when you aren’t getting paid 


on your loan, we guess that you just throw more money at it!  


To make matters worse, VAR reclassified this CPTC loan from an already curiously classified 


short-term investment (as an available-for-sale security) to LT other assets. This 


reclassification basically concedes that VAR does not plan to get paid anytime soon. Under 


accounting rules, an AFS security should be reported at fair value every period, and with all 


the known problems at Scripps, we believe this loan should have been impaired well before 


Q1 of this fiscal year.
15 | P a g e  
 


To clarify, the company choose not to impair or stop recognizing revenue from the Scripps 


Center until Q1 FY2017, even with all the prior issues listed dating back to FY2015. CEO 


Dow Wilson explained that the San Diego Center was not getting enough patients as there 


was a lack demand with currently only 70 patients and 100 needed to break even. Drilling 


into the numbers, we find that the firm impaired $38 million of the total $98 million loan to 


CPTC ($29 million which was accrued interest) in Q1. The firm also expensed $38.0 million of 


allowance for doubtful accounts reserve that the firm thankfully did not exclude from non-


GAAP earnings, however it is obvious from the Q1 Conference Call that they wanted to as 


they made sure to give analysts those figures over and over again: 


Elisha W. Finney 


Including the proton AR reserve, first quarter SG&A expenses were $167 


million, up significantly in dollars and as a percentage of revenue from the 


year-ago quarter. The accounts receivable reserve of $38 million is 


considered in the ordinary course of business for accounting purposes and, 


therefore, is not adjusted out of earnings as a non-GAAP number. Excluding 


the AR reserve, SG&A would have been $129 million or 17% of revenue. 


For the balance of the year, we believe Varian's tax rate from continuing 


operations will be in the range of 25% to 26%. Fully diluted shares 


outstanding decreased 3.6 million from the year-ago quarter to 94.2 million 


shares due to our ongoing share repurchase program. Diluted GAAP EPS 


was $0.22 for the quarter. Non-GAAP EPS for the quarter was $0.75, 


including a $0.34 impact from the proton AR reserve. 


And even worse this exchange with an analyst from Robert W. Baird:  


Analyst (Baird) 
Okay. And then Elisha, maybe not a technical accounting explanation 
because I really don't want to hear that. But out of the $76 million write-off, 
you guys excluded $38 million. But there's another $38 million that we 
essentially have to take out of your SG&A and to non-GAAP earnings and 
things like that to get it apples to apples. 
 
Elisha W. Finney 
That is correct... And it's because -- and I won't give you any technical 
accounting, but it's because from an SEC guidance standpoint, accounts 
receivable is deemed in the ordinary course of business. It's not deemed 
unusual and something you can adjust into a non-GAAP number.
16 | P a g e  
 


Analyst (Baird) 
Okay. And so the one -- the question where I want to step through a couple 
of things is just -- so if I look at your disclosures, you did $70.3 million in 
non-GAAP net earnings. I need to add back about $35 million to that. So 
your non-GAAP net earnings ex all of the noise of the write-off would have 
been closer to $102 million to $105 million or so. Is that correct? 





No offense to our analyst brethren over at Baird, but maybe you should understand the 


“technical” accounting explanation because unlike what most managers want you to believe, 


understanding the accounting is important. As we can see in the last statement, the analyst 


here is already updating his models to exclude the “noise” caused by the $38 million charge 


to AFDA.  


Herein lies the problem, there is a reason that $38 million charge to AFDA is not excluded 


from non-GAAP as management would like you to believe. If that was the case, managers 


could book as much suspect revenue from risky clients and pull forward sales non-stop to 


bolster the top line. Then when it came to payment time and it never comes, managers can 


write-down its AR and just exclude it from non-GAAP and everyone’s a winner! Instead of 


the analyst updating his models to exclude this charge, maybe he should rather exclude the 


extra millions in revenue and accrued interest the firm has benefited from over the last few 


years? We can almost guarantee you that no sell-side analyst will, and believe us there will be 


a rude awakening of top line earnings misses over the next year when this lost 


revenue/interest annualizes.
17 | P a g e  
 


NYPC and MPTC may be the next Loans to be Impaired in FY2017 


Notwithstanding CPTC’s loan and receivables problems that may continue to be impaired in 


FY2017, GHR questions whether the firm’s NYPC and MPTC loans are next to be impaired 


with future receivables and interest payments being written off.  


• With regards to the NYPC loan, VAR has already recorded a $2.2 million loss 


associated with sale of a portion of its loan to Deutche Bank as the total loan amount 


now has declined to $18.5 million from the high amount of $24.9 million in Q2 


FY2016. If this loan was doing fine, why would they take such a material loss on their 


books to get rid of a portion of it? No material payments have been paid yet by 


NYPC to bring down this loan amount as of Q1 FY2017. The loan also carries a senior 


loan rate of 9.5% and a subordinate loan with an unbelievable 13.5% interest rate, 


which portends the risk level of this loan. VAR also benefitted from recognizing 


revenue of $17.4 million in FY2016 where it’s now being reported as, you guessed it, 


an unbilled receivable on the balance sheet.  





• Turning to the MPTC loan, VAR committed a loan up to $35 million dating back to 


May 2015, however as of the latest quarter this amount has ballooned up to $52.1 


million. The interest rate on these loans varies from 12% to 15%, again both 


reflecting the risk factor involved in this otherwise low interest rate environment. 


Another factor of concern is that during FY2016, VAR converted $17.1 million in 


unbilled MPTC loan receivables into a long-term note receivable due September 30th, 


2018. So instead of writing off receivables that the firm already recognized as revenue, 


but was not getting paid on, they then chose to turn the receivable into a long-term 


note not due for another two years with an interest rate of 15%. Wow!
18 | P a g e  
 


Proton Centers are not the only Problems with Regard to Receivables 


So now that we have seen how VAR is essentially “double-dipping” with regard to interest 


income and revenue with its customers, what other levers has management pulled in order to 


increase sales revenues? Well, we look to comments made by management to the effect that 


VAR has artificially increased sales revenues by extending payment terms to its customers. 


While management can entice customers to buy its products with extended credit terms for a 


short period of time, this is not a sustainable form of revenue in the long-term and is a 


harbinger for a decreased demand for its products. So what happens next year when these 


periods with one-time revenue gains from extended credit annualize? In GHR’s view, most 


investors can expect a large drop off in revenue growth (if not declines) as those non-


recurring revenue gains disappear.   


Even worse, after digging into the footnotes and as explained above, we find that $17.1 


million in unbilled AR was reclassified into a long-term note, thus obfuscating the firm’s true 


DSO value even further. We also note that our own and VAR’s DSO calculations do not 


include its loan receivables. However, as analysts, we need to understand that these are 


customers that owe VAR money either through a credit channel or a note. While one is 


longer-term in nature that should not discount the repayment risk that is already rearing its 


ugly head in the TTM.  


• Currently, GHR calculates VAR’s days-sales-outstanding (DSO)5 at 101 days as of 


Q1 FY2017, representing a 9.1% increase YOY. This amount is also the highest value 


reported in the last five years at the firm. For the last five years, this ratio has been 


on a consistent uptick dating back to FY2012 where we calculated a DSO of 78 days. 


We also note that if we add back the $17.1 million that was reclassified as a note, this 


jumps up our DSO value to 103 days. Using the company’s given DSO metric, VAR 


discloses a DSO of 85 days as of FY2012, which increased to 100 days currently (see 


the Chart on page 20).  





• And dating back to FY2012, VAR’s management has basically provided the same 


explanation for the increase in DSOs attributable to “longer payment cycles” and 


“timing of collections.” Both these explanations scare us at GHR and are clearly 


unsustainable long-term. 





                                                           
5 We calculate 3M DSO as (average AR / 3M sales) *91.25
19 | P a g e  
 


• According to the Q4 Conference Call, CFO Elisha Finney discussed the extending of 


credit in the Q&A section:  


Analyst 
And it looks like receivables were up, I think about $120 million year-on-
year, and even $50 million up sequentially. So just trying to figure out if it's 
a receivables issue, what's going on there? Or what's going on basically with 
your cash flow at this point? 
 
Elisha W. Finney 
Sure. So Jeff, the Oncology AR increased about 8%, and that compares to 
their year-to-date sales up 5%. And as we've been talking all through this 
fiscal year, early in the year, we moved our collections staff. We had a 
Salesforce IT implementation. And I think that slowed down collections in 
the first half, and we are continuing to feel that effect. Although we're 
making good progress, collections in Q3 and Q4 were very strong, but as we 
move into FY '17, absolutely, AR collections is going to be a big focus for the 
entire team. Little bit of it has to do with more extended terms. In a 0 
interest-rate environment, we can continue to win high-margin business by 
offering terms. And then some of it also, both inventory and AR, up in the 
proton business as we continue to grow that business. And with percentage 
of completion accounting, it gets a little funky in proton because a lot of 
times we're taking revenue and creating an AR under the percentage of 
completion long before the bills are actually due by the customer. But it will 
be a big focus as we move into this year. 
 


• While the firm may be able to entice customers in the short term with extended 


credit, with the recent CPTC debacle, we believe VAR will start to feel the vastly 


negative side-effects of extending credit to boost sales. And while the firm recently 


took a $38 million charge to AFDA, we believe this is just the beginning innings of a 


period of slowing sales and nonpayment of credit. We can obviously see that sell-side 


analysts are already adding back the impairment and AFDA expense to get their 


“true” non-GAAP figures, GHR has a much lower “true” earnings figure in mind.
20 | P a g e  
 


Varian DSO Trends 









































75


80


85


90


95


100


105


110


GHR Calculated 3M DSO Given DSO by VAR Given DSO by VAR (excluding VPT)
21 | P a g e  
 


Highly Specialized Inventory Gathering Dust on the Balance Sheet 


Adding to VAR’s balance sheet woes, the firm continues to carry an inventory balance that 


dwarfs historical values at the firm. Described in the firm’s own FY2016 10-K, VAR’s 


inventory is highly susceptible to obsolescence as described in this excerpt:  


Our inventories include high technology parts and components that are highly specialized in nature and 


that are subject to rapid technological obsolescence. We have programs to minimize the required 


inventories on hand and we regularly review inventory quantities on hand and on order and adjust for 


excess and obsolete inventory based primarily on historical usage rates and our estimates of product 


demand and production. Actual demand may differ from our estimates, in which case we may have 


understated or overstated the provision required for obsolete and excess inventory, which would have an 


impact on our operating results. 





As aforementioned, in conjunction with VAR management using relaxed credit terms in 


order to entice sales, the firm’s spiking inventory balance implies an extremely weak demand 


environment for VAR’s products.  





• Illustrating these negative trends, VAR’s inventory grew by 7.9%YOY to $661.6 


million at the end of Q1FY2017; all while sales stayed relatively flat. As a result, 


inventory-to-3M sales increased 570 bps YOY to 86.7%. For reference, this is the 


highest percentage ever recorded by the company going back over 10 years!  





• As to be expected, the firm’s 3M DSI level also stands at a 10 year high at 138 days. 


Not good. In fact, we note that inventory growth has surpassed sales growth in 16 of 


the last 18 periods.  











With regards to “managing earnings” is that CEOs/CFOs do not 


(for the most part) fudge the numbers when things are going 


great, rather it is when fundamental factors deteriorate do 


managers turn to stretching on the numbers to hit 


sales/earnings goals. – GHR
22 | P a g e  
 


Varian DSI Trends 





• VAR’s accounts payables-to-inventory metrics reflects the dire situation at the firm. 


This metric now stands at near a 10-year minimum of 26.4% (the fourth lowest ratio 


in the last 10 years). What this tells us is that management sees the handwriting on 


the wall and is drastically trying to halt the purchase of slow-moving inventory on its 


books.  





• Given the rapid rate of obsolescence and thus, write-off and discount risk, we believe 


VAR’s inventory impairment risk is at a much higher level than other industries. But 


don’t just take our word for it. See for example close peer Accuray Incorporated 


(ARAY). This firm’s DSI values have bloated from an average of 70 to 80 days dating 


back to 2009 to current levels of 192 days! ARAY’s stock price has been annihilated 


during this timeframe as the firm faced similar inventory (and other fundamental) 


issues.  





• We believe that VAR is likely on the same path as Accuray and will start to face 


material gross margin compression as outdated inventory continues to build on the 


balance sheet. We already have seen management resort to lenient credit terms to 


artificially grow sales, what other levers do they have left?  





90


100


110


120


130


140


150


3M DSI 12M DSI
23 | P a g e  
 


• With VAR’s increasingly negative inventory metrics reported over the last five years, 


it appears that management is suggesting to analysts that gross margins will increase 


over the next fiscal year rather than compress. Specifically, CFO Elisha Finney stated 


in the Q1 FY2017 conference call that: 





Yes. So at this point, Brandon, I'm preferring to stick to the 44% to 45%. I 


feel quite confident in those numbers given the performance that Oncology 


has had the last several quarters. They really started to improve gross 


margin in the second half of last year… If the software mix were to increase, 


then clearly, that could be some upward bias on the margin, but we're 


sticking to 44% to 45%. 





• By “maintaining stable pricing”, GHR believes that the firm chose to defend its ASPs 


rather than to markdown their inventory to a price that the market is dictating. In 


our experience, especially in an industry that is rapidly changing with new 


technology, this option leads to massive write-offs and impairments in future periods.  





• Even with VAR’s recent spin-off of Varex Imaging Corporation, based on GHR’s 


calculations and previous statements from management, GHR believes that the 


majority of the inventory issues lie within VAR, not Varex, and thus VAR will 


continue to face these problems going forward. 





• So what explanations does VAR’s management give for such a drastic rise of 


inventory metrics over the years? The same one over and over again! From the 2013 


10-K, “Inventories increased $76.4 million due to anticipated customer demands for 


products in fiscal year 2014, mainly in Oncology Systems and X-Ray Products.”  





• And in every 10-K and 10-Q since FY2013, VAR’s management regurgitates the same 


tired reasoning behind inventories continued rise, i.e., that “the increase was mainly 


due to anticipation of future demand.” So with all due respect to management, when 


is this future demand coming??? Management does not bring up the rapid expansion 


of its DSI balance over the last five years in its conference calls, but we believe this 


will be a significant headwind to the bottom line in future periods. Overall, we believe 


that VAR is keeping up with the newest technology inventory to appease clients. 


However, we observe that VAR is also harboring (and not writing down) a material 


amount of dust-gathering and outdated inventory in its warehouses that should be 


impaired.
24 | P a g e  
 


Anomalous Insider Selling in 2016 Provides Stronger Support for GHR’s Thesis 


Focusing in on insider buying and selling at VAR, GHR finds two very concerning trends 


that suggest management may not have the brightest outlook of the firm’s future based on 


the recent buying and selling of their VAR shares. Specifically, GHR found that insiders 


divested a material amount of their VAR shares in CY2016 and Q1 CY2017 with no prior 


material insider buying activity dating back to 2000! 


• During CY2016, seven directors and executives combined to sell 220,668 shares for a 


total market value of $19.8 million. The majority of these sales were attributable to 


two highly predictive insiders CEO, Dow Wilson (52.4% of shares sold) and Corporate 


Secretary John Kuo (12.1% of shares sold).  





• These two executives have a high predictive history of six-month share-price 


underperformance of VAR’s shares after a sale. According to Thomson Reuters, these 


two executives (Wilson and Kuo) have a proven insider score of 97 and 89, 


respectively (on a 0-100 scale, 100 being the most predictive of share-price 


underperformance. 





• Furthermore, GHR notes that between 02/08/06 and 06/27/16, Mr. Wilson sold shares 


in 31 separate transactions, of which 21 (67.7%) where followed by share-price 


declines at the end of six-months. From 03/26/16 to today, Mr. Wilson sold 120,984 


shares for total proceeds of $10.4 million over nine transactions. The volume of 


Wilson’s sales over the TTM was the second largest during a 12M period during his 


entire tenure with the firm.  





• The materiality of divestitures as a percentage of total holdings appear to be highly 


significant. Specifically, four executives who were active sellers of shares since 2016 


have reduced their beneficial ownership by more than 20%. Based on our experience, 


this is highly anomalous and could lead to negative earnings surprises and substantial 


share price reductions.  





• After researching VAR’s previous insider purchasing and selling activity, we at GHR 


were dumbfounded to find that the last insider buying of VAR’s stock dated back to 


02/07/05 where a previous board member, Dr. Allen Lichter only purchased $7,780 


worth of shares! And prior to Dr. Lichter’s other two significant purchases of $8,345 


and $6,470 in 2004, the last time an insider purchased shares was before the year
25 | P a g e  
 


2000! Again, let this sink in, there have been no material purchases of shares by any 


directors or officers of the firm in the last 17 years.  





Overall, GHR finds that the persistent lack of insider buying and substantial amount of 


divestitures made over the last year to be a harbinger for operational weakness at the 


firm.
26 | P a g e  
 


New Competitive Threats Emerge in the Oncology Marketplace 


VAR’s primary product of medical radiation delivery devices have been used in the 


treatment of cancer at a relatively low cost of care to other oncology options. However, the 


inherent danger of introducing radioactive materials into the human body poses risks in 


itself.  When targeted accurately, radiation therapy prevents cancerous cells from 


multiplying but will damage some non-cancerous cells as well. There have been past instances 


where patients were unintentionally exposed to lethal doses of radiation due to human error 


as well as software and hardware malfunctions. Furthermore, immunotherapy and surgery 


advances provide additional courses of care that may affect demand for VAR’s products. As 


we will outline, there are several fundamental headwinds that we believe will impact VAR’s 


operations and current demand environment. 


According to the National Institutes of Health, National Cancer Institute, currently the 


most common types of cancer in the U.S. are breast cancer, lung and prostate cancer. Of the 


estimated new cancer cases in 2016, breast (male and female) accounts for 19.0%, lung 17.1% 


and prostate contributes 13.8% of the total estimated new cases. Furthermore, estimated 


deaths in 2016 are disproportionately attributable to lung cancer comprising 38.2% of the 


total estimate. With the rise of robotic assisted surgery and biologic options, it would appear 


that these revenue drivers may come under pressure in the near-term. We discuss both of 


these potential headwinds below: 


• The cost-effectiveness of biologics will likely increase, eroding the advantage of 


radiation therapy over the next few years. Included in immunotherapy, biologics are 


complex drugs that are derived from living organisms (bacterial and eukaryotic cells). 


These drugs are useful in provoking an immune response to cancerous cells that are 


overlooked by the patient’s own autoimmune system. Of most importance, several 


oncological biologics lose U.S. exclusivity between now and 2019. When these 


products lose market exclusivity, firms only need to show that the generic drug works 


in a similar fashion to be approved. Biosimilars are essentially the generic version of 


biologics and can significantly reduce the cost of treatment, which is a new 


competitive threat to VAR’s products. Amgen, Allergan and Pfizer all have plans to 


produce biosimilars for oncology purposes in the next three years. 





• New surgical methods are increasing the effectiveness of non-radiation options. The 


advent of robotic assisted surgery is increasing the efficacy of surgery and reducing 


the physical toll of invasive measures. In fact, surgery as compared to or in
27 | P a g e  
 


conjunction with radiotherapy is gaining acceptance as the benefits are realized from 


greater accessibility and accuracy.  





• Intuitive Surgical (ISRG) sells the da Vinci Surgical System to address this 


oncological need as well as other surgical procedure that benefit from reduced patient 


impact and improved outcomes. ISRG’s TTM revenue has increased 14.7% YOY to 


$2.6 billion based on Q3 2016 system shipments that increased 14.5% YOY to 134 da 


Vinci Surgical Systems. Furthermore, the company announced in its 8-K filed 


10/18/16, that it has entered a joint venture with a Chinese pharmaceutical company 


to develop and manufacture robotic-assisted medical devices focusing on the “cost-


effective treatment of lung cancer.” 





• Attractive substitutes for these treatments will likely have an influence on patient 


preference for care. In so doing, the healthcare provider’s investment and offering 


decisions will be affected accordingly, which will ultimately impact VAR’s top-line 


performance. Furthermore, VAR’s latest treatment option, Varian Proton Therapy 


(VPT) will also likely experience market resistance at an important time in the 


product lifecycle. The American Cancer Society notes that proton therapy is used for 


certain types of cancer but still needs more study for others, and that its highly-


specialized equipment is not yet widely available. Moreover, the firm’s own product 


offerings will likely have a cannibalizing effect as and if VPT begins to gain significant 


traction in the market. 





• As alternatives to care become more attractive from an effectiveness and cost-


reducing standpoint, GHR believes that Varian’s top-line performance will likely 


come under pressure. As discussed above, breast cancer is being targeted by an 


increasing range of biosimilars, prostate cancer is being served by robotic-assisted 


surgery, and new surgical options are now available for lung cancer. These factors 


collectively target the three largest types of estimated new cancer cases and thus, 


GHR believes, VAR will have increased competitive headwinds as may already be 


starting to show with VAR’s accounting gimmicks employed over the last year.
28 | P a g e  
 


VAR’s Share Price is at Risk for Severe Deterioration Due to Misunderstood Accounting 


Concerns 


While the sell-side community continues believe that VAR’s current impairments and AFDA 


expenses are only one-time items, GHR has a different take.  GHR firmly believes that VAR is 


at risk of severe top and bottom line declines, as unsustainable forms of revenues subside over 


the next few years. The bottom line is the sell-side analysts covering this firm do not know how to 


account for the accounting issues VAR faces in their models. No company needs to extend 


payment terms when demand is strong.  GHR believes that VAR’s accounting techniques have 


and will continue to catch up with them in future periods.  





Exacerbating the issue, even with the plethora of accounting irregularities detailed throughout 


this report, GHR finds that the current multiples of VAR to trade well above historical norms. 


And after reviewing close peers such as Accuray, ViewRay and Elekta AB, GHR finds that 


others in this space have experienced either continued losses or highly erratic earnings over the 


last five years. We obviously can see that VAR’s peers are struggling in the space and believe 


VAR will start (and already has been) feeling the demand pressure. And if not for using some 


accounting gimmicks to boost sales and earnings, this pressure might have already have been 


apparent in FY2016 earnings.  





Curiously enough, the firm is trading back to pre-spin-off levels near $90 even when factoring 


the missed revenues and earnings estimates in Q1 FY2017. We believe that the apparent 


enthusiasm with VAR investors subsequent to the VAREX spin-off is overly-optimistic and is 


at high risk to share price degradation.  











Current 


Value 


Three Year 


Average 


Current Value 


vs. Three Year 


Average 


Five Year 


Average 


Current Value 


vs. Five Year 


Average 


TTM P/E 25.75 21.65 18.9% 20.31 26.8% 


FWD P/E 22.94 18.84 21.8% 17.92 28.0% 


PEG 2.46 1.76 39.3% 1.61 52.3% 


TEV/FCF 28.39 23.68 19.9% 21.43 32.5% 


TTM TEV/EBITDA 13.04 12.54 3.9% 11.74 11.1% 


TEV/FWD Sales 3.03 2.52 20.2% 2.43 24.8% 


Median    20.0%  27.4%
29 | P a g e  
 





Basing a valuation on GHR’s sustainable earnings estimates and using an amalgamation of the 


previous historical valuation comps in our models, we believe a fair share-price for VAR stands 


currently at $51.75, which represents a 43% downside to the share-price.  





In light of concerns regarding lackluster free-cash-flow generation, a plethora of receivables 


issues regarding its Proton Therapy Centers, obsolete inventory building on the balance sheet, 


and material divestitures made by management over the last two quarters, GHR finds the 


current share price to be trading at an extraordinary premium. Accordingly, GHR is initiating 


coverage on Varian Medical Systems Inc., (VAR) with a target price of $51.75.
30 | P a g e  
 


Full Legal Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, GlassHouse, LLC and others (a) that have 


contributed research to this report, and (b) that we have shared our research with (collectively, the 


“Authors”) have short positions in, and own put option positions on, the stock of Varian Medical 


Systems, Inc. (VAR), and stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. 


Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the company covered 


herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of GlassHouse, LLC. The Authors have obtained 


all information herein from sources they believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such information 


is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. The Authors make no 


representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 


information or with regard to the results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to 


change without notice, and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any 


information contained herein. This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as 


an official confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not 


warranted as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 


included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing conditions 


and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change.  


This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of GlassHouse, LLC’s research is at 


your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment 


decision with respect to securities covered herein. Following publication of any report or letter, we 


intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at 


any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation 


of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction 


in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. GlassHouse, LLC is 


not registered as an investment advisor.  


To the best of our knowledge, information and belief, as of the date hereof, (a) all information 


contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state material facts necessary to make 


the statements herein not misleading, and (b) all information has been obtained from public sources we 


believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any 


other person or entity whose fiduciary duty was breached by the transmission of information to 


GlassHouse, LLC. However, GlassHouse, LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the 


possession VAR that has not been publicly disclosed by the company.
