GlassHouse Research 


1 | P a g e  
 


     07/15/19     











GlassHouse Rebuttal to Omnicell Management Statements Made on 


07/15/19 























Who is GlassHouse Research? GlassHouse Research (GHR) is made up of former forensic 


accountants/analysts who have worked for prominent hedge funds on Wall Street, as well as 


boutique forensic accounting firms. Our purpose is to expose public companies that have been 


taking advantage of US GAAP as well as IFRS accounting for their benefit. We seek to find 


companies where GAAP (or even worse, non-GAAP) earnings are deviating from true economic 


earnings of the target firm. 


Overall, we search for evidence of a “culture of fraud” within public companies. 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, GlassHouse, LLC and others that contributed research to this report and 


others that we have shared our research with (collectively, the “Authors”) have short positions in, and own put option positions 


on, the stock of Omnicell, Inc. (OMCL), and stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following 


publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the company covered herein. All content in this report 


represent the opinions of GlassHouse. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be 


accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied. The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 


information or with regard to the results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, 


and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report, or any information contained herein. Please read our 


full legal disclaimer at the end of the report.
GlassHouse Research 


2 | P a g e  
 





After dissecting Omnicell’s Press Release (07/15/09) “Omnicell Sets the Record Straight on GlassHouse 


Research Report,” we at GHR present the following rebuttal to all of management’s bullet points.  





As accountants, we use facts and figures with limited sensationalism to reveal our thesis and present it 


to the market, letting the market decide its credibility. We are short Omnicell’s stock and will remain so 


until we believe our thesis comes to fruition. We point this out numerous times throughout many of our 


disclaimers on our website and within our research reports.  





If our being short OMCL causes investors to disregard our thesis and report because of inherent biases, 


we respect and understand that. However, we have yet to encounter an actual case where our facts and 


metrics can be disputed. Even with management’s statement today that “A recent report by GlassHouse 


Research makes numerous false and misleading statements about our company,” OMCL instead further 


corroborates many of our initial concerns laid out in the Press Release.  





Below, GHR details and rebuts statements made by management: 


 
• Omnicell’s revenue is properly recognized and accounted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP, 


including ASC606 and ASC842. Our revenue recognition policies and controls are carefully and 
thoughtfully applied and are intended to prevent premature revenue recognition. We recognize revenue 
upon documented customer acceptance of installation for the majority of our products. Neither the timing of 
invoice nor customer payment affect the timing of revenue recognition for these products. We invoice 
products upon shipment and increase both accounts receivable and deferred revenue at that time. Deferred 
revenue is reduced as installation is accepted and revenue is then recognized. The timing of customer 
payment after acceptance can vary and accounts receivable is not reduced until payment is received. As our 
deal sizes have grown, some customers accept product installation in batches over multiple time periods, 
but do not pay as quickly as installations are completed. Therefore, as order sizes increase, accounts 
receivable can grow disproportionately to deferred revenue as each are impacted by different activities. In 
addition, over the last several years the Company’s software revenue has significantly increased as 
Omnicell’s business has evolved. Software revenue by nature does not flow through deferred revenue. 


 
• DSO has increased as a result of the evolution of our business and following the adoption of new 


accounting standards. As mentioned earlier, our business has grown and we have expanded our product 
and service offerings; our average deal size has increased in both dollar amount and complexity. For 
example, average deal size of our bookings from the top 10 accounts in the fourth quarter of 2018 
averaged $10.3 million, compared to $2.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. As is typical with the large 
hospital networks and similar organizations that purchase our products, payment cycles can be elongated. 
While this increases DSO, the timing of cash collections has no impact on revenue recognition. As 
GlassHouse acknowledges, our customers are creditworthy and have a long and consistent track record of 
paying their outstanding balances, underscored by the fact that our write-offs have been less than 0.5% of 
revenue per year since 2014. 








GlassHouse Response: Herein lies the problem with management’s explanations-- they differ vastly 


from what CFO Peter Kuipers has been telling analysts since taking over as CFO four years ago. As stated 


in our initial report, CFO Kuipers disclosed in the Q2 2015 earnings call that “This quarter is an anomaly 


and we will generally expect DSO in the 65-to-75-day range.” Not once in any of the subsequent 


earnings calls did Mr. Kuipers retract that statement.
GlassHouse Research 


3 | P a g e  
 


Also, management is now quick to point out that the dollar size is impacting the current rise in DSO. 


However, management did not use this as an explanation for the rise in DSO even once in the last four 


years of earnings calls. Why the sudden change now? Let’s go back and detail every single instance 


where CFO Kuipers discussed DSO values over the past four years… 





Q1 2015:  


Rounding out the balance sheet, accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 70, up 7 


days from last quarter. The quality of our receivables is very high. The increase in DSO is 


more a reflection of the timing of shipments from our factory. We expect DSO in the 65- to 


75-day range. 





Q2 2015:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 95, up 25 days from last quarter. Now 


several factors are driving the DSO this quarter. We had substantially higher shipments than 


normal at the end of Q2 in preparation for the installations scheduled in Q3, which drove 


half the increase. We also had receivables added from the acquisitions and a higher mix of 


international distribution customers who generally have contractual payment terms of 90 


days. We review the collectibility of our receivables regularly and we don't feel this increase 


in DSO indicates any potential increase in the rate of bad debt. This quarter is an anomaly 


and we will generally expect DSO in the 65 to 75-day range.  





Q3 2015:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding, or DSO, were 85, down 10 days from last 


quarter. The decrease in DSO this quarter is a result of stronger collections as we completed 


implementations and increased revenue. As expected, the DSO has started to normalize after 


the unusually high DSO in the previous quarter. We expect further improvement in the next 


quarter. We generally expect DSO to be in the 65- to 75-days range. We review the 


collectability of our own receivables regularly and we do not believe the fluctuation of DSO 


are indicative of a change in our rate of bad debt.  





Q4 2015: 


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding, or DSO, were 76 days, down 9 days from last 


quarter. The decrease in DSO this quarter is a result of stronger collections as we completed 


implementations and increased revenue. As expected, the DSO started to normalize after the 


unusually high DSO in the first half of 2015. We review the collectability of our receivables 


regularly, and we do not believe that fluctuations in DSO are indicators of any change in our 


bad debt rate 





Q1 2016:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the combined business were 82 days, up 6 


days from 4Q '15 when the reported Omnicell stand-alone. The increase in DSO was mix-


driven, affected by the addition of the Aesynt business as well as impacted by annual service 


billings in Europe. We review the collectibility of our receivables regularly, and we do not 


believe that the fluctuation DSO are indicative of a change in our rate of bad debt. 


Inventories were $72 million, up $25 million from last quarter as a result of the acquisition
GlassHouse Research 


4 | P a g e  
 


of Aesynt as well as the built-in inventory from Med Adherence products for delivery in the 


second quarter. Our headcount is 2,275, up 824 from last quarter, driven by acquisition of 


Aesynt that was completed in January this year. 





Q2 2016:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the combined business were 85 days, up 2 


days from the first quarter in 2016. The increase in DSO was mostly billing timing driven. 


We review the collectibility of our receivables regularly, and we do not believe the 


fluctuation in DSO are indicative of the change in our rate of bad debt. 





Q3 2016:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the combined business were 91 days, up 6 


days from the second quarter. The increase in DSO, however, was entirely billing timing-


driven as we exceeded cash collection goals. 





Compared to the second quarter, we had an additional $20 million in invoicing related to 


shipments of equipment. Our customer agreements specify that for equipment sales, the 


company invoices 100% of the contract value at shipment date. We review the collectability 


of our receivables regularly and we do not believe that the fluctuation in DSO are indicative 


of a change in our rate of bad debt. 





Q4 2016:  


Accounts receivable days outstanding were 82 for the fourth quarter, down 9 days from the 


third quarter. The decrease in DSO was driven by record cash collections in the quarter. For 


context, our customer agreements specified that for equipment sales the company typically 


invoices 100% of the contract value at shipment date. We review the collectability of our 


receivables regularly and we do not believe the fluctuation in DSO are indicative of change 


in our rate of bad debt. 





Q1 2017:  


Accounts receivable, days sales outstanding were 82 for the first quarter, up 1 day from the 


fourth quarter despite the lower sequential sales. For context, our standard customer 


agreement specified that for equipment sales, the company [ invoices ] 100% of the [ context 


value and ] shipment days. We review the collectability of our receivables regularly and we 


do not believe that the fluctuation of DSO are indicative of a change in our rate of bad debt. 





Q2 2017:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 78, down 4 days from the first quarter 


driven by strong collections. 





Q3 2017:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 86 days, up 8 days from the second quarter, 


and down 5 days on the third quarter of last year. The increase in accounts receivable days 


sales outstanding from prior quarter was mostly driven by invoiced shipments towards the 


end of the third quarter for fourth quarter revenue. Based on our customer agreements, we 


largely invoiced upon shipment.
GlassHouse Research 


5 | P a g e  
 


Q4 2017:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the fourth quarter were 89 days, up 3 days 


from the third quarter. The increase in accounts receivable days sales outstanding from prior 


quarter was mostly driven by invoiced shipments towards the end of the fourth quarter. 


Based on our customer agreements, we largely invoice upon shipment. 








Q1 2018:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the first quarter were 97 days, up 7 days from 


the fourth quarter of 2017. The increase in accounts receivable days sales outstanding was 


mostly driven by lower sequential sales. It's good to remember that based on our customer 


agreements, we largely invoice upon shipments. 





Q2 2018:  


The second quarter 2018 cash flow from operations was $22 million, mostly driven by cash 


flow from accounts receivables and prepaid expenses. 





Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the second quarter were 86 days, down 11 


days from the first quarter in 2018. The decrease in accounts receivable days sales 


outstanding was mostly driven by more linear timing of billing during the quarter. Based on 


our customer agreements, we largely invoice upon shipments. 





Q3 2018:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the third quarter were 93 days, up 7 days 


from the second quarter in 2018. The increase is mostly driven by timing of billing during 


the quarter. Based on our customer agreements, we largely invoice upon shipments. 


Generally, shipments and related billings in the last month of the quarter become revenue in 


the following quarter after installation is completed. The month of September 2018 was a 


record billing month. 





Q4 2018:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the fourth quarter were 85 days, down 8 days 


from the third quarter of 2018. The decrease is mostly driven by increased collections during 


the quarter. 





Q1 2019:  


Accounts receivable days sales outstanding for the first quarter were 93 days, down 4 days 


from the first quarter of 2018. The decrease was mostly driven by strong collections. 


 
Each time DSOs increased in a period, the same “timing of billing during the period” was used as an 


explanation for the increase. Why is management now changing their tune, stating that “average deal 


size” is the reason for the increase? We detailed in our report management’s divulging of 


implementation issues of the XT series back in 2018. This would be far more plausible as reasoning for 


the recent rises as opposed to deal size, which was not mentioned until today.
GlassHouse Research 


6 | P a g e  
 


However, we do agree with management that “payment cycles can be elongated,” which can be a nicer 


way of saying “implementation issues are causing customers to extend the acceptance process.” We 


believe management is putting a more agreeable spin on our assessment of prematurely recognizing 


revenue. For example, if customers are now accepting product installation in batches over multiple time 


periods (an extended cycle), revenue recognition should be extended out further to reflect that 


(recognize revenue later on).  When management does not do that, they in essence recognize sales 


prematurely and cause DSO values to spike.  





As detailed in our report, what happens next is usually a material drop off in sales as management has 


pulled in revenue from future periods. We also need to consider that these customers will not be 


purchasing future products at the same frequency, as they still have extended payments to make on 


prior purchases. This will all impact Omnicell negatively in future periods.  





 
• Inventory levels have increased as a result of the requirements to service our increasingly diverse 


product lines and growing installed base. Omnicell regularly reviews its inventory levels and considers its 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have a large installed base of equipment and maintain sufficient 
inventory levels required to meet customers’ expectations of continued support of prior-generation 
automation. In addition, multiple new products that we have launched or added to our offering through 
strategic acquisitions over the past several years have materially increased our inventory, as our products 
now have less commonality of manufacturing and service parts compared to our prior offerings. 





GlassHouse Response: Again, nowhere in any of the last four years’ worth of earnings calls does 
management point to a “diverse product line and installed base” as the reasoning for the inventory 
increase. In fact, they just use the same response over and over again, “the increase is driven by 
inventory builds for sales in future periods.” This dates back to Q2 2016! 
 
We documented in our report how Omnicell rolled out its new G4 product line back in 2013/2014 with 
no notable reported increase in DSI levels, so why have DSI levels increased now?  
 
Furthermore, OMCL attributes acquisitions for the reasoning behind the DSI increase. We can prove this 
to be totally false with numbers. For example, the major acquisitions in which inventory transfers were 
disclosed were in 2016 with the Aesynt and Ateb acquisitions. This brought over $19.2 million worth of 
inventory on the balance sheet. However, from Q4 2015 to Q4 2016, 12M DSI values only rose from 64 
to 65 days. Only afterward did DSI values begin to rise on a consistent basis up to 89 days currently, thus 
debunking this explanation.  
 
We understand that management will never come clean and say that they mismanaged their inventory 
procurement and that they now have too much inventory on hand, which must be written-off. But what 
we have higher conviction in are statements made in filings such as their 10K: 
 


The increase in cost of revenues is primarily due to the increase in revenues for the year ended 
December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, and $2.1 million of excess 
and obsolete reserve for slower moving inventory.
GlassHouse Research 


7 | P a g e  
 


OMCL did not once cite slow moving inventory as a factor in the DSI rise during their conference call or 
rebuttal. However, their audited 2018 10K tells a different story.  
 
 


• Capitalized software development costs have increased as we have invested in more platform 
features and software-based services. We have made these investments to enhance products and 
increase the value of our platform for our customers, and we continue to invest in the platform and solution 
set to support the growth of our business. Capitalized software development costs are documented and 
accounted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 





 
GlassHouse Response: As stated in our report, the surge in capitalized software costs may be in 
complete accordance with U.S. GAAP, however the end result remains the same. Heightened expenses 
now capitalized on the balance sheet will need to amortize through the income statement in future 
periods. Thus, whether or not the actions were nefarious in nature, the company will need to take 
accelerated amortization expenses in future periods as a result.  
 
As our report stated, we calculate that OMCL now holds an additional $20.2 million of capitalized 
software on the balance sheet than it normally would. This amount will need to amortize in future 
periods, acting as a significant headwind to margins.  
 
 


• We account for our sales commissions in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In 2018, we adopted ASC340-
40, which requires the Company to capitalize prepaid commissions as long-term assets and amortize them 
over a period that covers the maintenance portion of the contract, including expected renewal periods. Prior 
to the adoption of ASC340-40, all prepaid commissions were recorded as current and expensed at the time 
automation products were installed. As a result of adopting the new standard, the amortization of 
commissions better matches the corresponding revenue. The impact of this change was disclosed in our 
Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 27, 2019. 





GlassHouse Response: Nothing above refutes any part of our report. The company has now elected to 
defer commission expenses which were once expensed up-front. These material expenses will now be 
deferred to future periods, pressuring margins. As our report stated, we calculate that OMCL holds an 
added $17.8 million in prepaid commissions on the balance sheet than it typically would. Investors and 
analysts should brace themselves when these heightened expenses come off the balance sheet.
GlassHouse Research 


8 | P a g e  
 


Full Legal Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, GlassHouse, LLC and others that 


contributed research to this report and others that we have shared our research with (collectively, the 


“Authors”) have short positions in, and own put option positions on, the stock of Omnicell, Inc. (OMCL), 


and stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication of the 


report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the company covered herein. All content in this 


report represent the opinions of GlassHouse. The Authors have obtained all information herein from 


sources they believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” 


without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. The Authors make no representation, 


express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with 


regard to the results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without 


notice, and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report, or any information 


contained herein. This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 


confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted as to 


completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information included in this 


document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing conditions and the Authors’ 


views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change.  





This is not investment advice, nor should it be construed as such. Use of GlassHouse LLC’s research is at 


your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment 


decision with respect to securities covered herein. Following publication of any report or letter, we 


intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at 


any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation 


of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction 


in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. GlassHouse LLC is 


not registered as an investment advisor. To the best of our knowledge, information and belief, as of the 


date hereof, (a) all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state 


material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been 


obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and (b) who are not insiders or 


connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of 


confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity whose fiduciary duty was breached by the 


transmission of information to GlassHouse LLC. However, GlassHouse LLC recognizes that there may be 


non-public information in the possession of OMCL that has not been publicly disclosed by the company. 


Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – 


whether express or implied. GlassHouse LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as to 


the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 


obtained from its use.
