March 2018  


This report is the opinion of the author. It is not a recommendation for anyone anywhere to do anything at any 
time. Do your own research, form your own opinions. The author is not an investment advisor. The author is 


short VUZI. The author may conduct transactions on various securities mentioned in this report (or on 
securities of competitors of other comparable companies, securities etc.) within the next 72 hours.  





























COMPANY / TICKER: Vuzix (VUZI) 


MARKET CAP:  $240 MILLION  


CURRENT SHARE PRICE: $7.45 


REVENUE $0.5m per quarter (negative gross margins)  


CASH / SHARE $1.33 cash /share  


EXPECTED SHARE PRICE: Expected to be delisted. Less than $0.50. post delisting.   


Fraud at Vuzix. Expect delisting.  
 


• Vuzix recently used an undisclosed stock promotion involving dozens of mainstream media outlets to artificially 
inflate the share price and volume, and then raise $30 million 


• Photos of leaked documents from IRTH Communications show IRTH bragging to potential clients that it was 
responsible for more than 30 articles from mainstream media outlets which all simultaneously erupted in connection 
with Margolis’ “Alexa ruse”.  These specific IRTH sponsored articles were conspicuous in that they offered effusive 
praise for Vuzix but appeared as standard news on dozens of mainstream sites     


• The information contained in the articles and product reviews was flat out wrong, but was then repeatedly re-
broadcast by Vuzix (esp. Margolis) in order to inflate the stock.  Margolis made heavy use of social media, adding the 
$VUZI ticker next to the sponsored articles  


• Vuzix’s “Blade” is little more than a low tech mock-up which serves as a prop for journalists to conduct sham reviews. 
When these journalists “reviewed” the product at CES, neither the Alexa feature nor the browser were functioning – 
not for any of the journalists. Yet these same journalists then widely touted the device in their mainstream bylines, 
overwhelmingly on the basis of the Alexa features that actually don’t exist !  


• Matt Margolis conceals his past employment by multiple fraudsters who had also been behind undisclosed 
promotions on Vuzix for years.  Margolis’ former employer Mark Gomes was shut down under SEC fraud 
proceedings in September just after running his latest promotion on Vuzix 


• With a separate promoter, Margolis was actively promoting Cemtrex and other IRTH clients without disclosing that he 
was being paid via IRTH Communications. Cemtrex subsequently collapsed.  


• Vuzix’s recent “Alexa ruse” was actually a recycled ploy that Margolis had used on Vuzix in 2016,while he was still 
employed by outside promoters.  Just like with the “GoPro ruse” in 2016, adding Alexa functionality costs nothing and 
can be done in just one hour by downloading a simple developer kit. Margolis then uses this non-event as a pretense 
to run a stock promotion   


• Over the past 11 months, we have seen a very visible acceleration in SEC enforcement against this exact type of 
fraud.  The recent undisclosed IRTH promotions were now too blatant and were then used for an immediate $30 
million capital raise at $9.95. Investors in that offering ended up seeing nearly immediate losses after the pump 
campaign stopped.
PAGE 2                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
www.moxreports.com 
 








TABLE OF CONTENTS 





Something strange behind the recent media blitzkrieg ............................................................................................ 3 


Signs of fraud should be obvious to anyone who visits the SEC’s website ............................................................. 4 


Vuzix’s IR firm circulating private “brag book” about “media wins” during January 1-15   ....................................... 5 


IRTH makes clear that it “utilizes the media to generate positive influence in the stock market” ............................ 6 


Vuzix then shows their own media coverage to investors to encourage them to buy stock .................................... 7 


IRTH cites specific mainstream articles on Vuzix and calls them “advertising”, shows visitor metrics .................... 8 


Is there something peculiar about each of these “reviews” ? .................................................................................. 9 


Use of “media consultants” to create guaranteed positive coverage featuring fake action shots .......................... 10 


“Guaranteed” positive coverage from pre-screened journalists ............................................................................. 11 


Media consultants paid by Vuzix names almost identical mainstream media “partners”  ...................................... 12 


Margolis conceals his years of prior employment with the fraudsters promoting Vuzix ......................................... 14 


Margolis was previously employed by fraudster Mark Gomes, who was also promoting Vuzix   .......................... 15 


Margolis omits and conceals his past employment with fraudsters at TFST and MicrocapResearch ................... 16 


The Vuzix fraud: who is involved ? ........................................................................................................................ 17 


Vuzix’s spending ramp up for coordinated media blitzkrieg ................................................................................... 18 


How easy is it to penetrate a mainstream media outlet ? ...................................................................................... 19 


GoodNoon.com admits to “guaranteed” placements of articles into mainstream media ....................................... 20 


How to become “Alexa enabled” in just minutes .................................................................................................... 21 


The Alexa scam of 2018 is just a recycled scam that Margolis ran using GoPro in 2016 ..................................... 22 


Appendix ................................................................................................................................................................ 23
PAGE 3                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
www.moxreports.com 
 


Something strange behind the recent media blitzkrieg  
At the 2018 CES conference in Las Vegas, more than 50 journalists representing some of the biggest providers of   
mainstream news media began putting out a stream high visibility articles praising the Blade smart glasses from Vuzix.  
These journalists had evaluated the product at CES and then shared their “action shot” photos and live videos with 
commentary that was visibly effusive, all of them citing the Blade’s “Alexa enabled” functionality as the big 
differentiator fueling their enthusiasm. 


Despite the effusive hype from the media, the reality is that adding Alexa functionality was a non-event.  To add Alexa 
to any OEM device, all one needs to do is download Amazon’s developer kit. After that it then takes less than one 
hour of simple programming. The purpose of the Alexa ruse was that it could be used as a consistent “narrative” for 
the basis of the massive mainstream media promotion that was being lined up by IRTH communications.  In fact, 
Margolis was the one who invented this gag back in 2016.  At the time, Margolis was not yet working for Vuzix, but 
when they activated the GoPro developer kit, Margolis attempted to immediately use that as the basis of a splashy 
sounding promotion. But without the media access capabilities of IRTH, Margolis was not able to have the same 
success then as he has had in 2018.   


But on closer analysis of the content in these articles, several disturbing patterns emerge amidst this coverage.  First, 
not one single journalist was able to actually use the all-important Alexa feature.  All of these journalists then accepted 
management’s reason that there was too much noise and that the WiFi wasn’t working. Likewise, none of the 
journalists were able to use the web browsing feature of the glasses because, according to management, the wifi 
wasn’t working.   


Again, not one of these full time journalists from some of the biggest outlets in US media questioned management’s 
excuse, even though it would seem odd to not be able to get the internet at the biggest three day tech conference in 
the US.  


Instead, these journalists repeatedly heaped praise on the simpler features of the $1,000 device.  They noted that the 
button on the side does indeed work. And that they could also swipe through pictures and record video.  Some of 
them noted that they were able to see a mapping app and a weather app. However, none of them explained how 
these apps could possibly work when the wifi wasn’t working.  


The functionality that they were actually able to use on these smart glasses is simply in line with many other devices 
already on the market for maybe $150.  And the ability to take video and pictures via eyeglass frames has been 
around for more than 10 years. 


So the question becomes this: why did these journalists all feel so compelled to write up glowing reviews and 
include live-looking “action shots” of their hands on evaluation. If the product wasn’t working, then the simple decision 
would be to just not review it.  Or if one really wanted to, one could come back and review it when “the wifi was 
working again”. 


These are just a few of the very strange elements going on behind the media blitzkrieg that sent Vuzix soaring and by 
which the company raised $30 million in an equity offering. 


I am comfortable in my view stating that Vuzix is an abject fraud.  The “Blade” product which was spoon fed to these 
dozens of journalists is nothing but a barely functional prop whose only purpose was to create the “action shot” photos 
which the journalists energetically disseminated.
PAGE 4                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
www.moxreports.com 
 


Signs of fraud should be obvious to anyone who visits the SEC’s 
website   
https://www.sec.gov/oiea/investor-alerts-bulletins/ia_promotions.html 














SEC’s official warning signs of fraud  Vuzix meets the criteria  
    


1. The SEC suspended public trading of 
the security or other securities 
promoted by the same promoter.   


 Fraud warning. Vuzix. Exact same promoters behind Vuzix have been 
behind dozens of frauds which imploded and were delisted, including: 
Forcefield Energy, CodeRebel, “Dream Team” promotions, Unilife and others. 
Multiple promoters associated with Vuzix and its IR / promotion firm have 
recently been shut down in fraud proceedings by the SEC.  


    
2. Increase in stock price or trading 


volume linked to promotional activity.   
 Fraud warning. Vuzix To lure in more stock pump clients, Vuzix’s own 


promoters have advertised the visible success of their campaigns in inflating 
both price and volume – specifically of Vuzix – as well as other stocks.  


    
3. Press releases or promotional activity 


announcing events that ultimately do 
not happen.  


 Fraud warning. Vuzix Promoters such as Harris Shapiro, Mark Gomes, Matt 
Margolis, Gary “Anderson” (among many other promoters) have been 
predicting very near term commercialization for Vuzix for more than three 
years, causing the share price to repeatedly spike ahead of equity offerings.  


    
4. No real business operations (little or 


no assets; minimal revenues; false 
press releases). 


 Fraud warning. Vuzix generates a mere $1.3 million per quarter in 
revenues, which is only possible by selling at negative gross margins.  Nearly 
all of its assets consist of cash which has been recently raised by selling 
shares following stock promotions.   


    
5. Company issues a lot of shares 


without a corresponding increase in 
the company’s assets. 


 Fraud warning. Vuzix Over the past 5 years, Vuzix has sold more than 20 
million shares and now has a market cap in excess of $230 million.  Total 
cash sits at roughly $36 million, ALL of which was raised in the past few 
months following heavy stock promotions.    


    
6. Frequent change in company name 


or type of business. 
 Fraud warning. Vuzix.  Over the past 20 years, Vuzix has gone through 


repeated business changes and  over the years has been known as “VR 
Acquisition”, “Kaotech Corp”, “Interactive Imaging Systems”, “Vicuity Corp”, 
and …for now, “Vuzix Corp”.
PAGE 5                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
www.moxreports.com 
 


Vuzix’s IR firm is now circulating a private “brag book” 
(paper only) about the “media wins” during January 1-15   
On the next few pages I show photos of marketing documents which were created by IRTH Communications and 
which were being made available to potential new clients at the Roth investor conference in March 2018.  The title of 
this presentation appears right on the front page and tells us everything we need to know.  


          Vuzix Strategic Media Wins Sourced By IRTH Communications January 1-15, 2018    


Note that each page includes both the Vuzix logo and the IRTH logo.  


IRTH names the actual media outlets who published high impact articles on Vuzix and then refers to them as 
“Media Placements”.  Note, remember the names of these media outlets below.  Many will become a common 
theme throughout this presentation.
PAGE 6                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
www.moxreports.com 
 


IRTH makes clear that it “utilizes the media to generate 
positive influence in the stock market” 
IRTH’s media campaign caused Vuzix to reach new all time highs within two weeks, nearly triple its November 
lows below $5.00.  As a result of the media driven spike, Vuzix was able to raise $30 million at $9.95.
PAGE 7                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
www.moxreports.com 
 


Vuzix then shows their own media coverage to investors to 
encourage them to buy stock  
Just like Cemtrex, once Vuzix acquires the glowing media coverage, it then aggressively uses social media and 
investor presentations to turn media exposure into a lure to bring in investors.  For both CETX and VUZI we can see 
that IRTH is active in promoting the “mainstream media coverage” that its clients suddenly get from sources like 
Entrepreneur.com   


And then at the recent Roth conference Vuzix further quotes 
the glowing press coverage from this same group of media 
outlets as a source of independent validation that its product 
is being accepted and admired. 


 Roth Presentation to Investors shows “independent media coverage
PAGE 8                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
www.moxreports.com 
 


IRTH cites specific mainstream articles on Vuzix and calls 
them “advertising”, includes detailed visitor metrics  
IRTH notes direct sourcing of 36 articles and names TheVerge, CNBC, and Time
PAGE 9                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
www.moxreports.com 
 


Is there something peculiar about each of these “reviews” ?  
IMPORTANT: take a minute to actually watch these “product reviews” from three mainstream tech journalists 


1. All three of them heap praise on the Blade despite the fact that its most important key features are not working 
for any of them.    


2. All three of these videos are clearly shot in the same location, which Nick Statt of The Verge describes as 
PepCom  (hint: PepCom is not part of CES, it is a private invite-only event hosted by a “media consultant”) 


3. Not one of these journalists was actually able to use the Alexa features of the web browser 























The Verge: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FOpMx6lrsM0 Engadget: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gs0Fwa4D654 

















CNET: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nRgkMia4YIo  





CNET on the Blade:  “It’s kind of like Google glass, but these also connect with Amazon Alexa, so when you have 
voice control, you can tap in all sorts of services that you would normally use to, say, control things in your smart 
home….  Here at this convention hall, apparently the [wifi] connection isn’t working so we can’t even test 
that…but it’s supposed to work.”
PAGE 10                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Use of “media consultants” to create guaranteed positive 
coverage featuring fake action shots  
As we will see later, Vuzix has spent millions of dollars on different types of “media” consultants”.  PepCom and 
ShowStopper.com each set up private “shadow conferences” next door to the real CES where they have large staged 
photo shoots.  These are categorically NOT part of CES and not even an all-access press pass gets an outsider into 
these events.  The events are only three hours long, which is why the journalists could not come back to try the 
product out at a later time. Remember, CES is three days long.  


There is nothing inherently nefarious about these private events.  Big companies like Google and Apple will often send 
a few reps to staff a table there just to give journalists easy opportunities for photo ops.   


The sole purpose of these closed door events it to generate realistic looking “action shot” photos and video that 
journalists then place into what the audience will clearly view as “hands on product review” pieces.  There is no 
open access to the public. PepCom is hired by the clients (Vuzix) to screen journalists. A list of attendees is given to 
clients weeks in advance so that they can keep anyone who hasn’t been coached.  ShowStoppers is largely the same 
as PepCom and Vuzix uses both of them in different cities.
PAGE 11                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


“Guaranteed” positive coverage from pre-screened journalists  











Showstoppers.com creates a private closed door events which look (in the photos) like real public 
conferences. Showstoppers then hand selects all the journalists and submits to Vuzix weeks before any 
event.  There is zero possibility of anyone saying anything negative or questioning the obvious problems.
PAGE 12                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


All of the media consultants paid by Vuzix independently 
show very similar names of which media outlets are 
accessible
PAGE 13                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Margolis conceals his years of prior employment with the 
fraudsters promoting Vuzix  
Margolis was hired as head of Investor Relations in January 2017.  In my view, any notion that Vuzix is somehow 
unaware of Margolis’ past or current activities is pure theater. Prior to joining Vuzix, Margolis had written bullish 
articles on Vuzix dozens of times.  


But from his public bio’s on his own site, LinkedIn and Seeking Alpha, Margolis only discloses one prior employer 
(Excellus BCBS) as well as his self appoint role as “Chief Investment Officer” of an investment newsletter he founded 
Wall Street Forensics, now defunct).   In all public forums, Margolis is very specific in positioning himself as a forensic 
level expert focused only on technology stocks. 





Margolis artices on SA over a single 
period of 7 months 


 Margolis claims to be a “technology analyst” with only one previous 
employer and one pervious financial blog
PAGE 14                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Margolis was previously employed by fraudster Mark 
Gomes, who was also promoting Vuzix   
Fraudster Mark Gomes was finally shut down by the SEC in September of 2017.   


Notably, fraud proceedings and cease and desist letter from the SEC 
came just a few weeks after his final pump piece, which happened to 
be touting Vuzix. Subsequent to his exposure by the SEC, Gomes’ 
Seeking Alpha account was deactivated, noted his termination in big 
bold letters.  Note, neither Margolis nor Vuzix have been specifically 
named in the fraud proceedings against Gomes.
PAGE 15                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Margolis omits and conceals his past employment with 
fraudsters at TFST and MicrocapResearch  
Although it is not disclosed on his public bio’s, prior to being hired by Vuzix, Margolis was working for Harris Shapiro 
who controlled several stock promotion sites including The Focused Stock Trader and MicroCapResarch.com. The 
earliest records discoverable with the Wayback Machine indicate that Margolis started in August of 2016.  Through 
various cached web pages we can see that TFST was heavily promoting IRTH clients including Vuzix and Cemtrex in 
exchange for fees of up to $15,000 per stock. These pages were removed in late 2017, around the time that Mark 
Gomes was shut down for fraud.  


As soon as he began working for Shapiro, 
Margolis began immediately posting hyper 
bullish articles recommending these same 
IRTH clients on outside sites such as Seeking 
Alpha , but without disclosing his employment 
for Shapiro.  It becomes immediately 
noticeable that as soon as Shapiro began 
paying the “tech only” Margolis, Margolis 
immediately began publishing detailed 
analysis with hyper bullish price targets on 
beverage stocks, energy stocks and 
restaurant stocks, among others, (most of 
which were also IRTH clients).  





The FINRA Broker Check report for Harris 
Shapiro reveals multiple disclosure events 
including related to insider trading, a 
regulatory suspension, and fines or 


judgments ranging from $15,000 to nearly $400,000 for 
breach of fiduciary duty to clients.  His career in the 
brokerage industry ended in 2001 following a FINRA 
arbitration panel (at a hearing site in Boca Raton, FL) 
awarding $391,200 to a brokerage customer over 
“Breach of Fiduciary Duty”. 


As far as I know, Shapiro was never charged with 
securities fraud.  But he was very visible as an 
aggressive promoter behind some of the most dramatic 
fraud implosions which MoxReports.com had warned 
investors about.  This includes Cytrx (promoted by 
Dream Team/Mission IR) as well as Unilife, among others.  Each of those stocks has since been delisted and has 
faced fraud indictments or investigations.   Mr. Shapiro passed away in October of 2017.
PAGE 16                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


The Vuzix fraud: who is involved ?  
Vuzix has visible ties and connections to imploded Cemtrex 
Both show heavy use of IRTH Communications for “IR”, aggressive use of 
gratuitous “media placements” into the same mainstream media sites, so 
as to pump their stocks to raise money via equity sales. Prior to the collapse 
of Cemtrex, Vuzix’s current head of IR was previously involved in an 
undisclosed paid promotion of Cemtrex, where IRTH was the one paying 
his stock promoter employer.  Cemtrex provides the single best illustration 
of why the promoters will dump their shares immediately once the public 
figures out the scam.  After I warned investors about Cemtrex, it quickly 
collapsed by 65% from a week earlier.  Over the past year Cemtrex has 
desperately pumped out all manner of hyperbolic press releases claiming 
that it is now moving into “Blockchain” or “Virtual Reality” or that it is 
engaging in huge M&A deals and that financials are great and so on.  But with the scam so thoroughly exposed, there 
is now zero any ability to resurrect the promotion.  MoxReport:  Cemtrex: Documents and Photos, All Signs Point to 
Fraud 


Margolis deliberately omits and conceals deep ties to fraudsters behind earlier Vuzix and Cemtrex activity   
Vuzix’s head of Investor Relations Matt Margolis goes to visible lengths 
to conceal the fact that right up until his hiring by Vuzix in January 2017 
he was actually employed fraudsters who had been behind the 
promotions of Vuzix over the past several years.  Also, Mark Gomes, 
was just shut down by the SEC on fraud proceedings in September 
2017, just a few weeks after he had put out very a obvious promotion 
on Vuzix. Vuzix was not named explicitly in those fraud proceedings.  


After leaving fraudster Gomes, Margolis went on to work for a different fraudster in August 2016 at The Focused Stock 
Trader (“TFST”), also being paid by IRTH to promote clients including Vuzix and Cemtrex. TFST, along with 
MicrocapResearch.com, were effectively controlled by Harris Shapiro, who was run out of the brokerage industry in 
Boca Raton following regulatory events.  Despite being a “Tech only” analyst, Margolis immediately began promoting 
companies in the restaurant, energy and beverage sectors. Nearly all of these were IRTH clients but Margolis never 
disclosed his compensation or relationship with Shapiro or IRTH.    


As shown in the example here, prior to 
joining Vuzix, Margolis would simply 
copy and paste nearly identical content 
from one of the other fraudsters 
promoting Cemtrex at TFST/MCR and 
then the two would post their articles on 
different sites a few days apart under 
different names.   





Gary “Anderson” June 2nd 
MicrocapResearch.com
PAGE 17                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Vuzix’s spending ramp up for coordinated media blitzkrieg  
Prior to the arrival of Margolis, Vuzix’s stock had been the subject of paid stock promotions by the usual phony 
authors on blog sites, as well as by the same shadowy network or promoters behind well know fraud implosions like 
Forcefield Energy, CodeRebel and a slew of marijuana stocks which were quickly delisted.  Details on “Small Cap IR”, 
“Small Cap Specialists” and others can by found in my 2017 report on Cemtrex.   


At the time they hired Margolis, Vuzix was laser focused on an aggressive 
promotion campaign.  Just before Margolis’ arrival at Vuzix, spending on 
stock promotion (“IR”) had just quintupled from $254,000 to $1.24 million. 
As soon as Margolis joined, Vuzix abruptly stopped breaking out the 
amounts explicitly, and instead buried it in “Operating Expense”. However 
it is still possible to see further increases in IR spending of up to $800,000 


disclosed.   


Keep in mind, Vuzix has typically generated only $2 million per year in total revenues and even this is only possible by 
selling at negative gross margins.   So by early 2016, Vuzix was losing money on every sale and then further 
spending 60% of all revenues on stock promotion. And then right at that exact time they hired Margolis away from the 
fraudsters at TFST/MCR, who were also working for IRTH Communications, and who were also promoting Vuzix and 
Cemtrex.  


By late 2017, the spending on stock promotion 
provided visible results.  Two separate campaigns 
took Vuzix from $4.60 in November to a high of 
$10.80 in January, up 140% in six weeks.  The 
first leg relied on the familiar routine of bloggers 
on financial sites using fake identities to tout the 
stock. Just like Vuzix, nearly all of them can be 
tied to IRTH Communications.    (An article by 
Sharesleuth.com sheds light on the same fake 
bloggers, their ties IRTH, and their specific sham 
promotions on Vuzix).   


Here is the pattern:  Vuzix uses IRTH 
Communications and its “media consultants” to 


obtain glowing press coverage to drive up the share price so they can raise money by selling shares to the public.  
There is now an entire underground industry of such “media consultants”. Some are semi-discrete, making marketing 
docs hard to uncover. But others are reckless, offering blatant pricing sheets offering explicit guarantees that for 
less than $3,000 anyone can get their own scripted content into mainstream media outlets, under the name of an 
existing journalist. If it doesn’t get featured as written, then no payment.  


The smarter media consultants make it a point to throw in references to top media names in the US like New York 
Times and Bloomberg. Including these on their sites and market docs helps to obscure a pattern which would 
otherwise become immediately obvious.  There is a small group of just 13 mainstream media outlets that seems 
to always appear whenever we are looking at paid media consultants and certainly when we look closer at 
IRTH, Vuzix and Cemtrex.  And all 13 of these decided to start simultaneously touting Vuzix just ahead of its 
much needed equity raise in January and all 13 based their “analysis” on little more than the scripted press 
kit given by Vuzix.  


How easy is it to penetrate a mainstream media outlet ? 


Spending on stock promotion  
As of IR spend Link  
Mar 2014 $254,000 2013 - 10K 
Mar 2015 $513,000 2014 - 10K 
Mar 2016 $1,244,000 2015 - 10K 
Mar 2017 Undisclosed   2016 - 10K 
Sep 2017 Undisclosed   3Q17 - 10Q
PAGE 18                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com
PAGE 19                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


GoodNoon.com admits that it guarantees placements into 
mainstream media under the guise of “earned media”  
GoodNoon is just  one of many consulting firms offering what they call “media value add” services.  Throughout this 
site, GoodNoon makes it clear that a client company can write its own articles, then pay GoodNoon to have the article 
published (without disclosure) in very similar form in some of the largest media outlets in the US.  GoodNoon claims to 
maintain a network of more than 100 journalists working for more than 30 of the largest publications world wide.    
GoodNoon is so confident that if the article doesn’t get published, then the client company doesn’t pay ! GoodNoon 
notes that the paid-for articles are permanent. But in the event that they are discovered and removed for being 


“abusive “ then no refund would be given.
PAGE 20                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


How to become “Alexa enabled” in just minutes  
Amazon recently released the video below to show just how fast and easy it is to add Alexa 
functionality to any device imaginable.  The presenter notes that he built his own app using 
Amazon’s Software Developer Kit in less than an hour.  The hobbyist below likes to build his own 
gadgets just for fun.  He was able to add Alexa to a device of his own in just minutes.   


PLEASE just take a few minutes to actually watch the videos below. And remember, Vuzix 
announced it’s Alexa launch within just 24 hours of when Amazon released its Dev Kit.  This is 
was not a long drawn and expensive development process which might create a technological 
advantage over anything.  The Alexa announcement by Vuzix was nothing more than a splashy 
talking point which would serve as a talking point in its massive stock promotion.  


Below are the very troubling questions that we need to resolve.  


First, how is it that dozens of tech journalists all became wildly enthusiastic for the Blade based on 
such an easy to add feature that involves no meaningful technical accomplishment ?  These are 
supposed to be sophisticated tech journalists who should not have been impressed. Again, please 
watch the videos below.   


Second, and then….they all happened to launch their public enthusiasm within just a few days of 
one another ? Remember, most of these journalists had never written anything on Vuzix before.    


Third….as we will see later, the Alexa feature was visibly not even functioning at the time they 
were evaluating it….and yet these dozens of journalists all went ahead and simultaneously made 
the same puzzling decision to tout the non-working Alexa feature anyway ?!?   
 





https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F5DixCPJYo8      https://www.mickmake.com/contact
PAGE 21                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


The Alexa scam of 2018 is just a recycled scam that Margolis ran 
using GoPro in 2016  
 
Just like he did in January 2018, Margolis also pulled the same ruse in 2016. It was really just the same scam. Every 
stock scam needs a simple conceptual “narrative” for the promoters to use in duping people into buying the stock. 
 
Just like Alexa in 2018, adding GoPro functionality was the ideal combination of fast, easy and cheap. Becoming 
GoPro enabled could be done in less than one hour.   
 
The only difference between 2016 and 2018 is that now Margolis is working in-house at Vuzix and he also has IRTH 
on the outside orchestrating a huge media campaign. 	
	
	



































https://developer.gopro.com/MFGP_DP_Main_Page?ec=302&startURL=%2Fs%2F 
https://ir.vuzix.com/press-releases/detail/1465/vuzix-smart-glasses-integrates-with-gopro-to-deliver-hq 
 
https://gopro.com/news/the-gopro-developer-program-is-here
PAGE 22                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 























Supporting data and documentation   





Appendix
PAGE 23                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Appendix - Vuzix by the numbers  
(financial metrics vs. SEC fraud criteria) 


 
The vast majority of Vuzix’s assets consist of cash which has been raised in the last few months (subsequent to 
September 20th, 2017).    In December and January, Vuzix raised $42 million in cash.  But because of cash burn, the 
pro forma cash balance as of February 2018 Aside from this recently raised cash, Vuzix has total assets of just $10 
million.  
 


The Bloomberg table above already reflects the 
full current share count (post offerings) of 27.29 
million shares (see cover of prospectus).  Vuzix’s 
share count has tripled, resulting in a market cap 
of over $230 million. But again, aside from the 
recently raised cash, total assets for Vuzix still sit 
at just $10 million.
PAGE 24                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Unilife - Everything you “know” is fake 
The fraud proceedings against the CEO of Unilife were not formally handed down until 2017. But Unilife’s stock had 
already started plunging shortly after my two reports on MoxReports.com and Seeking Alpha.    
(Link:  Unilife Fraud Reports at MoxReports.com).  
 
Just like Vuzix, Unilife was heavily promoted as having “game changing technology” via patents (on a med device).   
Just like Vuzix, there really was an enormous market potential for anyone who actually had legitimate technology.  
Just like Vuzix, the company was able to show increases in revenue, but with recurring negative gross margins.   
Just like Vuzix, investors were persuaded that Unilife would almost certainly be acquired by a big cap industry giant. 
Just like Vuzix, Unilife subsisted on repeated equity offerings which occurred on the back of undisclosed promotions.  
 
We can even see a number of the exact same promoters behind Unilife and Vuzix, including Harris Shapiro (TFST) 
and Tech Guru.  Just like Forcefield Energy, Unilife sought to aggressively reassure investors: 
 
[Unilife] the developer of injectable drug systems said the blogs posted on Seeking Alpha contained "false and 
misleading information" and that it had requested the SEC investigate the short-sellers for stock manipulation and illicit 
gains. Unilife also said no officer has sold stock since the company listed in 2010 and that both the CEO and COO 
have purchased in excess of $4 million in stock in recent years. 


The victims of the Unilife fraud 
were not stupid.  They were smart 
people conducting sensible analysis.  
But the information in their analyses 
had been (without their knowledge) 
spoon fed to them by the very people 
running the promotion. As a result, 
they reached the exact conclusions 
that the promoters had intended for 
them to reach.  
 
The SEC fraud proceedings against 
the CEO revealed the usual 
undisclosed shenanigans. Secretly 


siphoning cash out of the company and into personal bank accounts, undisclosed transfers of shares, a stacked board 
with crony directors 
 
As always similar to Vuzix, Unilife had some transformation technology which was always on the cusp of minting 
billions in revenue as a result of its “game changing IP”.   
With Vuzix, the game changing technology is “Artificial Reality glasses”…etc.  With Unilife the game changing 
technology was [syringe stuff.]. Can you say:   Po-tay-toh. Po-tah-toh.   In both cases, these supposed technology 
companies were able to chisel some revenues out of the appearance of moderate product sales.  But the economic 
reality is far different. 


From inception to grave, Unilife produced nothing but growing losses.  Any attempt at showing moderate revenue 
growth required increasing financial gymnastics by which Unilfie ended up losing more money with every sale. In the 
years up to 2015, Unilife was able to generate $41 million in revenues, with losses then totaling $244 million in losses. 


How IRTH obtains glowing coverage of its clients
PAGE 25                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


 
When I wrote about Cemtrex, I expressed numerous 
concerns and they were all quite severe.  Clearly neither 
Margolis nor IRTH shared those concerns.  Aside from the 
problems listed on the right, I had also noted that the very 
gratuitous mentions of Cemtrex’s CEO in certain 
mainstream media outlets all appeared to be quite 
scripted.  Cemtrex’s CEO had been appointed to his 
executive role at Cemtrex at the age of 25, shortly after 
graduating from college and with no work experience 
whatsoever.  His father was already the chairman and 
largest shareholder of what was then an OTCBB penny 
stock.  After hiring IRTH, Cemtrex and the young Govil 
quickly became the subject of continuous glowing press 
coverage gushing praise for the young and visionary 
entrepreneur CEO.  This was notably odd given Cemtrex’s never-ending financial troubles and business failures  
 
 
Cemtrex's CEO, Saagar Govil, Makes Forbes' 30 Under 30 List Along with Notable Winners Steph Curry, Shawn 
Mendes 


How This Millennial Turned an ‘Orphan Child’ Business Into a $50 Million Success 


Cemtrex Inc. CEO, Saagar Govil, Featured on Inc.com 


Cemtrex’s CEO, Saagar Govil, Named to Stony Brook University’s Top 40 Under 40 
 
The very scripted-looking “news” above is what helped to run IRTH’s Cemtrex from $2.00 to $7.50 in a very short 
period of time.  But what you can quickly notice is that similar gushing “news” continuously spews forth from these 
exact same media outlets praising other IRTH clients who are just as troubled as Cemtrex.  When those stocks later 
implode, the “mainstream” media outlets simply forget about them.   
 
What we will see below is that there is small group of “mainstream media” outlets that all seem to claim deep 
relationships with the same small number of media sites.  This small group of sites has provided a disproportionate 
amount of coverage to Vuzix and Cemtrex, as well as to other clients of IRTH.   
 
Prior to January of 2018, Vuzix has received virtually no attention from the mainstream media. The only attention it 
was getting was coming from those same fake bloggers tied to IRTH, and that was no longer working.  But when 
Vuzix attended CES in January, it received a sudden deluge of coverage from the “mainstream media”.   
 
 





CETX	report	from	MoxReports.com	–	Feb	2017
PAGE 26                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Vuzix: identical fraud tactics revealed in earlier MoxReports 
In this report I provide extensive documentation and into step-by-step detail to show why I see Vuzix as an abject 
fraud with no value whatsoever.  But in fact, much of this analysis should have never been necessary.  Anyone 
reading these previous fraud warnings should have never fallen for Vuzix.   There are two simple points worth 
remembering:  


First, it often takes years before fraud indictments become public and the fraud gets “formally” shut down.  But in most 
cases the stocks plunged to just pennies as soon as the fraudsters knew that they would no longer be able to keep 
running the scam.  The fraudsters know well that there is no chance that the underlying business will ever succeed. 
They are certainly not going to wait around for the delisting and indictments to be announced.   


Second, with fraud, it is important to remember this:  Pretty much everything is fake.  This isn’t about a few overly 
optimistic press releases or some random fake bloggers. In subsequent years we ended up learning that the SEC 
filings were fake, the cash had been siphoned out and the insiders had dumped their stock without disclosing it.  So 
again, this is not just about some silly bloggers hyping the stock.  When I see fraud: I assume that everything is fake.   


After my report on Forcefield Energy, the company put out a statement to aggressively deter investors from selling. 





Instead, on Monday April 20th, the Chairman was arrested by the FBI and the stock was halted. It reopened at one 
cent down from $7.50 before my report.  Ten people, including the Chairman, were later sentenced to prison on 
federal fraud charges.  Most importantly: at the very moment that he was putting out that press release, the Chairman 
of Forcefield was already en route to the airport while simultaneously dumping his shares without disclosure 
!   This all occurred within just five (5) days of my report warning investors.   
 
Past fraud or promotion reports by MoxReorts.com  
Ticker Company % Cng Link to Report 
KNDI Kandi Techn -30% Kandi: The truth hurts 
NEON Neonode -93% Neonode: Investors Feel Duped, Shares To Fall Further 
OHRP Ohr Pharma -97% The Ugly Truth Behind Ohr Pharma 
UNXL Unipixel  -100% As Unipixel plunges, MDB Capital pulls research 
GALE Galena Bioph -95% Behind the scenes with Dream Team, CytRx and Galena 
CYTR CytRx -94% Behind the scenes with Dream Team, CytRx and Galena 
INO Inovio -69% Behind the Scenes with Proactive, Inovio and Unilife 
UNIS Unilife -100% The big picture at Unilife (UNIS) 
NWBO Northwest Bio -95% Behind The Promotion Of Northwest Bio 
FNRG Forcefield Energy -100% ForceField Energy: Undisclosed Promotions/Management Connections To Past Frauds 
 


Links to federal fraud charges or actions related to these reports (these are not class action suits) 


GALE/CYTR:  SEC hits out at paid-for bioanalysts, CEOs and firms, charges 
27 NWBO: Northwest Bio Receives SEC Subpoena 


FNRG: New York man gets three years for ForceField stock scheme UNIS: Unilife CEO - fraud SEC fraud Charges 


UNXL: U.S. SEC charges Uni-Pixel with civil accounting fraud KNDI: Kandi  Announces Conclusion of SEC Investigation 


 OHRP:  Sec Investigaiton into Richard Grossman 





“Forcefield Energy today requested that a regulatory agency review the trading activity in its common stock subsequent to the 
issuance of a lengthy “opinion” published by MoxReports on April 15, 2015. We are not going to stand by and allow our Company, 
officers and directors, employees and shareholders to continue to suffer through what appears to be an orchestrated short selling 
attack based on misinformation. We intend to defend ourselves and pursue all possible remedies against the allegations asserted 
in the opinion. Further, we will provide our shareholders and investment community a business update in a release premarket 
Monday April 20, 2015”.
PAGE 27                                                                                                                                             Email: info@moxreports.com  •  
 www.moxreports.com 
 


Accelerating federal crackdown on identical frauds   
Over the last 11 months, the SEC, the FBI and the DOJ has sent out a very clear message: there is a new paradigm 
in the investigation and prosecution of securities fraud, with a particular focus on fraudulent stock promotions.   Almost 
every day we see a new headline announcing another major case.  This is a very visible departure from even two 
years ago. Here is what we have seen just since during the first three months of 2018. (Note that the examples below 
are all in connection to microcap pump and dump promotions. These do not include other recent fraud indictments 
such as Martin Shkreli and  Elizabeth Holmes.  


Date Source Title 
9-Mar-2018 Law 360 Penny Stock ‘Mailman’ Hit With Securities Fraud Charges 
7-Mar-2018 NCV Jeffrey Friedland Charged with Fraud by SEC for Pumping and Dumping Cannabis Stock 
2-Mar-2018 DOJ Two Executives Arrested for Pump and Dump Securities Fraud Scheme 
2-Mar-2018 DOJ Six Individuals And Four Corporate Defendants Indicted in $50 Million International Securities Fraud 
27-Feb-2018 AP Trump Campaign Chief Lends Name to Penny Stock Tied to Felon 
23-Feb-2018 DOJ Stock Promoter Sentenced to 27 Months in Prison for His Role in International Pump and Dump 
23-Feb-2018 Reuters California man sentenced to over two years in prison for penny stock fraud 
6-Feb-2018 DOJ Colorado Attorney Admits Role in Stock “Pump and Dump” Scheme 
26-Jan-2018 DOJ Three Defendants Convicted in Securities Fraud Investigation 
22-Jan-2018 Inv News Two sentenced in fraud case for inflating price and trading volume of penny stock 





With Vuzix, what we are looking at is Stock Promotion 2.0, which is a significant evolution beyond the old use of fake 
authors writing blog posts and pretending to be industry experts or hedge fund managers.  Now what we are seeing is 
the wholesale infiltration of mainstream media for the purpose of steering investors into fraudulent stocks. A cottage 
industry of “media consultants” now offers GUARANTEED placement of entirely scripted content into mainstream 
media outlets. 


I have spent the last few months trying to uncover how these consultants work and who they are working for. The 
problem runs vastly deeper than anyone on Wall Street seems to understand.  Although not far away on Madison 
Avenue, the PR professionals of the world have already started to recognize the issue. 


Date Source Title 
12-Mar-18 Polipace BUSTED: Forbes Columnist Caught Illegally Selling Influencer Article    [LATEST DEVELOPMENT] 


13-Feb-18 e-releases In Public Relations, It’s a Fine Line Between Gift and Bribe 


18-Jan-18 The Outline These are the people paying journalists to promote brands in articles 


13-Dec-17 Belmore Digital Journalists Accept Bribes To Mention Companies – Google Not Happy 


5-Dec-17 The Outline How Brands Secretly Buy Their Way Into Forbes, Fast Company, and HuffPost Stories
