September 11, 2019


BeiGene, Ltd. (BGNE US) 
Pharmaceuticals


Terms of Service


By viewing this material you agree to the following Terms of Service. You agree that use of J Capital Research USA LLC’s 
research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold J Capital Research USA LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct 
or indirect trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence 
before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. You represent to J Capital Research USA LLC 
that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site. You 
further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be 
bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, 
you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports 
and research, J Capital Research USA LLC may benefit from short positions a client has in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and 
other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event 
that the price of either declines. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall J Capital 
Research offer, sell or buy any security to or from any person through this site or reports on this site. J Capital Research USA 
LLC is registered as an investment advisor with the SEC. If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing 
research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the 
FPO. Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information 
contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, 
and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or 
duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether 
express or implied. J Capital Research USA LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, 
or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this 
site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, 
and J Capital Research USA LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis 
and opinion contained in them. You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not 
to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any 
manner other than by providing the following link: https://www.jcapitalresearch.com/. If you have obtained the research of J 
Capital Research USA LLC in any manner other than by downloading from that link, you may not read such research without 
going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your use of this report 
and / or the J Capital Research USA LLC website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of 
New York, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal 
and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of New York and waive your right to any other 
jurisdiction or applicable law. The failure of J Capital Research USA LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these 
Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by 
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to 
the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full 
force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law 
to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed 
within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.



https://www.jcapitalresearch.com/
© 2019 J Capital Research Limited. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J Capital. Use of this publication by authorized users is subject to the J Capital 
Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Use of this publication by non-authorized individuals is subject to the J 
Capital Non-Authorized User Content Agreement available here.


September 11, 2019


BeiGene, Ltd. (BGNE US) 
Pharmaceuticals


BeiGene, Ltd. (BGNE US)


Digging a Deeper Hole
Tim Murray
tim@jcapitalresearch.com


+61 411 046 476


Share Price $ 127.45


Market Cap (mln) $ 7,683.1


BeiGene Ltd. (BGNE US)


BeiGene (BGNE US) last share price 
in USD (blue, left) and volume (green, 
right, mln shares)


Source: Bloomberg September 11, 2019


0


0.5


1


1.5


2


2.5


3


0


20


40


60


80


100


120


140


160


12-Aug-19 9-Sep-19


BeiGene’s September 8 investor call was heavy on declarations of the company’s integrity and light on facts. 
In attempting to rebut our findings, BeiGene made a number of state-
ments that are provably false. On several occasions they failed to refute 
our core assertions. In fact, they confirmed some of them. 


The call wasn’t all bad. We want to praise the company for finally dis-
closing that it uses an exclusive distributor for all drug sales in China, 
a fact that had been hidden from investors for the three and a half years 
the company has been listed. We also want to commend BeiGene for ad-
mitting that it has inventory of Celgene drugs in China. Since BeiGene 
buys from Celgene then sells all the drugs to its distributor, China Re-
sources, offshore, any inventory in China has to have been repurchased 
from China Resources. That is round-tripping, plain and simple.


There’s a lot of product in inventory. The company claimed on the call 
that it orders several times a month. But it holds nine months of inven-
tory. Which is it?


Source: Page F-29, 2018 10-K


Source: BeiGene 2018 10-K



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/files/0/f/3236012520/1/f_27196548308
Tim Murray tim@jcapitalresearch.com +61 411 046 476 
See final page for disclaimers. 3


September 11, 2019


BeiGene Ltd.(BGNE US)


If we add the $21 mln minimum purchase commitment for Celgene drugs to the $49 
mln inventory already in stock, that’s over a year’s supply of inventory in stock or 
on order. 


The Shell Company: An Outright Lie
To explain heavy capital injections, CFO Howard Liang claimed that BeiGene’s 
Guangzhou-based shell company, registered to a non-existent address, is funding 
construction of BeiGene’s biologics factory. This is simply untrue. BeiGene Guang-
zhou, the company that has received heavy capital injections from its BeiGene 
parent, is the owner of BPG, the pharmaceutical distribution company, as is clearly 
shown in the company’s own slide presentation. It is NOT the owner of the biolog-
ics factory and cannot legally contribute capital to that project.


Furthermore, on the slide above, BeiGene says it lent money to BeiGene Guang-
zhou for a manufacturing line. On the call, they specified: “It is actually a payment 
for production capacity expansion at our manufacturing partner Boehringer Ingel-
heim.”


Boehringer is BeiGene’s manufacturing partner.1 But if the loan is for manufactur-
ing capacity, why push the money through a drug distributor? 


1  https://www.boehringer-ingelheim.com/BeiGene-and-Boehringer-Ingelheim-Announce-Commercial-
Supply-Agreement


Source: BeiGene investor presentation September 8, 2019, with J Capital comments



https://www.boehringer-ingelheim.com/BeiGene-and-Boehringer-Ingelheim-Announce-Commercial-Supply-Agreement

https://www.boehringer-ingelheim.com/BeiGene-and-Boehringer-Ingelheim-Announce-Commercial-Supply-Agreement
Tim Murray tim@jcapitalresearch.com +61 411 046 476 
See final page for disclaimers. 4


September 11, 2019


BeiGene Ltd.(BGNE US)


Misplaced IP
The slide also says that this subsidiary, BeiGene Guangzhou, is the IP owner of 
BeiGene’s PD-1 drug, tislelizumab. 


That is simply not true. Tislelizumab patents are registered to BeiGene Ltd. in the 
Caymans.


Source: BeiGene presentation slide caption describing BeiGene Guangzhou Co. Ltd. 


Copy of BeiGene’s patent registration for tislelizumab. Source: China Patent Office
Tim Murray tim@jcapitalresearch.com +61 411 046 476 
See final page for disclaimers. 5


September 11, 2019


BeiGene Ltd.(BGNE US)


Chinese government websites2 confirm that development rights for tislelizumab, 
BeiGene’s PD-1 drug, are registered to BeiGene (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.


In 2017, BeiGene injected all the equity interests of BeiGene Shanghai into 
BeiGene Biologics, the company that is a joint venture with the Guangzhou govern-
ment. The development rights to tislelizumab went to BeiGene Guangzhou Biolog-
ics with the rest of the Shanghai assets.


This is not only a legal consequence of the asset transfer but is also the reason BeiGene 
Shanghai was valued at ¥1 bln when the assets were injected. Those development 
rights are what BeiGene’s partner, GET, valued highly in forming the joint venture.


Auditors: Another Lie
An analyst on the September 8 call asked CFO Liang to confirm that the same 
Ernst & Young team audits European, U.S., and Chinese operations. Liang said yes. 
This is patently untrue. The Chinese auditor is an affiliate of Ernst & Young called 
E&Y Hua Ming. The audit team cannot legally or organizationally be the same 
audit team for all territories. BeiGene warns in its 10-K that its Chinese auditor, 
unlike its auditor in other territories, is not subject to PCAOB inspection:


2  For example, MOST from 2019: http://www.most.gov.cn/bszn/new/rlyc/jgcx/201903/
t20190308_145464.htm  The Guangzhou Bureau of Personnel in May 2018: https://rencai.gov.cn/Index/
detail/14157


Screenshot from Ministry of Science and Technology website showing trials of BeiGene’s PD-1 drug, tislelizumab, run by the drug’s 
legal owner, BeiGene Shanghai


Source: Page F-30, BeiGene’s 2018 10-K



http://www.most.gov.cn/bszn/new/rlyc/jgcx/201903/t20190308_145464.htm 

http://www.most.gov.cn/bszn/new/rlyc/jgcx/201903/t20190308_145464.htm 

https://rencai.gov.cn/Index/detail/14157 

https://rencai.gov.cn/Index/detail/14157
Tim Murray tim@jcapitalresearch.com +61 411 046 476 
See final page for disclaimers. 6


September 11, 2019


BeiGene Ltd.(BGNE US)


“Everyone accounts for R&D that way”
BeiGene claimed that budgeting R&D (including spending on clinical trials—
which the company says is 75% of the cost) on a company-wide basis rather than 
by drug program is “industry practice.” This is completely untrue, and in fact ludi-
crous. We refer BeiGene management to the many Google results for “clinical trial 
budgeting,” which offer highly detailed templates for costs by drug program. There 
are many pieces of software commercially available that BeiGene might want to 
look into. Oracle’s ClearTrial and IBM’s Clinical Trial Management System might 
be a good start; each offers detailed budgeting by drug program.


Source: Page 81, 2018 10-K


Source: “Clinical Trial Budgeting and Negotiation March 2018,” Boston Medical
Tim Murray tim@jcapitalresearch.com +61 411 046 476 
See final page for disclaimers. 7


September 11, 2019


BeiGene Ltd.(BGNE US)


What about the chart displayed in the BGNE call presentation showing the com-
pany’s R&D spend vs the number of Phase 3 clinical trials? 


Showing R&D spend versus the number of clinical trials is a complete joke. Just to 
choose a few issues, the company’s chart failed to differentiate critical areas:


 ‣ The size of comparative peer-group trials. Hey, why not double the number of 
trials and halve the number of patients per trial, which will make BGNE look 
even more favorable in its peer-group chart?


 ‣ The cumulative costs from previous periods - the data were only for H1 2019
 ‣ The figures used are for R&D spend, not just for Phase 3 trials. This may not 


necessarily be an appropriate comparable for other pharmaceutical companies.
 ‣ The effectiveness of the clinical trials - what is BGNE's commercialization 


history from clinical trials vs its peer-group clinical trials?
 ‣ Some R&D expenses are front-loaded, for example, in collaboration arrange-


ments. This can distort peer comparatives in any period.
 ‣ The type of drug trialed.
 ‣ Trial costs per drug - some peers may conduct different numbers of trials per 


drug. From the company's own presentation, its trials are for three late -stage 
drugs only, whereas the chart it shows are for numerous trials.


It seems that the best BeiGene can do in its half-hearted effort to be transparent is 
the table. This provides a lot of information, but none of it is very meaningful.


Independent survey supports J Capital’s sales estimates
Before the company was able to rush out a response to our report, a sell-side ana-


Source: BeiGene call presentation September 9, 2019
Tim Murray tim@jcapitalresearch.com +61 411 046 476 
See final page for disclaimers. 8


September 11, 2019


BeiGene Ltd.(BGNE US)


lyst published a report citing data that it had somehow never mentioned before in 
its coverage of BeiGene. The data came from the Chinese Pharmaceutical Associa-
tion (CPA).


The analyst used a survey from the CPA in an attempt to refute our estimate that 
BeiGene overstates sales of Celgene drugs by 133%. While the headline numbers 
in the survey seem supportive of the company’s narrative, once you review the 
detail, you find that the survey supports our conclusion.


The survey covers just 3.5% of China’s roughly 29,5003 hospitals,4 critically, it cov-
ers nearly all of the Category 3 (the biggest) hospitals in Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities, 
where most of the specialist facilities for cancer treatment that use foreign drugs 
are located. Celgene drugs are sold almost exclusively in Class 3 hospitals, so the 
survey dramatically over-represents Celgene drug sales. Our understanding is 
backed up by interviews we conducted with BeiGene’s distributors and Chinese on-
cologists. We featured the following distributor’s comment on page 7 of our report: 
“Only Tier 1 city top hospitals will buy these medicines [Celgene’s].”


The analyst report says that foreign drug company sales are typically 2 to 5x the 
reported CPA survey sales data of drugs from companies like Pfizer, Sanofi and 
AstraZenica, which are selling mass-market drugs distributed in all level of hospi-
tal in all cities. For Celgene drugs, the analyst estimates an “amplifying factor” of 
up to 8.23x (for Revlimid). There is no basis for this; it’s plucking a number out of 
the sky to back-solve for an answer. In fact, since the Celgene drugs are selling to 
a highly specialized channel, the survey should capture around 60% of BeiGene’s 
sales of the drugs.


CPA data indicate that Celgene drug sales in 2018 were $62 mln. With the “ampli-
fying factor,” that would mean about $100 mln in sales. That supports our conten-
tion that BeiGene’s sales of Celgene products were in the range of $90-100 mln, 
with around $42.7 mln potentially sold to themselves. 


We wonder what BeiGene is asking that investors invest in. The company says its 
China R&D is more expensive than that of Chinese companies, because it is high-
quality, then it claims a cost advantage in China. Yet most costs are outside of 
China. What’s the story? Is BeiGene principally competing in the China market or 
internationally? What’s the strategy?


3  https://www.dbs.com/aics/pdfController.page?pdfpath=/content/article/pdf/AIO/012019/190114_
insights_china_pharma_distribution_sector.pdf


4  https://www.mckinsey.com.cn/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/2018-CPA-report_EN.pdf



https://www.jcapitalresearch.com/

https://www.dbs.com/aics/pdfController.page?pdfpath=/content/article/pdf/AIO/012019/190114_insights_

https://www.dbs.com/aics/pdfController.page?pdfpath=/content/article/pdf/AIO/012019/190114_insights_

https://www.mckinsey.com.cn/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/2018-CPA-report_EN.pdf
BeiGene Ltd.(BGNE US)


Tim Murray tim@jcapitalresearch.com +61 411 046 476


Disclaimer
This publication is prepared by J Capital Research USA LLC (“J Capital”), a US registered company. J Capital is 
registered as an investment adviser with the U.S. SEC (CRD# 290086).  This publication is distributed solely to 
authorized recipients and clients of J Capital for their general use in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
a Services Agreement and the J Capital Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Unauthorized copying 
or distribution is prohibited. If you are reading this publication without having entered into a Services Agreement 
with J Capital, or having received written authorization to do so, you hereby agree to be bound by the J Capital Non-
Authorized User Content Agreement that can be viewed here. J Capital does not do business with companies covered 
in its publications, and nothing in this publication should be construed as a solicitation to buy or sell any security 
or product. In preparing this document, J Capital did not take into account the investment objectives, financial 
situation and particular needs of the reader. This publication is intended by J Capital only to be used by investment 
professionals. Before making an investment decision, the reader needs to consider, with or without the assistance 
of an adviser, whether the contents are appropriate in light of their particular investment needs, objectives and 
financial circumstances. J Capital accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect, consequential or other loss 
arising from any use of this publication and/or further communication in relation to this document. 


9


September 11, 2019


We are frankly shocked that BeiGene management, while proclaiming its integrity, 
is flat-out lying to investors. We remain short BeiGene.



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/ksnvgifdr3zw776joxn6ivfy30xtfg8v
