7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 1/14


Short	Ideas 	|	 Services	 	|	 South	Africa


Net	1	UEPS	Technologies:	Allegations	Of	Unlawful	Conduct	For
Almost	Twenty	Years
Feb.	16,	2016	10:00	AM	ET28	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


For	most	of	the	past	two	decades,	UEPS	has	been	the	subject	of	a	number	of
controversies	and	allegations	of	wrongdoing.


Almost	all	of	UEPS's	social	grant	tender	awards	with	the	South	African	government
have	been	plagued	with	allegations	of	bribery.


UEPS	has	also	been	dogged	by	numerous	allegations	of	mistreating	grant
beneficiaries,	and	were	even	partly	blamed	for	the	death	of	two	grant	recipients	in
the	early	2000s.


Also	concerning	is	the	fact	that	International	Value	Advisers,	UEPS's	largest
shareholder,	has	decreased	their	holdings	in	UEPS	by	almost	50%	over	the	past
year.


A	company	that	appears	to	rely	on	unethical	and	unlawful	practices	to	sustain	their
business	is	not	worth	much.	Thus,	UEPS	shares	should	not	be	owned	at	any	price.



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/services

https://seekingalpha.com/market-outlook/global-investing/analysis/South%20Africa
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 2/14


In	October	and	November	of	last	year,	I	wrote	a	series	of	three	articles	(here,	here	and
here)	which	outlined	my	short	thesis	on	Net1	UEPS	Technologies	(TICKER:	UEPS)
("UEPS"	or	the	"Company").	My	bearish	outlook	for	UEPS's	business	was	due	to	a	variety
of	factors.	First,	I	estimated	that	the	Company	would	soon	lose	approximately	70%	of	its
FY	2015	revenue	base	due	to	the	upcoming	SASSA	contract	expiration	in	March	2017.	In
addition	to	potentially	losing	70%	of	its	revenue	base,	I	was	also	concerned	over	the
questionable	conduct	of	management	(e.g.	allegations	of	bribery,	taking	advantage	of
grant	beneficiaries)	during	their	handling	of	the	SASSA	contract.	Finally,	I	argued	that
UEPS	management	simply	cannot	be	trusted	to	run	the	business	in	a	transparent	and
truthful	manner.	For	example,	on	several	occasions,	CEO	Serge	Belamant	has	publicly
made	misleading	and	untruthful	statements	about	his	business.


Over	the	past	two	weeks,	I	have	uncovered	a	substantial	amount	of	new	information	which
further	supports	my	bearish	views	on	the	Company.	To	begin	this	article,	I	will	discuss
troubling	new	information	which	further	call	into	question	the	credibility	of	the	Company
and	its	management	team.	More	specifically,	I	discovered	that	the	recent	controversy
surrounding	the	Company's	handling	of	the	SASSA	contract	is	not	an	isolated	incident.
Instead,	it	appears	that	controversy	has	surrounded	the	Company	for	most	of	Serge
Belamant's	tenure	as	CEO	(1989-Present).	As	I	will	document	in	this	article,	the	Company
has	had	to	defend	itself	against	numerous	allegations	of	unlawful	and	unethical	behavior
over	the	past	17+	years.	To	conclude	this	article,	I	will	discuss	the	recent	liquidation	of	a
large	amount	of	shares	by	International	Value	Advisers	("IVA"),	the	Company's	largest
shareholder.	In	my	opinion,	the	aggressive	selling	of	shares	by	IVA	is	a	strong	indication
that	they	have	lost	confidence	in	the	Company's	future	prospects.	Overall,	the	Company's
long	history	of	questionable	conduct	and	recent	liquidation	of	shares	by	key	stakeholders
further	support	my	belief	that	UEPS	shares	should	not	be	held	at	any	share	price.


A	Little	Background	Information


Before	discussing	the	new	information	that	I	have	uncovered,	I	will	first	provide	what	I	feel
is	some	necessary	background	information	on	the	Company's	history.	I	believe	that	this
background	information	will	make	it	easier	for	readers	to	follow	along	with	the	rest	of	the
article	below.


In	regards	to	the	Company's	formation,	Mr.	Belamant	founded	Net1	Applied	Technologies
in	South	Africa	in	1989.	At	the	time	of	its	founding,	Net1	Applied	Technologies	was	also
known	as	"Aplitec."	Eight	years	later,	in	1997,	Mr.	Belamant	also	founded	a	US-based
entity	called	Net1	UEPS	Technologies	which	was	basically	a	developmental	stage	shell
company	trading	on	an	OTC	exchange.	After	trading	on	the	South	African	JSE	for	a



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3606096-net-1-ueps-technologies-strong-sell-due-concerns-potentially-unlawful-behavior-business

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3620546-net-1-ueps-will-soon-lose-almost-70-percent-revenue

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3633536-net-1-ueps-technologies-deceptive-management-practices-opaque-financial-reporting-red-flags

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UEPS
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 3/14


number	of	years,	Aplitec	made	the	decision	to	seek	out	a	new	investor	base	by	moving	its
stock	to	a	US	exchange.	Aplitec	accomplished	this	by	completing	a	reverse	merger	with
Net1	UEPS	Technologies	in	June	2004.	Following	the	reverse	merger,	Aplitec	officially
renamed	itself	to	Net1	UEPS	Technologies.	Then,	in	2005,	the	Company	completed	an
initial	public	offering	and	moved	to	the	NASDAQ.	Finally,	in	October	2008,	the	Company
relisted	on	the	JSE	stock	exchange.	As	of	today,	the	Company	currently	maintains	a	dual-
listing	on	both	the	JSE	and	NASDAQ	exchanges.	More	details	on	UEPS's	corporate
history	can	be	found	here.


Another	aspect	of	UEPS's	history	that	I	feel	needs	to	be	clarified	is	its	involvement	with	the
South	African	social	grant	payments	program.	UEPS	has	been	responsible	for	distributing
social	grants	in	certain	provinces	of	South	Africa	since	the	early	2000s.	The	Company	has
administered	the	distribution	of	grant	payments	via	its	subsidiary,	Cash	Paymaster
Services	("CPS").	Prior	to	winning	the	2012	SASSA	tender,	UEPS	was	one	of	three
vendors	responsible	for	distributing	social	grants	in	South	Africa.	However,	a	few	years
ago,	SASSA	made	the	decision	to	consolidate	all	of	the	grant	payment	responsibilities
from	three	vendors	to	just	one.	Thus,	when	UEPS	won	the	2012	SASSA	tender,	the
Company	gained	control	over	the	entire	social	grant	payments	system	in	South	Africa.


Bribery	Allegations	Go	Well-Beyond	the	2012	SASSA	Tender


During	my	research,	I	was	troubled	to	discover	that	almost	all	of	UEPS's	tender
awards	have	been	tainted	by	allegations	of	bribery.	The	first	documented	bribery
allegation	against	UEPS	that	I	was	able	to	find	occurred	almost	sixteen	years	ago.	In	early
2000,	it	was	alleged	that	Cash	Paymaster	Services	("CPS"),	a	subsidiary	of	UEPS/Aplitec,
had	paid	bribes	to	Prince	Gideon	Zulu,	the	Welfare	and	Population	Development	Minister
of	the	South	African	province	of	KwaZulu-Natal.	At	the	time,	CPS	had	recently	renewed	a
contract	with	the	KwaZulu-Natal	department	of	welfare	to	distribute	social	grants	in	the
province	for	another	three	years.	The	following	excerpt	from	an	April	2000	Citypress
article	provides	further	detail	on	the	Prince	Zulu	ordeal:



http://www.net1.com/about/corporate-history/

http://m24arg02.naspers.com/argief/berigte/citypress/2000/04/02/4/9.html
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 4/14


"It	is	alleged	Zulu	has	been	receiving	regular	payments	via	his	daughter	from	Cash
Paymaster	Services,	the	security	company	that	delivers	the	province's	state
pensions…The	allegations	surfaced	in	a	Johannesburg	paper	recently."


"It	was	reported	that	CPS	had	been	paying	between	R5	000	and	R16	000	into	the
bank	account	of	Zuzulwazi	Support	Services,	a	company	in	the	name	of	Zulu's
eldest	daughter,	Dr	Gcwalisile	Kabanyane…The	paper	said	on	one	day	alone
January	14	this	year	R32	000	passed	through	the	company's	accounts,	in	two
instalments	of	R16	000	each."


Four	years	later,	the	Company	found	itself	involved	in	another	bribery	scandal.	In	2004,
the	Scorpions	(a	South	African	anti-corruption	agency)	alleged	that	the	African	National
Congress	("ANC")	and	former	premier	Ngoako	Ramatlhodi	had	inappropriately	received
financial	favors	from	UEPS.	These	financial	favors	were	received	via	a	CPS-affiliated
entity	called	Nicoh.	In	exchange	for	these	financial	favors,	the	Scorpions	alleged	that	the
government	irregularly	re-awarded	a	social	grant	payments	contract	to	CPS	in	late	2002.
A	May	2004	Mail	&	Guardian	article	states	the	following:


"The	controversial	renewal	of	this	contract,	for	the	payment	of	social	grants	in	the
province,	is	being	challenged	in	the	Pretoria	High	Court	by	Van	Rooyen	and	his
company,	Labat	Africa	Management	Consulting…Labat	claims	the	provincial
government	irregularly	re-awarded	the	tender,	worth	about	R250-million,	to	Cash
Paymaster	Services	Northern	("CPS")	in	late	2002	after	a	consortium	led	by	Labat
had	scored	higher	on	tender	evaluation	criteria."


"It	is	Nicoh	that	has	been	funding	the	provincial	ANC	through	a	"charitable"	trust	set
up	to	benefit	the	people	and	developing	businesses	in	the	province.	It	is	also	through
Nicoh	that	individual	politicians,	Ramatlhodi	and	Mufamadi,	are	alleged	to	have
benefited."


Yet	another	bribery	scandal	hit	UEPS	in	early	2012.	This	time,	a	South	African	official
alleged	that	he	had	received	a	bribe	offer	from	CPS	during	the	tender	process	for	a	2008
social	grant	payments	contract.	Note	that	this	incident	is	separate	from	the	bribery
allegations	levied	at	the	company	in	relation	to	the	2012	SASSA	tender.	A	February	2012
Mail	&	Guardian	article	provides	further	detail	on	the	alleged	bribe	offer:



http://mg.co.za/article/2004-05-14-ramatlhodi-inside-the-scorpions-probe

http://mg.co.za/article/2012-02-24-name-your-price-bribe-offer-for-r7billion-rand-tender
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 5/14


"Top	advocate	Norman	Arendse	has	alleged	that	while	he	was	deliberating	on	a	R7-
billion	state	tender	in	2008	he	was	offered	an	"open	chequebook"	bribe	by	an
individual	claiming	to	represent	Cash	Paymaster	Services	…Arendse	chaired	the
adjudication	committee	for	the	2008	tender,	which	was	cancelled	in	November	that
year	on	the	committee's	advice."


Finally,	as	has	been	well-documented	in	the	media	over	the	past	few	years,	UEPS	was
once	again	accused	of	bribing	government	officials	in	connection	with	its	2012	SASSA
tender	win.	I	will	not	discuss	these	latest	allegations	in	detail	as	I	have	already	touched
upon	them	in	my	prior	articles	on	UEPS.


Overwhelming	Evidence	of	Mistreatment	of	Social	Grant	Beneficiaries


In	addition	to	numerous	bribery	allegations,	I	was	surprised	to	discover	that	the	Company
has	been	dogged	by	various	allegations	of	gross	mistreatment	of	grant
beneficiaries	for	the	better	part	of	two	decades.	The	first	documented	case	that	I	found
occurred	over	15	years	ago.	In	late	2000,	UEPS/Aplitec	found	itself	in	hot	water	due	to	the
death	of	a	70-year-old	grant	recipient	at	a	CPS	grant	pay	point	in	the	KwaZulu-Natal
province.	Prior	to	the	grant	recipient's	death,	many	pensioners	had	complained	of
unusually	long	lines	and	delays	at	CPS	pay	points.	The	following	is	from	an	October	2000
news24	article:


"The	African	National	Congress	in	KwaZulu-Natal	on	Tuesday	said	it	was	shocked
by	the	death	of	a	70-year-old	pensioner	at	a	pension	pay	point	in	Durban…
Spokesperson	Mtholephi	Mthimkhulu	said	staff	of	Cash	Payment	Service	,	the
private	company	contracted	to	pay	pensioners,	did	not	properly	arrange	the
implementation	of	the	new	card	system	for	pension	payouts."


"Joseph's	death	followed	complaints	by	pensioners	that	they	are	forced	to	stand	in
queues	for	hours	to	collect	their	monthly	pensions."


In	response	to	the	poor	conditions	and	long	lines	at	CPS	pay	points,	a	committee	meeting
was	organized	in	September	2001	by	various	parties	associated	with	the	South	African
grant	distribution	program.	The	purpose	of	this	meeting	was	to	discuss	the	inadequate
service	that	UEPS/Aplitec	was	providing	to	pensioners.	The	full	transcript	of	this	meeting
can	be	found	here.	In	addition	to	discussing	poor	service	at	pay	points,	the	committee
spent	a	great	deal	of	time	voicing	their	concerns	to	Mr.	Belamant	over	the	potential



http://www.news24.com/xArchive/Archive/Shock-at-pensioners-death-20001003

https://pmg.org.za/committee-meeting/792/
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 6/14


exploitation	of	grant	beneficiaries	by	CPS	through	the	marketing	of	third	party	products
and	services.	Provided	below	are	a	few	excerpts	from	this	meeting	in	which	the	marketing
of	products	to	beneficiaries,	such	as	microloans	and	prepaid	electricity,	is	discussed:


"Mrs	Kalyan	(DP)	asked	for	clarity	regarding	the	specific	products	provided	by	the
company…Mr	Bellemant	responded	that	19	products	had	been	introduced…The
card	allowed	holders	to	pre-pay	for	water	and	electricity,	for	instance.	It	can	also
handle	payments	for	cell	phone	recharge	cards.	Transportation	costs	could	be	paid
using	the	card."


"Mr	Salojee	(ANC)	referred	to	the	mention	of	the	19	products.	He	wanted	to	know
whether	they	had	been	assessed	by	any	kind	of	Consumer	Protection	Organisation.
In	addition,	he	wondered	whether	there	was	any	regulation	over	the	matter.	He	was
also	concerned	whether	the	pension	salary	of	R570	every	month	was	sufficient	to
purchase	the	wide	range	of	products	mentioned."


"Mr	Mbadi	(UDM)	said	that	some	deductions	were	done	without	the	knowledge	of
the	pensioner,	who	did	not	know	the	amount	actually	due	to	him."


As	shown	by	the	above	excerpts,	back	in	2001,	the	Company	appeared	to	be	using	similar
tactics	as	it	does	today	in	order	to	profit	from	social	grant	beneficiaries.	This	includes	the
aggressive	marketing	of	microloans	and	other	products	to	beneficiaries	of	limited	means.
It	was	also	alleged	that,	in	some	cases,	the	deductions	from	beneficiary	accounts	were
done	without	the	beneficiary's	knowledge.	Thus,	it	appears	that	concerns	over	UEPS's
alleged	exploitation	of	grant	beneficiaries	is	not	a	recent	phenomenon.


Unfortunately,	the	September	2001	committee	meeting	seemingly	did	little	to	improve	the
quality	of	CPS's	grant	payment	services.	In	June	2003,	another	pensioner	died	at	a	CPS
pay	point.	This	time	it	was	a	31-year-old	woman	who	died	while	waiting	in	line	for	her
grant	payment.	As	a	result	of	this	incident,	as	well	as	numerous	complaints	over	the	poor
quality	of	CPS's	service,	the	Eastern	Cape	social	development	department	took	over	the
grant	payment	program	in	six	of	the	districts	served	by	CPS.	These	unfortunate	events
were	documented	in	a	July	2003	news24	article:



http://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/Payments-EC-govt-steps-in-20030703
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 7/14


"The	Eastern	Cape's	social	development	department	has	taken	over	indefinitely	the
payment	of	pensions	and	social	security	grants	in	six	districts	previously	served	by
Cash	Paymaster	Services	."


"MEC	Neo	Moerane-Mamase	said:	'We	agree	it	was	a	mistake	to	take	a	company
that	has	failed	to	prove	its	capability	to	render	quality	services.	We	also	apologise	for
any	suffering	and	ill-treatment.'"


"He	was	responding	to	a	number	of	complaints	about	the	service,	among	them	long
queues,	late	arrivals,	the	length	of	time	taken	to	process	grants	and	the	location	of
pay	points…	Criticism	of	CPS'	service	came	to	a	head	last	week	when	a	31-one-
year-old	woman	died	while	waiting	in	line	for	her	social	grant."


The	final	item	that	I	will	discuss	in	regards	to	UEPS's	treatment	of	grant	beneficiaries	is
the	recent	suspension	of	the	Company's	insurance	license.	As	I	discussed	at	length	in	my
initial	article	on	UEPS,	the	Company	has	continued	to	use	questionable	and	potentially
unlawful	methods	to	market	products	such	as	microloans	and	funeral	policies	to	grant
beneficiaries.	In	February	2013,	the	Company	finally	faced	some	consequences	for	its
questionable	marketing	practices	as	the	Financial	Services	Board	("FSB")	suspended
UEPS's	insurance	license.	The	FSB	claimed	that	the	Company	was	using	its	grant	pay
points	to	market	funeral	policies	directly	to	beneficiaries.	According	to	the	FSB,	this
practice	of	marketing	funeral	insurance	at	grant	pay	points	violated	South	African	law.	The
following	excerpts	are	from	a	May	2013	Mail	&	Guardian	article	regarding	the	FSB's
decision	to	suspend	UEPS's	insurance	license:


"The	Mail	&	Guardian	detailed	in	September	how	Net1's	plan	appeared	to	flout
South	African	law,	Sassa's	policy	and	the	terms	of	its	contract	with	Sassa."


"…in	February,	in	a	strongly	worded	letter	seen	this	week	by	the	M&G,	the	FSB
suspended	the	licence	of	Net1	subsidiary	Smart	Life,	which	was	set	up	to	market
funeral	policies	at	grant	pay	points…Among	the	regulator's	concerns	was	that	Net1,
which	owns	90%	of	Smart	Life,	insisted	on	using	Cash	Paymaster's	social-grant
infrastructure	to	sell	insurance	policies."


One	More	Scandal	For	Good	Measure


Unfortunately	for	UEPS	longs,	the	Company's	questionable	behavior	extends	beyond
allegations	of	bribery	and	exploitation	of	grant	beneficiaries.	During	my	research,	I
discovered	one	other	major	scandal	related	to	the	Company	which	occurred	over	17	years



http://mg.co.za/article/2013-05-31-00-fsb-clamps-down-on-net1s-insurance-to-poor
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 8/14


ago.	In	1998,	Hanoch	Neishlos,	a	long-time	business	associate	of	Mr.	Belamant,	was
accused	of	using	university	research	funds	for	the	benefit	of	himself	and	Aplitec.	At	the
time,	Mr.	Neishlos	was	a	professor	at	the	University	of	Witwatersrand	as	well	as	an
executive	director	at	Aplitec.	According	to	an	April	1998	Mail	&	Guardian	article,
colleagues	of	Mr.	Neishlos	at	the	University	of	the	Witwatersrand	claimed	that	Mr.
Neishlos	was	inappropriately	using	university	funds	and	resources	to	develop	technology
to	be	used	by	Aplitec.	In	other	words,	Mr.	Neishlos	was	using	university	resources	for	the
benefit	of	Aplitec	and	not	the	university.	As	a	result	of	these	accusations,	Mr.	Neishlos
eventually	resigned	from	his	position	at	the	university.	Provided	below	is	an	excerpt	from
the	Mail	&	Guardian	article	which	provides	more	detail	on	the	dispute:


"A	senior	academic	at	the	University	of	the	Witwatersrand	is	poised	to	resign	over
his	involvement	in	a	publicly	listed	technology	company…Professor	Hanoch
Neishlos,	chair	of	the	computer	science	department	at	Wits,	and	his	wife	own	shares
in	the	company	that	are	currently	worth	more	than	R100-million."


"The	company's	main	product	is	strikingly	similar	to	technology	Neishlos	is
developing	at	Wits,	in	a	research	project	partly	funded	by	the	taxpayer	and	run	with
the	help	of	his	postgraduate	students."


"Neishlos	has	also	been	an	executive	director	at	the	company,	Net	1	Applied
Technology	(Aplitec),	for	more	than	six	months.	He	still	draws	a	salary	from	Wits."


A	Summary	of	Prior	Allegations


The	sheer	amount	of	controversies	that	UEPS	has	been	involved	in	over	the	past	17+
years	is	simply	mind	boggling.	Provided	below	an	extensive	list	of	the	various	scandals
and	allegations	of	wrongdoing	that	have	been	levied	at	the	Company	over	the	years.


1.	1998	-	Hanoch	Neishlos,	a	long-time	business	associate	of	Mr.	Belamant,	was
accused	of	using	university	research	funds	for	the	benefit	of	himself	and	Aplitec


2.	2000	-	In	early	2000,	it	was	alleged	that	CPS	had	paid	bribes	to	Prince	Gideon	Zulu,
the	Welfare	and	Population	Development	Minister	of	KwaZulu-Natal


3.	2000	-	In	late	2000,	a	70-year-old	grant	recipient	died	at	a	CPS	grant	pay	point.	Some
believed	that	unusually	long	lines	and	delays	at	CPS	pay	points	were	partly	to	blame


4.	2001	-	During	a	South	African	committee	meeting	in	September	2001,	committee
members	voiced	concerns	over	the	potential	exploitation	of	grant	beneficiaries	by	CPS
through	the	marketing	of	microloans	and	other	products



http://mg.co.za/article/1998-04-24-wits-man-used-research-funds-for-gain
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 9/14


5.	2003	-	In	June	2003,	another	pensioner	died	at	a	CPS	pay	point.	In	response	to	this
incident,	the	government	took	over	the	grant	program	in	six	of	the	districts	served	by
CPS


6.	2004	-	The	Scorpions	alleged	that	the	ANC	and	former	premier	Ngoako	Ramatlhodi
had	inappropriately	received	financial	favors	from	CPS


7.	2008	-	In	early	2012,	a	South	African	official	alleged	that	he	had	received	a	bribe	offer
from	CPS	during	the	tender	process	for	a	2008	social	grant	payments	contract


8.	2012	-	Also	in	early	2012,	the	awarding	of	the	2012	SASSA	tender	to	UEPS	was
disputed	by	AllPay.	AllPay	alleged	that	UEPS	had	bribed	government	officials	and	that
SASSA	had	run	a	highly	irregular	bidding	process.


9.	2013	-	In	February	2013,	the	FSB	suspended	UEPS's	insurance	license	over	claims
that	the	Company	was	using	its	grant	pay	points	to	market	funeral	policies	directly	to
beneficiaries


10.	2012	to	Present	-	Various	media	outlets	and	activist	groups	in	South	Africa	have
continued	to	voice	concerns	over	UEPS's	questionable	behavior	relating	to	the
marketing	of	microloans	and	other	products	to	grant	beneficiaries


The	next	natural	question	is	how	legitimate	are	these	claims	against	the	Company?	In
regards	to	UEPS's	alleged	poor	treatment	of	beneficiaries,	it	appears	that	there	is	a	good
deal	of	validity	to	this	claim.	As	discussed,	due	to	poor	conditions	at	CPS	pay	points,	the
South	African	government	was	forced	to	take	over	the	grant	distribution	responsibilities	in
six	districts	served	by	CPS.	This	drastic	action	by	the	South	African	government	provides
pretty	strong	evidence	that	UEPS	was	in	fact	providing	a	substandard	level	of	service
which	resulted	in	dangerous	conditions	at	grant	pay	points.	Also,	the	fact	that	UEPS's
insurance	license	was	suspended	in	2013	brings	validity	to	allegations	that	the	Company
was	employing	questionable	and	even	unlawful	marketing	practices.	Further	supporting
these	allegations	is	the	fact	that	various	activist	groups	and	media	outlets	in	South	Africa
have	voiced	concerns	over	UEPS's	questionable	marketing	of	products	to	beneficiaries.


In	terms	of	the	numerous	allegations	of	bribery	levied	against	the	Company,	I	was	not	able
to	find	any	information	in	regards	to	the	outcome	of	the	bribery	allegations	levied	against
UEPS	in	2000,	2004	and	2008.	These	cases	are	not	very	well	documented	online.	That
being	said,	the	controversy	surrounding	the	2012	SASSA	tender	was	extensively	covered
by	the	media.	From	the	various	reports	discussing	the	2012	SASSA	tender,	I	was	able	to
find	evidence	which	supports	the	claim	that	UEPS	bribed	SASSA	officials.	For	example,
John	Tsalamandrisa	was	a	SASSA	employee	who	was	a	member	of	the	bid	committee	for
the	2012	SASSA	grant	tender.	In	a	taped	conversation	between	Mr.	Tsalamandrisa	and
Roedolf	Kay,	the	head	of	the	SA	Older	Persons	Forum,	Mr.	Tsalamandrisa	expressed	his
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 10/14


concerns	over	the	corrupt	actions	that	he	had	observed	during	the	2012	tender	process.
The	following	are	excerpts	from	an	April	2013	BizCommunity	article	which	provides	further
detail	on	this	taped	conversation:


"Tsalamandris	met	Roedolf	Kay,	the	head	of	the	SA	Older	Persons	Forum,	at	a	Spur
in	Cape	Town	in	March	last	year,	and	told	him	how	the	tender	was	"just	so	blatantly
dirty."	Kay	recorded	the	conversation	and	the	transcript,	submitted	to	court,	makes
shocking	reading."


"In	it,	Tsalamandris	details	how	AllPay's	scores	were	lowered,	how	people	connived
to	exclude	AllPay	and	how	key	people	"took	money"	in	cash."


"Kay	eventually	filed	an	affidavit	about	the	conversation,	but	crucially	Tsalamandris
himself	did	not	as	he	was	already	a	witness	for	his	employer,	SASSA…He	also
seemed	to	fear	for	his	safety."


As	detailed	in	the	above	excerpts,	Mr.	Tsalamandrisa	alleged	that	SASSA	had	taken
bribes	and	had	intentionally	lowered	AllPay's	scores	relative	to	UEPS.	In	my	opinion,	Mr.
Tsalamandrisa's	allegations	provide	strong	evidence	that	UEPS	may	have	been	bribing
and	working	with	SASSA	to	ensure	that	it	won	the	tender.	I	believe	this	is	a	reasonable
assertion	given	that	Mr.	Tsalamandrisa	was	so	close	to	the	bid	process	as	a	member	of
the	SASSA	bid	committee.	Ultimately,	the	Constitutional	Court	of	South	Africa	agreed	that
there	was	something	fishy	about	the	2012	SASSA	tender.	Although	bribery	was	never
legally	proven,	the	Constitutional	Court	ruled	that	the	SASSA	bid	process	was	"highly
irregular"	and	ordered	SASSA	to	retender	the	contract.


In	summary,	as	outlined	in	this	section,	I	believe	that	there	is	a	good	deal	of	legitimacy	to
the	numerous	allegations	that	UEPS	bribed	officials	and	mistreated	grant	beneficiaries.
Although	there	is	little	documentation	online	regarding	the	legitimacy	of	the	2000,	2004
and	2008	bribery	allegations,	there	is	strong	evidence	supporting	the	other	allegations
levied	against	UEPS	(e.g.	bribery	of	SASSA	officials	in	2012,	poor	treatment	of
beneficiaries).	All	of	this	leads	to	the	question	of	why	the	South	African	government
awarded	UEPS	contracts	for	the	better	part	of	two	decades	despite	all	the	controversy.	It
is	impossible	for	me	to	answer	this	question	with	certainty.	However,	I	will	provide	my
opinion	on	this	matter	in	the	next	section.


Key	Takeaways



http://www.bizcommunity.com/Article/196/594/91697.html
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 11/14


So	what	key	takeaways	should	investors	take	from	this	article?	First	off,	given	UEPS's
involvement	in	so	many	controversies,	I	believe	that	the	Company	and	Mr.	Belamant	lack
almost	any	credibility.	How	can	investors	trust	a	Company	and	CEO	who	appear	to	act
with	such	little	regard	for	the	law	or	human	rights?	Going	forward,	I	find	it	highly	unlikely
that	Mr.	Belamant	will	run	UEPS	in	a	responsible	manner	and	build	long-term	shareholder
value.	Instead,	I	believe	it	is	more	likely	that	a	cloud	of	controversy	will	continue	to
surround	the	Company	for	as	long	as	Mr.	Belamant	remains	CEO.	Thus,	due	to	the
Company's	severe	corporate	governance	issues,	I	see	no	reasonable	justification	for
holding	shares	in	UEPS	at	any	price.


Eventually,	I	believe	that	the	highly	questionable	manner	in	which	UEPS	conducts
business	will	result	in	significant	liabilities	for	the	Company.	Up	to	this	point,	the	Company
has	surprisingly	been	able	to	escape	any	major	consequences	for	its	actions.	However,
there	are	indications	that	this	is	about	to	change.	Recently,	the	Company	has	come	under
increased	scrutiny	from	media	outlets	and	activist	groups	in	South	Africa.	Also,	as
mentioned	in	my	first	article	on	UEPS,	there	have	been	a	number	of	recent	investigations
into	the	Company	by	regulatory	groups	in	both	the	US	and	South	Africa.	Basically,	the
Company	is	a	ticking	time	bomb	from	a	regulatory	/	legal	perspective.	Any	of	the	current	or
future	investigations	into	the	Company	could	result	in	severe	liabilities	for	the	business,
and	in	turn	a	significant	decline	in	equity	value.	For	example,	activist	groups	in	South
Africa	have	been	demanding	that	UEPS	refund	all	illegal	deductions	taken	from	grant
payments.	I	would	not	want	to	own	shares	in	a	business	with	so	many	legal	and	regulatory
issues	hanging	over	its	head.


In	addition	to	potential	liabilities	from	current	and	future	regulatory	investigations,	UEPS
shareholders	should	also	be	concerned	about	the	severe	damage	that	the	Company	has
done	to	its	reputation.	As	I	have	previously	discussed,	I	estimate	that	UEPS	will	likely	lose
almost	70%	of	its	revenue	base	when	the	SASSA	contract	expires	in	March	2017.	Thus,
the	Company	will	need	to	secure	a	significant	amount	of	revenue	from	new	clients	in	order
to	keep	the	business	profitable.	Given	UEPS's	history	of	poor	conduct	and	the	increasingly
negative	publicity	surrounding	the	business,	I	believe	that	it	will	be	very	difficult	for	the
Company	to	secure	new	business.	For	example,	Vodacom	publicly	distanced	themselves
from	UEPS	when	it	was	discovered	that	UEPS	was	using	Vodacom-supplied	SIM	cards	to
help	carry	out	its	Umoya	Manje	SMS	marketing	scheme.	The	following	excerpts	are	from
a	May	2014	Mail	&	Guardian	article	which	describes	the	Vodacom	controversy	in	more
detail:



http://amabhungane.co.za/article/2014-05-01-grants-monopoly-under-fire
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 12/14


"The	South	African	Social	Security	Agency	(Sassa)	and	its	agent,	Cash	Paymaster
Services	,	are	railroading	state	welfare	recipients	into	using	Vodacom	SIM	cards
through	an	exclusive	partnership	between	the	two	companies…it	appears	that	Net
1's	plan	is	to	push	microloans,	funeral	insurance	and	airtime	at	welfare	recipients
using	the	Vodacom	numbers."


"Vodacom	spokesperson	Richard	Boorman	distanced	the	company	from	Sassa.
"After	they	won	this	tender,	Net	1	...	asked	[us]	to	become	a	dealer	so	they	could
distribute	our	SIM	cards	the	same	way	we	would	supply	them	to	any	other	dealer.
We're	purely	a	technical	partner.""


The	Vodacom	ordeal	is	just	one	example,	but	it	provides	a	good	illustration	for	why	UEPS
will	likely	have	trouble	securing	new	clients	and	business	partners.	Quite	simply,	nobody
wants	to	work	with	someone	whom	they	cannot	trust.	This	is	especially	true	in	more
developed	countries	which	have	greater	sensitivity	to	corruption.	UEPS	has	stated	that
one	of	its	major	growth	initiatives	is	to	expand	its	business	in	developed	countries	like	the
UK	and	US.	In	fact,	the	Company	has	moved	a	number	of	key	executives	to	its	offices	in
London.	This	is	a	curious	move	for	the	simple	fact	that	the	odds	are	quite	low	that	the	US
or	UK	business	community	and	government	will	ever	embrace	a	company	as	controversial
as	UEPS.	Thus,	I	believe	the	Company's	international	expansion	efforts	have	little	chance
of	success.


Finally,	I	am	quite	puzzled	as	to	how	UEPS	has	continued	to	win	social	grant	tenders
despite	its	less	than	stellar	service	record.	As	mentioned	previously,	in	2003,	the	South
African	government	took	over	the	grant	program	in	six	of	UEPS's	districts	due	to	poor
conditions	at	grant	pay	points.	Despite	UEPS's	failure	to	deliver	an	acceptable	level	of
service,	the	government	inexplicably	re-awarded	the	social	grant	tender	to	the	Company
when	the	contract	came	up	for	renewal.	How	does	this	happen?	Given	that	almost	all	of
UEPS's	tender	awards	have	been	tainted	by	allegations	of	bribery,	I	believe	that	there	is	a
good	chance	the	Company	has	used	unlawful	methods	to	help	secure	contract	wins.	It	is
the	only	reasonable	explanation	that	I	can	come	up	with	for	why	the	government	keeps
handing	UEPS	business.	The	fact	that	UEPS	may	have	used	bribes	as	a	means	to	help
win	social	grant	tenders	over	years	is	not	a	positive	sign	for	the	future	viability	of	the
business.	It	may	mean	that	UEPS	cannot	compete	based	solely	on	its	capabilities.	This
casts	further	doubt	on	the	Company's	ability	to	gain	enough	new	clients	to	sufficiently
offset	the	upcoming	expiration	of	the	SASSA	contract.


Largest	Shareholder	Is	Aggressively	Liquidating	Shares
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 13/14


For	many	years,	International	Value	Advisers	has	been	the	largest	shareholder	in	UEPS.
However,	based	on	recent	activity,	it	appears	that	IVA	is	rapidly	losing	confidence	in	their
investment.	Provided	below	is	a	table	which	shows	IVA's	share	ownership	in	UEPS	as
provided	in	its	last	three	13G	filings:


As	shown	in	the	table	above,	over	the	past	year,	IVA	has	reduced	their	holdings	in
UEPS	by	45%	from	12.8mm	shares	(27.6%	ownership)	as	of	Feb	2015	to	7.1mm	shares
(14.9%	ownership)	as	of	Feb	2016.	The	fact	that	IVA	has	sold	almost	half	of	their	holding
over	the	past	year	is	a	concerning	development	for	shareholders.	Also	noteworthy	is	the
fact	that	IVA	has	continued	to	sell	large	amounts	of	shares	during	a	time	when	UEPS's
stock	price	has	been	in	freefall.	Based	on	IVA's	Oct	2015	and	Feb	2016	13G	filings,	IVA
sold	a	total	of	1.3mm	shares	between	Oct.	6th	2015	and	Feb.	8th	2016.	The	continued
dumping	of	shares	by	IVA	near	52-week	low	stock	prices	is	a	strong	indication	that
the	firm	has	lost	a	good	deal	of	confidence	in	UEPS's	future	business	prospects.


My	Interaction	With	Investor	Relations


I	would	like	to	note	that	I	reached	out	UEPS's	investor	relations	team	via	email.	I	asked
them	for	their	feedback	on	the	various	issues	which	I	have	outlined	in	this	article.	If	I
receive	a	meaningful	response,	I	will	provide	an	update	in	the	comments	section.


Conclusion


Given	all	of	the	major	controversy	which	has	surrounded	the	Company	for	almost	two
decades,	I	am	shocked	that	UEPS	has	been	able	to	escape	any	major	consequences.
That	being	said,	the	upcoming	SASSA	contract	expiration,	as	well	as	increasing	regulatory
scrutiny	strongly	indicate	that	the	good	times	are	about	to	end	for	the	Company	and	Mr.
Belamant.	At	the	end	of	the	day,	UEPS	shareholders	must	ask	themselves	whether	it	is
worth	the	risk	to	hold	shares	in	a	company	that	appears	to	be	relying	on	unlawful	and
unethical	practices	to	sustain	its	business.	In	my	opinion,	the	answer	is	undoubtedly	a
resounding	"No".	Based	on	the	large	reduction	in	IVA's	UEPS	ownership	stake	over	the
past	year,	it	appears	that	IVA	may	have	also	reached	the	same	conclusion.	Thus,	despite
the	recent	large	decline	in	share	price,	I	continue	to	believe	that	UEPS	represents	a
tremendous	short	opportunity	at	the	current	share	price	level.



http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=10483199-1277-17268&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=77961&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1041514

http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=11154736-1278-17347&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=77961&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1041514

http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=10944780-1278-17348&type=sect&TabIndex=2&companyid=77961&ppu=%252fdefault.aspx%253fcik%253d1041514
7/18/2019 Net 1 UEPS Technologies: Allegations Of Unlawful Conduct For Almost Twenty Years - Net 1 UEPS Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:UEPS) | Seeking …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3897476-net-1-ueps-technologies-allegations-unlawful-conduct-almost-twenty-years 14/14


Disclosure:	I	am/we	are	short	UEPS.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving
compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is
mentioned	in	this	article.


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


