7/18/2019 SA Interview: How To Spot Accounting Red Flags With Jay Yoon - Celadon Group, Inc. (NYSE:CGI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/4130507-sa-interview-spot-accounting-red-flags-jay-yoon 1/6


Short	Ideas 	|	 Services	 	|	 Editors'	Picks


SA	Interview:	How	To	Spot	Accounting	Red	Flags	With	Jay	Yoon
Dec.	27,	2016	7:30	AM	ET
by:	PRO+	Interviews


Summary


Jay	Yoon	employs	a	long/short	strategy.


His	journey	to	the	short	side,	which	companies	are	more	likely	to	misrepresent	their
business	and	why	being	long	is	actually	more	difficult	than	being	short.


Jay	Yoon	shares	a	bearish	thesis	on	Celadon	Group.


Feature	interview


Long-time	Seeking	Alpha	contributor	Jay	Yoon	worked	in	investment	banking	and	private
equity	before	transitioning	to	investment	management,	where	he	employs	a	long/short
strategy.	His	focus	on	the	site	has	primarily	been	on	short	ideas,	and	as	the	interview
below	shows,	it	comes	from	a	bad	long	experience.	We	emailed	with	Jay	about	portfolio
management,	his	critical	eye	towards	management,	how	to	spot	red	flags	(with	real	world
examples)	and	how	shorting	helps	him	become	a	better	long	investor.


Seeking	Alpha:	You’ve	been	almost	exclusively	short-focused	in	your	work	on	Seeking
Alpha.	It's	not	hard	to	find	anecdotes	and	numbers	to	argue	that	short	selling	is	several
degrees	more	difficult	than	long-only	investing.	What	led	you	to	start	spending	time	on	the
short	side	and	what	themes	did	you	look	for	from	the	start?


Jay	Yoon:	Although	I	have	many	years	of	investing	experience	from	my	time	in	private
equity,	I	began	investing	in	the	public	markets	on	a	full-time	basis	just	three	years	ago.
Like	many	people	who	begin	investing	in	the	stock	market,	I	started	out	strictly	as	a	long-
only	investor.


At	the	time,	I	thought	shorting	stocks	simply	made	no	sense.	If	stocks	generally	go	up	over
time,	then	why	would	I	want	to	waste	my	time	on	a	strategy	that	goes	against	the	tides	of
the	market?	I	also	thought	that	shorting	was	too	risky.	Because	there	is	no	limit	to	how
high	a	stock	can	go,	shorting	the	wrong	stock	(like	Netflix	a	few	years	ago)	can	bankrupt
you.	On	top	of	that,	the	cost	to	borrow	shares	to	short	certain	companies	can	run	in
excess	of	50%	per	year.



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/services

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/editors-picks

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jay-yoon/articles#regular_articles?source=pro_newsletter_interview
7/18/2019 SA Interview: How To Spot Accounting Red Flags With Jay Yoon - Celadon Group, Inc. (NYSE:CGI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/4130507-sa-interview-spot-accounting-red-flags-jay-yoon 2/6


The	catalyst	which	led	me	to	eventually	incorporate	short	selling	into	my	portfolio	was	a
series	of	poor	investments	that	I	made	on	the	long	side.	In	2014,	I	invested	in	Plug	Power
(NASDAQ:PLUG)	and	Kandi	Technologies	(NASDAQ:KNDI).	Both	of	these	companies
had	seen	exponential	increases	in	their	stock	prices	and	were	trading	at	astronomical
valuations.	The	huge	increase	in	their	share	prices	was	largely	driven	by	overly	bullish
statements	from	management	and	stock	promoters	on	the	future	growth	prospects	of	their
business.	In	the	case	of	KNDI,	confusing	/	irregular	financial	reporting	also	aided	its	stock
price	performance.


Regrettably,	I	bought	into	the	hype	for	PLUG	and	KNDI	and	went	long	both	stocks.	I	even
wrote	articles	on	Seeking	Alpha	touting	these	companies	as	good	investments.	Of	course,
the	hype	generated	for	both	of	these	companies	proved	to	be	just	hot	air.	Within	a	year,
the	stock	prices	for	PLUG	and	KNDI	collapsed	over	50%.


Looking	back	on	it,	my	investments	in	PLUG	and	KNDI	were	the	turning	point	in	my
investing	career.	Although	the	hit	to	my	personal	account	and	reputation	were	tough	to
endure,	the	lessons	I	learned	from	these	experiences	were	invaluable.	I	came	to	the
realization	that	there	are	many	publicly	traded	companies	who	do	not	represent	their
business	in	an	honest	manner.	After	coming	to	this	realization,	I	began	to	analyze
companies	with	a	much	more	skeptical	eye.


From	this	more	critical	approach,	I	discovered	a	number	of	companies	where
management	had	grossly	misrepresented	its	business	to	investors.	As	a	result,	the	stock
prices	of	these	companies	appeared	to	be	significantly	overvalued.	Despite	still	having
some	reservations	about	shorting	stocks,	I	decided	that	these	opportunities	were	too	good
to	pass	up.	As	a	result,	starting	in	late	2014	I	began	to	incorporate	short	positions	in	my
account.


From	the	very	beginning,	the	general	theme	of	my	short	strategy	has	been	to	find
companies	where	investors	have	somehow	been	misled.	This	includes	companies	with
overly	promotional	or	unethical	management	teams,	as	well	as	companies	with
questionable	accounting	practices.	I	also	focus	a	lot	on	finding	companies	that	are	in
some	type	of	financial	distress,	particularly	overleveraged	businesses.	Based	on	my
experiences	and	observations,	a	distressed	business	is	much	more	likely	to	misrepresent
its	financial	performance	than	a	healthy	one.	The	two	most	recent	shorts	that	I	have
written	about	on	Seeking	Alpha,	Celadon	Group	(NYSE:CGI)	(see	here)	and	AVID
Technology	(NASDAQ:AVID)	(see	here),	are	a	perfect	illustration	of	this.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PLUG

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/KNDI

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CGI

https://seekingalpha.com/author/jay-yoon/articles#regular_articles&ticker=cgi?source=pro_newsletter_interview

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AVID

https://seekingalpha.com/article/4005800-avid-technology-strong-sell-due-accounting-concerns-legal-concerns-deteriorating-performance?source=pro_newsletter_interview
7/18/2019 SA Interview: How To Spot Accounting Red Flags With Jay Yoon - Celadon Group, Inc. (NYSE:CGI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/4130507-sa-interview-spot-accounting-red-flags-jay-yoon 3/6


Both	companies	are	overleveraged,	rapidly	burning	cash	and	losing	ground	to
competitors.	As	a	result,	their	management	teams	have	resorted	to	questionable
accounting	practices	to	seemingly	hide	the	true	performance	of	their	business	from
investors.


In	regards	to	the	types	of	companies	that	I	will	not	short,	I	tend	to	shy	away	from	growth
stocks	where	the	primary	argument	for	shorting	is	overvaluation.	These	types	of	shorts
often	do	not	have	well-	defined	catalyst	for	a	stock	price	decline.	As	a	result,	the
valuations	of	these	types	of	“momentum	stocks”	can	often	rise	seemingly	without	end	and
cause	a	lot	of	pain	for	short	sellers.


Although	most	investment	professionals	believe	that	shorting	is	much	more	difficult	than
long	investing,	I	have	found	it	to	be	the	exact	opposite.	In	my	opinion,	long	investing	is
more	difficult	because	it	involves	trying	to	predict	the	future.	That	is	a	hard	thing	to	do	and
it	is	why	most	investors	cannot	beat	the	markets.	By	contrast,	my	shorting	strategy	does
not	rely	that	much	on	trying	to	predict	the	future.	Instead,	it	relies	on	trying	to	uncover
accounting	irregularities	and	misrepresentation	of	business	performance.	Spotting	these
types	of	issues	is	much	easier	than	trying	to	predict	the	revenue	and	profits	of	a	business
2	to	4	years	from	now.


SA:	Can	you	walk	us	through	how	you	manage	your	short	book	–	specifically	whether	to
lock	in	significant	gains	in	such	a	short	time	frame	or	wait	for	the	thesis	to	fully	play	out
even	if	it	means	giving	back	some	of	the	gains?


JY:	The	manner	in	which	I	manage	my	shorts	depends	on	the	situation	and	how	the	thesis
plays	out	over	time.	That	being	said,	I	will	usually	cover	around	half	of	my	position	once	I
have	realized	significant	gains	from	the	short.	I	will	then	hold	the	remaining	half	until	the
stock	reaches	my	price	target	or	new	developments	at	the	business	lead	me	to	adjust	my
thesis	and	price	target.


Overall,	I	try	to	be	very	objective	and	flexible	when	it	comes	to	managing	my	short	book.
For	example,	if	new	developments	indicate	that	a	company’s	business	is	in	worse	shape
than	I	initially	thought,	I	will	add	to	my	short	position	even	if	it	has	already	declined	by	a
meaningful	amount.	In	other	cases,	if	new	developments	suggest	my	thesis	is	incorrect,	I
will	immediately	close	the	position	regardless	of	whether	I	made	a	gain	or	loss	on	the
investment.


SA:	As	it	seems	the	market	has	gone	straight	up	since	the	election,	are	you	finding	any
more	short	opportunities?	Have	you	needed	to	reposition	at	all?
7/18/2019 SA Interview: How To Spot Accounting Red Flags With Jay Yoon - Celadon Group, Inc. (NYSE:CGI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/4130507-sa-interview-spot-accounting-red-flags-jay-yoon 4/6


JY:	I	believe	there	are	good	short	opportunities	regardless	of	market	conditions.	As	I
discussed,	my	strategy	is	largely	focused	on	finding	companies	that	are	in	some	way
misrepresenting	their	business	to	investors.	These	types	of	companies	always	exist
regardless	of	how	high	the	broader	markets	are	trading.	That	being	said,	the	share	prices
of	some	of	the	companies	that	I	am	looking	at	have	appreciated	significantly	during	this
post-election	period.	This,	in	turn,	has	increased	their	attractiveness	from	a	returns
perspective.	Thus,	as	it	relates	to	my	strategy,	I	think	the	number	of	short	opportunities
has	not	increased	very	much	but	the	profit	opportunity	certainly	has.


I	have	not	had	to	do	much	repositioning	of	my	short	book	during	this	market	rally.	I
typically	size	my	short	positions	so	that,	even	if	their	prices	move	against	me	by	a
considerable	amount,	I	will	still	be	okay	from	a	margin	and	risk	perspective.	I	also	own	a
considerable	amount	of	long	positions	and	run	a	market	neutral	portfolio	at	this	time,	so	I
am	not	that	sensitive	to	whether	the	markets	are	trending	up	or	down.


SA:	Uncovering	major	accounting	issues	is	probably	one	of	the	most	difficult	yet	most
lucrative	sources	of	alpha,	and	it's	a	theme	of	your	articles	to	go	line-by-line	through	the
financial	statements	to	highlight	issues.	Obviously	it’s	different	for	each	company/industry
but	what	are	some	red	flags	you	look	for	that	merit	further	research?


JY:	There	a	few	things	that	I	initially	look	for	when	screening	for	financial	reporting	related
issues.	I	think	one	obvious	red	flag	is	the	presence	of	significant	Non-GAAP	adjustments.	I
once	heard	David	Einhorn	say	that	“when	a	company	tells	you	not	to	look	at	GAAP
financials,	it	is	time	to	look	at	the	GAAP	financials.”	I	have	found	that	companies
sometimes	use	extremely	aggressive	Non-GAAP	metrics	to	misrepresent	their	true
financial	performance	or	hide	a	deteriorating	financial	condition.


One	recent	example	of	this	is	AVID.	Management	was	using	misleading	Non-GAAP
metrics	for	bookings,	revenue	and	EBITDA	which	did	not	accurately	reflect	the	true
performance	of	the	business.	By	doing	so,	the	company	was	able	to	temporarily	hide	the
rapid	deterioration	of	its	financial	condition	from	investors.	Eventually	the	market	caught
on	to	what	was	happening,	and	AVID’s	share	price	has	collapsed	over	the	past	couple
months.


Another	red	flag	is	a	large	disconnect	between	reported	free	cash	flow	generation	and	net
income.	When	cash	flow	significantly	lags	net	income,	this	can	be	a	sign	that	management
is	using	creative	and	even	illegal	accounting	methods	to	artificially	boost	their	profits.
7/18/2019 SA Interview: How To Spot Accounting Red Flags With Jay Yoon - Celadon Group, Inc. (NYSE:CGI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/4130507-sa-interview-spot-accounting-red-flags-jay-yoon 5/6


I	think	one	such	example	of	this	is	CGI.	For	the	past	year,	CGI’s	free	cash	flow	generation
has	lagged	its	net	income	by	around	$20mm	per	quarter.	Based	on	my	analysis,	it
appears	that	the	reason	for	this	disconnect	is	CGI’s	use	of	questionable	accounting
methods	to	inflate	its	profits.


These	are	just	a	couple	of	the	many	different	types	of	red	flags	that	I	look	for	in	the
financial	statements.	I	think	every	situation	is	unique	and	there	is	no	limit	to	how
companies	can	cook	their	books.	I	think,	at	a	high	level,	I	simply	look	for	companies
whose	financial	statements	are	overly	complicated	or	just	seem	a	bit	off.	Through
experience,	I	have	developed	an	ability	to	quickly	recognize	when	a	company’s	financials
do	not	make	much	sense.


SA:	On	the	flipside,	how	does	your	experience	with	short	ideas	inform	your	long
investing?	What	sort	of	stocks	do	you	look	for?


JY:	I	think	being	a	short	seller	has	greatly	improved	my	abilities	as	a	long	investor.	For
example,	being	a	short	seller	has	taught	me	how	to	spot	signs	of	trouble	in	a	company.
This	includes	spotting	signs	of	dishonest	behavior	by	management,	as	well	as	signs	of
questionable	financial	reporting	methods.	By	improving	my	ability	to	spot	these	issues,	I
have	been	able	to	avoid	a	lot	of	disasters	on	the	long	side.


Also,	as	a	short	seller,	I	have	spent	hundreds	and	maybe	even	thousands	of	hours
reading	earnings	reports	and	SEC	filings.	These	experiences	have	improved	my	ability	to
analyze	financial	statements	and	determine	the	true	economic	performance	of	a	business.
This,	in	turn,	has	improved	my	ability	as	a	long	investor	to	more	accurately	determine	the
intrinsic	value	of	a	company.


In	terms	of	my	investment	philosophy	on	the	long	side,	I	believe	a	big	part	of	successful
investing	is	to	know	when	you	do	not	know.	I	think	the	best	investors	are	those	who	stick
to	their	circle	of	competence	and	are	good	at	recognizing	when	they	do	not	have	the
ability	to	understand	a	company’s	business.	As	a	result,	on	the	long	side,	I	focus	on	just	a
few	sectors.


At	the	moment,	most	of	my	long	investments	are	in	the	energy,	technology	and	industrials
sectors.	I	try	to	find	companies	with	very	simple,	easy	to	understand	business	models.
Also,	I	do	not	invest	in	companies	where	multiple	variables	have	to	break	my	way	in	order
for	the	investment	to	work	out.	I	prefer	investments	where	the	long	thesis	is	based	on	just
one	or	two	key	variables.	By	focusing	on	simple	businesses	with	simple	investment
theses,	I	think	it	is	easier	to	make	good	investment	decisions.
7/18/2019 SA Interview: How To Spot Accounting Red Flags With Jay Yoon - Celadon Group, Inc. (NYSE:CGI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/4130507-sa-interview-spot-accounting-red-flags-jay-yoon 6/6


***


Thanks	to	Jay	Yoon	for	the	interview.	If	you'd	like	to	check	out	or	follow	his	work,	you	can
find	the	profile	here.


Disclosure:	I/we	have	no	positions	in	any	stocks	mentioned,	and	no	plans	to	initiate	any	positions	within	the	next	72
hours.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving	compensation	for	it	(other	than
from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is	mentioned	in	this	article.


Additional	disclosure:	Check	with	individual	articles	or	authors	mentioned	for	their	positions.


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


