Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Intelligent	Systems	Corp:	Material	Undisclosed	Related	Party	
Transactions	Cast	Doubt	on	the	Integrity	of	Financial	


Statements	
	


• We	believe	that	Intelligent	Systems	Corp.	(INS)	has	
its	employees	set	up	or	take	control	of	undisclosed	
shell	companies	in	Asia,	who	then	partake	in	
undisclosed	related	party	transactions	with	INS	
intended	to	either	round-trip	revenue	back	to	INS	
or	siphon	money	out	of	the	company.	


• INS	seems	to	make	a	concentrated	and	conscious	
effort	to	hide	the	related	party	nature	of	these	
transactions.	


• For	example:	INS	invested	into	an	unnamed	Indian	
startup	(which	our	research	has	uncovered	as	
Flexopt	Technologies),	which	later	bought	services	
from	INS	using	INS’s	own	contributed	capital.		


• One	of	INS’s	employees	was	recently	listed	as	the	
founder	of	Flexopt.	This	designation	was	later	
removed	(we	believe	to	cover	their	tracks).	Another	
business	partner	associated	with	INS	was	also	listed	
on	the	incorporation	documents	of	Flexopt.	None	
of	this	was	disclosed	to	investors.	


• We	have	identified	a	network	of	Asian	companies	
set	up	by	INS’s	employees	or	their	business	partners	
who	commonly	transact	with	each	other,	and	
sometimes	with	INS	as	well.	We	question	the	
necessity	and	purpose	of	this	network.		


• We	have	identified	at	least	two	other	smaller	
instances	of	undisclosed	related	party	transactions	
between	INS	and	this	Asian	network.	


• We	believe	that	these	material	undisclosed	related	
party	transactions	cast	doubt	on	the	integrity	of	
INS’s	financial	statements.	Accordingly,	we	assign	
INS	a	price	target	of	$5	


Company 
Intelligent Systems Corp 


 
Ticker 


INS 
 


Industry 
Software - Infrastructure 


 
Exchange 


NYSE 
 


Price (as of 5/29/2019)  
$33.94 


 
Shares Outstanding 


8.95m 
 


Daily Volume 
161,891 


 
Projected Downside 


85% 
 





Publication Date 
May 30, 2019
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Summary	
	
	 Intelligent	Systems	is	a	low-quality	payments	provider	masquerading	as	the	“next	big	
thing”.	While	its	financial	statements	and	share	price	have	recently	gone	parabolic,	we	see	
evidence	that	some	of	this	growth	may	have	been	achieved	through	undisclosed	related	party	
transactions	between	INS	and	a	network	of	Indian	and	Asian	companies,	rather	than	through	
true	business	prowess.		


Specifically,	we	have	found	definitive	evidence	of	INS	lending	money	to	startups	
controlled	by	INS	employees	in	India,	then	slowly	funneling	that	initial	investment	back	to	INS	
through	a	network	of	related	Indian	and	Asian	companies,	allowing	INS	to	book	it	as	revenue.	
Wall	Street	appears	to	take	INS’s	management	at	its	word,	mindlessly	extrapolating	continued	
hyper-growth	without	questioning	where	this	growth	is	actually	coming	from.	
	
A	Note	on	Aurelius	
	
	 Notable	short	publishing	outfit	Aurelius	Value	has	recently	published	a	damning	report	
on	INS	that	we	invite	readers	to	view	here.	Our	report	includes	minimal	overlap	with	Aurelius’s	
research.	We	believe	that	our	findings	of	undisclosed	related	party	transactions	further	
corroborate	the	presence	of	significant	wrongdoing	on	INS’s	part.	We	note	that	none	of	the	
undisclosed	related	party	transactions	that	we	detail	in	this	report	are	also	discussed	in	the	
Aurelius	report.	


We	believe	Aurelius	did	a	great	job	elaborating	on	how	the	supposed	recent	
Apple/Goldman	relationship	is	most	likely	not	going	to	result	in	enormous	profits,	as	investors	
seem	to	expect.	We	also	concur	that	INS	has	invested	way	too	little	in	the	development	of	their	
technology	to	give	it	any	kind	of	differentiated	advantage	in	the	marketplace.	For	the	sake	of	
not	boring	the	reader,	we	refer	you	to	Aurelius’	report	and	will	not	comment	on	these	issues	
further	in	this	report.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


INS	–	Scheme	or	Star?	
	
Intelligent	Systems	Corporation	(INS)	markets	and	sells	CoreCard,	a	payments	


processing	technology.	Three	quarters	ago,	INS’s	revenues	and	EBITDA	suddenly	started	
skyrocketing.	Whereas	previously	INS	was	a	solidly	unprofitable	business	with	minimal	growth,	
suddenly	revenues	were	growing	over	triple-digits	YOY	and	profits	swung	from	negative	to	
30%+	EBIT	margins.		


Management	attributed	the	change	to	sudden	new	demand	for	their	products,	so	much	
so	that	they	had	to	start	rejecting	new	customer	orders	as	to	accommodate	the	newfound	
demand.	This	pick-up	in	growth	caused	INS’s	share	price	to	over	quintuple	year-to-date.	
	


 
	
	 Amazingly,	the	last	three	quarters’	growth	imply	nearly	100%	contribution	margin	from	
whatever	great	new	customers	INS	has	picked	up.	


An	extraordinary	business	indeed.	
	 We,	however,	see	a	different	narrative.	We	believe	that	INS	has	achieved	its	
extraordinary	growth	through	not-so-extraordinary	methods.	Specifically,	we	believe	that	INS	
is	engaging	in	several	undisclosed	related	party	transactions	between	itself	and	its	employees	
in	India.	These	transactions	are	material	in	nature,	and	some	of	them	strangely	coincide	with	
INS’s	sudden	jump	in	financial	performance	beginning	2018.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Curious	Investments	in	An	Indian	FinTech	Company	
	


	 INS’s	extraordinary	financial	and	share	price	performance	started	at	the	beginning	of	
2018.	Coincidentally,	this	coincided	with	the	time	that	INS	made	a	curious-sounding	investment	
into	an	Indian	FinTech	startup:	
	


	
Source:	INS	2017	10-K	filed	3/15/18	
	


	 As	you	can	see,	INS	loaned	$235,000	(with	an	option	for	an	additional	$200,000)	
through	a	conditional	convertible	note	to	an	Indian	FinTech	startup,	then	one	month	later	
signed	a	processing	agreement	with	that	same	startup	for	CoreCard	to	perform	services	for	
them.	
	 Note	the	lack	of	any	significant	detail	regarding	the	company	in	question.	For	example,	
what	is	the	startup’s	name?	What	does	INS	hope	to	get	out	of	the	investment	(5%	is	an	
incredibly	low	interest	rate	for	the	risks	associated	with	a	startup)?	
	
Finding	Flexopt	
	
	 Our	research	shows	that	this	“investment’s”	name	is	Flexopt	Technology,	a	startup	
which	runs	the	website	http://www.payopt.in,	specializing	in	consumer	credit.	In	Flexopt’s	
financial	statements	filed	with	the	Indian	Ministry	of	Corporate	Affairs,	we	see	CoreCard’s	initial	
$235,000	investment	clearly:
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 





	
Source:	Flexopt	FY	2017	(ended	3/31/18)	Financial	Statements.	Note	USD/INR	exchange	rate	was	$0.016	/	INR	1	at	3/31/18,	making	the	above	
INR	15,000,000	loan	~$240,000,	which	matches	INS’s	description	in	its	FY17	10-K.	
	


	 Flexopt	was	initially	registered	in	April	2017,	just	8	months	before	the	above	investment	
took	place.	INS’s	note	in	its	10-K	also	states	that	Flexopt	subsequently	entered	into	a	processing	
agreement	with	CoreCard	(remember,	INS	owns	CoreCard),	for	an	unspecified	dollar	value.	
Flexopt’s	financial	statements	give	a	hint	as	to	the	value	of	the	processing	agreement.	In	an	
appendix,	Flexopt	gives	a	list	of	its	existing	accounts	payables	composition:
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
Source:	Flexopt	FY	2017	(ended	3/31/18)	Financial	Statements.	
	


	 Focus	on	the	red	for	now	but	we’ll	come	back	to	New	Vision	(green)	later.		
	 The	INR	2,345,606	balance	to	CoreCard	here	represents	~$35,000	in	payables	to	
CoreCard	-	not	too	much	compared	to	INS’s	$10	million	in	revenues	and	$3	million	existing	
receivables	balance.		
	 However,	we	note	that	this	is	just	Flexopt’s	payables	balance	to	CoreCard,	not	its	total	
purchases	from	CoreCard	for	the	period.	Total	payments	are	therefore	likely	higher	than	
$35,000.	Further,	these	transactions	all	occurred	in	the	less	than	two-month	period	between	
when	Flexopt	signed	a	processing	agreement	with	CoreCard	on	2/5/18	and	Flexopt’s	year-end	
of	3/31/18.	Annualizing	just	the	$35,000	payment	therefore	yields	almost	$250,000,	even	larger	
than	INS’s	initial	loan	to	Flexopt,	and	fairly	material	to	INS,	which	at	the	time	was	losing	
~$500,000	per	year.	
	 Remember,	none	of	this	was	disclosed	by	INS.	In	INS’s	financial	statements	it	simply	
states	that	INS	made	an	investment	into	an	Indian	FinTech	startup,	and	subsequently	entered	
into	a	processing	agreement	with	the	startup.	
	
Digging	Into	the	Financials	
	 	


Flexopt	hardly	constitutes	a	business,	with	basically	$0	in	revenue	and	is	simply	using	
CoreCard’s	own	loan	to	pay	for	CoreCard’s	services	(see	Flexopt’s	year-end	income	statement	
below):
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


			
Source:	Flexopt	FY	2017	(ended	3/31/18)	Financial	Statements.	


	 	
	 This	suggests	that	Flexopt	is	essentially	just	round-tripping	the	cash	from	INS’s	loan	right	
back	to	INS	through	the	processing	agreement.	If	true,	his	would	obviously	mean	that	the	loan	
and	the	subsequent	processing	agreement	both	lack	economic	substance.	
	 We	believe	that	this	is	Flexopt’s	entire	business.	The	company,	optically,	appears	to	be	
starting	to	ramp	up	revenues	(see	the	INR	67,699	in	revenues	above),	but	the	entirety	of	this	
revenue	was	from	a	related	party	New	Vision	Softcom	Consultancy	(more	on	New	Vision	later).
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Below	is	New	Vision	describing	its	related	party	transactions:	
	


	
Source:	New	Vision	FY	2017	(ended	3/31/18)	Financial	Statements.	


	
	 As	you	can	see,	New	Vision	sold	large	amounts	of	services	to	Flexopt,	with	very	little	
happening	the	other	way	around	(that	being	the	INR	67,699	that	represented	100%	of	Flexopt’s	
revenues).	Because	New	Vision	is	a	related	party,	we	do	not	believe	that	these	revenues	to	
Flexopt	actually	represent	true	economic	transactions.	This	makes	us	believe	that	Flexopt	is	still	
a	non-viable	startup	business	incapable	of	generating	revenues	as	a	standalone	entity.	
	


Flexopt	was	Founded	by	an	INS	Employee	
	
	 And	now	for	the	kicker	–	Flexopt	was	founded	by	an	INS	employee:	the	managing	
director	of	their	India	subsidiary,	ISC	Software	Private	Limited,	Anupam	Pathak.	
	 It’s	very	clear	that	Pathak	is	currently	involved	with	Flexopt,	while	also	being	managing	
director	at	ISC	Software.	Here	is	a	list	of	Indian	companies	that	Pathak	has	a	disclosed	
relationship	with:	
	


	
Source:	zaubacorp.com	
	


	 We	believe	INS	may	try	to	explain	away	this	relationship	by	stating	that	Pathak	is	only	
currently	a	director	at	Flexopt	because	INS	made	the	investment	into	Flexopt.	This	would	
optically	appear	true,	as	Pathak	was	only	appointed	to	be	a	director	at	Flexopt	in	October	2017,	
as	compared	to	Flexopt’s	incorporation	and	registration	of	its	two	founders	in	April	2017.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Presumably,	INS	would	have	been	in	talks	with	Flexopt	at	this	point	about	a	possible	loan.	
Further,	Pathak	is	currently	listed	on	Payopt’s	website	as	a	board	member,	and	not	a	founder:	
	


	
	
	 However,	we	believe	that	INS/Flexopt	are	simply	trying	to	cover	their	tracks	here.	As	
late	as	April	28th,	2018,	the	Wayback	Machine	has	recorded	a	different	“leadership	team”	page	
on	Payopt’s	website,	listing	Pathak	as	the	“founder”	(not	board	member)	of	Payopt:	
	


	
Source:	Wayback	Machine,	website:	http://www.payopt.in:80/leadership/	


	
	 This	page	now	does	not	exist.	Payopt’s	website	was	updated	at	some	point	between	
April	2018	and	present	to	change	Pathak’s	listed	role.	Conveniently,	back	then,	it	would	have	
been	impossible	to	draw	a	relationship	between	Payopt	and	INS,	as	Flexopt’s	financial	
statements	had	not	yet	been	filed	with	the	Indian	Ministry	of	Corporate	Affairs.	
	 It’s	evident	to	us	that	someone	is	trying	to	cover	up	Pathak’s	true	role	at	
Flexopt/Payopt.	The	reason	is	likely	that,	had	Pathak	actually	been	a	founder	of	Flexopt/Payopt,	
rather	than	joining	the	company	as	a	director	due	to	an	investment,	INS’s	loan	to	Flexopt	
would	have	constituted	an	undisclosed	related	party	transaction.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
INS’	subsequent	processing	agreement	with	Flexopt	also	would	have	been	an	undisclosed	
related	party	transaction.	
	 This	transaction	could	have	had	the	effect	of	artificially	boosting	INS’s	revenues,	given	
that	Flexopt	is	simply	round-tripping	INS’s	investment	into	Flexopt	back	to	INS	in	the	
subsequent	processing	agreement.	This	would	allow	INS	to	book	the	processing	agreement	as	
revenue,	while	the	cash	outflow	from	the	investment	would	be	booked	as	an	investing	outflow	
on	its	cash	flow	statement.	This	transaction	would	lack	any	economic	value.	
	 Another	possibility	is	that	INS’s	employees	are	attempting	to	siphon	money	from	INS	
through	these	transactions.	INS’s	investment	into	Flexopt	would	give	Flexopt	capital	to	then	
redistribute	to	its	owners	or	other	related	parties.	
	
Note	for	the	Reader	
	


For	sake	of	keeping	an	overview	of	the	convoluted	relationship	web,	we	created	a	
relationship	map	for	readers	which	can	be	found	in	the	Appendix	at	the	end	of	this	report.		
	


What	is	New	Vision?	
	
	 Flexopt	is	also	related	to	INS	in	another	way:	a	company	called	New	Vision	Softcom	and	
Consultancy	Private	Limited.	ISC	Software	(INS’s	India	sub)	has	two	listed	directors:	Anupam	
Pathak	(above)	and	Neeti	Pathak.	Neeti	is	also	a	director	at	a	company	called	New	Vision	
Softcom	and	Consultancy:	
	


 
Source:	zaubacorp.com	
  
 Attentive	investors	will	note	that	New	Vision	was	the	other	major	listed	accounts	
payables	vendor	for	Flexopt	(shown	again	below).
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
Source:	Flexopt	FY	2017	(ended	3/31/18)	Financial	Statements.	


	
Let	us	be	clear	–	this	means	that	Flexopt	(which	has	zero	third-party	revenues	to	fund	


its	expenses)	took	INS’s	loan	and	then	used	to	it	pay	for	services	from	another	company	
owned	by	INS’s	employee.	This	further	supports	the	thesis	that	these	related	party	
transactions	are	possibly	allowing	INS	employees	to	siphon	out	money	from	INS	itself.	


Below	is	New	Vision’s	directors	list:	
	


	
Source:	zaubacorp.com	
	


	 Another	noteworthy	player	here	is	Kapil	Godani,	because	he	is	also	a	founder	and	
current	part	owner	of	Flexopt:
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
Source:	zaubacorp.com	


	
	 Godani	is	listed	in	Flexopt’s	incorporation	documents	and	actually	owns	50%	of	the	
business.	His	relationship	with	Neeti	goes	back	at	least	to	July	2016,	given	that’s	when	he	was	
appointed	as	a	director	of	New	Vision.	So,	upon	founding	Flexopt	in	April	2017,	he	should	have	
been	considered	very	close	to	INS	-	almost	a	related	party.	
	


Conclusion	
	


	 In	the	end	we	see	definitive	evidence	of	an	INS	employee	(Anupam	Pathak)	and	another	
INS	business	partner	(Kapil	Godani)	founding	a	startup,	taking	an	undisclosed	related	party	loan	
from	INS,	then	using	that	loan	to	pay	for	services	from	INS,	thus	round-tripping	the	cash	back	
and	allowing	INS	to	book	it	as	revenue	with	likely	few	to	no	corresponding	expenses	-	all	while	
INS	doesn’t	say	a	word	to	investors	about	what’s	going	on.	Flexopt	further	took	INS’s	loan	and	
used	it	to	pay	for	services	from	another	company	(New	Vision)	owned	by	an	INS	employee.	
	


It	doesn’t	get	more	incestuous	than	that.	 	
	
	 Further,	INS	frequently	enters	into	investment	agreements	akin	to	Flexopt’s	structure:	
INS	will	loan	a	decent	amount	of	money	to	an	unnamed	“startup”,	and	subsequently	enter	into	
processing	agreements	with	these	same	“startups”.	Both	the	name	of	the	startup	and	the	
amount	of	INS’s	processing	agreement	usually	are	not	disclosed.	Because	most	of	these	
startups	are	American	companies,	we	have	not	been	able	to	thus	far	identify	any	other	loaned-
to	parties	besides	Flexopt.	However,	the	fact	that	Flexopt	was	an	undisclosed	related	party	begs	
the	question	–	who	are	the	other	counterparties	to	INS’s	startup	loans,	and	what	is	the	nature	
of	the	subsequent	processing	agreements?
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Even	More	Undisclosed	Related	Party	Transactions	
	


	 The	story	does	not	stop	with	Flexopt.	We	believe	that	there	may	be	a	whole	system	of	
Indian	(and	possibly	American)	companies	owned	or	operated	by	INS	related	parties.	Their	
exact	purpose	is	not	clear	but	we	believe	that	they	may	also	be	working	to	artificially	inflate	
INS’s	revenues	through	non-arm’s	length	transactions.	
	 We	have	identified	two	additional	undisclosed	related	party	transactions	of	unknown	
size	between	INS	and	additional	related	foreign	entities,	from	the	public	resumes	of	some	of	
INS’s	Indian	employees.		
	
Globe	Teleservices	–	Undisclosed	Related	Party	Transaction	#1	 	
	


The	below	is	from	the	resume	of	Vinod	Ojha,	whose	LinkedIn	identifies	him	as	a	Senior	
Software	Engineer	at	CoreCard.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
Source:	LinkedIn	of	Vinod	Ojha	
	 	
	 He	lists	the	above	as	one	of	his	projects	while	at	CoreCard.	Note	the	client,	Global	
Teleservices	Pvt.	Ltd.	We	have	evidence	that	this	is	another	related	party	to	INS.	The	product	he	
helped	make	was	the	Globe	Dialer,	below:
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
Source:	iTunes	App	Store	 	
	
	 Again,	note	the	same	company,	Globe	Teleservices	Limited.	The	below	screenshot	
shows	that	the	app	was	made	in	2015,	while	Ojha	joined	CoreCard	as	an	employee	in	
September	2014.	This	implies	that	making	the	app	was	a	contract	between	Globe	Teleservices	
and	CoreCard.	
	


 
Source:	iTunes	App	Store	
	


	 This	is	an	issue	because	Globe	Teleservices	Limited	should	be	considered	a	related	party	
to	INS.	Anupam	Pathak	is	a	founding	member	of	Globe	Teleservices:
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 





	
Source:	Globe	Teleservices	Certificate	of	Incorporation	filed	with	the	Hong	Kong	Companies	Registry	
	


	 Another	CoreCard	employee,	Gerald	Pereira,	was	also	simultaneously	working	at	Globe	
Teleservices,	New	Vision,	and	CoreCard,	up	until	2016,	according	to	his	LinkedIn	below:	
	


	
Source:	Gerald	Pereira	LinkedIn
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Ashutosh	Agrawal,	a	founding	member	of	Flexopt,	was	also	a	founding	member	of	Globe	
Teleservices.	
	 We	believe	there	is	absolutely	no	way	to	refute	the	fact	that	Globe	Teleservices	is	a	
related	party	to	INS.	Although	we	do	not	know	the	value	of	CoreCard’s	work	with	Globe	
Teleservices	(it	likely	wasn’t	meaningful,	considering	it	was	just	development	of	one	app),	this	
does	serve	as	an	obvious	undisclosed	related	party	transaction,	and	the	fact	that	INS	again	has	
multiple	employees	simultaneously	working	at	CoreCard	and	Globe/New	Vision	further	
supports	our	thesis	that	INS	has	a	web	of	undisclosed	related	foreign	companies	that	are	
contributing	to	its	financials.		


Further,	the	very	nature	of	undisclosed	related	party	transactions	is	that	they	are	non-
arm’s	length.	Therefore,	just	because	the	service	provided	was	not	large,	that	does	not	mean	
that	the	money	paid	was	necessarily	small.	We	are	further	unable	to	assume	that	this	was	the	
only	related	party	transaction	between	CoreCard	and	Globe.	
	
Universal	Test	Solutions	–	Undisclosed	Related	Party	Transaction	#2	
	 	


Second,	the	below	resume	of	Ajay	Kanhere	shows	that	INS	has	engaged	in	transactions	
with	another	undisclosed	related	party,	Universal	Test	Solutions:
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
Source:	Ajay	Kanhere	LinkedIn	
	


	 Note	the	last	line	which	makes	clear	that	“CoreCard	Software	is	a	client	of	UTS-Global”.	
UTS	is	related	to	INS	in	that	Ashutosh	Agrawal	is	currently	simultaneously	a	high-level	employee	
at	Flexopt	(aka	Payopt),	Globe	Teleservices,	and	Universal	Test	Solutions	(UTS).
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
Source:	Ashutosh	Agrawal	LinkedIn	
	


	 Again,	we	continue	to	see	evidence	of	a	broad	web	of	foreign	related	parties/business	
associates,	all	supported	by	the	same	group	of	individuals	and	transacting	between	one	other.	
Again,	we	can	only	speculate	as	to	the	purpose	of	this	network	and	these	transactions.	
	 In	UTS’s	case,	we	do	not	know	the	exact	size	or	nature	of	the	transactions	between	UTS	
and	INS.	However,	the	simple	fact	that	there	are	undisclosed	transactions	between	these	two	
related	companies	should	worry	investors,	given	that,	again,	related	party	transactions	can	
potentially	be	for	nonsensical	amounts.	
	


Strange	Presences	of	CoreCard	Employees	
	


	 Anupam	is	certainly	very	active	in	the	Indian	FinTech	space.	There	are	two	companies	
besides	ISC	Software	that	use	the	email	apathak@corecard.com	as	their	registered	email	
addresses:	GTS	Telecom	Services	and	Namo	Media	and	Communication.	Neither	is	disclosed	by	
INS.	Both	companies	appear	to	simply	be	shells,	with	<$1000	in	revenues	each	and	~$40-50k	in	
debt.	We	question	the	purpose	of	both	of	these	companies.	
	 Even	further	–	GTS	Telecom	Services	sporadically	lists	another	corecard.com	email	on	its	
filings,	lbattu@corecard.com:
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 





	
*Source:	GTS	Telecom	Services	(fka	Aim	Top	Career	and	Education)	Form	ADT-1	dated	2/9/15	
	


	 This	erases	any	doubt	that	GTS	is	related	to	INS/CoreCard,	seeing	as	two	CoreCard	
employees	have	registered	email	addresses	at	GTS.	Although	it’s	not	100%	clear	who	“lbattu”	
is,	we	believe	it	is	Lokendra	Battu	(a	CoreCard	finance	manager)	below,	obviously	a	different	
person	than	Anupam	Pathak:
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
	 	
	 One	can	only	wonder	why	INS	would	let	the	managing	director	of	their	Indian	subsidiary	
and	a	finance	manager	start	several	shell	companies	in	India.		
	 And	it	doesn’t	stop	there.	GTS	Telecom	currently	has	de	minimis	financial	operations,	so	
there	can’t	be	too	many	faulty	transactions	(previously,	before	2015,	GTS	had	fairly	substantial	
revenues	and	earnings,	but	we	are	concerned	with	what’s	going	on	now).	
	 We	are	concerned	that	GTS’s	connections	with	CoreCard	are	replicated	by	a	much	more	
substantial	operation	–	New	Vision	Softcom	Consultancy.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	
Source:	New	Vision	Form	ADT-1	filed	with	the	Indian	Ministry	of	Corporate	Affairs	 	
	
	 It	seems	like	“lbattu”	is	present	at	New	Vision	as	well.	Recall	that	Anupam’s	wife,	Neeti	
Pathak,	is	a	director	at	New	Vision,	and	New	Vision	has	both	sold	and	bought	from	INS’	
undisclosed	related	party	investee,	Flexopt.	
	 This	is	a	huge	internal	control	issue,	allowing	employees	to	use	company	email	
addresses	to	start	three	other	companies.	In	combination	with	what	we	saw	before,	with	both	
Neeti	and	Gondani	working	at	New	Vision,	and	New	Vision	transacting	with	Flexopt,	this	starts	
to	paint	the	picture	of	a	broad	web	of	interrelated	parties	transacting	together	without	
adequate	disclosure.	The	opportunity	to	round-trip	cash	back	to	INS,	or	even	to	siphon	off	cash	
for	themselves,	becomes	very	pronounced.		
	 Further,	all	of	these	interrelated	Indian	companies	are	audited	by	the	same	auditor	
and	audit	partner:	S.L.	Chhajed	&	Co.	with	audit	partner	Abhay	Chhajed.		
	 Below	is	a	chart	of	the	relationships	between	all	of	the	above	companies	and	persons.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


 
	
	 These	relationships	and	round-trip	transactions	with	undisclosed	related	parties	make	
us	question	the	aforementioned	rapid	YTD	growth	of	INS’s	business.	For	example,	it	seems	
peculiar	that	INS’s	financial	results	spiked	immediately	after	making	an	investment	into	an	
undisclosed	related	party:	
	





Investment	in	
Flexopt
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


	 	
	 We	can’t	help	but	think	something	fishy	is	going	on	here,	especially	given	the	last	three	
quarters	of	revenue	growth	since	2018	has	had	a	nearly	100%	contribution	margin.	We	
therefore	believe	that	there	is	a	possibility	that	all	revenue	growth	since	January	2018	has	been	
a	result	of	undisclosed	round-trip	transactions	with	Indian	related	parties.	
	


Further	Red	Flags	
	


	 INS’s	auditor	is	a	telltale	giveaway	of	potential	misdoing.	Their	auditor’s	name	is	Nichols,	
Cauley	&	Associates,	LLC.	INS	switched	to	Nichols	as	an	auditor	in	2015,	after	their	previous	
auditor,	Habif	Arogeti	&	Wynne,	LLP,	resigned,	citing	that	INS	was	its	“only	remaining	public	
company	client”.	Nichols,	similarly,	also	does	not	audit	any	other	public	companies	(zero	form	
APs	besides	INS’s	filed	with	the	PCAOB):	
	


	
	
	 We	have	rarely	if	ever	seen	a	>$200	million	public	company	that	consistently	uses	such	
small	auditors.	INS	also	pays	<$100k	per	year	to	Nichols.		
	 Further,	INS	has	a	very	questionable	figure	on	its	board	of	directors:	Parker	H.	Petit.		


Many	investors	have	likely	heard	of	the	massive	fraud	allegations	at	MiMedx	(MDXG),	a	
company	where	Parker	Petit	was	formerly	CEO.	We	believe	that	the	presence	(especially	the	
continued	presence)	of	Petit	on	INS’s	board	of	directors	is	indicative	of	potential	lack	of	
oversight/accountability	for	top-management,	and	that	INS’s	board	may	not	be	working	in	the	
best	interests	of	shareholders.	Petit	has	been	a	director	of	INS	since	1996.	


MiMedx	recently	found	through	an	Audit	Committee’s	investigation	of	alleged	fraud	
that	Petit	“made	material	misstatements	and	omissions	to	key	stakeholders,	such	as	the	
Board,	the	Company's	external	auditors,	and	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	
("SEC")”	and	that	“At	one	point,	Mr.	Petit	falsely	testified	under	oath	during	a	deposition	
when	discussing	the	Company's	largest	distributor”.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Aurelius	Value’s	report	discusses	INS’s	relationship	with	its	auditor	in	much	more	detail,	
including	personal	ties	between	INS	CEO	Leland	Strange	and	audit	partner	Ian	Waller.	It	also	
touches	upon	another	undisclosed	related	party	transaction	between	INS,	Strange,	and	a	
startup	Lumense.	Again,	we	encourage	readers	to	personally	read	the	entirety	of	Aurelius’s	
report.	
	


Conclusion	
	


We	have	laid	out	in	this	report	why	we	believe	that	INS	is	partaking	in	significant	
undisclosed	related	party	transactions.	These	transactions	could	serve	to	artificially	inflate	INS’s	
revenues	by	round-tripping	cash	from	INS	through	shells	back	to	itself.	There	is	also	possibility	
that	in	the	middle,	INS’s	employees	siphon	out	money	from	INS	for	themselves.		


The	fact	that	INS	seems	to	have	made	a	conscious	effort	to	hide	that	the	investment	in	
Flexopt	is	a	related	party	transaction	worries	us	deeply.	Two-way	transactions,	where	the	
company	invests	or	lends	to	a	buyer	of	services	are	often	complicated	and	leave	room	for	
manipulation.	Two-way	transactions	with	undisclosed	related	parties	are	the	biggest	red	flag	
we	can	think	of.	
	 We	believe	that	INS’s	common	stock	is	uninvestable,	given	that	these	significant	and	
material	related	party	transactions	in	our	view	cast	doubt	onto	the	integrity	of	INS’s	financial	
statements.
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Appendix:	INS	Relationship	Map	





Legend:		 	 Individual	 	 	


Company
Please read our disclaimer here: https://grizzlyreports.com/termofservice/ 


Explanation	on	relationships:	
	
1)	Anupam	Pathak	is	managing	director	of	INS’	India	subsidiary,	ISC	Software	Pvt.	Ltd.	


2)	Neeti	Pathak	is	Anupam’s	wife	and	also	a	director	at	ISC	Software	


3)	Lokendra	Battu	is	a	Finance	&	Accounting	Manager	at	INS’s	subsidiary	CoreCard	


4)	Anupam	Pathak	is	a	director	and	founder	of	Flexopt	Technology	Private	Ltd.,	which	also	


operates	under	the	name	Payopt.	INS	seems	to	have	made	a	concentrated	effort	to	hide	the	


fact	that	Pathak	is	also	a	founder	of	Flexopt.	


5)		INS	funded	Flexopt	through	a	convertible	note.	Consequentially	Flexopt	bought	services	


from	INS.	While	INS	makes	mention	of	this	transaction	it	fails	to	mention	the	related	party	


nature	of	the	transaction.	


6)	Neeti	Pathak	is	also	a	director	New	Vision	Softcom	and	Consultancy	Private	Ltd.	


7)	Globe	Teleservices	bought	services	from	CoreCard	


8)	UTS	bought	services	from	CoreCard	


9)	Lokendra	Battu	shows	up	with	his	CoreCard	email	address	as	a	representative	of	Universal	


Test	Solutions	LLC	(UTS).	


10)	Anupam	Pathak	is	a	director	at	Globe	Teleservices.	


11)		Ashutosh	Agrawal	is	a	founder	of	Flexopt.	


12)	Kapil	Godani	is	a	founder	and	current	partner	at	Flexopt.	


13)	Flexopt	bought	services	from	New	Vision,	and	performed	minor	services	for	New	Vision.	


14)	Kapil	Godani	is	a	director	of	New	Vision	


15)	Ashutosh	Agrawal	is	a	founder	of	Globe	Teleservices.	


16)	Ashutosh	Agrawal	is	a	partner	at	UTS.
