5/23/2018 Angie's List: Flawed Accounting Leads To Overstated Profitability In Mature Cohorts - ANGI Homeservices Inc. (NASDAQ:ANGI) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1555672-angies-list-flawed-accounting-leads-to-overstated-profitability-in-mature-cohorts 1/11


Angie's List: Flawed Accounting Leads To Overstated Profitability In
Mature Cohorts
Jul. 18, 2013 12:55 PM ET25 comments
by: Xuhua Zhou


Angie's List (NASDAQ:ANGI) has been a hotly debated stock in the investment
community, with short sellers circling around. Many arguments have been dedicated to
issues surrounding its business issues. Fewer people, however, have attempted to
address the core of the long thesis on Angie's.


Henry Ellenbogen who manages the flagship fund at T.Rowe Price pitches Angie's List as
his top idea and believes the Company has a superior business model and is poised for
immense profitability after a hyper-growth phase passes. The core of his thesis rests on
the immense profitability he sees in the most mature markets ran by Angie's. It is less
clear to me whether Mr. Ellenbogen analyzed the assumptions used in Angie's cohort
analysis in deriving the purported profitability. I believe Angie's has been misleading
investors in its cohort analysis by misallocating marketing expense using demographic
data. Its analysis overstates the profitability of its businesses in the most mature markets
by understating, or underallocating, marketing expenses to those markets. At a market
capitalization of over $1.6 billion, Angie's List is an incredibly attractive short selling
opportunity due to the misunderstanding of cohort profitability by some of the biggest
mutual fund investors in the world.


Angie's Hidden Assumption and Its Flaws


Hidden in the fine print, Angie's List discloses how it allocates marketing expenses to each
individual cohort.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ANGI
5/23/2018 Angie's List: Flawed Accounting Leads To Overstated Profitability In Mature Cohorts - ANGI Homeservices Inc. (NASDAQ:ANGI) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1555672-angies-list-flawed-accounting-leads-to-overstated-profitability-in-mature-cohorts 2/11


"Average marketing expense per market is calculated first by allocating
marketing expense to each cohort based on the percentage of our total target
demographic for all markets in such cohort, as determined by third-party data,
and then dividing the allocated cohort marketing expense by the number of
markets in the cohort at period end. We calculate this average per market to
facilitate comparisons among cohorts, but it is not intended to represent typical
characteristics of actual markets within the cohort. According to a March 2013
demographic study by Merkle Inc. that we commissioned, there were
approximately 31 million households in the United States in our target
demographic, which consists of homeowners aged 35 to 64 with an annual
household income of at least $75,000. Approximately 27 million of these
households were in our markets. The average number of households per
market in our demographic target was 425,000, 435,000, 60,000 and 20,000
for the pre-2003, 2003-2007, 2008-2010 and post-2010 cohorts, respectively."


On the surface, it makes perfect sense. Angie's List has a national advertising budget and
hence it should allocate its expense equally to each household it reaches in its targeted
market. However, the analysts who modeled Angie's cohort profitability using the
management's assumption failed to ask a critical question: is the lifetime value of a user
in a 20,000 household market the same as the lifetime value of a user in a 425,000
household market?


Angie's essentially operates a local review and advertising business. It charges
consumers a fee to find a reliable local service provider such as a plumber or electrician
and it charges those same service providers to advertise on its platform. It is a valuable
platform but the value of its service is substantially different in a small town versus a big
cosmopolitan city. In a small city with 20,000 household, residents tend to know each
other fairly well and the community is very small. There are typically very few plumbers
and electricians serving the entire market and the likelihood of a rip-off is fairly low. By
comparison, in a big metropolitan city like New York or Los Angeles, people probably do
not have a plumber who lives next door and may not know a reliable plumber personally. It
makes sense for consumers to pay in search for a reliable service provider and for service
providers to pay to gain leads from companies such as Angie's List.


Naturally, the value of local advertising in a big metropolitan market is exponentially higher
than in a small town with 20,000 households. For each individual user attracted onto
Angie's platform through advertising, the lifetime value of a small town user is significantly
5/23/2018 Angie's List: Flawed Accounting Leads To Overstated Profitability In Mature Cohorts - ANGI Homeservices Inc. (NASDAQ:ANGI) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1555672-angies-list-flawed-accounting-leads-to-overstated-profitability-in-mature-cohorts 3/11


less than the lifetime value of a big city user both from a subscription fee perspective and
advertising revenue per user perspective. This is a demonstrated fact in Angie's financial
statement.


Per Angie's disclosure, the average revenue per user in markets with 400,000 plus
household is well over $125 per user while the average revenue per user in the smaller
markets is in the $30 to $40 range. It is not because Angie's List only recently established
business in those markets; it is because the value of local advertising in small towns is
simply significantly lower. Neither users nor service providers will ever be willing to pay
anywhere close to the level Angie's is charging in the big metropolitan markets that belong
to its earlier cohorts.


Given that both data and common sense point to a fact that value of user in small markets
is significantly lower than value of user in big metropolitan markets, Angie's accounting
practice of allocating advertising expense based on demographic data becomes incredibly
curious. Angie's is implicitly treating every household in its total addressable market the
same by allocating its marketing expense demographically. Under the current practice,
Angie's allocates $83 per user in marketing expense regardless of which market the user
belongs. For users in the smaller markets with inherently less value, Angie's is still
applying an $83 advertising spending to each and every one of them despite they may
never be able to generate anywhere close to that number in revenue per user terms. This
flies directly in the face of the accounting tenet, matching principle. Expense should
always be matched against revenue. In allocating its marketing expense using
demographic data instead of revenue numbers from each cohort, Angie's management
overallocates marketing expense to the smaller markets and thereby underallocates
marketing expense to its most mature and largest market cohorts knowing fully that the
big mutual fund managers are watching the trend and profitability in those big mature



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1491778/000143774913004711/angi_10q-033113.htm

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matching_principle

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/7/6756741_13741050937200_0.png
5/23/2018 Angie's List: Flawed Accounting Leads To Overstated Profitability In Mature Cohorts - ANGI Homeservices Inc. (NASDAQ:ANGI) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1555672-angies-list-flawed-accounting-leads-to-overstated-profitability-in-mature-cohorts 4/11


cohorts. Bulls argue that the mature markets are incredibly profitable but they failed to see
those markets cannot stand on their own. Their profitability is in fact subsidized by the
losses from the younger cohorts. Independently analyzing profitability from pre-2003
cohort is inherently flawed.


Further, it is worth pointing out such expense allocation provides substantial room for
management abuse. To illustrate, two extreme examples are presented here to show how
management has the ability to significantly skew profitability of the pre-2003 cohorts
simply by adding new markets.


Example 1:


Angie's can decide to add a million new markets each with 5,000 household. Let's call it
Cohort Angie. The value of local advertising in a 5,000 household market is virtually
nonexistent. There is one plumber, one electrician and maybe one painter and everybody
who lives in that town knows them. Nobody will likely be willing to pay anything for Angie's
service simply because there is no need for its service. Obviously no revenue will be
coming from the service provider side because the one plumber in town will not be stupid
enough to pay to advertise himself when everyone knows him already.


However, under the current advertising expense allocation, despite having no hope of
generating any meaningful revenue from the one million 5,000 household markets, Angie's
List will be able to allocate almost 20% of its marketing expense to Cohort Angie. Knowing
investors do not care about the money losing markets and are only paying attention to the
most mature and profitable cohorts, Angie's management would have been able to
significantly understate the marketing expense in those big metropolitan markets hence
boosting profitability significantly.


Example 2:


Instead of breaking into a large number of small markets, Angie's can decide to enter a
huge market such as Shanghai. With well over 13 million in population, Shanghai probably
has over 4 million household. Angie only needs to declare entrance to that market and it
never needs to actually do any on the ground work to develop the market.
Instantaneously, Angie's will be able to allocate a significant amount of advertising
expense to Shanghai and thereby boosting profitability in its mature cohorts.


The above referenced examples are obviously extreme but it demonstrates the inherent
flaws in the accounting method employed by Angie's List. The mutual fund investors who
followed Angie's methodology should think deep and hard on its validity. The auditor of
5/23/2018 Angie's List: Flawed Accounting Leads To Overstated Profitability In Mature Cohorts - ANGI Homeservices Inc. (NASDAQ:ANGI) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1555672-angies-list-flawed-accounting-leads-to-overstated-profitability-in-mature-cohorts 5/11


Angie's should request Angie's management to justify its usage. Why is Angie's List not
following the most basic matching principle?


What If


With inherent flaws in the current advertising expense allocation, I performed a basic
analysis to adjust its advertising expense allocation. Instead of allocating marketing
expense basing on the flawed demographic approach, marketing expenses are allocated
based on actual revenue from each cohort and the results are astonishing. Based on
company data from the last three quarters, if Angie's management were to use a revenue-
based approach to allocate its marketing expense, the profitability in its most mature pre-
2003 cohort is only half of what it is under the current allocation method.


The basic model used to derive the above presented table is attached here.


In other words, if Angie's List had properly allocated its advertising revenue using basic
accounting 101, the most mature cohort's profitability would be half of what is currently
being presented to investors. That is unfortunately for the long investors who blindly
followed the flawed assumption put forth by Angie's management.


Conclusion


While the article is not intended to address the debate on Angie's business model, it is
difficult not to draw parallel between Angie's misrepresentation to consumers and its
misrepresentation to investors. It is also curious whether the recent CFO resignation has
anything to do with the issues of the current cohort analysis put forth by Angie's. Angie's
representation in its cohort analysis defies the most basic accounting principle that should
be known to students in their first managerial accounting course. Such accounting method
warrants additional scrutiny from auditors and regulators alike. Most importantly, for
Angie's investors, think twice about the premise of your model. If an assumption does not
make sense, change it to something that does.


Disclosure: I am short ANGI. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.



https://app.box.com/s/lxzzxtb45txnrdklbplu

http://www.marketwatch.com/story/angies-list-falls-4-in-wake-of-cfos-departure-2013-03-15

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ANGI

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/7/17/6756741-13741051658707137-Xuhua-Zhou_origin.png
5/23/2018 Angie's List: Flawed Accounting Leads To Overstated Profitability In Mature Cohorts - ANGI Homeservices Inc. (NASDAQ:ANGI) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1555672-angies-list-flawed-accounting-leads-to-overstated-profitability-in-mature-cohorts 6/11


