Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 1 of 9 
 


 
October 3, 2013 


 
Citron Updates Intuitive Surgical Price Target to $200 


 
“You can’t solve a problem with the same mind that created it.” 


-- Albert Einstein  


 
A woman on vacation takes a walk on the beach, recovering from a recent hysterectomy.  All 
of a sudden, her colon falls out of her vagina down to her knees – but think on the bright side, 
the procedure helped meet the Clinical Sales Rep’s quarterly quota!  
http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfmaude/Detail.CFM?MDRFOI__ID=3305519 
 


As much as this report is about a publicly traded company, it is about the conflict between 
the practice of medicine and the profit motive.  Our government is currently shut down over 
a debate about healthcare.  It is widely known that our per capita healthcare costs are the 
highest in the world – in fact 2.5 times the costs of wealthy European countries, consuming 
17.6% of our GDP.  However, our health outcomes are mediocre by all quality measures 
compared to many European countries.   
 
In over 12 years of publishing probative stock research, Citron is most proud of the work we 
published on Intuitive Surgical (NASDAQ:ISRG) starting last December.  Not because the stock 
suffered a decline of over 30% amidst a record-setting bull market, but rather because we 
helped raise to the forefront of public awareness the undisclosed dangers of robotic surgery 
and the subsequent dilemma: what happens when medical best practices collide with 
unbridled thirst for profits.   At the time, we suggested a stock price of $250 – prompting even 
Goldman Sachs to weigh in, claiming that Citron was overstating concerns.  
 


 



http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfmaude/Detail.CFM?MDRFOI__ID=3305519

http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/2012/10/health-costs-how-the-us-compares-with-other-countries.html
Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 2 of 9 
 


Since then, the issues at Intuitive have only intensified, but the company shows no signs of 
acknowledging them yet.  To preserve their long-term future, they unavoidably must confront 
making the difficult strategic decisions to serve the medical community in alignment with the 


best practices of medicine, rather than manipulate it for short-term profits.  Citron now 
believes that a generous valuation of Intuitive would be at 12 – 14x 2014 
earnings, or around $200 per share.  And this is being overly generous to a 
company we can genuinely argue is not investable til it gets its house in order. 
 
In the ensuing nine months since the initial Citron reports, the company has received FDA 
warning letters, criticism from numerous medical associations, and confessed a large earnings 
miss.  With analysts clamoring for the company to “Do something about the negative press”… 
as though that is the illness, rather than just a symptom, it’s understandable that investors are 
left to wonder: “Is the bad news behind us?”… With this piece, Citron affirmatively shows why 
the answer is a definite NO!   
 


Citron did not plan on revisiting this story but what we found will shock you. 
 
 


   Massive Increase in MAUDE Reports Submitted in 2013 
 
In its groundbreaking report January 17, 2013, Citron took the unprecedented step of 
publishing the FDA’s entire MAUDE database for Intuitive Surgical, spanning 12 years of adverse 
event reporting on the da Vinci.  This represents the only public source of information on 
adverse events for da Vinci on patients in the U.S.  Even CNBC tipped its hat to Citron in its 
March 19 coverage of the name.  Citron’s Maude database download is now being used by 
robotic surgery committees in hospitals nationwide as a crosscheck for concerns about the 
device. 
 
But something scary happened this year: 
 
In the first 8 months of 2013, 2332 Adverse Event records were posted – compare to 4603 
records posted in the entire 12 year period since the first Adverse Event tracking for da Vinci 
appeared in MAUDE in 2000.   
 


 Number of Adverse 
Events Reported 


Link to Excel format 
of MAUDE database 


Jan 2013 – August 
2013 


2332 [ Click to Download]    


FY 2000 – 2012 4603 [Click to Download]    


 
So in this piece, Citron publishes an update of the Maude database for 2013.  There are some 
noteworthy observations here:   



http://www.cnbc.com/id/100564517

http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/MaudData-01-to-08-2013.xlsx

http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/MAUDDATA.xlsx
Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 3 of 9 
 


We observe a huge increase in the number of MAUDE reports as 2013 begins – 2,008 filings – a 
rate of over 400 a month, during the first five months of 2013 alone.  This rate is more than five 
times higher than any prior period  since the da Vinci was introduced.  Then notice a 
precipitous falloff to just 50 reports in July – with no explanation. 
 


 
 
Meanwhile, surprisingly, the number of “Injury” or “Death” type events skyrockets in August to 
105 – more than triple the rate of any prior month.  This suggests drastic policy and procedure 
changes at Intuitive.  While its motives remain unclear, the inconsistency raises obvious doubts. 
 





0 


100 


200 


300 


400 


500 


600 


0 


20 


40 


60 


80 


100 


120 


Massive Increase in MAUDE Reports Submitted in 2013 
 


Massive Increase in MAUDE “Death” and “Injury” Reports
Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 4 of 9 
 


August’s 105 injury and death reports are apparently due to a mass posting of 73 
“Injury” or “Death” events which are annotated “As part of a legal mediation effort…” in the 
company’s inserted notes.  Altogether there are 40 such “legal complaint” reports, all “Injury” 
or “Death” event types, filed in the last four months, all of which show a time lag between 
event date and date reported of one to four years or more.  
 
Why has the FDA not opened a formal investigation into this? This is real and dangerous. 
 
A reasonable investor would anticipate that reams of litigation disclosure will be made public in 
the company’s 10-Q filing due this month.  There are so many disturbing questions opened up 
by this dataset that Citron’s commentary only scratches the surface.   
 








This Excel format allows analysts, decision makers and individual investors alike to inspect this 
data, pose their own questions and seek their own answers.    
 
Here are a few pointers for viewing the MAUDE data in Excel format:  
 


 Filters can be set on each column for any data value or expression (for example, event 
types of “Death”, “Injury” or “Malfunction”. 


 Keywords can be searched across all records, or set as filters in any column. 


 The red highlighted columns are the textual narratives, which contain the most depth of 
detail.  They can be read most conveniently by dragging the lower edge of the cell 
contents window vertically so several lines of text are visible, or by formatting free text 
columns E and F with word wrap turned on, and widening those columns.   


 The data can also be imported into your database of choice.  


 Column J, the MDR Report Key, is a hyperlink to the entire report record online at the 
FDA site. 





“We think that based on the sample, the 245 reported cases 
represent a small fraction of the true events out there,… The number 
of reported cases seems very low, given the discussion of these 
events in the surgical community.   


--  Dr. Martin Makary 
associate professor of surgery  


Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine 
Baltimore, Maryland 


http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/810490 



http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/810490
Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 5 of 9 
 


Here are just a few of the questions that stand out to us: 
 


 How can so many bowel punctures and burns be occurring in highly routine surgeries 
such as hysterectomy and prostatectomy?  





 Why does the company insist on appending every injury and death record with one of 
its ‘don’t blame us’ annotations, such as “no machine failure”, “no system errors”, 
“system functioned within specification” or “no anomalies detected during the surgery”, 
etc. ?  





 Is death a reasonable risk factor from a routine cholecystectomy (gall bladder removal), 
one of the simplest and most routine surgical procedures?  





 Why are patients with serious septic aftereffects of da Vinci surgery discharged from the 
hospital, only to be readmitted to the emergency room in life threatening conditions?  


 
 
Before the analysts jump to their feet with their blindfolds on and your wallets open, they 
should ask themselves: did any of these events ever happen to one of their loved ones?  It is 
the opinion of Citron that the only reason there is not a national outcry is because the da 
Vinci robot has yet to kill or injure “the right person” – like the next of kin of a congress 
member or a celebrity.   


 
Questions Investors Should Demand Answers to:     
 
What is the actual change in the legal liability landscape due to all these new suits being filed?  
What will be the impacts on Intuitive’s client hospitals  – their purchasing choices and their 
professional practice oversight?   
 
Why are so many of these reports backdated – disclosing just now the adverse events from 
surgeries conducted years ago?  How far back in time does the liability extend?  How many such 
cases are being spawned right now, on a track where the investing public won’t find out about 
them for years to come?  How many reports are applicable to current surgeries?  Is the 
frequency of reporting Adverse Events increasing?  Why?  
 
There are between 55 and 60 cases of punctured, burned or lacerated bowel injuries logged 
during 2013 alone.  Some of these were caught and repaired by the surgeon during the 
procedure, but in many other cases, the patient was sent home, returning to the hospital later 
with serious or life threatening abdominal infections.  Considering that the majority of these 
cases are relatively simple hysterectomies or prostatectomies, these cases are extremely 
disturbing.  There should be no such risk with these types of surgeries.
Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 6 of 9 
 


(Because the MAUDE reporting system is voluntary, it cannot ever be used as a quantitative 
measure of outcomes. See the FDA site for its cautionary comments about use of the MAUDE 
data.)    
 


The truth is now coming out – one local paper at a time.   
 


The commercial success of da Vinci can be attributed to patients demanding robotic surgery – 
having been the targets of intensive direct marketing and PR.  Over the past ten years local 
newspapers have touted the local hospital who just purchased their robotic surgery machine.  
But now the tides have begun to turn.   Here is a recent article that is reflective of many around 
the country which now discuss the dangers that have been expressed by Citron et al… 
 





The Bottom Line 
 


 Intuitive’s entire business is driven by just two benchmarks:  the number of new surgical 
suites sold, and the number of procedures performed using installed da Vinci’s.  





 Last quarter clearly demonstrated new surgical suite sales far below guidance.   
 


 The company procedure counts are vulnerable to declining use for prostatectomy and 
hysterectomy.  Management claims they are going to shore up the losses in these 
mainline procedures with … gall bladder surgeries (cholectystectomy), while touting a 
new da Vinci model that runs all the robot arms through a single incision port.  But gall 
bladder removal surgery is an easy, hour-or-less procedure performed by a surgeon 
skilled in handheld laparoscopic technique …  So does using da Vinci genuinely add 
value, or is it just a way of amortizing the costs of underutilized and oversupplied da 
Vinci’s, while shoring up the company’s income statements?   





 Note the repeating pattern:  the company touts medical breakthroughs that will 
purportedly drive its growth, but its business strategy is to target high-volume routine 
surgeries for which its technology represents a solution looking for a problem.  Again, 
there’s no established medical benefit here, other than fewer and smaller incisions.  For 
a few single women, smaller abdominal scar marks is a plus.  But gall bladder surgery is 
extremely common, and widely recognized as one of the simplest surgeries to 
perform…so it should be done by robot, because …. ?   





Vanderbilt's Dr. Joseph Smith reported that it took him 150 surgeries before he got 
results as good as when he performed open prostatectomies. He said it took him 
250 surgeries before he was comfortable and confident using the machine. 
 


http://www.ocregister.com/articles/robot-527186-ahlering-company.html 



http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cholecystectomy

http://www.ocregister.com/articles/robot-527186-ahlering-company.html
Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 7 of 9 
 


 Analysts at industry conferences clamor to ask the company:  “When will the bad news 
stop?”  … completely missing the point – that the real battleground is not fighting for 
headlines, but rather determined by the actual clinical outcomes.  That drives the 
business model of the company, and ultimately the financials.  Can Intuitive really 
maintain double-digit growth through the decade, as forecast by nearly every analyst?   





 The amazing thing about the analyst coverage of Intuitive is that it seems utterly 
inconceivable to anyone on Wall Street that this company could stop growing entirely 
for the foreseeable future.   A few analysts have shaved a few points off the growth 
trajectory.  But Citron asks a deeper question: are the best days of Intuitive Surgical 
behind it, or ahead of it?  


 
Citron suggests that the market for da Vinci devices and procedures is already at or near 
saturation, and the safety concerns and negative news flow need only take the top off already 
weakening utilization rates, to stifle the demand for new units. 
 


What about this quarter? 
 


A recent survey by SunTrust of Intuitive’s sales pipeline was spun as positive, but in Citron’s 


opinion it is could hardly be worse.   Intuitive’s penetration among addressable U.S. 
hospitals (over 100 beds) already exceeds 54%, so the number of cancellations plus long delays 
in its pipeline outpacing “planning-to-buys” has to be of tremendous concern.  
 
 





20.3% 


1.4% 


1.4% 


1.4% 


18.9% 


2.7% 


8.1% 


45.9% 


Planning to buy --15 


Delay 3 - 6 months -- 1 


Delay 6 - 9 months -- 1 


Delay 9 - 12 months -- 1 


Delay 12 - 24 months -- 14 


Delay > 24 months -- 2 


Cancelled -- 6 


Not Planning to Buy -- 34 


Recent Survey of Intuitive’s Potential Buyers
Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 8 of 9 
 


It is Citron’s opinion that a delay of greater than 12 months qualifies as a virtual cancellation.   
The survey has 4 separate choices for 0-3, 3-6, 6-9, and 9-12 month delays, all of which were 
bypassed by 16 out of 19 respondents.    
 
So either this quarter clearly demonstrates declining revenue growth at Intuitive, or the 
company has found a creative way to make its numbers at the expense of patients globally. 





Further Research 
 


In the near future Citron will put out further research clearly demonstrating the absence of an 
acceptable return on investment for hospitals considering ponying up for more da Vinci units.  
We did not want to comingle that research with this current body of work because of the 
importance of this message.  We believe that the many robotic surgery committees at hospitals 
worldwide are already performing this analysis -- and we will confirm their conclusions. 





   Conclusion  
 
Again, Citron is not saying that, for some patient conditions, the da Vinci is not an effective tool 
in the hands of a skilled surgeon highly experienced in its use.  But the choice to use it in a given 
surgery should be a matter of the doctor’s judgment, after impartially weighing all options, 
armed with the best clinical science with regards to standards of care, in light of the specifics of 
the patient’s condition. It should never be influenced by a salesperson who has access to 
patient charts.  And it is past time to stop one-sided and misleading marketing to patients, 
without full disclosure of the risks.  
 
Note to Intuitive management:  It is about time that Intuitive takes a step back from its 
aggressive sales and share repurchase practices.  Use your money instead to establish proper 
training centers for surgeons.   
 
Additional reading -- We are sure than many of you have already read:  
 


 The statement by the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) 
that robot-assisted Hysterectomy (Intuitive’s #1 highest-volume procedure) is not 
clinically superior to handheld laparoscopic surgery for routine hysterectomy … with 
higher costs and longer operating times, and should not be the standard of care.   
 


 The statement by the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health that 
radical prostatectomy, (Intuitive’s #2 highest-volume procedure) is not the standard of 
care for the vast majority of prostate cancers.  Conservative care (watching, without 
aggressive treatment) has better overall outcomes than surgery for all but the most 
aggressive cancer sub-types.   


 



http://www.acog.org/About_ACOG/News_Room/News_Releases/2013/Statement_on_Robotic_Surgery

http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/treatment/prostate/HealthProfessional/page3
Citron Follow Up on Intuitive Surgical  October 3, 2013 Page 9 of 9 
 


 An FDA Warning Letter about failure to furnish material information about possible 
product safety defects and misbranded devices. 
 


 The many recent articles bring to the public’s attention increased awareness about the 
undisclosed risks of robotic surgery; tremendous increase in the number of adverse 
events with injuries and deaths as reported in the only publicly available source of such 
information.   


 
Cautious Investing to All 
 



http://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/2013/ucm363260.htm

http://www.ocregister.com/articles/robot-527186-ahlering-company.html

http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/810490
