5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page
Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss
Mar. 1, 2013 10:20 AM ET206 comments
by: Xuhua Zhou


Uni-Pixel (NASDAQ:UNXL) has risen over 30% since I published my bearish stance on
the stock on January 10th, 2013. Since the publication of my last article, a number of
events have occurred, and I would like to share some additional thoughts and information
I have obtained. To be clear, I remain convinced that the stock will be trading at $5 or
lower after all the hype runs out. With 13.5 million shares outstanding on a fully diluted
basis, Unipixel sports a market capitalization of $320 million; yet it did a total of $76,000 in
revenue in 2012 according to the 10K filed by the Company after its most recent earnings
release. To even remotely justify today's valuation, a giant leap of faith in the management
by investors is an absolute requirement. Is the management really credible though?


Before going into details of my latest finding, a 109-page lawsuit discussing the
circumstances of Carlco's CIT unit and Uni-Pixel's legal dispute, I would like to raise some
concerns I and many others share about the Company's most recent quarterly report and
conference call. Specifically, the Company possibly has been in violation of a number of
SEC regulations.


Williams Financial Group's research analyst Cody Acree recently initiated Uni-Pixel with a
buy rating and a price target of $30 a share on February 11th, 2013. While the initiation
report was filled with statements I would disagree in earnest, it is the earnings preview on
Uni-Pixel Cody published the morning of February 26th, 2013 that really caught my eye. In
the preview, Cody presciently predicted the following:


1. Uni-Pixel to recognize $5 million from the previously announced OEM in the first
quarter.


2. The phase one production is to have 62,000 units per month of capacity available in
April.


3. Uni-Pixel has already ordered two more printers to be delivered in June and is in
discussions with an "ecosystem partner"


Interestingly enough, at 16:30PM when Uni-Pixel released its earnings and hosted the
conference call, Reed Killion made the exact same statement in terms of
capacity/ecosystem partner and the Company guided $5 million in revenue for the first
quarter. Uni-Pixel had been keeping its contract/agreement with the unnamed OEM secret



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UNXL

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1105271-uni-pixel-bright-future-promised-by-clouding-the-gruesome-reality-for-the-less-informed

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1171012/000118518513000386/unipixel10k123112.htm

https://www.box.com/s/51avndj6bone3x3y427p

http://www.williams-financial.com/

http://www.linkedin.com/pub/cody-acree/28/798/2ab

https://www.box.com/s/lc5dvttvgxzgnh9y0eon

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/unipixel-reports-fourth-quarter-full-210500223.html

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1227671-unipixel-ceo-discusses-q4-2012-results-earnings-call-transcript
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


and never formally disclosed the amount of the contract, yet Mr.Acree magically figured
out it would be precisely $5 million Uni-Pixel would be recognizing for the first quarter? Or
the management blatantly ignored SEC regulation FD and told analyst at Williams
Financial Group what revenue number the Company will be booking in the first quarter.
SEC Regulation FD prohibits disclosure of material non-public information to certain
individuals, such as a stock analyst! For a Company that has booked practically zero
revenue for years, a guidance of $5 million revenue in one quarter should be incredibly
material. Given the severity of the situation, I believe a SEC investigation is warranted at
some point to find out how exactly Cody Acree obtained such information ahead of the
general public market.


While the management might have had a hard time resisting the urge to communicate to
its cheerleaders about the upcoming $5 million revenue, it had no trouble keeping secret
the all-important OEM contract/agreement signed in December. In the 10K filed by Uni-
Pixel after market close on Tuesday, the mysterious multi-million OEM preferred pricing
and license contract was nowhere to be found among the exhibits. Pursuant to Item
601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K, all material contracts are required to be filed as exhibits
subject to redaction. There is simply no plausible explanation for such an omission given
the market capitalization of the Company is largely supported by the existence and the
relevant terms of such contract. I expect further SEC staff comments and
correspondences with the Company upon reviewing of its 10K filing.


Given the management's practices of selective disclosure and failure to disclose material
information per SEC Regulations, I find it troubling to rely upon statements made by the
management and I find myself questioning its plan to recognize $5 million in revenue in
the first quarter. Observing the management's notable lack of respect to SEC rules and
regulations, I suggest Mr.Killion and Tomz reviewing GAAP revenue recognition rules
before reporting revenue in the first quarter.


Now I want to move onto the best part of the article and something most readers probably
haven't been made aware of. In the last article, I briefly discussed the lawsuit surrounding
CIT and Uni-Pixel. However, given CIT filed its lawsuit in the England High Court of
Justice, I was unable to obtain a copy of the complaint. The circumstances have changed
since then and I was able to obtain a copy of the lawsuit detailing the specifics of the case.
I believe the lawsuit not only severely questions the credibility of Mr.Reed Killion, but also
brings to light important information regarding the development of UniBoss technology and
who is the rightful owner of such technology if commercialization were possible.



http://www.sec.gov/answers/regfd.htm

http://www.sec.gov/interps/legal/slbcf1.txt

https://www.box.com/s/51avndj6bone3x3y427p
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


To begin with, I would like to quote Mr. Reed Killion's response when news of a CIT
lawsuit first broke on December 20th, 2012.


"These claims are based on unfounded speculation and inaccurate assumptions,
and are completely without merit," said UniPixel President & CEO Reed Killion. "We
fully expect the plaintiffs will be ordered to pay whatever legal fees our company
might incur to defend these baseless claims."


The detail of the case paints a very different picture. While the CEO was being completely
dismissive of the merits of the case, lawyers of Uni-Pixel filed a countersuit in Texas
contesting CIT violated the Non-Disclosure Agreement because CIT filed the lawsuit in the
UK instead of Texas as required by a NDA signed in 2010 which supersedes the two prior
NDA signed in 2005 and 2006 . Without addressing any of the important claims and
evidence provided in the UK lawsuit, the lawyers of Uni-Pixel are simply trying to seek
equitable and injunctive relief because CIT might have sued at an inappropriate venue as
governed by a NDA signed in 2010. The case has since been moved to United States
District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division.


Now, investors are able to independently evaluate the merits of CIT's argument instead of
relying on the opinion of Mr. Reed Killion. Upon reading the 109-page document, I find the
CEO's initial stance on the lawsuit highly troubling. Furthermore, on February 8th, 2013,
CIT filed a motion to dismiss in the U.S District Court. I believe Uni-Pixel's lawsuit against
CIT on a venue dispute will most likely be dismissed in the near future and the case will go
back to its normal proceeding in the England High Court of Justice.


CIT and Uni-Pixel signed three NDAs (Mutual Non-Disclosure Agreement) in 2005, 2006
and 2010 respectively.


"The first English proceeding asserts that Uni-Pixel breached a Mutual Non-
Disclosure Agreement effective as of June 8, 2005 (the "2005 NDA") by failing to
hold in confidence information disclosed to Uni-Pixel during that agreement's term
(which concluded on June 8, 2006). That English action also asserts that Uni-Pixel
breached noncontractual duties of confidence regarding disclosures made to it both
(NYSE:I) during the term of the 2005 NDA, and (ii) after the 2005 NDA expired to
approximately March 2009".



https://www.box.com/s/semskqmb6y76m8qyxwou

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/I
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


More specifically, CIT shared with Uni-Pixel important technologies and know-hows on
metal printing which are the subject of the NDA according to page 6 and 7 of Exhibit 3 for
the purpose of developing TMOS display.


"[The Claimant] has developed a high quality patented metal printing process and
technology. This simple and flexible technology enables metals to be deposited at
high speed and low temperature. This is achieved by separating the process into a
high resolution digital deposition step followed by a metallization step. In the first
step, a UV curable catalytic template layer is inkjet printed using piezoelectric drop-
on-demand print heads and then a subsequent aqueous metallization step deposits
metal onto and into this printed layer".


In a subsequent correspondence with Mr. John Kelly at Uni-Pixel, CIT further clarified it
may be willing to license its technology for the referenced project with Xennia, which is
TMOS.


"Further to your discussions with Nick of Xennia regarding your request to possibly
utilise the background IPR of our Company. I can confirm that following your
acceptance of the above referenced Xennia proposal and a successful outcome
against the project, [the Claimant] is prepared to meet with [the Defendant] at your
request, to determine the viability of [the Claimant] granting a license to [the
Defendant], on commercial terms, of [the Claimant's] background IPR in so far as
such a license would be required to exploit and IPR generated from the above
referenced project with Xennia".


"In the premises, the Defendant owed the following equitable duties in respect of the
Disclosed CIT Technology to the Claimant: i. not to use any of the Disclosed CIT
Technology other than for the purposes of the TMOS Project; ii. to commercially
exploit TMOS Project Technology only to the extent that such use did not constitute
use of any other Disclosed CIT Technology; and not otherwise to commercially
exploit the Disclosed CIT Technology for any purpose without first obtaining the
licence of the Claimant".


CIT went on discussing in grand details how certain patents filed by Uni-Pixel and
technology discussed by the CEO and CTO in printed magazines and investor
presentations left CIT with little doubt that Uni-Pixel had taken the know-how it obtained
pursuant to NDA and developed it into UniBoss. Upon reading the entire lawsuit, I find
Mr.Killion's statement that CIT's claims are completely without merit to be laughable. It is
5/23/2018 Uni-Pixel: Possible Securities Regulation Violations And A 109-Page Lawsuit Are Questioning Management's Credibility And UniBoss - U…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1239221-uni-pixel-possible-securities-regulation-violations-and-a-109-page-lawsuit-are-questioning-managements-credibility-and-unib


