“The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.” 





- Edmund Burke 





On April 24, 2014, we published our investment opinion (the “Initial Report”) on ASIA PLASTIC 


RECYCLING HOLDING LIMITED (“APR” or the “Company”), a People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) 


based producer of EVA (foam rubber) products.  In our Initial Report, and in subsequent rebuttals, we 


presented independent, publicly available evidence indicating that, in our opinion, APR has made material 


misrepresentations regarding the scale and profitability of its business to Taiwanese investors and 


regulators.   





After a three day visit to APR’s headquarters, the Taiwan Stock Exchange (“TWSE”) announced on May 


2, 2014, that it had concluded a preliminary investigation of APR and that it was satisfied with the 


responses provided by the Company.  While we are extremely disappointed with the results of the initial 


investigation, we are confident that once the TWSE and other Taiwanese authorities finish a full and 


complete investigation of APR, the evidence will vindicate Glaucus and its investment opinions.   





Regulatory investigations into material misrepresentations by publicly listed companies take years in the 


United States and Hong Kong, and rightfully so, because regulators must conduct a detailed, lengthy and 


thorough investigation of the available evidence.  In these jurisdictions, investigations take a long time 


because regulators obtain documents and records from many independent sources (tax 


bureaus/banks/customers/suppliers etc…) and do not rely solely on the limited disclosures of the very 


company under investigation. 





In this case, the TWSE announced its findings after only a three day visit to APR, and one of those days 


was May 1st, a public holiday in China where banks, filings offices, tax bureaus, government offices and 


most corporations are shut down.  We do not believe that it was possible in such a short time to obtain, 


review and analyze all of the independent evidence required to reach a fair, informed and correct 


conclusion.   


 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2014/04/GlaucusResearch-Asia_Plastic_Recycling-TWSE_1337-Strong_Sell_April_24_2014-ENGLISH-FULL-REPORT.pdf
2 


We believe that any investigation of APR must include, at a minimum, an analysis and review of the 


following documents:   





 The books and records of the Company, obtained directly from APR’s offices, plus any 
supporting documentation (ledgers, invoices, receipts, records of cash transfers) authenticating 


the information disclosed by the Company in its Taiwanese filings. 


 SAIC filings for all APR subsidiaries, obtained directly from local AIC offices, to verify that the 
financial statements contained therein are consistent with the information disclosed in APR’s 


Taiwanese filings.  


 SAIC filings for APR’s top ten customers, including the financial statements contained therein, to 
ensure that the purchasing activity is consistent with the sales figures disclosed by APR.  


 SAIC filings for APR’s top ten suppliers, including the financial statements contained therein, to 
ensure that the sales reported to SAIC offices are consistent with the purchasing activity disclosed 


by APR. 


 Historical bank statements, obtained by physically visiting the bank headquarters (not the local 
branch, which in the case of Longtop Financial, was shown to be corrupt), to ensure that the cash 


balances and cash flows are consistent with the information disclosed by APR.  It is critical that 


the investigator physically visits the bank headquarters to obtain such records, because there have 


been many examples of companies in the PRC, who under accusations of fraud, produce fake 


bank accounts, fake statements and other fake documents. 


 Tax records, obtained directly from the local tax bureau, to ensure that the taxes paid by APR are 
consistent with the taxes reportedly paid by the Company in its Taiwanese filings.  Again, it is 


critical that such records are obtained directly from the tax bureau and not from the Company, as 


there are examples of company’s producing fake tax receipts and invoices to deceive auditors, 


regulators and investors.   





In addition, we believe that any investigation of APR must include the following steps:  





 Surprise visit to APR’s facilities to ensure that the production and activity is consistent with 
APR’s disclosures in its Taiwanese filings.  


 Hiring of an independent due diligence organization (such as Kroll) to conduct field interviews 
with APR customers, suppliers, employees, and the managers and employees of neighboring 


facilities to verify APR’s disclose level of output and production.   


 Depositions or interviews with former employees to inquire whether APR has misled investors 
regarding the productivity, scale or profitability of the business.   


 Depositions or interviews with senior executives to review the operations of the Company.  
 Interviews with competitors to verify APR’s claimed market share and production figures and to 


stress test APR’s claimed margins.   





It is absolutely necessary for any credible investigation of APR to check with independent sources to 


verify the disclosures and representations of the Company.  Investors, regulators and the public 


should remember that almost every single publicly listed company which has committed fraud or made 


material misrepresentations has conjured up documents, records, receipts, invoices, and a litany of 


excuses which supposedly vindicate the company against accusations of wrongdoing.  At the time of 


production, some of these records even appeared credible.  But we know, now, that such records were 


simply fabricated by clever criminals with the experience and motivation to deceive investors, auditors 


and ultimately regulators.  Likewise, every single fraudulent company that we have exposed to the market 


has protested its innocence, offered a number of explanations as to why our evidence should not be relied 


upon, and accused us of acting inappropriately.   


 



http://www.nytimes.com/2011/05/27/business/27norris.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0
3 


It is entirely insufficient to simply rely on the very people accused of fraud or material misrepresentations 


to provide the documentation and evidence to form the basis of a judgment on the authenticity of their 


disclosures.  We are therefore skeptical that the TWSE, in just two days (remember that on the third day 


of the investigation – all government offices in China were closed), was able to obtain the documentation 


necessary from independent sources to thoroughly evaluate the authenticity of the Company’s 


claims.     





For example, Glaucus published its first research report on March 8, 2011 (available on our website by 


clicking here) warning investors that SAIC filings, auditor and CFO turnover, outlying financial metrics 


and Chinese web traffic data indicated that UTA was vastly overstating the size and profitability of its 


business. On September 27, 2013, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) 


announced fraud charges against Universal Travel Group (“UTA”), and its former CEO and chairwoman, 


Jiangping Jiang and its former director and interim CFO, Jing Xie.  We believe that the investigation of 


UTA took over two years because American regulators did not simply rely on UTA’s explanations (or 


documents provided by UTA), but conducted a thorough inquiry (including a review of independent 


sources and evidence) into the accuracy of UTA’s disclosures.       





In our experience, regulatory investigations Hong Kong are similarly thorough.  On January 28, 2013, 


Glaucus published its investment opinion on China Metal Recycling (HK: 0773).  On July 26, 2013, 


Hong Kong regulators announced that it would seek the forced liquidation of the Company.  In that case, 


Hong Kong’s regulators acted decisively to protect investors following a thorough and detailed six-


month investigation into the company.    





We spent hundreds of hours over 5 months to compile our research on APR.  We question a preliminary 


investigation that reached a conclusion in two business days but remain confident that the TWSE and any 


other Taiwanese authorities investigating will reach the correct conclusion after a more thorough inquiry. 





We stand by our research.  We stand by our research methodology.  We stand firmly behind our right, 


protected by law, to discuss our investment opinions (and the evidence on which we base such opinions) 


in a public forum.   





We fear, based on the investigative process and the hostile stance to our right to discuss our opinions in 


the public forum, that participants in the Taiwanese market will be deterred in the future from sharing 


their opinions on a listed company.  Rather than strengthening the market, such actions will chill the free 


flow of ideas and lead to a deep freeze in Taiwanese capital markets.   





Capital markets are a marketplace of ideas, and a hostile response to the diverse opinions of short sellers 


serves only stop the exchange of ideas.  The result, sadly, will be a decrease in the transparency in the 


market and a loss of confidence by investors (both in Taiwan and in the global financial community) that 


they can get the full story on a company before they make an investment in the Taiwanese market.  


Ultimately, decreasing confidence in the integrity and transparency of the market will only hurt 


Taiwan, its investors and its citizens.  



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2011/10/GlaucusResearch-Universal_Travel-Group-UTA-Strong_Sell-March_8_2011.pdf
4 


DISCLAIMER  





We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is APR. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If 


you are invested (either long or short) in APR, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like 


everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum.  We believe that the 


publication of our opinions and the underlying facts about the public companies we research is in the public interest. 





You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of APR stock declines. This report and 


all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of fact.  Our 


opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available facts and evidence collected and analyzed, all of 


which we set out in our research report to support our opinions.  We conducted research and analysis based on public 


information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so.  You can publicly access any 


piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own 


homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law. 





As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) 


(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 


investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands 


to realize significant gains in the event that the price of APR’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s 


research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with 


respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be 


construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind. 





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, 


short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to 


buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be 


unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 


accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not 


insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality 


to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to 


ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate.  We strive for accuracy and completeness to 


support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented "as is," 


without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, 


LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high 


value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international 


organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO. 





Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 


completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or 


supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and 


independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by 


the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive 


jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or 


applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in 


California; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 


use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 


barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer 


shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent 


jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as 


reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 


this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
