1 


 
                    March 19, 2014 


Glaucus Research Group California LLC 


1300 Bristol Street North 


Suite 100 


Newport Beach, CA 92660 





Corporate Secretary 


Altisource Residential Corporation 


c/o Altisource Asset Management Corporation 


402 Strand Street 


Frederiksted, United States Virgin Islands 00840-3531 





To: Independent Directors of Altisource Residential Corporation 


Michael A. Eruzione (independent director)   


Robert J. Fitzpatrick (independent director) 


James H. Mullen, Jr. (independent director) 


David B. Reiner (independent director) 





Dear Sirs,  





On March 19, 2014, we published our investment opinion on ALTISOURCE ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP 


(“AAMC”) and ALTISOURCE RESIDENTIAL CORP ("RESI").  We have enclosed a copy of this report with this 


letter or you can download a copy of the report on our website at www.glaucusresearch.com.   





We believe that AAMC’s Incentive Fee is at least four to seven times higher than the compensation received by 


similarly situated asset managers, and as such, is a sweetheart deal that will unjustly enrich insiders with a 


beneficial stake in AAMC at the expense of RESI’s shareholders.    





AAMC’s $2.7 billion market capitalization reflects the net present value that the market places on AAMC’s rights 


under the Asset Management Agreement.  By firing or internalizing your asset manager (or substantially 


renegotiating AAMC’s fees), you could capture much of the value of AAMC’s management fees for RESI’s 


shareholders, which we estimate would increase RESI’s share price by 114% and boost its 2015 dividends by at 


least $0.15 per quarter per share. 





A termination provision in the Asset Management Agreement gives you the right to cancel or renegotiate the 


contract in the event that two-thirds of you find that AAMC’s Incentive Fee is unreasonable, which in our opinion, 


is self-evident. 





As shareholders of RESI we believe that you, as independent directors, have a fiduciary duty to either terminate 


or substantially renegotiate RESI’s Asset Management Agreement with AAMC.  To terminate the Asset 


Management Agreement at the earliest date permitted under the contract (December 21, 2014), you must give 


notice of your intent to do so by June 24, 2014 (97 days from today).   





Time is of the essence.  With each passing quarter, AAMC’s Termination Fee will only get larger.  We estimate that 


if RESI terminates the contract in December 2014, the Termination Fee under the contract will be ~$55 million.  By 


December 2015, we estimate that the Termination Fee will rise to a whopping ~$120 million.  If you have any 


questions regarding my report, please contact us at _______ -@glaucusresearch.com and I would be happy to speak 


with you. 





Sincerely,  





Matthew Wiechert 


 



http://www.glaucusresearch.com/
