Will the SEC charges of insider trading 
by GEDU’s Chairwomen and Co-Founder  
catalyze Pearson PLC to terminate its 
acquisition agreement? 


Please Review Important Legal Information and Disclaimers on Page 2 of this Document  


Kevin Barnes, Equity Analyst  –  Absaroka Capital Management, LLC  –  Telephone:   1.307.222.9808     


Email:  KBarnes@Absaroka.com  –  Web:  www.Absaroka.com  –  Fax:  1.307.316.0332 





[XX/XX/11] 


Trade Idea Note 


December 8, 2011
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 1 
 


Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. 
(NASDAQ: GEDU) Summary Financials & Trading Information 


 $mm, except per share data 


NASDAQ Ticker: GEDU 


Closing Price on 12/07/11 $10.84 


Market Capitalization 282.4 


Diluted Shares Outstanding 26.0 


Indicative Mean Rate for Borrow -0.83% 


Average Volume (3-Months/10-Days, 000s ADS) 190.1/382.9 


Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU) provides educational courses and related services in 


the People’s Republic of China with a focus on foreign language training and test preparation. The Company 


operates learning centers throughout mainland China.  On November 21, 2011, Pearson PLC (NYSE:PSO, LN:PSON), 


announced an acquisition agreement to acquire GEDU for $294mm or $11.006 cash per ADS, an 105% premium 


over the prior day closing price and a 214% premium over the 30-day average prior price to announcement. 


$mm FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 


Summary Results     


Revenue $12.8  $23.6  $36.1  $51.1  


Operating Income $3.5  $6.3  $7.4  $8.9  


Net Income $3.1  $6.0  $8.1  $8.4  


Total Shareholders’ Equity $1.9  $13.4  $18.2  $120.1  


Current Trading Multiples     


EV/Revenue 22.1x 11.9x 7.8x 5.5x 


EV/OI 81.4x 45.1x 38.0x 31.6x 


P/E 91.7x 46.9x 34.7x 33.7x 


P/B 150.6x 21.1x 15.5x 2.4x
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 2 
 


Legal Information and Disclaimers 


General Information and Disclaimer: 
This document was prepared exclusively for the benefit and internal use of the Absaroka Capital Management, LLC (“Absaroka”) Client and Counterparty (including 
such Client and Counterparty’s affiliates, officers, and employees, the “Counterparty”) to whom it is directly addressed and delivered in order to assist the 
Counterparty in evaluating, on a preliminary basis, the feasibility of a possible transaction or transactions and does not carry any right of publication or disclosure, in 
whole or in part, to any other party.  This document is for discussion purposes only and is incomplete without reference to, and should be viewed solely in 
conjunction with, the oral briefing provided by Absaroka.  As a reminder, the Counterparty must be an Accredited Investor as defined by the United States Securities 
and Exchange Commission; if the Counterparty no longer qualifies as an Accredited Investor for any reason, it must immediately notify Absaroka.  The Counterparty 
shall not use this document at any time for any purpose that is unlawful or prohibited and shall comply with any applicable local, state, national or international 
laws or regulations when using this document or any of the information contained herein.  If any provision in this Legal Information and Disclaimers section is held 
to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, then the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect.   


This document may contain information that is privileged, confidential, legally privileged, and/or exempt from disclosure under applicable law.  Neither this 
document nor any of its information or contents may be disclosed or used for any other purpose without the prior written consent of Absaroka.  Your receipt of this 
document does not by itself establish any relationship between you and Absaroka.  If you are not the intended recipient of this strictly private and confidential 
document, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution, or any use of the information contained herein (including any reliance thereon) is 
STRICTLY PROHIBITED.   


This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information 
are not warranted as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice.  The information included in this document is based upon selected 
public market data and reflects prevailing conditions and Absaroka’s views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change.  Absaroka’s opinions and 
estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only.  All expressions of opinions and 
estimates are subject to change without notice and Absaroka does not undertake to update or supplement this document or any of the information contained 
herein.  


IRS Circular 230 Disclaimer:  
Absaroka Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates, officers, and employees do not provide tax advice.  Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax matters included 
herein (including any appendixes) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the promotion, marketing or recommendation by 
anyone not affiliated with Absaroka Capital Management, LLC of any of the matters addressed herein or for the purpose of avoiding U.S. tax-related penalties. 


Investment Risks Disclaimer: 
Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal.  In 
addition, investments in emerging or developing markets involve exposure to economic structures that are generally less diverse and mature, and to political 
systems which can be expected to have less stability than those of more developed countries.   


This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein.  Also, this 
document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful 
under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of Absaroka’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been 
obtained from public sources believed to be accurate and reliable.  However, such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express 
or implied.  Absaroka makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the 
results to be obtained from its use. 


Absaroka reserves the right for its affiliates, officers, employees, and other contributors to this document to hold cash or derivative positions in any company or 
commodity discussed in this document at any time.  As of the original publication date of this document, the Counterparty should assume Absaroka’s affiliates, 
officers, employees, and other contributors to this document have sold borrowed CUSIP number 37951A108 securities and have positions in the financial 
derivatives that reference this security and thus stand to potentially realize gains in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower 
than prior to the original publication date. These entities and individuals shall have no obligation to inform any Counterparty about their historical, current, and 
future trading activities.  In addition, these entities and individuals to may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other companies or commodities 
discussed in this document.  Analysts who prepared this report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of Absaroka Capital 
Management, LLC and its affiliates.  The compensation structure for Absaroka's Analysts is generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and 
communicating new ideas to Counterparties, the performance of recommended strategies for Counterparties, the accuracy of forward-looking financial metrics, 
and service to Counterparties. This could represent a potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in Absaroka’s documents.   


The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-looking statements, which would include any statements that are 
not statements of historical fact.  Any or all of Absaroka's assumptions, forward-looking expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events may turn 
out to be wrong.  These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, most 
of which are beyond Absaroka's control.  The Counterparty should conduct independent due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax 
experts, on all securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any 
investment decision.   


If you have any additional questions about this Legal Information and Disclaimers or if you are not the intended recipient of 
this document, please immediately contact Absaroka Capital Management, LLC via email at: Legal@Absaroka.com
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 3 
 


Executive Summary – Global Education & 
Technology Group Ltd (NASDAQ: GEDU) 


Absaroka Capital Management, LLC (“Absaroka”) believes the recent United States Securities and 


Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) criminal complaint implicating the Management Team of Global 


Education & Technology Group Ltd (“GEDU” or the “Company”)(NASDAQ:GEDU) in an insider trading 


syndicate is not yet reflected in GEDU’s equity valuation.  On 12/06/11, the SEC announced a criminal 


complaint against four Chinese citizens and two Chinese-based entities alleging 10-b(5) (insider trading) 


violations for trading in advance of the acquisition agreement between GEDU and Pearson PLC 


(“Pearson” or the “Acquirer”)(NYSE:PS0, LN:PSON)) and an emergency court-ordered asset freeze.  This 


is a unique situation because only a few weeks earlier on 11/21/11, Pearson publicly announced its 


agreement to acquire GEDU for $294mm or $11.006 cash per ADS, which represented a 105% premium 


over the prior day closing price and a 214% premium over the 30-day average price prior to 


announcement. 


Specifically, the SEC criminal complaint alleges Mrs. ZHANG Xiaodong, GEDU’s Chairwomen of the 


Board, co-founder, and wife of Mr. ZHANG Yongqi, GEDU’s CEO, co-founder and Board of Directors 


Member, wired money to Ms. WANG Lili to fund her acquisition of GEDU shares prior to the public 


announcement of the Pearson acquisition agreement.  This fact-pattern strongly indicates GEDU’s 


Management Team acted with scienter and malice to facilitate illegal trading based on material non-


public information.  Moreover, because the brokerage orders for All Know Holdings Ltd., Ms. CHEN Sha, 


and Mr. YAO Zhi all originated from the same computer, it appears highly likely these accounts are held 


in “straw-man” names for a yet to be publicly determined benefactor.   


Absaroka believes the rich premium of the announced agreement and the allegedly illegal pattern of 


behavior by GEDU’s Management Team merits the immediate attention of Pearson’s Board of Directors.  


Pearson’s BoD needs to reconsideration of the price, if not the entire acquisition agreement under the 


terms of the Material Adverse Effect clause, particularly given the systemic instances of fraud 


committed by US –listed Chinese companies. 


In summary, with GEDU equity trading approximately 1.5% below the proposed acquisition price, 


Absaroka believes a net short position in GEDU ADSs presents a highly compelling risk-reward 


proposition at this time. 





If GEDU’s Management Team are FRAUDSTERS, 
will Pearson protect its own shareholders and 


terminate the acquisition agreement?
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 4 
 


Introduction:   SEC’s Insider Trading Charges and GEDU Management 
On 12/06/11, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission announced an emergency court order to 


freeze the assets of four Chinese citizens and two Chinese entities charged with insider trading in advance of the 


11/21/11 public announcement that Pearson intended to acquire all of GEDU’s outstanding equity for $294 


million, or $11.006 per share ADS (a premium of 105% over the equity's previous trading day's closing price).
1
  The 


day the acquisition was announced, Global Education's closing price increased 97%, from $5.37 to $10.60 per ADS.  


The SEC is currently pursing at least six traders whose timely purchases of GEDU’s securities just days before the 


GEDU acquisition agreement generated net trading profits of over $2.7mm.  All of these traders are citizens of the 


People’s Republic of China (“China”), and all but one live in mainland China. 


According to the SEC, each of the traders purchased GEDU securities while in possession of material nonpublic 


information concerning Pearson’s proposed acquisition of GEDU.  Specifically, trading in GEDU’s ADS was 


characterized by thin trading volume and limited pricing volatility through the first three quarters of 2011.  


However, approximately 10 trading days before the acquisition was publicly announced, the PRC traders began to 


acquire a substantial number of ADSs and represented a significant portion of the daily trading volume.  For 


example, on 11/18/11, the last public trading day before the acquisition announcement, the PRC traders’ 


purchases represented more than 35% of the entire day’s trading volume.  As a further evidence of malfeasance, 


several of the PRC traders’ brokerage accounts were completely dormant until they miraculously went massively 


long on GEDU securities.  Finally, the dollar value of GEDU securities purchases by several of the PRC traders was 


significantly higher than their annual income, which is additional strong evidence these accounts were held by 


“straw-men” for a yet to be publicly determined benefactor. 


Figure 1:  Summary of PRC Insider Trader Information 


Account Holder Residency/Domicile Brokerage Firm Account Number Illegal Profits 


Ms. CHEN Sha PRC citizen Interactive Brokers, LLC U***961 $272,962.40 


Ms. LI Song  PRC citizen TradeKing, LLC 3***436 $142,051.51 


Ms. WANG Lili  PRC citizen Credit Suisse Securities 
(USA), LLC 


2***761 $200,612.80 


Mr. YAO Zhi PRC citizen Interactive Brokers, LLC U***255 $285,872.52 


All Know Holdings Ltd. PRC headquarters, 
but domiciled in BVI 


Interactive Brokers, LLC U***161 $996,908.02 


China Everbright 
Securities (HK) Limited 


Everbright account 
holders identity TBD 


Citigroup Global Markets, 
Inc. 


C***722 $849,358.24 


Total Illegal Profits    $2,747,765.49 





As discussed further in the next sections, Ms. WANG Lili’s account records provide concrete evidence GEDU’s 


Management Team acted with scienter and malice to facilitate illegal trading based on material non-public 


information.  In addition, because the brokerage orders for All Know Holdings Ltd., Ms. CHEN Sha, and Mr. YAO Zhi 


utilized the same IP and MAC addresses (implying the trades originated from the same computer located in 


mainland China), it appears highly likely these accounts are held in “straw-man” names for a yet to be determined 


benefactor.  As a result of this fact pattern, Absaroka considers it highly likely Pearson will re-evaluate its proposal 


to acquire GEDU at a significant premium as at best the Management Team will be distracted from core business 


operations by the SEC inquiry and at worst could potentially be indicted in the United States for felony wire fraud 


and insider trading crimes.  


                                                           
1
 Complaint for United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. ALL KNOW HOLDINGS LTD., SHA CHEN, SONG LI, LILI WANG, zm YAO, AND ONE OR MORE UNKNOWN PURCHASERS OF 


AMERICAN DEPOSITORY SHARES OF GLOBAL EDUCATION AND TECHNOLOGY GROUP LIMITED, United States District Court Northern District of Illinois, Easter Division, Judge Charles P. Kororas, 
11cv8605, pages 1-3
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 5 
 


1.   Ms. WANG Lili’s miraculous trading history – Appears GEDU’s 


Management Team engaged in illegal insider trading and wire fraud 
Ms. WANG Lili is 45 years old, a PRC citizen, and a resident of Beijing, which is also GEDU’s headquarters.  Although 


Absaroka has been unable to locate any direct family relationship between Ms. WANG and GEDU Management, it 


is clear from account records these individuals colluded to engage in illegal insider trading and wire fraud 


beginning at least with the IPO of GEDU on 10/07/10. 


On 11/10/11, just seven business days before for the public announcement of the GEDU acquisition agreement, 


Ms. WANG purchased 28,000 GEDU ADSs at a price of $3.53 per share through her U.S.-based Credit Suisse 


account.
2
  This purchase alone accounted for over 43% of Global Education's ADS trailing volume for that day. 


Wang funded her purchase with two wire transfers, totaling $100,000, into her Credit Suisse account on 10/08/11. 


The wired funds came from China-based bank accounts controlled by unidentifiable entities. The unrealized gain 


from Ms. WANG’s 11/10/11 purchases is approximately $200k. Prior to this purchase, Ms. WANG had not made 


any transactions in any securities in her Credit Suisse account since shortly after it was opened on 10/06/10. 


According to the SEC, Ms. WANG was tipped about the GEDU acquisition prior to its public announcement by Mrs. 


ZHANG “Veronica” Xiaodong, GEDU’s Chairwomen of the Board, co-founder, and wife of Mr. ZHANG Yongqi, 


GEDU’s CEO, co-founder and Board of Directors Member.  Specifically, Mrs. ZHANG funded Ms. WANGS’s only 


prior purchase of GEDU ADSs; the day after Ms. WANG opened her Credit Suisse account, she purchased 35,000 


shares from GEDU's IPO, at $10.50 per share, for a total purchase consideration of $367,500. 


 
In move of brazen indifference to or shocking ineptitude in committing fraud, Mrs. ZHANG funded Ms. WANG’s 


purchase of GEDU’s ADSs via payments from her personal BVI corp. Specifically, on 10/12/10, Ms. WANG received 


a total of $367,574.50 via wire transfer from Oriental Light Consulting Ltd. ("Oriental Light"), a limited liability 


company organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. In GEDU’s own SEC filings, Mrs. ZHANG disclosed as 


Oriental Light’s sole director and beneficial owner; Oriental Light is the beneficial owner of 9.0mm shares, or 8.6% 


of the total GEDU shares outstanding.
 3


  In addition, Mrs. ZHANG maintained her relationship with Ms. WANG 


through the period leading up to the GEDU acquisition agreement.  For example, on 11/01/11, just 20 days before 


the public announcement of the Pearson agreement, Mrs. ZHANG paid Ms. WANG’s $700 Credit Suisse service 


charge for holding the 35,000 ADSs from the IPO via yet another wire transfer from Oriental Light.  These two wire 


payments from Mrs. ZHANG’s Oriental Light to Ms. WANG appear to be clear examples of wire fraud as the 


transactions represented a scheme to defraud participants in foreign commerce/trade. 


In summary, given Ms. WANG's direct connections to Mrs. ZHANG Xiaodong, GEDU’s Chairwomen of the Board, co-


founder, and Mr. ZHANG Yongqi, GEDU’s CEO, co-founder and Board of Directors Member, her lack of trading in 


any other securities through her Credit Suisse account, and the significant volume and suspicious timing of her 


11/10/11 purchase, Ms. WANG appears to have been in possession of material, nonpublic information about 


Pearson's upcoming acquisition of GEDU at the time she purchased the ADSs.  Alternatively, and perhaps worse for 


GEDU public shareholders, Ms. WANG could be solely a “straw-man” holder for Mr. and Mrs. ZHANG’s illegal front-


running of their own acquisition agreement with Pearson. 


                                                           
2
 Complaint for United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. ALL KNOW HOLDINGS LTD., SHA CHEN, SONG LI, LILI WANG, zm YAO, AND ONE OR MORE UNKNOWN PURCHASERS OF 


AMERICAN DEPOSITORY SHARES OF GLOBAL EDUCATION AND TECHNOLOGY GROUP LIMITED, United States District Court Northern District of Illinois, Easter Division, Judge Charles P. Kororas, 
11cv8605, pages 4-8 
3
 GEDU 6-K dated 12/02/12, page 65, available at:  http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1500108/000104746911009867/a2206566zex-99_1.htm 


Mrs. ZHANG: GEDU's  
Chairwoman & Co-Founder 


Provided funds and material 
non-public information  


to Ms. WANG to trade upon 


Insider Trading!  
Wire Fraud! 


Ongoing SEC 


Investigation!!!
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 6 
 


2.   Ms. CHEN Sha, Mr. YAO Zhi and All Know Holdings Ltd. History – 


Further evidence of malfeasance and illegal insider trading 
Ms. CHEN Sha is supposedly 35 years old, a PRC citizen, and a resident of Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, 


People’s Republic of China. Ms. Chen opened an account at Interactive Brokers, LLC in March 2010 and engaged in 


her illegal GEDU insider trading through this account. 


All Know Holdings Limited ("All Know") is a British Virgin Islands domiciled corporation purportedly formed by Ms. 


Chen in February 2010 and has no known business purpose. In addition, Ms. CHEN is currently the President of All 


Know. All Know engaged in its illegal GEDU insider trading through an account held at Interactive Brokers, LLC. 


Mr. YAO Zhi is reportedly 34 years old, a PRC citizen, and a resident of Ya’an, Sichuan Province, People’s Republic 


of China. Mr. YAO open an account at Interactive Brokers, LLC in March 2010 and engaged in his illegal GEDU 


insider trading through this account. 


Prior to 11/16/11, neither Ms. CHEN, All Know, nor Mr. YAO had traded in GEDU securities through their respective 


Interactive Brokers, LLC accounts. In addition, the Interactive Brokers, LLC accounts held by Ms. CHEN, All Know, 


and Mr. YAO at various times used the exact same Internet Protocol ("IP") and Media Access Control ("MAC") 


addresses to illegally inside trade in GEDU securities, thus implying the same single computer was utilized for all 


the brokerage orders, despite their disparate geographic locations.  In Absaroka’s opinion, this fact pattern 


strongly indicates the accounts in the names of All Know, Ms. CHEN Sha, and Mr. YAO Zhi are “straw-man” 


accounts for a yet to be publicly determined benefactor, which could be exposed by the SEC’s ongoing 


investigation. 


Figure 2: Coordinated brokerage orders for three “separate” accounts 


originated from a single computer despite a disparate geographic footprint? 





All Know Ms. CHEN 


Sha 


Mr. YAO
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 7 
 


In the three trading days leading up to the public announcement of the Pearson acquisition agreement, All Know 


purchased a total of 148,953 GEDU ADSs.
4
  On 11/16/11, All Know purchased 110,000 GEDU ADSs in multiple 


transactions at an average price of $3.51, which represents a shocking 40.50% of the ADS trading volume for that 


day. On 11/17/11, All Know purchased 994 GEDU ADSs at an average price of $3.50. On 11/18/11, All Know 


purchased an additional 37,959 GEDU ADSs at an average price of $4.99. On 11/30/11, Ms. CHEN attempted to 


have Interactive Brokers, LLC transfer the proceeds of its illegal insider GEDU trades to another Interactive Brokers 


account controlled by All Know.  As of 12/06/11, All Know is still holding all of the shares in its account, 


representing an unrealized illegal insider trading gain of approximately $1.0mm.  


In the two trading days leading up to the public announcement of the Pearson acquisition agreement, Ms. CHEN 


purchased a total of 45,321 GEDU ADSs.  On 11/17/11, Ms. CHEN purchased a total of 16,550 GEDU ADSs in 


multiple transactions at an average price of $3.83. On 11/18/11, Ms. CHEN purchased an addition 28,771 ADSs in 


multiple transactions at an average price of$4.98. On 11/21/11, following the public acquisition announcement, 


Ms. CHEN sold 5,321 ADSs in multiple transactions at an average price of $10.53. On 11/23/11, Ms. CHEN sold 


another 5,000 ADSs in multiple transactions at an average price of $10.77. Ms. CHEN has gained approximately 


$273k from her trading, $72k of which she realized upon the sale of the shares. The cash proceeds from those 


sales, as well as the remaining shares, remain in her Interactive Brokers account.  Ms. CHEN's rapidly accumulated 


and concentrated GEDU position cost her more than $200k, yet her certified Interactive Brokers, LLC account 


application listed her annual income as between $0 and $39k, which makes it difficult to believe she was the sole 


and/or actual beneficiary of this illegal insider trading. 


In the three trading days leading up to the public announcement of the Pearson acquisition agreement, Mr. YAO 


purchased a total of 42,994 GEDU ADSs. Specifically, on 11/16/11, Mr. YAO purchased 18,400 GEDU ADSs at an 


average price of $3.50. On 11/17/11, Mr. YAO purchased 14,594 GEDU ADSs in 22 transactions at an average price 


of $3.67, which represented nearly 10% GEDU’s trading volume for that day. On 11/18/11, Mr. YAO purchased an 


additional 10,000 GEDU ADSs in 20 transactions at an average price of $4.73. Mr.YAO sold all of his shares on 


11/21/11 at $10.50 per share, realizing a profit of approximately $285k.  Mr. YAO’s rapidly accumulated and 


concentrated GEDU position cost him approximately $165k, yet his certified Interactive Brokers, LLC account 


application listed his annual income as between $45k and $50k, which makes it difficult to believe he was the sole 


and/or actual beneficiary of this illegal insider trading. 


In addition to the illegal insider trading by Ms. CHEN Sha, Mr. YAO Zhi and All Know Holdings Ltd discussed above, 


the SEC has indicated Ms. LI Song and one or more unknown purchasers with accounts held through an omnibus 


brokerage in the name of China Everbright Securities (HK) Limited that have also engaged in questionable 


transactions.  Because Ms. LI and the unknown China Everbright Securities traders realized gains of approximately 


$142k and $849k, respectively, it seems foolish for Pearson to move forward with its proposed transaction until 


the full details of GEDU’s Management Team relationships with these individuals, if any, is clarified. 





                                                           
4
 Complaint for United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. ALL KNOW HOLDINGS LTD., SHA CHEN, SONG LI, LILI WANG, zm YAO, AND ONE OR MORE UNKNOWN PURCHASERS OF 


AMERICAN DEPOSITORY SHARES OF GLOBAL EDUCATION AND TECHNOLOGY GROUP LIMITED, United States District Court Northern District of Illinois, Easter Division, Judge Charles P. Kororas, 
11cv8605, pages 8-10
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 8 
 


3.   Without Ms. ZHANG’s guanxi, what is Pearson acquiring? – Extremely 


difficult to remove a PRC business founders without value destruction 
If Ms. ZHANG “Veronica” Xiaodong (right) is forced to resign from GEDU due to 


her pattern of illegal behavior and the ongoing SEC investigation, it may become 


difficult for the Company to maintain its ongoing operations.  The education 


market in the PRC is a considered a state significant industry and thus is 


controlled by extensive government rules and regulations.  Thus, a founder of an 


education business in China is a significant and irreplaceable asset to the ongoing 


business operation because of the guanxi they have developed and ability to 


navigate the various regulatory agencies and oversight bureau.  This is a critical 


difference between the PRC and more developed economies were a bad-seed 


manager can be terminated with limited impact on the ongoing business 


operations.   


For those not familiar with the Chinese ADR/ADS space, all Wholly-Foreign Owned Entities (a “WFOE”) 


like GEDU's subsidiaries, are required to file annual financial statements with the Chinese State 


Administration for Industry and Commerce (the “SAIC”) office.  Under PRC law, penalties for delayed or 


incomplete SAIC filings include fines and revocation of the entity’s business license.
5
  If an entity’s 


business license is revoked, the People’s Bank of China requires the bank account of that entity to be 


closed.
6
  In addition, without a business license the entity cannot legally conduct business in the PRC. 


Figure 3: Beijing Global Education & Technology Co., Ltd  SAIC Filing - Ms. 


ZHANG Xiaodong is legal representative  





                                                           
5
 “Measures for the Annual Inspection of Enterprises” issued in February 24, 2006, Article 20.  


6
 People’s Bank of China in PRC is equivalent to the Federal Reserve in the United States;  “Measures for the Administration of RMB Bank Settlement Accounts” 


issued in April 2003 (No.5 [2003]), Article 49.
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 9 
 


Figure 4: - Global Elite Education Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  SAIC Filing 


- Ms. ZHANG Xiaodong is legal representative  



































Reflecting their importance within the PRC, SAIC filings must be signed and confirmed by the legal 


representative of the entity submitting it. As per Appendix A, for GEDU’s two key WFOEs, including 


Beijing Global Education & Technology Co., Ltd. and Global Elite Education Technology (Shanghai) Co., 


Ltd., Ms. ZHANG Xiaodong servers as the critical Registered Representative for these two entities.  Thus, 


it would be difficult for GEDU to maintain ongoing operations if Ms. ZHANG Xiaodong was forced to 


resign from GEDU due to her pattern of behavior and the ongoing SEC investigation.   


Moreover, because Mrs. ZHANG Xiaodong co-founded GEDU with her husband Mr. ZHANG Yongqi and 


they continue to run the business cooperatively, it would be extremely difficult to separate these two 


currently intertwined management rolls into different positions while also going through merger 


integration with a large multinational.
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 10 
 


4.   History of Pearson Acquisition Agreement for GEDU – Limited 


industrial logic, unjustifiable premium, and dilutive to EPS and ROIC 
A detailed analysis of the history of the Pearson Acquisition Agreement for GEDU seems to present a classic case of 


a misguided multinational acquirer falling deeper in love with prickly PRC company the more its overtures are 


rebuffed. The Management Team of Pearson still has the opportunity to decisively change course from this 


misguided path and avoid the acquisition of the next rotten-to-the-core China Education Alliance, Longtop 


Financial, or Olympus Corp. 


GEDU was founded by Mr. and Mrs. ZHANG in only 2001 with the establishment of a single learning center in 


Beijing that offered English-language test preparation courses. In early 2010, GEDU began planning for a potential 


initial public offering and, in anticipation of this transaction, Global Education & Technology Group Limited was 


incorporated in the Cayman Islands in December 2009 as the Company's listing vehicle and ultimate holding 


company. In February 2010, GEDU retained Credit Suisse as the lead underwriter for its initial public offering of 


ADSs in the United States; Credit Suisse also served as a financial advisor on its sale to Pearson and provided a 


fairness opinion to shareholders. 


Figure 4: Pearson’s Ridiculous Bidding History for GEDU  


Date 
Proposed 
Acquisition Price Reference Market Price Implied Premium 


Sept 2010 IPO Target Range IPO priced at $10.50/ADS, 
upper end of range 


 N/A 


04/07/11 $10.50/ADS $6.22/ADS  69% 


07/12/11 $11.25/ADS $4.98/ADS  126% 


10/07/11 $11.25/ADS $4.55/ADS  147% 


11/07/11 $10.95/ADS $3.22/ADS  240%  


11/14/11 $11.006/ADS $3.33/ADS  231% 


11/18/11 $11.006/ADS $5.37/ADS  105% premium over prior close 


 214% premium over the 30-day average 





In September 2010, representatives of Pearson contacted Credit Suisse to inquire about acquiring the Company 


prior to the proposed IPO at a price in line with the IPO underwriters’ target price range, but an agreement was 


not reached after some detailed discussions.  On 10/08/10, GEDU completed its initial public offering at 


$10.50/ADS, which was at the high end of the underwriters' target price range. 


Because of the poor execution of business objectives outlined by GEDU’s Management Team during the IPO 


process, the Company steadily traded down from its IPO price to reach $9.54/ADS by 12/31/10 and $6.13/ADS on 


03/31/11. 


On 04/07/11, Pearson sent GEDU an new unsolicited, non-binding indication of interest letter proposing to acquire 


the entire Company at $10.50/ADS in cash, subject to confirmatory due diligence over a period of exclusivity.  In 


mid-April 2011, after discussion between GEDU’s Management Team and representatives of SB Asia Investment 


Fund II L.P. (26.7% beneficial ownership in the Company), Mr. ZHANG informed Pearson that the Company would 


not pursue further discussion of the proposal because it considered the offer inadequate. 


Like a infatuated and misguided puppy, Pearson sent GEDU a second non-binding indication of interest letter on 


07/12/11 which increased its proposed consideration to $11.25/ADS in cash.  In addition, GEDU’s second non-
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 11 
 


binding indication of interest letter was not subject to any financing conditions. Mr. ZHANG updated GEDU’s Board 


of Directors about Pearson’s continued interest and obtained approval to commence a detailed review of strategic 


options.  


On 07/26/11, Pearson executed a confidentiality and standstill agreement with the GEDU that did not contain 


exclusivity terms. At this time, due diligence and negotiations of detailed transaction terms commenced. On 


09/14/11, Pearson notified the Company through representatives of Credit Suisse that it needed more time to 


complete its analysis of the proposed transaction. 


On 10/07/11, Pearson indicated it intended to accelerate discussions on the possibility of the merger on the basis 


of the terms of the 07/12/11 letter with the objective to sign a definitive agreement and plan of merger as soon as 


possible in November 2011 


On 11/07/11, Pearson informed GEDU it utilized the incorrect number of GEDU shares outstanding in calculating 


its 07/12/11 offer letter valuation and thus was only prepared to pay $10.95/ADS in cash. While GEDU was 


purportedly disappointed with this development, it continued to negotiate with Pearson. 


During the week of 11/14/11, representatives of Pearson and the Company ultimately decided to “split the 


difference” on the share count issue and agreed to a purchase price of $11.006/ADS.   On 11/18/11, following an 


extended discussion by GEDU’s Board of Directors, all of the directors present at the meeting unanimously 


approved the merger agreement with Pearson.  After the close of trading on NASDAQ on Friday 11/18/11, the 


merger agreement was finalized and executed on Saturday, 11/18/11.  On 11/21/11 prior to the opening of trading 


on NASDAQ, Pearson and GEDU issued separate press releases announcing the Acquisition Agreement. 


As Pearson already has a significant operating platform in China, there seems to be limited industrial logic for 


acquiring the GEDU business at a very rich valuation.  Simply put, Pearson could achieve a similar platform via 


lower-cost investment in the organic growth in its existing networks of English language centers for professionals 


(Wall Street English) and children (Longman Schools).   


Next, the implied premiums Pearson is prepared to pay for GEDU are completely illogical relative to reference 


market prices and the competitive situation in GEDU’s review of strategic options.  Triple-digit acquisition 


premiums to a stable market price are a strong warning-sign of overpayment, especially when the relevant market 


price has been jacked up by a coordinated insider-trading ring allegedly led by the Company’s management team.  


Moreover, since Pearson’s extended time-frame due diligence process with GEDU was not bound by exclusivity 


terms, investors can be certain Credit Suisse performed an exhaustive process seeking out alternative bidders.  


However, Pearson was the only participant interested in acquiring the Company, so Pearson should not have bid 


aggressively to tactically box out another potential bidder. 


Finally, as per Pearson’s own press release touting the GEDU transaction, the acquisition will be dilutive/neutral to 


consolidated EPS and ROIC until at least FY13.  At a minimum, an acquisition at this scale relative to Pearson should 


be accretive in order to justify Management’s time and the effort required to integrate a new entity.  Moreover, 


the hockey-stick financial projections utilized to justify this transaction are looking even more dubious as signs of 


economic slow-down in mainland China grow.  While Pearson has obviously made some mistakes in the GEDU 


acquisition process, it is not too late for Management to correct their wayward ways before a small problem grows 


into an Olympus-sized debacle.
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 12 
 


5.   Clear rational for Pearson termination of Acquisition Agreement – 


“It’s better to throw a grenade back where it came from than sit on it” 


United States Medal of Honor recipient Sgt. 1st Class Leroy Arthur Petry 
Although Pearson had originally proposed closing the transaction by the end of 4Q11 and GEDU’s 


Extraordinary Shareholder Meeting has been scheduled for 12/19/11 (Absaroka will not be surprised 


when GEDU shareholders approve the transaction due to the massive premium), this proposed closing 


schedule is looking more flexible as additional information is made public from the SEC investigation.  


Due to some smart drafting by Pearson’s counsel at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, the Acquirer should 


be able to walk away from this quagmire with limited collateral damage.   


First, as per the 11/19/11 Agreement and Plan of Merger between Pearson and GEDU, the occurrence of 


fraud should allow Pearson to terminate the transaction without payment of the relatively small 


$10.3mm deal termination fee.  In addition, Ms. ZHANG Xiaodong’s involvement in insider trading and 


disclosure of material non-public information to a third party clearly violates Section 3.8 of the 


Acquisition Agreement, which requires GEDU and Management to remain in compliance with relevant 


laws and regulations.   


Next, as Pearson is dual-listed in the United States (NYSE: PSO) and London (LN:PSON), if it decides to 


purse the on transaction, the SEC would have additional jurisdiction to purse the Management Team of 


GEDU.  This could potentially cause additional management attrition and make it more difficult to 


integrate the PRC entity  to the multinational operation. 


Finally, even if Pearson is not able to utilize its white-shoe law firms to escape the terms of its 


Acquisition Agreement, the current payment of a rather de minimis 3.50% break fee could be a better 


option than squandering approximately $300mm of Pearson shareholders’ cash on a Company founded 


and managed by alleged fraudsters.
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 13 
 


GEDU Trading Range Analysis 


$/ADS Estimated Trading Range Metrics7 


Absaroka’s estimated trading range analysis assumes 26.0mm diluted ADSs outstanding and 


$31.2mm in Total Liabilities as per GEDU’s 09/30/11 balance sheet.  Because of the numerous 


concerns discussed earlier in this document, Absaroka has limited confidence in GEDU’s ability 


to trade outside its YTD trading range.   


Absaroka considers the pricing range that insiders acquired ADSs utilizing material, non-public 


information to be an interesting proxy for the intrinsic value of GEDU because these traders 


were willing to take highly concentrated positions with limited risk controls based on superior 


information. 


In addition, because of GEDU’s Cayman Islands and British Virgin Islands domiciled intermediate 


holding companies, public investors’ have limited recourse with GEDU’s Management to pursue 


legal damages or gain access to the net property, plant, and equipment and cash purportedly 


on the balance sheet. These constraints could potentially limit the ability of public ADSs’ 


holders to obtain appraisal rights. 


Triangulating all the information discussed earlier in the report, the recent trading history, and 


current market dynamics, Absaroka has serious concerns about the equity valuation of GEDU. 





If Pearson gives any indication it is reconsidering the 
GEDU transaction, the GEDU ADSs could quickly revert 


to trading in the low single-digits  
                                                           
7
 26.0mm diluted ADSs outstanding and $31.2mm in Total Liabilities as per GEDU’s 09/30/11 Balance Sheet, 6-K dated 11/30/11, available at:  


http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1500108/000119312511325148/d263344d6k.htm 


12/07/11 Closing 
Price: $10.84
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 14 
 


Appendix Materials 


Appendix A:  Corporate Overview Information 


GEDU National Network of Learning Centers in PRC 


 
GEDU Corporate Structure8 





                                                           
8
 GEDU 12/31/10 20-F, page 40, available at:  http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1500108/000119312511174081/d20f.htm
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 15 
 


Appendix B: GEDU Illegal Insider Trading Account Records as per SEC
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 16 
 


Appendix C: GEDU Subsidiary SAIC Filings - Beijing Global Education & 


Technology Co., Ltd - Ms. ZHANG Xiaodong legal representative
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 17 
 


Appendix D: GEDU Subsidiary SAIC Filings - Global Elite Education Technology 


(Shanghai) Co., Ltd. - Ms. ZHANG Xiaodong legal representative
