Will the additional SEC charges dated 
12/14/11 of insider trading by GEDU’s 
Management Team force Pearson PLC 
to terminate its acquisition agreement? 


Please Review Important Legal Information and Disclaimers on Page 2 of this Document  


Kevin Barnes, Equity Analyst  –  Absaroka Capital Management, LLC  –  Telephone:   1.307.222.9808     


Email:  KBarnes@Absaroka.com  –  Web:  www.Absaroka.com  –  Fax:  1.307.316.0332 





[XX/XX/11] 


Follow-Up Note  


December 15, 2011
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 1 
 


Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. 
(NASDAQ: GEDU) Summary Financials & Trading Information 


 $mm, except per share data 


NASDAQ Ticker: GEDU 


Closing Price on 12/14/11 $10.42 


Market Capitalization $271.4 


Diluted Shares Outstanding 26.0 


Average Volume (3-Months/10-Days, 000s ADS) 274.1/943.1 


Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU) provides educational courses and related services in 


the People’s Republic of China with a focus on foreign language training and test preparation. The Company 


operates learning centers throughout mainland China.  On November 21, 2011, Pearson PLC (NYSE:PSO, LN:PSON), 


announced an acquisition agreement to acquire GEDU for $294mm or $11.006 cash per ADS, an 105% premium 


over the prior day closing price and a 214% premium over the 30-day average prior price to announcement. 


$mm FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 


Summary Results     


Revenue $12.8  $23.6  $36.1  $51.1  


Operating Income $3.5  $6.3  $7.4  $8.9  


Net Income $3.1  $6.0  $8.1  $8.4  


Total Shareholders’ Equity $1.9  $13.4  $18.2  $120.1  


Current Trading Multiples     


P/E 88.2x 45.1x 33.3x 32.4x 


P/B 144.8x 20.3x 14.9x 2.3x
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 2 
 


Legal Information and Disclaimers 


General Information and Disclaimer: 
This document was prepared exclusively for the benefit and internal use of the Absaroka Capital Management, LLC (“Absaroka”) Client and Counterparty (including 
such Client and Counterparty’s affiliates, officers, and employees, the “Counterparty”) to whom it is directly addressed and delivered in order to assist the 
Counterparty in evaluating, on a preliminary basis, the feasibility of a possible transaction or transactions and does not carry any right of publication or disclosure, in 
whole or in part, to any other party.  This document is for discussion purposes only and is incomplete without reference to, and should be viewed solely in 
conjunction with, the oral briefing provided by Absaroka.  As a reminder, the Counterparty must be an Accredited Investor as defined by the United States Securities 
and Exchange Commission; if the Counterparty no longer qualifies as an Accredited Investor for any reason, it must immediately notify Absaroka.  The Counterparty 
shall not use this document at any time for any purpose that is unlawful or prohibited and shall comply with any applicable local, state, national or international 
laws or regulations when using this document or any of the information contained herein.  If any provision in this Legal Information and Disclaimers section is held 
to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, then the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect.   


This document may contain information that is privileged, confidential, legally privileged, and/or exempt from disclosure under applicable law.  Neither this 
document nor any of its information or contents may be disclosed or used for any other purpose without the prior written consent of Absaroka.  Your receipt of this 
document does not by itself establish any relationship between you and Absaroka.  If you are not the intended recipient of this strictly private and confidential 
document, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution, or any use of the information contained herein (including any reliance thereon) is 
STRICTLY PROHIBITED.   


This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information 
are not warranted as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice.  The information included in this document is based upon selected 
public market data and reflects prevailing conditions and Absaroka’s views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change.  Absaroka’s opinions and 
estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only.  All expressions of opinions and 
estimates are subject to change without notice and Absaroka does not undertake to update or supplement this document or any of the information contained 
herein.  


IRS Circular 230 Disclaimer:  
Absaroka Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates, officers, and employees do not provide tax advice.  Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax matters included 
herein (including any appendixes) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the promotion, marketing or recommendation by 
anyone not affiliated with Absaroka Capital Management, LLC of any of the matters addressed herein or for the purpose of avoiding U.S. tax-related penalties. 


Investment Risks Disclaimer: 
Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal.  In 
addition, investments in emerging or developing markets involve exposure to economic structures that are generally less diverse and mature, and to political 
systems which can be expected to have less stability than those of more developed countries.   


This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein.  Also, this 
document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful 
under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of Absaroka’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been 
obtained from public sources believed to be accurate and reliable.  However, such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express 
or implied.  Absaroka makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the 
results to be obtained from its use. 


Absaroka reserves the right for its affiliates, officers, employees, and other contributors to this document to hold cash or derivative positions in any company or 
commodity discussed in this document at any time.  As of the original publication date of this document, the Counterparty should assume Absaroka’s affiliates, 
officers, employees, and other contributors to this document have sold borrowed CUSIP number 37951A108 securities and have positions in the financial 
derivatives that reference this security and thus stand to potentially realize gains in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower 
than prior to the original publication date. These entities and individuals shall have no obligation to inform any Counterparty about their historical, current, and 
future trading activities.  In addition, these entities and individuals to may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other companies or commodities 
discussed in this document.  Analysts who prepared this report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of Absaroka Capital 
Management, LLC and its affiliates.  The compensation structure for Absaroka's Analysts is generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and 
communicating new ideas to Counterparties, the performance of recommended strategies for Counterparties, the accuracy of forward-looking financial metrics, 
and service to Counterparties. This could represent a potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in Absaroka’s documents.   


The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-looking statements, which would include any statements that are 
not statements of historical fact.  Any or all of Absaroka's assumptions, forward-looking expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events may turn 
out to be wrong.  These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, most 
of which are beyond Absaroka's control.  The Counterparty should conduct independent due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax 
experts, on all securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any 
investment decision.   


If you have any additional questions about this Legal Information and Disclaimers or if you are not the intended recipient of 
this document, please immediately contact Absaroka Capital Management, LLC via email at: Legal@Absaroka.com
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 3 
 


Situation Update – Global Education & 
Technology Group Ltd (NASDAQ: GEDU) 


On 12/14/11, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) filed an Amended Complaint 


alleging that both the Chairwomen and CEO of Global Education & Technology Group Ltd (“GEDU” or the 


“Company”)(NASDAQ:GEDU) participated in an insider trading syndicate that committed 10b(5) violations by 


transacting in advance of the public announcement of the acquisition agreement between GEDU and Pearson PLC 


(“Pearson” or the “Acquirer”)(NYSE:PS0, LN:PSON) on 11/21/11 for $11.006/ADS.  Based on the incremental 


information available after Absaroka Capital Management, LLC’s (“Absaroka”) Trade Idea Note dated 12/08/11, 


Absaroka strongly believes this additional SEC action materially increases the probability that Pearson will fail to 


close on the acquisition on the timeline originally proposed during the merger announcement.  In addition, at the 


court administrative hearing this morning, 12/15/11, for the SEC requested asset freeze, Judge Kororas of the U.S. 


District Court of the Northern District of Illinois scheduled the preliminary court hearing for 01/03/12 at 9:30AM 


CST, which makes Pearson’s proposal to close the acquisition by 4Q11 appear even less likely. 


In addition to the SEC’s plethora of previous allegations of GEDU Management Team malfeasance in the original 


complaint dated 12/05/11, including insider trading by Mrs. ZHANG Xiaodong, GEDU’s Co-founder and 


Chairwomen of the Board, with Ms. WANG Lili, the Amended Complaint alleges Mr. ZHANG Yonghui, brother of 


Mr. ZHANG “David” Yongqi, GEDU’s Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, and an “Executive Director” of GEDU 


traded on 11/18/11 (the last trading day before the public announcement of the Pearson acquisition agreement) 


while in possession of material nonpublic information about the transaction.  In the Amended Complaint, Mr. 


YANG Xuechu was also named as a defendant after being previously identified as an “unknown purchaser” with an 


account at China Everbright; the SEC is pursuing additional investigation to determine if any direct relationship 


with GEDU management exists.  


Absaroka strongly believes the rich premium of the announced agreement and the allegedly systemic pattern of 


illegal behavior by multiple members of GEDU’s Management Team merits the immediate attention of Pearson’s 


Board of Directors.  In order to uphold its fiduciary duty to public shareholders, Pearson’s BoD is obligated to 


immediately reconsider the price, if not the entire acquisition agreement, for GEDU, particularly given the 


numerous recent instances of corporate fraud committed by Chinese companies listed abroad, such as China 


Education Alliance, Longtop Financial, and Sino-Forest. 


In summary, with GEDU equity trading approximately 5.3% below the proposed acquisition price, Absaroka 


believes a net short position in GEDU ADSs presents a highly compelling risk-reward proposition at this time 


because of the significant possibility of GEDU reverting to a low single digit per ADS trading range if Pearson 


renegotiates or walks away from the existing acquisition agreement. 


If GEDU’s ENTIRE Senior Management Team are FRAUDSTERS, 


will Pearson protect its own shareholders and  


terminate the acquisition agreement? 



http://absaroka.com/uploads/GEDU.TradingIdea.120811-vFINAL.pdf
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 4 
 


Introduction:   SEC’s Amended Insider Trading Charges against GEDU  
On 12/14/11, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission filed an Amend Complaint to freeze the 


assets of seven traders charged with 10-b(5) insider trading violations for transacting in advance of the 11/21/11 


public announcement that Pearson intended to acquire all of GEDU’s outstanding equity for $294 million, or 


$11.006 per share ADS (a premium of 105% over the equity's previous trading day's closing price).
1
    This trading 


activity purportedly generated aggregate unlawful gains of approximately $2.7mm.   


According to the SEC, each of the traders purchased GEDU securities while in possession of material nonpublic 


information concerning Pearson’s proposed acquisition of GEDU.  Specifically, trading in GEDU’s ADS was 


characterized by thin trading volume and limited pricing volatility through the first three quarters of 2011.  


However, approximately 10 trading days before the acquisition was publicly announced, the PRC traders began to 


acquire a substantial number of ADSs and represented a significant portion of the daily trading volume.  For 


example, on 11/18/11, the last public trading day before the acquisition announcement, the PRC traders’ 


purchases represented more than 35% of the entire day’s trading volume.  As further evidence of malfeasance, 


several of the PRC traders’ brokerage accounts were completely dormant until they miraculously went massively 


long on GEDU securities.  Finally, the dollar value of GEDU securities purchases by several of the PRC traders was 


significantly higher than their annual income, which is additional strong evidence these accounts were held by 


“straw-men” for a yet to be publicly determined benefactor. 


Figure 1:  Summary of Insider Trading Activity - Updated as of 12/14/11 


Account Holder Residency/Domicile Brokerage Firm Account # Illegal Profits 


Ms. CHEN Sha PRC citizen Interactive Brokers, LLC U862961 $272,962.40 


Ms. LI Song  PRC citizen TradeKing, LLC 38435436 $142,051.51 


Ms. WANG Lili  PRC citizen Credit Suisse Securities (USA), 
LLC 


219-748761 $200,612.80 


Mr. YANG Xuechu PRC citizen Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. C850001722 $836,652.04 


Mr. YAO Zhi PRC citizen Interactive Brokers, LLC U863255 $285,872.52 


Mr. ZHANG Yonghui Beijing resident, but 
possibly a USA citizen  


E*Trade Financial, LLC 6435-5678 $42,161.06 


All Know Holdings, 
Ltd. 


PRC headquarters, but 
domiciled in BVI 


Interactive Brokers, LLC U6211161 $996,908.02 


Total Illegal Profits    $2,777,220.35 





As discussed further in the next sections, Mr. ZHANG Yonghui’s and Ms. WANG Lili’s account records provide 


concrete evidence GEDU’s Management Team acted with scienter and malice to facilitate illegal trading based on 


material non-public information.  In addition, because the brokerage orders for All Know Holdings Ltd., Ms. CHEN 


Sha, and Mr. YAO Zhi utilized the same IP and MAC addresses (implying the trades originated from the same 


computer located in mainland China), it appears highly likely these accounts are held in “straw-man” names for a 


yet to be determined benefactor.  As a result of this fact pattern, Absaroka considers it highly likely Pearson will re-


evaluate its proposal to acquire GEDU at a significant premium as at best the Management Team will be distracted 


from core business operations by the SEC inquiry and at worst could potentially be indicted in the United States for 


felony wire fraud and insider trading crimes.  


                                                           
1
 Amended Complaint for United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. ALL KNOW HOLDINGS LTD., SHA CHEN, SONG LI, LILI WANG, ZHI YAO, XUECHU YANG, AND YONGHUI ZHANG, 


United States District Court Northern District of Illinois, Easter Division, Judge Charles P. Kororas, Case Number 11-CV-8605, pages 1-3
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 5 
 


1. GEDU’s cesspool of Management Team malfeasance & insider trading – 


Systemic corruption calls into question motivation of Management Team 
 


Figure 2:  GEDU Relationship Mapping and Alleged Insider Trading  Activity 





Mr. ZHANG Yonghui is 46 years old, a resident of Beijing, China, and is employed by GEDU as an “Executive 


Director.”  In addition, Mr. ZHANG Yonghui is a brother of Mr. ZHANG “David” Yongqi, GEDU’s Co-Founder and 


Chief Executive Officer.  Mr. ZHANG Yonghui should have been quite familiar with U.S. securities regulations as he 


is an executive for a publicly traded company listed in the U.S., purportedly obtained a Ph.D. from Columbia 


University in New York, and reportedly obtained U.S. citizenship. 


On 11/18/11, the final trading day before GEDU’s acquisition was publicly announced, Mr. ZHANG Yonghui bought 


7,900 shares of GEDU via an E*Trade account at an average price of $5.00 per ADS.
2
 Mr. ZHANG Yonghui is still 


holding all of the ADSs in his E*Trade account, representing an unrealized gain of approximately $44,000. Prior to 


his 11/18/11 purchases, Mr. ZHANG Yonghui made only one precendent purchase of GEDU when, in November 


2010, he bought 800 GEDU ADSs; he subsequently sold 622 of those ADSs in December 2010, sold an additional 40 


ADSs in March 2011, and still holds the remaining 138 ADSs in his account. According to the SEC, the timely and 


unusual purchases of GEDU ADSs made by Mr. ZHANG Yonghui – a GEDU insider, brother of the Company’s CEO, 


and brother-in-law of the Company’s Chairwomen – is highly suspicious and strongly suggests that he traded while 


in possession of material nonpublic information about the acquisition. 





                                                           
2
 Amended Complaint for United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. ALL KNOW HOLDINGS LTD., SHA CHEN, SONG LI, LILI WANG, ZHI YAO, XUECHU YANG, AND YONGHUI ZHANG, 


United States District Court Northern District of Illinois, Easter Division, Judge Charles P. Kororas, Case Number 11-CV-8605, pages 13-14 


Mr. ZHANG 
Yonghui, 


Exective Director 


Mrs. ZHANG 
Xiaodong, 


Co-Founder & 
Chairwomen 


Mr. ZHANG 
Yongqi, Co-
Founder & 


CEO 


Ms. WANG Lili 


 Material N.P.I. 


 Acquisition Funding 


 Material N.P.I. 


 Funding T.B.D. 


Husband &  


Wife 


Brother/Sister- 


in-law 


Brothers
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 6 
 


2.   Ms. WANG Lili’s miraculous trading history – Appears GEDU’s 


Management Team engaged in illegal insider trading and wire fraud 
Ms. WANG Lili is 45 years old, a PRC citizen, and a resident of Beijing, which is also GEDU’s headquarters.  Although 


Absaroka has been unable to locate any direct family relationship between Ms. WANG and GEDU Management, it 


is clear from account records these individuals colluded to engage in illegal insider trading and wire fraud 


beginning at least with the IPO of GEDU on 10/07/10. 


On 11/10/11, just seven business days before for the public announcement of the GEDU acquisition agreement, 


Ms. WANG purchased 28,000 GEDU ADSs at a price of $3.53 per share through her U.S.-based Credit Suisse 


account.
3
  This purchase alone accounted for over 43% of Global Education's ADS trailing volume for that day. 


Wang funded her purchase with two wire transfers, totaling $100,000, into her Credit Suisse account on 10/08/11. 


The wired funds came from China-based bank accounts controlled by unidentifiable entities. The unrealized gain 


from Ms. WANG’s 11/10/11 purchases is approximately $200k. Prior to this purchase, Ms. WANG had not made 


any transactions in any securities in her Credit Suisse account since shortly after it was opened on 10/06/10. 


According to the SEC, Ms. WANG was tipped about the GEDU acquisition prior to its public announcement by Mrs. 


ZHANG “Veronica” Xiaodong, GEDU’s Chairwomen of the Board, co-founder, and wife of Mr. ZHANG Yongqi, 


GEDU’s CEO, co-founder and Board of Directors Member.  Specifically, Mrs. ZHANG funded Ms. WANGS’s only 


prior purchase of GEDU ADSs; the day after Ms. WANG opened her Credit Suisse account, she purchased 35,000 


shares from GEDU's IPO, at $10.50 per share, for a total purchase consideration of $367,500. 


 
In move of brazen indifference to regulations or shocking ineptitude in committing fraud, Mrs. ZHANG funded Ms. 


WANG’s purchase of GEDU’s ADSs via payments from her personal BVI corp.  Specifically, on 10/12/10, Ms. WANG 


received a total of $367,574.50 via wire transfer from Oriental Light Consulting Ltd. ("Oriental Light"), a limited 


liability company organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. In GEDU’s own SEC filings, Mrs. ZHANG 


disclosed as Oriental Light’s sole director and beneficial owner; Oriental Light is the beneficial owner of 9.0mm 


shares, or 8.6% of the total GEDU shares outstanding.
 4


  In addition, Mrs. ZHANG maintained her relationship with 


Ms. WANG through the period leading up to the GEDU acquisition agreement.  For example, on 11/01/11, just 20 


days before the public announcement of the Pearson agreement, Mrs. ZHANG paid Ms. WANG’s $700 Credit Suisse 


service charge for holding the 35,000 ADSs from the IPO via yet another wire transfer from Oriental Light.  These 


two wire payments from Mrs. ZHANG’s Oriental Light to Ms. WANG appear to be clear examples of wire fraud as 


the transactions represented a scheme to defraud participants in foreign commerce/trade. 


In summary, given Ms. WANG's direct connections to Mrs. ZHANG Xiaodong, GEDU’s Chairwomen of the Board, co-


founder, and Mr. ZHANG Yongqi, GEDU’s CEO, co-founder and Board of Directors Member, her lack of trading in 


any other securities through her Credit Suisse account, and the significant volume and suspicious timing of her 


11/10/11 purchase, Ms. WANG appears to have been in possession of material, nonpublic information about 


Pearson's upcoming acquisition of GEDU at the time she purchased the ADSs.  Alternatively, and perhaps worse for 


GEDU public shareholders, Ms. WANG could be solely a “straw-man” holder for Mr. and Mrs. ZHANG’s illegal front-


running of their own acquisition agreement with Pearson. 


                                                           
3
 Amended Complaint for United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. ALL KNOW HOLDINGS LTD., SHA CHEN, SONG LI, LILI WANG, ZHI YAO, XUECHU YANG, AND YONGHUI ZHANG, 


United States District Court Northern District of Illinois, Easter Division, Judge Charles P. Kororas, Case Number 11-CV-8605, pages 4-8 
4
 GEDU 6-K dated 12/02/12, page 65, available at:  http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1500108/000104746911009867/a2206566zex-99_1.htm 


Mrs. ZHANG: GEDU's  
Chairwoman & Co-Founder 


Provided funds and material 
non-public information  


to Ms. WANG to trade upon 


Insider Trading!  
Wire Fraud! 


Ongoing SEC 


Investigation!!!
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 7 
 


3.   Ms. CHEN Sha, Mr. YANG Xuechu, Mr. YAO Zhi and All Know Holdings – 


Further evidence of malfeasance and illegal insider trading 
Ms. CHEN Sha is supposedly 35 years old, a PRC citizen, and a resident of Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, 


People’s Republic of China. Ms. Chen opened an account at Interactive Brokers, LLC in March 2010 and engaged in 


her illegal GEDU insider trading through this account. 


All Know Holdings Limited ("All Know") is a British Virgin Islands domiciled corporation purportedly formed by Ms. 


Chen in February 2010 and has no known business purpose. In addition, Ms. CHEN is currently the President of All 


Know. All Know engaged in its illegal GEDU insider trading through an account held at Interactive Brokers, LLC. 


Mr. YAO Zhi is reportedly 34 years old, a PRC citizen, and a resident of Ya’an, Sichuan Province, People’s Republic 


of China. Mr. YAO open an account at Interactive Brokers, LLC in March 2010 and engaged in his illegal GEDU 


insider trading through this account. 


Mr. YANG Xuechu is a PRC citizen and resident of Changsha, Hunan Province, People’s Republic of China. Mr. Yang 


engaged in his Global Education trading through an omnibus account in the name of China Everbright Securities 


(HK) Limited, which custodians its assets with U.S.-based Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.  Mr. YANG’s identity was 


first disclosed in the Amended Complaint as he was classified as an “unknown trader” in the original complaint. 


Prior to 11/16/11, neither Ms. CHEN, All Know, nor Mr. YAO had traded in GEDU securities through their respective 


Interactive Brokers, LLC accounts. In addition, the Interactive Brokers, LLC accounts held by Ms. CHEN, All Know, 


and Mr. YAO at various times used the exact same Internet Protocol ("IP") and Media Access Control ("MAC") 


addresses to illegally inside trade in GEDU securities, thus implying the same single computer was utilized for all 


the brokerage orders, despite their disparate geographic locations.  In Absaroka’s opinion, this fact pattern 


strongly indicates the accounts in the names of All Know, Ms. CHEN Sha, and Mr. YAO Zhi are “straw-man” 


accounts for a yet to be publicly determined benefactor, which could be exposed by the SEC’s ongoing 


investigation. 


Figure 3: Coordinated brokerage orders for three “separate” accounts 


originated from a single computer despite a disparate geographic footprint ? 





All Know Ms. CHEN 


Sha 


Mr. YAO
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 8 
 


In the three trading days leading up to the public announcement of the Pearson acquisition agreement, All Know 


purchased a total of 148,953 GEDU ADSs.
5
  On 11/16/11, All Know purchased 110,000 GEDU ADSs in multiple 


transactions at an average price of $3.51, which represents a shocking 40.50% of the ADS trading volume for that 


day. On 11/17/11, All Know purchased 994 GEDU ADSs at an average price of $3.50. On 11/18/11, All Know 


purchased an additional 37,959 GEDU ADSs at an average price of $4.99. On 11/30/11, Ms. CHEN attempted to 


have Interactive Brokers, LLC transfer the proceeds of its illegal insider GEDU trades to another Interactive Brokers 


account controlled by All Know.  As of 12/06/11, All Know is still holding all of the shares in its account, 


representing an unrealized illegal insider trading gain of approximately $1.0mm.  


In the two trading days leading up to the public announcement of the Pearson acquisition agreement, Ms. CHEN 


purchased a total of 45,321 GEDU ADSs.  On 11/17/11, Ms. CHEN purchased a total of 16,550 GEDU ADSs in 


multiple transactions at an average price of $3.83. On 11/18/11, Ms. CHEN purchased an addition 28,771 ADSs in 


multiple transactions at an average price of$4.98. On 11/21/11, following the public acquisition announcement, 


Ms. CHEN sold 5,321 ADSs in multiple transactions at an average price of $10.53. On 11/23/11, Ms. CHEN sold 


another 5,000 ADSs in multiple transactions at an average price of $10.77. Ms. CHEN has gained approximately 


$273k from her trading, $72k of which she realized upon the sale of the shares. The cash proceeds from those 


sales, as well as the remaining shares, remain in her Interactive Brokers account.  Ms. CHEN's rapidly accumulated 


and concentrated GEDU position cost her more than $200k, yet her certified Interactive Brokers, LLC account 


application listed her annual income as between $0 and $39k, which makes it difficult to believe she was the sole 


and/or actual beneficiary of this illegal insider trading. 


In the three trading days leading up to the public announcement of the Pearson acquisition agreement, Mr. YAO 


purchased a total of 42,994 GEDU ADSs. Specifically, on 11/16/11, Mr. YAO purchased 18,400 GEDU ADSs at an 


average price of $3.50. On 11/17/11, Mr. YAO purchased 14,594 GEDU ADSs in 22 transactions at an average price 


of $3.67, which represented nearly 10% GEDU’s trading volume for that day. On 11/18/11, Mr. YAO purchased an 


additional 10,000 GEDU ADSs in 20 transactions at an average price of $4.73. Mr.YAO sold all of his shares on 


11/21/11 at $10.50 per share, realizing a profit of approximately $285k.  Mr. YAO’s rapidly accumulated and 


concentrated GEDU position cost him approximately $165k, yet his certified Interactive Brokers, LLC account 


application listed his annual income as between $45k and $50k, which makes it difficult to believe he was the sole 


and/or actual beneficiary of this illegal insider trading. 


On Friday, 11/18/11, the last trading day prior to the public announcement of the acquisition agreement, Mr. 


YANG purchased 161,100 GEDU ADSs in 44 transactions at an average price of $5.23 per ADS. On 11/21/11, 


following the public acquisition announcement, Mr. YANG sold all 161,100 ADSs in one transaction at a price of 


$10.50 per ADS and thus realized a gain of approximately $837k from his 11/18/11 GEDU purchases. The cash 


proceeds from the ADSs sale remain in the custody of Citigroup Global Markets, Inc in the United States. Prior to 


11/18/11, Mr. YANG had never transacted in GEDU ADSs. In addition, Mr. YANG’s 11/18/11 ADS purchases alone 


accounted for 24% of the total GEDU trading volume on that day, a day when GEDU’s trading volume was already 


over four times higher than the prior trading day. According to the SEC, the suspicious timing and significant 


volume of Mr. YANG’s purchases and the lack of any prior GEDU purchases indicate he was in possession of 


material nonpublic information about Pearson’s pending acquisition at the time he made the purchases.   


Because Ms. CHEN Sha, Mr. YANG Xuechu, Mr. YAO Zhi and All Know Holdings realized significant ill-gotten gains 


from insider trading, it is both negligent and foolish for Pearson to move forward with its proposed transaction 


until the full details of GEDU’s Management Team relationships with these individuals, if any, is clarified. 


                                                           
5
 Amended Complaint for United States Securities and Exchange Commission v. ALL KNOW HOLDINGS LTD., SHA CHEN, SONG LI, LILI WANG, ZHI YAO, XUECHU YANG, AND YONGHUI ZHANG, 


United States District Court Northern District of Illinois, Easter Division, Judge Charles P. Kororas, Case Number 11-CV-8605, pages 8-10
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 9 
 


4.  Clear justification for Pearson termination of Acquisition Agreement - 


“It’s better to throw a grenade back where it came from than sit on it” 


United States Medal of Honor recipient Sgt. 1st Class Leroy Arthur Petry 
Although Pearson had originally proposed closing the transaction by the end of 4Q11 and GEDU’s Extraordinary 


Shareholder Meeting has been scheduled for 12/19/11 (Absaroka will not be surprised when GEDU shareholders 


approve the transaction due to the massive premium), this proposed closing schedule is looking more flexible as 


additional information is made public from the SEC investigation.  Due to some smart drafting by Pearson’s counsel 


at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, the Acquirer should be able to walk away from this embarrassing situation with 


limited collateral damage.   


First, as per Absaroka’s reading of the 11/19/11 Agreement and Plan of Merger between Pearson and GEDU, the 


occurrence of fraud should allow Pearson to terminate the transaction without payment of the relatively small 


$10.3mm deal termination fee.
 6


  In addition, the involvement of Mrs. ZHANG Xiaodong, Mr. ZHANG “David” 


Yongqi, and Mr. ZHANG Yonghui, in insider trading and disclosure of material non-public information to a third 


parties clearly violate Section 3.8 of the Acquisition Agreement, which requires GEDU to remain in compliance with 


relevant laws and regulations.
7
   


Absaroka was significantly baffled by Pearson’s public statement emailed to Bloomberg News after the concerns 


regarding the GEDU Management Team and insider trading accusations first surfaced on 12/08/11: 


“Naturally we [Pearson] are very concerned to learn about the allegations and will be co-


operating fully with the SEC’s investigation. However, we do not see these issues having an 


impact on the agreement to acquire Global Education, which is proceeding as planned.” 


Specifically, as Pearson is dual-listed in the United States (NYSE: PSO) and London (LN:PSON), if it decides to move 


forward on the transaction, both the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the United Kingdom 


Serious Fraud Office would have jurisdiction to purse the Management Team of GEDU.  This could potentially 


catalyze additional management attrition and make it more difficult to integrate the PRC entity to the 


multinational operation.  Absaroka is struggling to understand why a respected multinational such as Pearson 


would sully its sterling reputation for corporate governance by acquiring a Chinese fraudcap  at a price in excess of 


a 100% premium to market value while a SEC investigation to serious illegal acts is ongoing.  Moreover, if GEDU’s 


current Management Team leaves the Company and takes all their “guanxi” (the Chinese dynamic of personalized 


networks of influence and business relationships) with them, there are no barriers to entry to prevent the ZHANGs 


from establishing a new competitor in the same industry. 


Finally, even if Pearson stumbles to make a clean break from its Acquisition Agreement, the current payment of a 


rather de minimis 3.50% break fee appears to be a better option than squandering approximately $300mm of 


Pearson shareholders’ cash on a Company founded and managed by alleged fraudsters. 





                                                           
6
 GEDU 6-K dated 12/02/12, page 61, available at:  http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1500108/000104746911009867/a2206566zex-99_1.htm 


7
 GEDU 6-K dated 12/02/12, page A-14, available at:  http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1500108/000104746911009867/a2206566zex-99_1.htm
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 10 
 


GEDU Trading Range Analysis 


$/ADS Estimated Trading Range Metrics8 


Absaroka’s estimated trading range analysis assumes 26.0mm diluted ADSs outstanding and $31.2mm in 


Total Liabilities as per GEDU’s 09/30/11 balance sheet.  Because of the numerous concerns discussed earlier 


in this document, Absaroka has limited confidence in GEDU’s ability to trade outside its trading range prior to 


the Pearson acquisition agreement.   


Absaroka considers the pricing range that insiders acquired ADSs utilizing material, non-public information to 


be an interesting proxy for the intrinsic value of GEDU because these traders were willing to take highly 


concentrated positions with limited risk protection based on superior, non-public information. 


In addition, because of GEDU’s Cayman Islands and British Virgin Islands domiciled intermediate holding 


companies, public investors have limited recourse with GEDU’s Management to pursue legal damages or gain 


access to the net property, plant, and equipment and cash purportedly on the balance sheet. These 


constraints could potentially limit the ability of public ADSs’ holders to obtain appraisal rights. 


Triangulating all the information discussed earlier in the report, the recent trading history, and the current 


market dynamics, Absaroka thus has serious concerns about the current equity valuation of GEDU. 





If Pearson gives any indication it is reconsidering the 
GEDU transaction, the GEDU ADSs could quickly revert 


to trading in the low single-digits  


                                                           
8
 26.0mm diluted ADSs outstanding and $31.2mm in Total Liabilities as per GEDU’s 09/30/11 Balance Sheet, 6-K dated 11/30/11, available at:  


http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1500108/000119312511325148/d263344d6k.htm  


12/14/11 Closing 
Price: $10.42
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 11 
 


Appendix Materials 


Appendix A:  Mr. ZHANG Yonghui LinkedIn Profile9 





                                                           
9
 Mr. ZHANG Yonghui LinkedIn Profile, retrieve 12/14/11, available at:  http://www.linkedin.com/in/yonghuizhang
Global Education & Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ: GEDU)   Page 12 
 


Appendix B: GEDU Illegal Insider Trading Account Records as per SEC
