5/22/2018 Five Lessons From Ohr Pharma - Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (NASDAQ:OHRP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3034116-five-lessons-from-ohr-pharma 1/16


Five Lessons From Ohr Pharma
Mar. 27, 2015 1:21 PM ET41 comments
by: Richard Pearson


Summary


Companies who pay for stock promotion should be avoided. Period.


Sell side research is woefully deficient and predictably biased.


With technology, you get what you pay for.


Lack of institutional ownership is a strong predictor of failure.


Share price is a poor predictor of ultimate success.


Five lessons from Ohr Pharma


- Today shares of Ohr Pharmaceutical (NASDAQ:OHRP) fell by more than 65% intraday
following the announcement that its OHR-102 (Squalamine) eye drug failed to meet its
primary goal.


For those who lost money on Ohr, I take the view that it was a loss that was entirely
unnecessary.


There are a number of key reasons why any objective observer should have downright
expected these results.


Back in July, I wrote an article entitled "The Ugly Truth Behind Ohr Pharma". The
conclusion I reached was as follows:


Squalamine was purchased for a negligible cost from a bankrupt pharma because it
had already failed and was clearly worthless. Dozens of other buyers had the
opportunity to bid on squalamine and no one was willing to pay a material price. Ohr
acquired the cheapest compounds that it could and then appointed the cheapest
management that it could. There was never any real chance of these compounds
succeeding. Instead, Ohr has used misleading press releases and stealthy paid
"research reports" to boost its stock price and raise money via stock sales. Ohr
Pharma is little more than a fool's game for retail investors which has been
engineered by clever financiers.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OHRP

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2294795-the-ugly-truth-behind-ohr-pharma#comments_header
5/22/2018 Five Lessons From Ohr Pharma - Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (NASDAQ:OHRP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3034116-five-lessons-from-ohr-pharma 2/16


That article along with the current result from Ohr demonstrate several key lessons that
can be applied to many other small cap biotechs.


Lesson #1: Companies who pay for stock promotion should be avoided. Period.


I have written repeatedly about companies who pay to have their stocks promoted and I
have always taken the view that these companies are great shorts.


Yet there is no shortage of investors who take the view that "I don't care if the company
paid for promotion, I believe in the prospects for the drug".


There are two points that such investors are missing. First, if the drug had such strong
prospects, management would not feel the need to jeopardize their company with risky
promotions. And we shouldn't forget that management are the ones with the best view on
the real prospects for their drugs.


Second, many investors fail to realize that their bullish views on the drug's prospects will
have often been shaped by the paid promotions. The whole point of these promotions is to
generate positive sentiment. As a result, investors should apply extra scrutiny to any
information when there is evidence of paid promotion. Because what you think you may
"know" about these companies may in fact ultimately stem from paid hype designed to
boost the stock.


When I wrote about Cytrx (NASDAQ:CYTR) and Galena (GALE) last year, I expressed my
concerns about their use of The Dream Team Group to run paid promotions on their
stocks. The biggest criticism I received was that I failed to understand the massive
potential for their drugs. Both stocks have fallen by 50-70% since that time as their stories
have come unraveled.


Lesson #2: Sell side research is woefully deficient and predictably biased


The details in my article were easy to find for anyone who chose to do some simple
digging. The only conclusion that any objective researcher could come to was that this
stock was grossly overvalued even at prices of $6.00.


Yet the 4 investment banks who covered the stock all had buy ratings on it with targets
ranging from $20 to $34.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2086173-behind-the-scenes-with-dream-team-cytrx-and-galena

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CYTR
5/22/2018 Five Lessons From Ohr Pharma - Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (NASDAQ:OHRP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3034116-five-lessons-from-ohr-pharma 3/16


Investors should make no mistake when looking at the relationship between small cap
biotech stocks and the investment banks who finance them. These banks have a dual
incentive to put out uber bullish stock targets and boost the share prices of their clients.


The first incentive is obvious. These banks want to increase liquidity and price to allow the
company to raise money. Putting out lofty share price targets helps to curry favor with
management so that when the time comes to appoint an investment bank they are more
likely to be selected.


The second incentive is less obvious. But it should be kept in mind that the other clients of
the investment banks are the investors who actually buy into these deals. After the
investment bank delivers the new stock to these institutions, the institutions want to make
money not lose it. The banks therefore are incentivized to support the price even after the
money is raised. They again have more than ample reason to ignore any inconvenient
truths about their corporate clients.


Yes, yes, yes. I know. Following the implosion of the internet bubble in 2000, Wall Street
investment banks fully separated research from investment banking. The compensation of
analysts is now typically determined by "the overall profitability of the firm". But clearly no
banks generate revenues from their research. Research is fully a cost center. Even sales
and trading revenues have dwindled dramatically, especially in comparison to investment
banking revenues. Any analyst with a shred of common sense knows exactly where his
bonus is coming from at the end of the year. The connection between research and
investment banking used to be explicit. Now it has simply become "wink wink nod nod".
5/22/2018 Five Lessons From Ohr Pharma - Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (NASDAQ:OHRP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3034116-five-lessons-from-ohr-pharma 4/16


The lesson to be learned is that sell side research targets have consistently proven to be
nonsense. Anyone who loses money because they put faith in a sell side target has no
one to blame but themselves.


Lesson #3: With technology, you get what you pay for


In my previous article, I made the point that Ohr had paid just $100,000 for Squalamine
and that it had been purchased from a bankrupt seller who had already had the compound
in clinical trials but had chosen to discontinue it.


With this knowledge in hand, it is shocking that anyone would have placed anything more
than tangential faith in the prospects for the drug.


Yet we see this pattern over and over again. A micro cap reverse merger acquires some
token technology for next to nothing. The company then churns out press releases
(usually hyping the size of the overall market). Investment banks are incentivized with fee
revenues. The stock soars (for a time).


More so than any other factor, the existence of low priced and dated technology is
typically the best predictor of ultimate failure for these microcaps.


I have written about similar situations and have been consistently proven correct. When I
wrote about Organovo (NASDAQ:ONVO), I noted that it had acquired dated technology
for a six figure sum which quickly translated into a 10 figure market cap following a string
of press releases and hyper promotional articles on the stock. In the time since my last
article, the stock has fallen from over $13 to the $3's, a decline of more than 70%. Not
surprisingly, the company has yet to generate meaningful revenue from its technology.


Unipixel (NASDAQ:UNXL) was another similar case. As I noted in my article, press
releases and hype from retail investors sent the stock soaring despite the fact that its
underlying technology was dated and marginal. The stock has now cratered to just over
cash value per share.


In all of these cases, the hype always focuses on the massive potential of the multi billion
dollar market, while ignoring the fact that the company's technology is likely worthless.


Lesson #4: Lack of institutional ownership is a strong predictor of failure


Sell side analysts were busy telling the world that Ohr was a 3-5 bagger over the next 12
months. And yet the company had a paltry institutional ownership of just 24%.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/1848361-a-very-detailed-look-at-organovo

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ONVO

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UNXL

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1133671-why-is-uni-pixel-falling

http://www.nasdaq.com/symbol/ohrp/institutional-holdings
5/22/2018 Five Lessons From Ohr Pharma - Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (NASDAQ:OHRP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3034116-five-lessons-from-ohr-pharma 5/16


Institutions are far more motivated and capable than individual investors when it comes to
evaluating opportunities and making money on stocks. They have full time employees with
deeper expertise and they have the deep pockets to pay for real research to be done.


Yet we see time and time again that retail investors think that they have outsmarted Wall
Street and found an undiscovered bargain in some micro cap stock. While the institutions
sit on the sidelines, retail bids up the stock by hundreds of percent.


When we see a massive run up in a stock coupled with a striking lack of institutional
participation, it should at the very least serve as a clue that something is missing. This is
often the first clue that a stock will end up being a far better short than a long.


Lesson #5: Share price is a poor predictor of ultimate success


Many readers are very unforgiving of short sellers. When the share price goes up
following a negative exposé, these readers are quick to point fingers and suggest that the
conclusions must have been false.


With each of the stocks mentioned above, we have seen significant spikes in their share
prices before they cratered due to their ultimate failure. Ohr has been no exception to this
pattern.


When I wrote about Ohr, the stock price was sitting at around $9. It eventually fell back to
around $6.


In the few weeks before the failure of Squalamine, the stock spiked from $7 to nearly $12
based on enthusiasm for its near term prospects. With the stock now sitting at $3, we can
see clearly that stock price is a very weak predictor of ultimate outcomes. This is
especially true when looking at retail heavy microcaps.
5/22/2018 Five Lessons From Ohr Pharma - Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (NASDAQ:OHRP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3034116-five-lessons-from-ohr-pharma 6/16


Disclosure: The author has no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate
any positions within the next 72 hours.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: The author was previously an investment banker for a major
global investment bank and was engaged in investment banking transactions with a wide
range of healthcare companies including medical device, pharmaceutical, genomics and
biotech companies. The author has not been engaged in any investment banking
transactions with US listed companies during the past 5 years. The author is not a
registered financial advisor and does not purport to provide investment advice regarding
decisions to buy, sell or hold any security. The author has provided fundamental and/or
technical research to investors who hold a short position in the stock. The author may
choose to transact in securities of one or more companies mentioned within this article
within the next 72 hours. Before making any decision to buy, sell or hold any security
mentioned in this article, investors should consult with their financial adviser. The author
has relied upon publicly available information gathered from sources, which are believed
to be reliable and has included links to various sources of information within this article.
However, while the author believes these sources to be reliable, the author provides no
guarantee either expressly or implied
5/22/2018 Five Lessons From Ohr Pharma - Ohr Pharmaceutical, Inc. (NASDAQ:OHRP) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3034116-five-lessons-from-ohr-pharma 7/16


