Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








Terms of Service: 


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service.  You agree that use of Muddy 
Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect 
trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.  You represent to Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment 
sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site.  You further agree that you will not communicate the 
contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  If you download or 
receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and 
bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to 
continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be 
long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from 
any person through this site or reports on this site.  Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of:  (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) 
high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through our due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion.  All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the 
information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the 
downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any manner other than by download from 
that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute 
arising from your use of this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the 
personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction 
or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right 
or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is 
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the 
parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in 
particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or 
cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or 
cause of action arose or be forever barred. 
 


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 16
Muddy Waters, LLC 
NQ: Maintaining <$1 price target 


November 6, 2013 
 


If You Believe in Yidatong (NQ’s Largest Purported Revenue Source), You’ll Believe in 
Santa Claus 


 
NQ’s largest purported source of revenue, Yidatong (“YDT”), is controlled by NQ, and its 
primary purpose is facilitating NQ’s fraud.  Believing NQ’s narrative of YDT – that YDT is an 
independent company annually facilitating billing of approximately $35 million for a variety of 
developers – at this point requires investors to suspend reason.  If the following does not 
convince an investor that NQ’s YDT narrative is fabricated, then the investor is either too 
emotionally invested in the stock, or is gullible enough to still believe in Santa Claus. 
 
At the end of this report, we include a translation of a recent investigative article by iFeng 
Finance that concludes YDT is controlled by NQ and Ms. Rong Xu is a front, and that YDT’s 
purported numbers do not tie.  (There are other equally disturbing facts and conclusions in the 
article.) 
 
In order to believe NQ’s narrative, you need to believe: 
 
Despite deriving 40% of its business from developers other than NQ, NQ has no interest in 
being contacted by anybody – including potential clients.   
 
If NQ is to be believed, YDT is one of the rare businesses that do not want to be found.  In 
China, businesses generally want customers.  Usually, Chinese businesses that want customers 
enable potential customers and others to find their places of business.   
 
As we wrote in our initial report, we visited 10 potential YDT addresses.  These addresses 
generally came from YDT’s government filings, NQ’s SEC filings, online research, and even 
YDT’s own website.  Most of these addresses do not even physically exist.  At the addresses that 
do actually exist, YDT was nowhere to be found.  We exhausted every possibility of which we 
could think in order to try to find YDT, and we were utterly unsuccessful.   
 
Yet, according to NQ, the entire time we were chasing dead leads, YDT was cranking away in 
the back room of an office belonging to another Rong Xu company, 9H.   
 
One of the funny aspects of NQ’s claim is that YDT’s website still shows its address as being in 
Tianjin, and there is no mention of Beijing.  Note that there is no phone number – just a QQ 
handle and email address: 
 


Page 2 of 16
After NQ released the address of 9H and claimed YDT was co-located there, we visited the 
office.  There is no YDT signage anywhere in the lobby of YDT’s purported Beijing office.  The 
9H sign is visible though.   
 
There is no YDT sign at the entrance to YDT’s purported office either.  The photo NQ released 
(below) of the office entrance shows a large sign for 9H.  The characters “九合天下” mean 9H.  
 


 
 
The characters for “Yidatong” are “易大通”.  Those characters are not in evidence anywhere. 
 


Page 3 of 16
If NQ’s story is to be believed, not only is YDT playing hard to get with potential customers, it is 
not concerned about the impression the lack of signage or contact information leaves on its 
existing non-NQ customers. 
 
YDT has been cranking out $35 million in billings without having had many, if any, visitors 
to its office in the two years it has purportedly been there. 
 
YDT evidently has had few to no visitors in its two years in purportedly operating in the 9H 
office.  We observed, and Bloomberg confirmed, that the reception desk employees of 9H’s 
office building had never heard of YDT.  This implies that YDT has very rarely had a visitor. 
 
The office building operates similarly to those in Manhattan in that visitors need to check in – 
one is not able to operate the elevator without an employee fob.  The staircase exit doors are 
locked as well.  Reception desk employees would therefore be familiar with the companies that 
visitors might visit.   
 
At $35 million, YDT’s purported volume is not insignificant.  One would have expected job 
interviewees to show up on occasion, perhaps some existing clients, or even potential clients.  
Did YDT order no office supplies in its own name in two years?  It would be much easier to keep 
its accounting separate from that of 9H if the invoices were in YDT’s name.  Did YDT receive 
no courier shipments in two years?  Even Bowfinger eventually received a FedEx package.1 
 
It is normal practice in China for virtual offices to only exist virtually.  
 
NQ’s response to our inability to find YDT at 10 addresses throughout China is that those 
addresses are similar to virtual offices.  NQ equated these addresses to the mail drop addresses 
that a Delaware or Cayman company might use.  According to NQ, YDT needs an office in each 
province in which it does business with a mobile carrier.  That analogy is not quite apt. 
 
China has a number of virtual offices.  Servcorp offers virtual offices in most of the cities in 
which we struck out trying to find YDT.  According to its website, it has virtual offices in 
Guangzhou, Beijing, and Shanghai, which are among the cities we tried.  In our experience, 
virtual offices are approximately $100 per month.  Bulk discounts are likely available. 
 
It is therefore puzzling why seven of the 10 addresses either do not physically exist (ghost 
addresses) or they are not commercial buildings.  Two of the 10 addresses were commercial 
buildings that had other tenants, and nobody had heard of YDT.  One wonders where China 
Mobile sends those big billing statements for YDT. 
 
The other way in which this excuse falls apart is that YDT would be using at least four “virtual”, 
including two ghost, addresses.  If YDT were really humming away in Beijing, why not use the 
real address?  Again, YDT would want to get those binders full of download data from the 
carriers every so often.  
 
  
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 The movie “Bowfinger” is a decent analogy for both NQ and YDT. 


Page 4 of 16
YDT processes approximately $15 million in billing for network clocks and E-readers. 
 
NQ claims that it only accounts for approximately 60% of YDT’s business, meaning that YDT 
would be processing approximately $15 million annually for other clients.  Chinese consumers 
are more frugal than US consumers are.  We doubt that YDT could generate anywhere close to 
$15 million in volume for its product lineup, which is comprised of 12 products: three e-book 
readers, two video game simulators, two NQ products, Microsoft’s Mobile MSN, and network 
clocks.   
 


 
 
 
The repeated lies, which quite possibly amount to both 17(a) and 10b-5 securities fraud, 
about Rong Xu’s employment at NQ and when she joined YDT, are not covering up 
anything nefarious and have been told for sport. 
 
NQ has repeatedly lied about whether NQ is a related party.  These lies likely amount to 
securities fraud.  One therefore wonders whether NQ management would run the risk of 
prosecution if there were nothing to hide about NQ’s relationship with YDT. 
 
Rong Xu, who owns 75% of YDT, worked at NQ.  That much is not in dispute.  The question is 
whether Ms. Xu simultaneously worked at NQ and YDT, which has always been NQ’s largest 
source of revenue.  If Ms. Xu were simultaneously at both firms, then YDT would be a related 
party.  Doing business with related parties – particularly in a high fraud risk environment like 
China – presents a real risk of fraud.  Were YDT disclosed as a related party, the relationship 
would have been subject to a good deal more scrutiny by the auditor and underwriters.   
 


Page 5 of 16
It is now clear that YDT was a related party during at least 2006 to 2008.  Rong Xu became the 
Executive Director of YDT in February 2006.  Government records show this.  NQ, after we 
caught it in the lie about Rong Xu’s overlapping timelines, conceded that Ms. Xu was with NQ 
at least through December 2008.  NQ has taken great pains – and risks – to conceal this. 
 
NQ has now told the following four versions of Rong Xu’s involvement with NQ and YDT:2 
 


• Rong Xu was a consultant to NQ in 2006 and 2007 – NQ May 2011 prospectus. 
• Rong Xu consulted for NQ for less than six months in 2007, and bought 75% of YDT at 


the time she left NQ – NQ August 1, 2013 response to J Capital report. 
• Rong Xu was an employee of NQ from September 1, 2006 to December 31, 2008.  She 


bought 75% of YDT after she left NQ – October 25, 2013 conference call. 
• Rong Xu was a NQ consultant from spring 2007 until the end of 2007; she was then a NQ 


employee (Director of Marketing) from December 2007 to August 2008 – Matt Mathison 
November 2, 2013 narrowly circulated email. 


 
Rong Xu told Bloomberg yet another version – that in 2008, she worked for NQ for a total of 
seven months.3 
 
We are particularly interested that Matt Mathison seems to be the author or speaker of all three 
2013 public statements on the Rong Xu matter.  These contradicting statements would make his 
apparent lack of concern about Regulation FD seem to be almost a non-issue in comparison. 
 
The Business Tax YDT paid, which supports total transaction processing volume and 
therefore gross revenue of only $2.9 million, is irrelevant.   
 
The Business Tax YDT paid, along with its accounts payable and cash balance show that its 
2012 gross revenue was only $2.9 million.  PRC GAAP provides that YDT’s gross revenue and 
cost of sales include all amounts received on behalf of YDT customers like NQ, and paid to such 
customers.  NQ concedes that YDT recorded only $2.9 million in 2012 revenue and NQ agrees 
that gross revenue would include all amounts paid onward to NQ.  In other words, NQ agrees 
that YDT’s gross revenue must be at least as large as the $20.2 million NQ purports to have 
booked through YDT in 2012.  NQ would therefore seem to agree that if YDT’s gross revenue 
were only $2.9 million, then NQ’s YDT-related revenue is massively overstated. 
 
However, NQ argues that YDT’s $2.9 million of 2012 revenue was recorded on a “net” basis – 
i.e., net of what YDT paid NQ and its other customers.  In our initial report, we pointed out that 
there are two other items in YDT’s financial statements that evidence the $2.9 million is a gross 
revenue figure, and not net: YDT’s Business Tax payments and its accounts payable.  The 
Company has failed to publicly respond to those points.   
 
YDT’s Business Tax (i.e., sales tax) payments prove that the $2.9 million revenue is a gross 
figure.  YDT’s Business Tax payments in 2011 and 2012 respectively constituted $42,000 and 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
2 For a comprehensive discussion of the varying explanations, see: http://seekingalpha.com/article/1803082-nq-
mobile-1-question-5-answers?source=yahoo 
3 http://www.bloomberg.com/news/print/2013-11-03/nq-mobile-sales-search-leads-to-suburban-beijing-office.html 


Page 6 of 16
$97,000.  By statute, YDT pays Business Tax of between 3% to 5% of revenue.  (The exact 
percentage is a function of which services YDT sells and where it geographically books the 
revenues.)  YDT’s Business Tax accounts are equal to 3.4% of its reported revenue. 
 
It is clear that YDT is paying 3.4% of gross revenue, and not of net revenue.  YDT works with 
NQ (and presumably its other purported clients) in the following way.  YDT receives payment 
directly from the carriers.  YDT then deducts its share of the payments, and sends the bulk 
onward to NQ.  In other words, China Mobile would pay YDT RMB 100, and YDT would pay 
NQ approximately RMB 90.  These are the mechanics for which NQ’s contract with YDT 
provide.  It is key to understand that China Mobile does not pay YDT RMB 10 and also pay NQ 
RMB 90.  In other words, China Mobile pays all money to YDT. 
 
China’s tax system is voucher-based.  If China Mobile pays out RMB 100 as cost of sales, it 
needs a voucher to evidence the expenditure.  Without a voucher, the RMB 100 would fall to 
China Mobile’s pretax income line, and it would be taxed on all RMB 100.  Therefore, at the 
time China Mobile pays any vendor – especially a SP like YDT – it would require a voucher for 
all RMB 100.   
 
When YDT generates a voucher, it must pay business tax on the entire amount of the voucher.  
In other words, when YDT generates the RMB 100 voucher for China Mobile, it must pay 
Business Tax of 3% to 5% of the RMB 100.  The only way YDT could avoid paying Business 
Tax on the RMB 100 amount would be if China Mobile paid it only RMB 10, and directly paid 
NQ the RMB 90.  Again, this is not how carriers work with SPs like YDT. 
 
When YDT pays NQ the RMB 90, NQ generates a voucher for that amount, and NQ must pay 
Business Tax on the RMB 90.  That way, YDT has a voucher to show Cost of Sales that offset its 
revenue.   
 
YDT’s 2011 and 2012 Business Tax payments are 3.4% of respective revenue of $1.2 million 
and $2.9 million.  Therefore YDT’s 2012 gross revenue was $2.9 million. 
 
The discrepancy between YDT’s 12/31/2012 total accounts payable of $3.7 million, versus 
NQ’s purported accounts receivable from YDT of $9.4 million, is meaningless. 
 
On December 31, 2012, NQ’s purported accounts receivable from YDT stood at $9.4 million.  
On the same date, YDT’s accounts payable to all parties (presumably including NQ) was only 
$3.7 million.  NQ’s purported AR is 2.5x all of YDT’s APs.  Because YDT would be paying 
customers and vendors other than NQ, one would expect its APs to be higher than NQ’s ARs.  
Therefore, one of these accounts is clearly wrong. 
 
It has been suggested that there the difference is due to the 30-day lag between when YDT 
receives funds from carriers, and when YDT pays NQ.  This attempted explanation clearly does 
not hold water.  First, this explanation relies on YDT booking its revenue only on a net basis.   
As we showed with Business Tax and previously explained in our initial report, YDT’s revenue 


Page 7 of 16
is reported in its SAIC financials on a gross basis.4  Under the suggested alternative (nonsensical) 
version of accounting, YDT books an AR only for the amount of net revenue it will recognize.  It 
therefore would not have to book the offsetting AP until approximately 60 days later when it 
receives the cash payment from the carrier.5  As we showed in the discussion about Business 
Tax, YDT is recording revenue on a gross basis; therefore, it would book an AP for NQ’s portion 
of the invoice at the same time it books its AR.  YDT’s AR would equal the amount of the 
invoice that YDT would issue to the carrier; it would also equal YDT’s gross revenue on the 
transactions.  YDT’s AR and AP would be recorded at the same time NQ records its AR.  There 
is no lag, thus the alternative explanation holds no water. 
 
One way of confirming that YDT’s ARs are shown on a gross, and not net basis, is looking at 
YDT’s cash account relative to its ARs.  If YDT were only recording its ARs on a net basis, one 
would expect cash to dwarf ARs because YDT would be collecting cash payments that are 
roughly 10x its ARs.  However, as of December 31, 2012, YDT’s cash is only $150,000.  On the 
same date, its ARs are $3.6 million.  Because YDT has an additional 30 days to pay NQ, there 
should be cash from the last payment YDT received in its accounts, and that amount would have 
to dwarf ARs if ARs are recorded net.  YDT’s revenue, ARs, and APs are recorded on gross 
bases. 
 
However, even if there were a lag because YDT were recording revenue and ARs on a net basis, 
the lag would be only 60 days, which is the delay before YDT would receive cash from the 
carrier.  (Under this twisted form of accounting, at the time YDT receives cash from a carrier, 
YDT would need to book an AP that offsets the cash.)  60 days is 16% of one year.  This is 
hardly enough time to explain a 2.5x differential – particularly considering that YDT’s AP 
balance should include significant amounts owed to other parties.  (Other customers purportedly 
account for 40% of YDT’s volumes.)   
 
YDT, which purportedly accounts for 72.1% of NQ’s carrier billing, stands a reasonable 
chance of not showing up even once in 22 carrier subscriptions across 11 provinces 
(including in NQ’s biggest provincial markets), and all three carriers. 
 
We have now activated NQ subscriptions through the carrier-billing channel 22 times, and YDT 
has never been the SP.  YDT does not do any real business.  We have made eight attempts across 
all three carriers with SIMs for NQ’s purported largest provincial markets: Henan, Guangdong, 
Jiangsu, and Zhejiang.  Yet, YDT has never been the SP.  The SP for China Mobile has always 
been UM Pay.  The SP for China Unicom has always been Unisk.  NQ has always been the SP 
for China Telecom. 
 
NQ criticized our original sample size of 17 SIMs as too small.  It states that its proprietary super 
system “BOSS” dynamically assigns SPs based on the particular circumstances of whatever.  
First, zero for 22 makes it clear that YDT is processing nowhere near 72.1% of NQ’s overall 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
4 PRC GAAP standards mandate that when a party receives the entire amount of payment on behalf of another party 
pursuant to all contracts involved, the payment agent books the gross amount received as revenue.  This dovetails 
with China’s voucher-based tax system. 
5 As we explain infra, the 60-day carrier payment term claim contradicts NQ’s own contract with China Mobile, 
which provides for payment within 15 to 45 days. 


Page 8 of 16
carrier billing.  In fact, by disclosing (albeit in a lie) that NQ’s third largest revenue source is an 
international SP (Info2Cell), NQ shows us that YDT purportedly handles well in excess of 
72.1% of NQ’s China carrier billing.  (NQ’s disclosed 2012 carrier billing channel revenue of 
$27.9 million apparently includes revenue from international carriers, making YDT’s share of 
the domestic carrier-billing channel even higher than 72.1%.)  It is inconceivable that if YDT is 
really processing 72.1% or more of NQ’s carrier-channel billing, it would not have been the SP 
in our trials even once so far. 
 
There is no BOSS.  12 China Mobile subscriptions have resulted in UM Pay being the SP 12 
times.  China Mobile jointly owns UM Pay.  Seven China Unicom subscriptions have resulted in 
Unisk being the SP seven times.  Three China Telecom subscriptions have resulted in NQ being 
the SP three times.  China Mobile is NQ’s largest carrier billing channel revenue generator 
among the three carriers.  It is clear that NQ uses a sensible, easy to manage, approach to its SPs.  
It uses one SP for each carrier nationwide.  It makes sense to use UM Pay with China Mobile 
because it is a gigantic SP and is partly owned by China Mobile.  Unisk is another gigantic SP.  
China Telecom apparently works differently with application developers and SPs, which could 
be why NQ acts as its own SP for Telecom.   
 
When NQ called YDT and other SPs a “necessary payment channel”, omitting to disclose 
that NQ has been a SP itself since 2007, NQ was not attempting to mislead anybody.   
 
As others and we have shown, NQ has told a number of lies of commission.  It has also told 
some important lies of omission.  One must believe that there was no nefarious reason for the lies 
of omission as well.  One lie of omission was in NQ’s August 1, 2013 response to the J Capital 
report in which NQ discussed why it uses YDT.  NQ wrote: 
 


“Yidatong is a SP (service provider) which is a necessary payment channel for 
developers, like NQ, to collect payment from carriers like China Mobile.  It is a necessary 
payment channel.” 


 
NQ forgot to qualify “necessary” by admitting that it has had its own SP license since 2007.  It is 
therefore not necessary for NQ to use a small SP like YDT, but rather a choice.  NQ told this lie 
of omission because interposing YDT as a layer between it and carriers does not make business 
sense from a legitimate perspective.  Using YDT as a layer only makes sense if one wants to 
have a counterparty with which to generate fraudulent transaction records.   
 
Despite having its SP license, NQ prefers to use YDT “whose entire business and 
organization is around the SP process” and “who [is] entirely focused on that particular 
job function”.  However, NQ provides vital YDT infrastructure, such as YDT’s carrier 
liaisons and even its email server.   
 
In our initial report, we revealed that NQ has its own SP license, and we stated that there is no 
legitimate reason to use a small SP like YDT.  NQ responded with the aforementioned 
statements, claiming that NQ somehow benefits from using YDT because YDT’s business is 
geared to be a SP.   
 


Page 9 of 16
However, as we showed in our initial report, NQ is YDT’s contact point for multiple carriers, the 
Ministry of Information Industry and Telecommunications, and the State Administration of 
Industry and Commerce.  NQ even hosts YDT’s email server.  In other words, NQ is providing 
infrastructure for YDT’s SP operation.  It is therefore hard to see how YDT is significantly more 
specialized in the SP business than NQ is.  This argument does not hold water. 
 
YDT takes 60 days to collect from China Mobile when NQ takes no more than 45 days. 
 
NQ’s DSO from YDT at the end of 2012 was a whopping 167 days.6  NQ attempts to justify its 
high receivables balance from YDT by explaining that YDT needs 60 days to be paid by the 
carriers.  First, this explanation does not explain away DSO of 167 days.  More to the point, it is 
strange that YDT takes 60 days to receive funds from China Mobile when NQ, which is 
purportedly less efficient as a SP, takes no more than 45 days to receive payment from China 
Mobile.  
 
According to NQ’s contract with China Mobile, China Mobile must pay NQ for subscription fees 
billed in a given month with 15 days of the end of the month.7  In that way, the time during 
which NQ waits for payment from China Mobile could be as much as 45 days, and as short as 15 
days. 
 
YDT repeatedly needs loans despite having NQ subsidize its overhead, employing no more 
than 15 people, and receiving NQ’s money before NQ does. 
 
As we stated in our initial report, if the relationship between YDT and NQ were legitimate, YDT 
would not be receiving interest-free loans from NQ that totaled approximately $5 million.  We 
believe that these “loans” were actually ways of providing YDT a way to pay down fictitious 
ARs until cash could be raised from sales of NQ stock.  In other words, were YDT really 
processing over $20 million in transactions annually for NQ, it would have regular cash inflows 
that would enable it to pay down ARs.  Because there are no legitimate inflows, and YDT 
presumably needs to pay down some ARs with real cash from time-to-time, it needs cash.  We 
believe that the real cash that circulates throughout NQ’s fraud largely comes from offering 
proceeds and the sales of NQ’s prolifically-issued shares.  Particularly with China’s FX regime, 
it can be difficult to time the movements of cash; therefore, it is conceivable that YDT might 
have needed to “borrow” cash from NQ in order to make properly timed payments of fake ARs.   
 
YDT would seem to have no legitimate need for repeated loans from NQ.  According to NQ, it 
co-locates in a 90 sq. ft. room for which 9H pays the rent.  NQ takes on some of YDT’s 
infrastructure burden by hosting its email server and providing its points of contact with carriers.  
YDT sits on NQ’s money for 30 days before it pays it onward.  YDT’s business model is not 
investment or capital intensive.  It has no legitimate need for repeated loans. 
 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
6 Calculation methodology is purported NQ revenue received from YDT in 2012 of $20.2 million, divided by 365 
days, and then divided into NQ’s purported AR from YDT of $9.4 million. 
7 NQ 2011 F-1, ex. 10.13. 


Page 10 of 16
One Chinese news outlet, iFeng, also concluded that YDT is really controlled by NQ and 
Xu Rong is just a front, and that YDT’s purported numbers do not tie.  The following is a 
translation of the full article. 
 


Getting to the Bottom of NQ’s Bizarre Road to Riches8 
 
At 12:46 on November 3, 2013 
Source: iFeng Finance, Author: Liu Liping， Li Lei 
     
Behind the scenes of NQ’s unusual rise to fortune there has been “a Ghost founder” operating 
out of sight, directing the company’s fate.  The largest source of NQ’s profits is actually a 
company it controls, Tianjin Yidatong (YDT).   After NQ received 640 million RMB from its 
IPO, Mr. Zhou Xu began fading into the background, all the while using increasingly obfuscated 
means to receive his continuous streams of wealth from NQ. 
 
The company [NQ] had a weak start in October of 2005 and the following two years were 
similarly lackluster.  Then in May of 2001 it went public in the US.   Over the past six years, and 
up to the present, NQ has sustained a record of being the fastest growing among US-listed 
Chinese tech companies. 


 
Then on November 30th an 81 page short report from Muddy Waters caught NQ by surprise.  
After a few days, the company countered with a 97-page reply.  Among the core issues was the 
question of whether a company by the name of Tianjin Yidatong was set up as a shell company 
beneath NQ’s banner. 


 
In the course of just a few days research iFeng Finance found that Tianjin Yidatong actually does 
exist, is located at the address of a different company, employs less than ten people, and has been 
fortune enough to survive for eleven years.  However, all of the evidence reveals that Ms. Xu 
Rong is presented as the owner on the surface only to deceive the public and obscure true 
ownership by another.   The real owner is one of NQ’s founders, and its second largest 
shareholder. 


 
In June of 2007, NQ’s mysterious “founder” joined the company, Mr. Zhou Xu has since 
continuously found a way to direct the company’s destiny, but like a ghost, he is hard to find and 
difficult to trace.  After NQ received 640 million RMB from its IPO, Mr. Zhou Xu began fading 
into the background, all the while using increasingly obfuscated means to receive his continuous 
streams of wealth from NQ. 


 
Who is Yidatong? 
 
If we were to draw out NQ’s bizarre company history on a chart, it would contain a sharp 90-
degree turn and its vertex resides the “honored persona” of Yidatong.  From mid-2007 on, this 
company has continuously been NQ’s greatest source of profit. 


 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
8 http://finance.ifeng.com/business/special/ruigongsi11/index.shtml  
 


Page 11 of 16
Of course, Tianjin Yidatong is not simply a “shell company” as the American short-seller Muddy 
Waters described.  The company does indeed actually exist, operates at the address of another 
company, does not post its name on the sign, has less than 10 employees, and has been fortune 
enough to remain in business for 11 years. 
 
“In 2006, I bought my 75% interest from four individuals,” stated Ms. Xu Rong, General 
Manager of Tianjin Yidatong, at their Beijing Fengtai District Headquarters Center District 
office.  The explanation was that she acquired the majority of Yidatong because it had a mobile 
telecom SP license, making Yidatong a unique asset. 


 
However you need to understand the background of this industry.   There were a series of the ups 
and downs in the ten years since the launch of the value added service provider (SP) business, 
with telecom operators upstream and the content providers (CP) downstream.  In 2004, the SP’s 
were embroiled in corruption scandals, [such was the impact that] in 2006 the SP’s remained in 
the depths of a long down cycle.   In that year, the telecom operators’ profit split with the SP’s 
was changed from 15:85 to 40:60; and simultaneously the payment channels were expanded, 
thereby greatly compressing the profit margin and vitality of the SP industry. 


 
“The SP’s were hit very hard at that time and the whole volume of business fell off,” Ms. Xu 
Rong recognized.   But why then would she buy a majority interest in Yidatong? “It was 
foresight, a bet on the future of the mobile internet,” she explained. 


 
Strangely, although the Yidatong’s Legal Representative, Ms. Xu Rong seems unfamiliar with 
the company itself.   [Among her comments were:]  “Tianjin’s headquarters may have a few 
staff.”   “In all of China there are about 20 people in total.”  “In all of China there may be a few 
different office addresses.”  “Guangzhou may have one or two staff.” 


 
Research by iFeng Finance into the acquisition of Yidatong found that Ms. Xu Rong might have 
been brought to the table on behalf of others. 


 
“I witnessed the growth of the internet in China” Ms. Xu says.  She graduated with a Master’s 
degree from the Materials Science and Engineering Department of Qinghua University.  
Accordingly to iFeng Finance‘s description, after graduating she entered China’s first internet 
company HaiYingWei.   From 2000 to 2002 she worked at Lenovo FM365, then from 2003 to 
2005 joined WanXiang, and became a Vice President in the Data Division, in 2006 she 
purchased the enterprise Yidatong, and in early 2007 co-founded 9H. 


 
iFeng Finance verified that an important part of her resume was withheld, after leaving 
WanXiang, she joined Beijing Polywin Technology Co. and while serving as the Deputy General 
Manager acquired Yidatong. 


 
So what kind of company is Beijing Polywin Technology Co.?  This company was established in 
2005, its legal representative, founder, and CEO is Mr. Zhou Xu (yes, one and the same as the 
co-founder and second largest shareholder of NQ.)   As with Yidatong, it too is a company in the 
SP industry.  But between 2006 and 2010 it was ordered by China mobile’s provincial level 
companies and MIIT to undergo rectification, even terminating cooperation in Inner Mongolia as 


Page 12 of 16
well as Guangxi Province before ultimately taking their business offline.   In 2011 Beijing 
Polywin Technology Co. was cancelled and its SP qualifications terminated. 


 
It was during this period, on November 30th, 2007 to be precise that Mr. Zhou Xu founded Jiu He 
Tian Xia Technology Co. (Beijing) [herein called 9H], located on the 3rd floor of Building No. 4, 
11 Hepingli East Street, Dongcheng District.   After Polywin Technology Co. was deregistered 
all of its assets were transferred to 9H and its web traffic was redirected to the official game page 
operated by 9H.   In 2012, the company moved to Fengtai District Headquarters Base District 16.  
Mr. Zhou Xu was 9H’s legal representative up until 2009, and thereafter, the legal representative 
changed to Ms. Xu Rong.   Mr. Zhou Xu is the real founder of 9H. 
 
Additionally, it must be pointed out that after Yidatong was purchased, its few employees were 
collocated with 9H’s, as was confirmed by both Ms. Xu Rong as well as employees at 9H. 


 
Thus, regardless of whether it was during her time at WanXiang, at Beijing Polywin, or even at 
9H, Ms. Xu Rong has continuously operated as Mr. Zhou’s loyal lieutenant, thereby allowing the 
real owner of Yidatong to avoid disclosing himself.   Indeed, even in 2007, when Mr. Zhou Xu 
became a founder of NQ, Ms. Xu Rong followed along and served as a consultant. 


 
“The Ghost Founder” 
 
In NQ’s family genealogy, Mr. Zhou Xu is the mysterious founder who seems able to 
continuously direct the company’s fate, but like a ghost, he himself is hard to find and difficult to 
trace. 


 
NQ’s co-founder and CEO Lin Yu expressed that prior to May of 2007, NQ was constantly 
facing crisis and facing the possibility of imminent collapse, it was its period of hardship.   "The 
company had no money, few value-added services, no brand, the products were just in the early 
stages, everything had to be done by ourselves, it was continuously operating poorly, and almost 
closed down several times." 


 
But in May of 2007, its bitter days came to a close.  Coincidentally, according to the Company’s 
IPO prospectus, it was in June of 2007, that Mr. Zhou Xu joined the company taking on the title 
of “founder.”   From this year, NQ began to receive funding from Sequoia, GSR, Ceyuan 
Ventures, Fidelity Asia and a stream of other venture investments. 


 
In NQ’s IPO prospectus, Mr. Zhou Xu’s resume states that “from 2006 to 2007 he served as the 
Chairman of Beijing Chineseall Cultural Development Co., Ltd.,; 2005-2006 CEO of Polywin 
Technology Co., and earned an MBA from China Europe International Business School 
（CEIBS）.” 
 
Moreover a publicly disclosed resume shows that Mr. Zhou Xu graduated from Beijing Institute 
of Computer Science, was the Vice President of HuaYou Starcomm Communications, UT 
Starcomm (China) Communications Director of Marketing, and finally in approximately early 
2003 joined WanXiang Group’s subsidiary company WanXiang Telecommunication as a Vice 
President, and assumed the duties of the General Manager of the Online Games Division. 


Page 13 of 16
Therefore it is after Mr. Zhou Xu became a “founder” at NQ that the volume of SP business 
between NQ and Yidatong enjoyed explosive growth.  According to the data revealed to ifeng 
financial by Ms. Xu Rong, NQ has always been their largest customer in terms by volume of 
business, representing 70% of their revenue. 


 
As at May 5, 2011, when NQ went public in New York, the prospectus reported that Mr. Zhou 
Xu held a 31.1% stake prior to the listing, and that after it went public that his shares declined to 
22.9%.  His 51,832,941 shares increased in value to over 600 million RMB, and Mr. Zhou’s 
stake became worth even more than that of an earlier founder, Shi Wenyong.    


 
After NQ’s listing, Mr. Zhou Xu’s personal wealth realized explosive growth, and in 2011 
according to “Money Weekly’s” publishing of the wealthiest overseas Chinese, Mr. Zhou Xu’s 
fortune reached 640 million RMB. 


 
However, from day one, Mr. Zhou Xu seems to have had no involvement in NQ’s management.  
The management roles at NQ are: Dr. Lin Yu is NQ’s CEO, Mr. Shi Wenyong is the COO, but 
Mr. Zhou Xu is listed only as a “founder.”   After NQ went public, Mr. Zhou Xu never required 
matching voting rights, with his voting rights being only16.7%.   Even one year after having 
gone public, he resigned his position on the audit committee, retaining only the role of a director. 


 
It is worth considering, as iFeng Finance observed, that Mr. Zhou Xu is a man who has 
maintained a very low profile, seemingly wishing to avoid contact with the outside world, such 
that it is even difficult to obtain information about his public activities.   iFeng Finance searched 
through media photos, and even on the day of the IPO, Mr. Zhou does not appear, so much so 
that NQ’s Vice President Zou Shihong was taken to be one of the thee founders. 


 
From Zhou Xu’s unknown background we can see an interesting phenomenon, he seems to like 
to give to the companies that he founds the name “Poly”, besides “Polywin Technology Co.,” he 
founded another software developer and wholesaler company called “Beijing Poly Intelligence 
Technology Company”, and in the recruitment information for 9H the company originally 
introduced itself as “a member of the Poly Communications Holding Co,” but iFeng Finance was 
unable to locate information connecting this company to the [well known] Poly Group.  The Poly 
Group’s representatives also deny any knowledge of these companies. 


 
Additionally, during the period of time when the SP’s were running amok, MIIT initiated several 
rectification efforts, but Mr. Zhou Xu’s Polywin Technology Co.,  Communications group 
committed multiple violations yet survived, and on the eve of NQ’s IPO, when the scandal 
regarding NQ and Beijing Feiliu Jiutian Technology Co.’s9 conspiracy to compel additional cell 
phone billing charged was exposed, Yidatong as an SP was not subject to any punishments. 


 
iFeng Finance learned that Mr. Zhou Xu’s present official duties are that of one of partners in a 
private enterprise called Guan Yu Ventures.  iFeng Finance attempted to reach him, but each 
time we called Beijing Poly Communications, the phone rang but there was no answer. 


 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
9 Since acquired by NQ and renamed FL Mobile. 


Page 14 of 16
Examining NQ’s Data 
“A company can make mistakes during its development,” said Ms. Xu Rong, and from her 
perspective, the mistakes NQ made were “mistakes of experience.”   


 
On the 8th Anniversary of NQ’s formation, the American short seller Muddy Waters published its 
81-page report accusing NQ of being a “massive fraud.”    One of its core tenants is that NQ’s 
largest customer Yidatong is a company that does not exist.  This is based on its research into ten 
different listed registered addresses it maintains throughout China. 


 
Clearly, from the findings presented by iFeng Finance, this argument and contention can be 
easily rebutted, however. Muddy Waters theory seems quite close to the truth, Yidatong is 
actually a company owned by NQ. 


 
Additionally, critical data from NQ’s 2012 annual financial report shows that of its $90.8 million 
USD annual revenue, NQ received 20.2 million USD, or approximately 120 million RMB from 
Yidatong, equaling 22% of its total annual revenues.  But when iFeng Finance compared this to 
the data provided by from Ms. Xu Rong, there was a substantial discrepancy between the two. 


 
Yidatong’s staffer even told iFeng Finance that after the Muddy Waters report, NQ advised them 
to “provide the media with good communication.” 


 
But according to the data revealed to iFeng Finance by Ms. Xu Rong, the Company’s monthly 
revenues were stable at 10 million RMB/mo, or 120 million RMB per year.   Moreover they 
provide to NQ a portion equaling between 60% and 70%, such that the highest amount would 
still only be 84 million RMB, a far cry from120 million RMB. 


 
Simultaneously, a review of the SAIC file data shows that in 2012 Yidatong’s total revenue was 
$2.9 million USD, or approximately 17.4 million RMB.   Both NQ and Ms. Xu Rong insisted 
that these were net numbers. 


 
But the data Ms. Xu Rong provided regarding the SP industry indicated that their gross profit 
margin was only 10% or thereabouts.   If so, then according to the 120 million RMB revenue 
calculation, Yidatong’s gross margin would be only 12 million RMB, there again revealing a 
considerable discrepancy with the 17.4 million RMB. 


 
Within the composition of revenues presented in NQ’s 2012 financial reports is the item 
“Wireless Carriers and Mobile Payment Service Providers” which equaled 27.9 million USD.   
After deducting NQ’s $20.2 million USD and the additional $1.8 million USD from China 
Mobile, there remains only $5.9 million USD. 


 
During the recent investor meeting, NQ revealed that the number two and number three largest 
customers were Beijing UMPAY and Info2Cell.  These two companies’   revenues also belong to 
the revenue segment originating from “Wireless Carriers and Mobile Payment Service 
Providers.” 





Page 15 of 16
These two companies separately represent 11% and 8% of NQ’s 2012 total revenue, or a total of 
$17.4 million USD; so clearly, between these numbers and the $5.9 million USD there remains 
an enormous gap. 


 
The existing hole in data constitutes the main source of NQ’s profits, and is approximately equal 
to NQ’s pre-IPO total capital. 


 
iFeng Finance checked NQ’s IPO prospectus.  In the three years 2008, 2009, and 2010, Yidatong 
separately stood at 52.7%, 20.0% and 21.4% of the Company’s revenue and the SP was the 
primary source of the Company’s profits. 


 
After 2010, NQ’s primary source of income was derived from NQ’s recharge cards.  This data is 
also receiving considerable skepticism from outsiders, because intuitively speaking, NQ’s Qin 
coins have been a rare sight in the market. 


 
On a recent conference call NQ revealed that throughout China there were 5000 pre-paid card 
points of sale, three different distributors, these were off-line sales, and that every month 600,000 
cards were pre-sold, most of which were three month pre-paid cards with an ARPU of 11 rmb.  


 
On the afternoon of October 31st, iFeng Finance visited the booths B1108, B1112, and B2178 
located in the basement of the Dinghao shopping center sub levels 1 and 2 identified as points of 
sale [for pre-paid cards] in NQ’s counter –attack conference call to carry out some fact-finding. 
We found that sales were less than ideal. 
 
In response to this finding, NQ’s Executive Vie President Li Yu expressed that sales of NQ’s 
pre-paid cards in first tier cities were not robust, but that its key markets were third and fourth 
tier cities, and even lower tier cities, and additionally that the announcement chose to include 
Tier I cities from their network because the media generally tended to focus more on these 
places. 
 
After iFeng Finance purchased a 13 RMB prepaid card at booth B2178, the salesperson 
explained that for each pre-paid card they sell they receive 1 RMB, but that in the last two days 
there has been really not much business, stating that, “on average, in a given day, we can sell 6 
or 7 cards.”    While iFeng Finance was in the middle of making its inquiries, two young men 
suddenly turned up, hurriedly purchased 10 pre-paid cards, and then vanished almost as quickly 
as they appeared. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page 16 of 16
