5/19/2018 Bronte Capital: Northern Oil and Gas – the source of the strange auditor


http://brontecapital.blogspot.com/2011/03/northern-oil-and-gas-source-of-strange.html 1/4


The sometimes eccentric views of John Hempton


Bronte Capital


Friday, March 25, 2011


Posted by John Hempton at 11:03 PM  


Northern Oil and Gas – the source of the strange auditor
There are lots of things that I do not know about Northern Oil and Gas.  The thing I would most like to
know are the flow rates on their wells at initial, six month, twelve months, eighteen months and twenty
four months.  The decline rates of the wells are the key to the economics of the Bakken and will tell
you whether any or all the stocks are buys or even shorts.  The decline data I have suggests a decline
rate of over 2 percent per day but only includes the front-end of the decline curve. 
 
My first post had one question that left me pondering.  The question was how did Northern Oil and
later Voyager Oil choose an auditor that nobody has ever heard of in Salt Lake City over twelve
hundred miles from their office? 
 
Moreover it wasn't any ordinary auditor – it was Mantyla McReynolds, an auditor with an almost
unblemished record of auditing penny stocks that later collapsed. 
 
Well I have the answer – at least in the case of Northern Oil.  The auditor came with the initial shell
company into which Northern Oil was merged.  Mantyla McReynolds was the auditor both before and
after the reverse take over.  
 
The initial shell company was called Kentex Petroleum and it was controlled by Duane S Jensen.  The
initial shareholders received 6 percent of Northern Oil for just a listing. 
 
Duane (and his children) have a long record with penny-stocks using the same Salt Lake City auditor.
 Indeed a few Jensen (sometimes Jenson) specials were mentioned in the first Northern Oil blog post.
 However Bikini Team International Inc stands out.  This is their business description: 
 


Our initial operations consisted of a "bikini team" comprised of women clad in bikinis
who were engaged through us to appear for a fee. Some of the events that the bikini
team appeared at were: an NFL super bowl party at the Roadhouse Grill in Evanston,
Wyoming; as "ring" girls from May 2001 to September 2002 for the Wendover Boxing
Series; the 24th of July Rodeo at the Delta Center Salt Lake City, Utah in 2001 and
2002; and the 2002 Winter Olympics, which were held in Salt Lake City, Utah, where
they worked for Budweiser as the snow angels and hosted several pre-Olympic parties
with Budweiser. They also appeared at several charity events, primarily in held in the
State of Utah, like the X-Mas box foundation, the Cancer foundation, Christmas toy
drive, Ron Boone golf classic at Thanksgiving Point, Downs Charity, Make a Wish
foundation and the Ride for Hope With Harley Davidson in May 2001 and 2002. They
also hosted bands at concerts, such as Lifehouse and 3 Doors Down and appeared on
the Salt Lake City Fox 13 television morning show and sports segment "Rungee Time"
for 15 months.


 
I really wanted to find photos of the Swedish Bikini Team – but all I found is Duane's (sometime
Dwayne's)  more colourful record going back to the 1970s including SEC sanction and rougher... 
 
If readers want to dig they will find plenty that is amusing.  I still chortling at a listed superbowl party. 
 
 
 
John 
 


