! 1 


Muddy Waters, LLC 
June 20, 2011 


 
Important disclaimer on pp. 4-5 


 
The Ties that Blind 


Part 1: Huaihua Yuda 
 
“I personally stand by and guarantee that the audited financial statements in the reports 
filed are accurate, and any material connected parties’ transactions have been disclosed in 
our management discussions and analysis.” – Allen Chan, Sino-Forest Chairman / CEO 
on TRE’s June 14, 2011 conference call. 
 
Contrary to information TRE released on June 17, 2011, Huaihua Yuda, appears to be 
closely related to TRE.  
 
Background 
 
Sino-Forest investors had not heard of Huaihua Yuda (“Yuda”) until Muddy Waters, 
LLC’s June 2nd report on TRE.  Our report disclosed the existence of Yuda, and showed 
that TRE has been moving significant sums of money to Yuda.  On June 17th, TRE 
posted a local government letter in its data room that states Yuda is not a subsidiary of 
TRE; rather, that it is a subsidiary of Sonic Jita Engineering Ltd.   
 
Summary 
 
Sonic Jita was once owned by Sino-Forest executives, and then by Sino-Forest itself.  
When TRE owned Sonic Jita, TRE engaged in a major undisclosed related party 
transaction with Sonic Jita.  At present Sonic Jita is nominally owned by parties unrelated 
to TRE.   TRE and Sonic Jita share a senior executive, although it is unclear whether his 
dual role is concurrent.  A recent report by Canada’s Globe and Mail presents evidence 
suggesting that TRE exercises control over Yuda. 
 
Sonic Jita and Sino-Forest 
 
Sino-Forest executives, and then Sino-Forest itself, owned Sonic Jita.  At the time TRE 
owned Sonic Jita, TRE entered into a major transaction with Sonic Jita that TRE did not 
disclose was a related party transaction.  As part of this transaction, TRE was sued for an 
alleged breach of a contract by Sonic Jita, even though Sonic Jita was not named as a 
defendant.  Sonic Jita and TRE appear to share at least one key executive, although it is 
currently unclear whether his dual role is concurrent.  
 
Sino-Wood Partners Ltd. and Sino-Wood (Guangdong) Ltd., two of TRE’s primary 
holding companies, previously owned Sonic Jita.  At the time TRE (via its subsidiaries) 
owned Sonic Jita, TRE announced that it had entered into a major equipment purchase 
contract with Sonic Jita.  TRE disclosed the transaction as though it were an unconnected
! 2 


arm’s length transaction.1  In reality, TRE was named the sole defendant in a 1998 
lawsuit relating to Sonic Jita’s alleged breach of a contract.  We are unclear why Sonic 
Jita was not named as a defendant.  Thus, as early as 1997, TRE engaged in an 
undisclosed related party transactions with Sonic Jita. 
 
TRE acquired its stake in Sonic Jita from TRE co-founder K.K. Poon; ADS Capital Ltd.2; 
and Leslie Chan, who was then a major shareholder and executive vice president of TRE 
as well as a co-founder of Sino-Wood Partners Ltd. (we are unclear whether there is a 
familial relationship between Allen Chan and Leslie Chan).  Allen Chan was a director of 
Sonic Jita at the time TRE acquired Sonic Jita.  It was never disclosed that TRE’s 
management individually owned and controlled Sonic Jita. 
 
Sonic Jita is presently owned by parties who appear unrelated to TRE. 
 
However, Sonic Jita appears to share at least one key executive with TRE, Mr. Ye Han 
Xiang.  It is unclear at this point whether Mr. Ye concurrently holds a position at Sonic 
Jita.  Mr. Ye is the Legal Representative3 of four TRE entities, including one of TRE’s 
acknowledged Huaihua companies, Sino-Panel (Yuan Ling) Co. Ltd.  According to the 
first website below, Mr. Ye entered into a contract in 2005 with Hong Jiang City, Hunan 
Province on behalf of Sonic Jita.  The second website shows Mr. Ye’s status as Sino-
Panel Yuan Ling’s current Legal Representative. 
  


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
1 See Sino-Forest 1997 Annual Information form, p. 22. 
2 It is likely that ADS Capital Ltd. was at least partly controlled by Allen Chan. During the 1990’s, Mr. 
Chan was a director of A D Sinensas & Assoc.; further, in prior prospectuses, Allen Chan’s family 
members were disclosed as beneficial owners of TRE stock via ADS Holdings BVI Ltd. 
3 The Legal Representative is a company official who has legal authority to enter into binding contracts, 
and who is personally liable for administrative and criminal wrongdoing by the company.
! 3
! 4 


Yuda and Sino-Forest 
 
Canada’s Globe and Mail recently encountered evidence that TRE controls Yuda when it 
visited Yuda’s office.4  It wrote 
 


“But again, it’s a challenge trying to track down the real origins of the Sino-Forest 
partner. No street address is given for Huaihua Yuda Wood on the documents 
made available by Sino-Forest, only the name of a tiny township called Anjiang in 
southern Hunan province. There, locals say a company called Yuda did indeed 
own a crumbling sawmill in the area that has since changed hands.  
Employees who remained behind at the mill after it was sold say they believed 
that Huaihua Yuda Wood was indeed a subsidiary of Sino-Forest. “There were 
Canadians here all the time back then,” said an office worker who would only 
give her family name, Yi. 
 
At the offices of Jiading, the Sino-Forest subsidiary in the nearby city of 
Dongkou, the story gets even more complicated. The factory manager says 
Huaihua Yuda Wood’s operations are indeed in the same building as Jiading’s. 
Yuda is a “cousin company,” the factory manager explained. 
 
But his boss, general manager Liu Zhiwei, denies that’s the case and says Yuda 
Wood remains an independent company based in Anjiang, though he says he 
doesn’t know its address or phone number. 
 
An official with the Huaihua City Bureau of Commerce told The Globe and Mail 
by telephone Wednesday that Huaihua Yuda was no longer a legally registered 
company and that he could not provide any other information. But that same 
week, the seemingly defunct company wrote to the same commerce bureau, 
asking for and receiving a letter clarifying that it was indeed a separate entity 
from Sino-Forest.” 5 
 


Disclaimer 
 
 
Source Materials 


 
(See following pages)
