Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 1 of 11 
 








July 26, 2014 


-  
Zuliagate -- The Big Secret 


 
Citron Exposes What the Press Has Ignored 
 
The stock market and the real estate industry are all abuzz about 
the possible merger of Zillow(NASDAQ:Z) and 
Trulia(NASDAQ:TRLA). The media is now filled with stories 
proclaiming that the combined company will instantly become 
an internet advertising juggernaut that wields pricing power 
over the entire internet real estate industry. 
 
You cannot read a single article or analyst commentary that 


doesn’t invoke the magic phrase “Pricing Power”. Without the 
slightest thought whatsoever, the combination of Zillow and 
Trulia is supposed to give the combined entity the power to 
triple ad revenue from real estate agents. Nothing could be 
further from the truth – and we have the proof.
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 2 of 11 
 


Citron Research now exposes the big lie that has never been 
discussed by any sell side analyst, mainstream media pundit, 


and most importantly NEVER DISCLOSED by Zillow or Trulia.  
 
Zillow/Trulia already have in place a rock bottom deal with 
Realogy, the largest real estate agency in the world, that 
prohibits ALL OTHER agencies from advertising on their listings … 


and for this they pay a fee 95% less than any other agency pays. 
Not only is this deal unsustainable in the industry, we’re not at 
all sure if it’s even legal from an anti-trust perspective.  
 
But incredibly, it falls to Citron to publish the documents that no 
one from either Zillow or Trulia has ever showed Wall Street. 
This deal spans all of the Realogy agencies: 
  


 Coldwell Banker 
 Sotheby’s 
 ERA 
 Century 21 
 Better Homes  


 
We’ve published a copy directly from Coldwell Banker. 
 
Below is the pricing for the 175,000 Realogy agents who are a 
dominant force in the industry. Not only amazing -- IT HAS 
NEVER BEEN DISCLOSED. And it already covers exclusive agent 
status on both Zillow and Trulia – most notably with regard to 
excluding other brokers’ ads from Realogy listings.
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 3 of 11 
 


Indicted by their own words: 
 


 
 
Really?  Anybody ever read Chapter 1 about anti-competitive 
practices and antitrust laws ?  
 


 
Coldwell Banker Featured Agent Branding Program 


April 1, 2014, through March 31, 2015 – Page 42 
If you are serious about investing in this deal, Citron recommends you 


read this entire document carefully.  
 


http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/Fab-Plus-2014-
2015-Presentation-HI-1.pdf   


“Competitors Can’t Touch This Offer” 



http://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/competition-guidance/guide-antitrust-laws

http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/Fab-Plus-2014-2015-Presentation-HI-1.pdf

http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/Fab-Plus-2014-2015-Presentation-HI-1.pdf
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 4 of 11 
 


Realogy(NYSE:RLGY) is the largest franchised player in the Real 
Estate agency space, with a footprint of roughly 1/4


th
  of the 


entire U.S. residential real estate competitive landscape. 
Combined, the next 3 ranking competitors are only slightly 
larger.  





(*) Remax + Keller + Berkshire Hathaway = 183,961 Agents
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 5 of 11 
 


PRICING POWER:  Never Had it … Never Will  
 
This Realogy marketing deal was done to purposefully afford 
Realogy an unfair advantage over their competitors, by blocking 
all competing agent ads on listings generated by Realogy agents.  
 


More importantly, this agreement eliminates over 20% of 
all Zillow/Trulia inventory in exchange for a minimal 
amount of money.  (Note that whatever gross sum FAB PLUS 
generates from Realogy and its agents has to be split among all 
the online ad vendors; we also acknowledge Realogy corporate 
probably subsidizes a small, undisclosed part of the overall deal 
price.)  
 
But it’s not just any 20% -- Realogy’s NRT group is the largest 
owner and operator of residential real estate brokerages in the 
United States, with operations in more than 40 of the 100 largest 
US metropolitan areas – surely the most lucrative potential 
markets for Zillow/Trulia. 
 
Further, data indicates Realogy agents consistently deliver the 
highest average property price, demonstrating that their 
premium brands generally represent the most prestigious 
listings in the market.   
 
The FAB PLUS deal is marketed explicitly to Realogy’s agents as a 
direct way to “Block competitors from advertising on your listing 
details page.”   
.
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 6 of 11 
 


 
(page 17) 


 
For Zillow and Trulia, this is double jeopardy:  Not only are all 
these listings off the market for selling leads to other brokers, 
but the listing broker gets to assure they remain exclusive in 
exchange for a very small payment (appx $15 / month.)  This is a 
huge lose-lose proposition for Zillow/Trulia.  
 
How does this preferential pricing not quickly lead to a 


devastating industry backlash?  
 


Why Does Realogy Get Such a Great Deal?  
 
Because they know the true value of the Zillow / Trulia leads
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 7 of 11 
 





http://phx.corporate-
ir.net/External.File?item=UGFyZW50SUQ9NTQzMzk3fENoaWxkSUQ9MjM0MDYwfFR5cGU9MQ==&t=1 





The quality /efficacy of leads from Realogy’s internal sites 
is nearly 250% better than outside non-RFG branded 
internet sources.  
 


 
(Slide 22)  


“So to put the Internet in perspective, in 2013, NRT received 
1.5 million leads from its real estate Internet websites. 
Interestingly, 30% of these leads came from NRT's local 
operating company websites and the remainder came from 
the 700 plus real estate related websites which we participate 
in. NRT's real estate website not only generated the greatest 
amount of leads, but they're also the highest quality of leads”  


-- Bruce Zipf - NRT LLC - President and CEO  at RLGY investor day 







http://phx.corporate-ir.net/External.File?item=UGFyZW50SUQ9NTQzMzk3fENoaWxkSUQ9MjM0MDYwfFR5cGU9MQ==&t=1

http://phx.corporate-ir.net/External.File?item=UGFyZW50SUQ9NTQzMzk3fENoaWxkSUQ9MjM0MDYwfFR5cGU9MQ==&t=1
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 8 of 11 
 


Not only is lead generation from their own internal-branded sites growing 
much faster, those leads are worth much more in dollar terms on closed 
deals.  
 


Compared to all other sources, Realogy’s internally generated leads : 


 Are growing 70% faster on CAGR basis 


 Result in a nearly 280% superior conversion rate  
( 5.6% to 2.0% ) 





From these numbers we can easily conclude that Realogy knew what they 
were doing when they cut the deal, and if in years to come Z/T wanted to 
raise prices- the nuclear option is always Realogy’s to commit.    
 


   But it gets even worse for Zillow / Trulia 
 
Despite Realogy already having a deal to block all competing agent ads on 
its listings for an undisclosed small sum, they are still moving aggressively 
to compete directly -- going head-to-head against Z/T, which should make 
Z/T concerned about the nuclear option despite the rock bottom pricing.  
 
Realogy is already preparing for a black-swan price increase, by building a 
robust real estate portal of their own, that also accepts competitors’ 
listings.   Meanwhile, whatever metrics you use, if  Realogy pulls its 
listings off of Zillow / Trulia, it would hardly dent their business at all.  
However, that step would evaporate the $9 billion Zillow / Trulia entity.
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 9 of 11 
 


In Q&A from the Realogy investor day, May 9, 2014, we read: 





 
file:///C:/Users/Owner/Downloads/RLGY-Transcript-2014-05-09T13_00.pdf 


 
IF Zillow’s easy answer is “Once their agents are on the ecosystem we can 
upsell them the other software products … sorry.  Just last week Realogy 
bought Zip Realty, mainly for their lead technology platform. This action is 
perfectly aligned with Realogy’s stated intention above, not Zillow’s faint 
promise of massive future upselling.  
 


http://www.inman.com/2014/07/15/realogy-acquiring-ziprealty-for-166-million/ 





Sean Kim - RBC Capital Markets - Analyst 


Hi, Sean Kim, RBC. Another question for Bruce. I'm not sure if I heard you correctly in 
your presentation, but did you say you guys are working on some sort of consumer 
facing website? Is that a direct competitor to Zillow, Trulia? When are you going to 
launch this? What's the investment that goes into this? 


Bruce Zipf - NRT LLC - President and CEO 


Yes, the site will be launched in the mid-part of this year. You've got to keep in mind, 
there are as I indicated in my graph, there is 700 plus other real estate websites out 
there. Most of them are consumer-oriented facing websites. We believe that there is 
a space in there that we can compete in. It will have features like Zillow and Trulia. It 
will have features that you wouldn't put on a real estate brokerage website. An 
example of that would be Zestimate that Zillow uses. There are certain features that 
we believe we can effectively do and be able to cast a net outcome, a consumer-
oriented facing website arena and be able to capture leads, reviewing [scrub then] as 
I described, and then put them in the hands of our sales associates so we create the 
business opportunity. 


Sean Kim - RBC Capital Markets - Analyst Is this just for your listings or would it -- 


Bruce Zipf - NRT LLC - President and CEO 


No, it will be fully IDX site meaning that we'll have all -- our competitors' listings will 
be a separate brokerage company within the jurisdictions that NRT operates in. So 
that will be fully IDX meaning that an IDX site means that all the realtors cooperate 
just like they on most of the 700 other websites like Zillow and Trulia and even our 
own local operating website which is fully IDX. We will have other competitors.  


 



file:///C:/Users/Owner/Downloads/RLGY-Transcript-2014-05-09T13_00.pdf

http://www.inman.com/2014/07/15/realogy-acquiring-ziprealty-for-166-million/
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 10 of 11 
 


  Since When Does Working for Warren Buffett 
put you at a Competitive Disadvantage?   
 


Wake up Wall Street!  Ask the Question! 
 


How long until Keller Williams, Remax, or Berkshire Hathaway demand 
similar terms from Z/T?   The nuclear option is equally available to them 
as well if they do not get preferred pricing. If they pull their listings off of 
Z/T, Z/T collapses as they lose 30% of the listings in the US.  
 
In brief, the Zillow Trulia merger does nothing to build a sustainable 
competitive landscape. Does any of the above lead us to believe that 
prices for online real estate advertising are going up … or going down? 
 


   Wall Street Negligence … 
 


Is it that they don’t know … 
      they don’t understand … 
                or they don’t care? 


 
As recent as Friday, in a conference call held by CRT, the hosting analyst 
was asked if the combined company had any deals in place that would 
limit pricing power with any agencies. His response was “None that I 
know of ...” besides maybe Douglas Elliman  (NYC only). 
 
So amazingly, this price and precedent between the largest real estate 
agency company and the largest internet advertisers of real estate listings 
has gone undisclosed -- and unmodeled in analyst projections.  
 


   The Writing is On the Wall 
 


The only three countries in which online listing portals have been able to 
generate significant profits – in each case due to lack of a viable MLS 
system – are Australia ,the UK, and China. All three have all faced 
backlash from local real estate agents about gradual price hikes, with
Zulliagate – The Big Lie  July 26, 2014 Page 11 of 11 
 


brokers exerting pricing power and/or taking decisive steps to set up 
alternatives. How will US real estate agents react to the threat of drastic 
prices hikes from Z/T, when they already have alternative systems (MLS, 
and broker websites) in place? 
 
Citron could publish volumes regarding internet traffic overlap, regional 
MLS strategies to adjust to / compete with Trulia/Zillow, customer 
backlash, and every other red flag raised about this company.  
 


But none of it matters if you have an undisclosed business 
practice, one that you have been hiding from Wall Street, that 
just torpedoes your own business plan.  
 


      Conclusion         
 


After $170 million of cumulative losses and years of missing estimates, 
lowering guidance, and downward revisions to their business models, two 
companies have apparently decided to combine their two money losing 
business models and sell it to Wall Street. If you are on the fence, close 
your computer, pick up your phone and call a real estate agent and ask 
what they think about the Realogy deal – nothing else needs to be said.
