5/19/2018 Points International (PCOM) - Don't Be Fooled By This Former Canadian Penny Stock - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3103465-points-international-pcom-dont-be-fooled-by-this-former-canadian-penny-stock


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


Points
International
(PCOM) - Don't Be
Fooled By This
Former Canadian
Penny Stock
Jul. 28, 2014 11:03 AM ET9 comments | Includes: Points Int…


Today, we shared our opinion and research on Points International. Below are
the topics covered in our full report. The full report can be found here:


www.scribd.com/doc/235281916/PointsPoint...


Points International (NASDAQ:PCOM) - Don't Be Fooled by this Former
Canadian Penny Stock


A misunderstood, grossly mis-valued, low-margin reseller being promoted as
an e-commerce platform


Fair Value - $5.50 per share, 75% downside


-------------


IMPORTANT Disclaimer - Please read this Disclaimer in its entirety before
continuing to read our research opinion. You should do your own research and
due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities
covered herein. We strive to present information accurately and cite the
sources and analysis that help form our opinion. As of the date this opinion is
posted, the author of this report has a short position in the company covered
herein and stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock
declines. The author does not provide any advanced warning of future reports
to others. Following publication of this report, the author may transact in the
securities of the company, and may be long, short, or neutral at any time



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PCOM

http://www.scribd.com/doc/235281916/PointsPoints-International-PCOM-Don-t-Be-Fooled-by-this-Former-Canadian-Penny-Stock

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PCOM
5/19/2018 Points International (PCOM) - Don't Be Fooled By This Former Canadian Penny Stock - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3103465-points-international-pcom-dont-be-fooled-by-this-former-canadian-penny-stock


hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. To the best of our ability and belief,
all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been
obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable. However,
such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind - whether
express or implied. The author of this report makes no representations,
express or implied, as to the timeliness or completeness of any such
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice and the author
does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the
information contained herein. This is not an offer to buy any security, nor shall
any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such
offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.


----------------


We believe Points International's (PCOM) business model, economics, and
value proposition have been misrepresented by management and are grossly
misunderstood by its retail investor base. The company's history is littered
with red flags, dubious accounting, and a promotional management team
prone to making misleading statements. It comes as no surprise that many of
these issues have been obfuscated by ticker changes, multiple listings (OTC to
OTCBB to NASDAQ), a reverse stock split, financially conflicted sell-side
analysts, and a Canadian headquarters. Based on our deep dive, forensic
analysis, we believe PCOM's intrinsic value is closer to $5.50 per share, or
nearly 75% below its current trading price. And this price target generously
ignores PCOM's $243 million of off-balance sheet liabilities. The significant
downside should be realized as the PCOM discussion refocuses on the facts,
and away from "grossed-up" revenue and customer pipeline hype.


PCOM claims it is the global leader in loyalty currency management. The
company says it brings "years of industry experience, technological expertise,
and a one-of-a-kind loyalty commerce platform to the world's top loyalty
brands."[i] While this sounds impressive, we believe PCOM is nothing more
than a simple reseller. Nearly every metric the company reports (and some it
tries to hide) resembles a low-margin, value-added reseller. For example, in
Q1'14, PCOM reported gross margins of just 14.2%. A Bloomberg screen found
just 10 other technology companies with gross margins this low, and nearly
every one of the companies operates as some form of value-added reseller.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PCOM
5/19/2018 Points International (PCOM) - Don't Be Fooled By This Former Canadian Penny Stock - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3103465-points-international-pcom-dont-be-fooled-by-this-former-canadian-penny-stock


It is our opinion PCOM's business model has been meticulously designed to
permit the company to "gross-up" its revenue, resulting in financial reports
that appear to the investing public many times larger than its actual economic
size. As we discuss later, PCOM's accounting and disclosure previously came
under the SEC's microscope. According to FASB ASC 605-45, we believe PCOM
should be forced to restate its revenues, potentially cutting previously reported
numbers by up to 80%.


In addition to overstating its revenue, we believe PCOM has utilized aggressive
accounting which should spook any investor familiar with Groupon's infamous
Adjusted Consolidated Segment Operating Income (CSOI). We believe the
company is in direct violation of SEC Regulation G regarding pro-forma
accounting, and we believe based on our report, an immediate investigation
into PCOM's "grossed-up" revenue and inflated adjusted EBITDA is warranted.


Based on the hype of new contract wins, sell-side analyst cheerleading, and
"gross" revenue growth that screens well for quants, PCOM's stock has nearly
tripled since 2011. Yet over the same time period, PCOM's consensus earnings
estimates have been cut by at least 50%. Additionally, the company has never
produced any meaningful profit (despite management boasting high
contribution margins), and we believe EPS estimates are set to fall further in
2H'14 and 2015.


Finally, we believe PCOM's promotional management team has
mischaracterized organic growth, hidden substantial customer concentration,
and promoted new partner wins that will have minimal actual impact on the
business. This aggressive story-telling has coincided with management selling
stock via the Canadian marketplace, thereby avoiding customary disclosure to
the American investing public.


We believe this report will start the re-valuation process and remedy the
multitude of misperceptions and hype surrounding PCOM. The following
sections are covered herein, highlighting:


The Birth of PCOM and its Sell-side Partners


PCOM is a former Canadian penny stock that has masked its true appearance
with multiple ticker changes, a capital raise at $0.68, and a reverse stock split
needed to up-list from the Bulletin Board. The company added the Principal
owner of one of its investment banks to its Board of Directors, and he
5/19/2018 Points International (PCOM) - Don't Be Fooled By This Former Canadian Penny Stock - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3103465-points-international-pcom-dont-be-fooled-by-this-former-canadian-penny-stock


promptly resigned four months later. Multiple financial conflicts exist with
several of PCOM's sell-side analysts, while others have used dubious valuation
techniques to justify "buy" ratings and price target increases.


PCOM is not a Platform / SaaS business


Despite buzz words and an obvious desire to be compared to ecommerce
platforms, PCOM's financial profile looks nothing like the purported comps. In
its most recent quarter, PCOM reported gross margins of just 14.2% and
EBITDA margins 90% lower than a platform comp set. Out of nearly 2,500
technology related businesses that trade on a US exchange, there are only 10
companies with a market cap over $100 million and gross margins below 15%.
At best, PCOM is a technology-enabled value-added reseller (NYSE:VAR),
which greatly alters the "story" management and analysts have created.


PCOM reported revenues actually represent gross transaction volume


We believe PCOM reporting revenues on a gross basis is a violation of FASB
ASC 605-45. Platform companies typically report revenue "net" of the total
volume of goods or services sold through its system. Platform companies
receive a transaction fee that is generally reported as revenue. PCOM actually
includes aggregate transaction volume in its revenues, which we believe has
led to an approximate 650% overstatement of revenues compared to net
revenue accounting. This specious revenue recognition technique distorts the
actual scale of the business, and makes the revenue multiples the sell-side use
appear baseless. The SEC previously requested information on PCOM's
decision to report other metrics on a gross basis.


Gross margins are imploding


Most platform companies increase gross margins over time as revenues scale
over fixed platform costs. In direct contradiction to a platform business model,
PCOM's gross margins have declined by 860 basis points, from 22.8% to
14.2%. Our analysis indicates PCOM management has misled investors
regarding the contribution margin and economics of its large Southwest deal,
including a slide in the investor deck insinuating Southwest margins that don't
reconcile with our calculations. We also show management's comments about
organic growth appear irreconcilable outside of its top four customers.


Profitless Revenue Growth - i.e. Negligible Contribution Margins



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VAR
5/19/2018 Points International (PCOM) - Don't Be Fooled By This Former Canadian Penny Stock - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3103465-points-international-pcom-dont-be-fooled-by-this-former-canadian-penny-stock


PCOM management appears so obsessed with being perceived as a growth
company that new partner revenue has been essentially profitless. In 2013,
PCOM grew its grossed up revenue 45%, with a contribution margin of just
1.8%. PCOM's contribution margins are a fraction of its purported platform
peer group. Further, the perpetual out-year story has already seen consensus
EPS estimates fall by 48% in the last two quarters. We believe revenue is not
only overstated, but it actually carries de minimus contribution margin.


Revenue concentration risk (an important topic for the next section)


While PCOM boasts in its investor marketing materials that it works with
"approximately 50 partners worldwide,"[ii] the company neglects to mention in
the slide deck that ~88% of revenue is derived from just four customers.
Customer concentration is increasing, making the potential loss of any large
customer far more material than its misleading marketing materials suggest.


History of customer loss and burning shareholders


In 2009, in the middle of a 3-year contract with PCOM, Delta abruptly
restructured its deal and vastly reduced its relationship. Management not only
gave zero warning about the Delta debacle, they actually provided multiple
communications suggesting the relationship was strengthening. Until Delta
restructured its contract, management did not even disclose Delta was a top
partner, let alone approximately 67% of the company's revenues. PCOM lost
60% of its market value after the Delta confession. Based on recent comments
from American Airlines' CEO, we believe history may be repeating itself.


Mischaracterized organic growth and a European Tall Tale


Management has repeatedly stated PCOM's organic growth is 10%-20%,
excluding the launch of new partners. Based on our analysis, this level of
"same store sales" growth across its existing customers is grossly overstated.
As detailed later, we believe organic growth outside of its top four customers
may actually be negative. Further, management publicly claimed Europe is
returning to a "fairly significant growth phase."[iii] Yet, public documents show
revenue from Europe has declined in each of the last three quarters, and
European business declines accelerated to negative 35% year-over-year in
Q1'14.
5/19/2018 Points International (PCOM) - Don't Be Fooled By This Former Canadian Penny Stock - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3103465-points-international-pcom-dont-be-fooled-by-this-former-canadian-penny-stock


Profitability overstated, a likely violation of SEC Regulation G, and a
pattern of missing guidance


In 2013, PCOM surreptitiously altered its EBITDA calculation, excluding certain
investment spending from the company's reported EBITDA. We believe these
operating expenses are recurring in nature, which management confirmed on
a recent earnings call. As such, PCOM is directly violating SEC Regulation G.
Further, their profit definition is similar to Groupon's notorious CSOI. The net
result is that PCOM has effectively over-stated its Adjusted EBITDA by 50%.


The Value of recent partner wins & pipeline are overstated and
misunderstood


Two drivers of the bull case for PCOM hinge on recent partner wins with
MasterCard and Hilton. We believe the impact of these deals is greatly
overstated and revenue generated will be minimal. MasterCard will generate
zero direct revenue while adding to expenses. Hilton will contribute only ~ 1%
to PCOM's 2015 revenue based on our analysis. Further, PCOM's highly touted
pipeline, which was selectively disclosed at a recent sell-side conference, is a
mirage based on several years of hype and hyperbole. Even in the unlikely
event PCOM were able to convert 100% of its "pipeline," the stock would still
be trading at 20x EV/EBITDA.


Is PCOM already facing major secular challenges?


We believe PCOM's CEO made an ominous confession on a recent earnings call
regarding a shift in reward program redemption structures. Despite minimal
focus from the sell-side, most major airlines began devaluing their reward
currencies this year, creating confusion in the market and increasing the
number of points required for award redemption. The likely result will be lower
transactions (and revenues) for PCOM.


The misrepresentation of PCOM's balance sheet strength


PCOM management and its sell-side friends consistently highlight a strong
financial position, emphasizing the company's significant cash position with no
debt. However, the company generally neglects to mention its large "payable
to loyalty partners" liability, which creates a working capital timing benefit that
5/19/2018 Points International (PCOM) - Don't Be Fooled By This Former Canadian Penny Stock - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3103465-points-international-pcom-dont-be-fooled-by-this-former-canadian-penny-stock


