5/23/2018 CHBT Store Verification Results Start Rolling In - Chinese Company Analyst | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/659080-chinese-company-analyst/90918-chbt-store-verification-results-start-rolling-in 1/39


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


CHBT Store
Verification
Results Start
Rolling In
Sep. 1, 2010 9:06 AM ET70 comments | Includes: China-Bi…


Yesterday and throughout the night, I hired private investigators and other
Shanghai residents to visit certain of the "stores" at the addresses provided by
the company yesterday. These investigators were told to (i) visit the locations
at the specified addresses, (ii) identify whether the addresses refer to
standalone stores, (iii) take photos from outside the locations, (iv) enter the
stores and request to see the company's nutritional supplements products,
(v) to the extent possible, take photos of the locations of the company's
products and (vi) write a brief account of each location in terms of what they
saw. 
 
I will publish an initial account from one of these Shanghai residents below,
who visited three of the addresses provided by the company. I have disclosed
his name and email address to Seeking Alpha's editors for independent
verification. I will publish additional accounts as they come in. 
 
But first, I want to address a note that came out from Robert Hsu last night
responding to the post by Citron Research. I have little regard for the
recommendations of and diligence performed by Robert Hsu. He wrote a
similar piece on Orient Paper after Muddy Waters LLC published its initial
report on ONP. Subsequent to his report, the leading business newspaper of
China, 21st Century Business Herald, wrote a separate front-page article
documenting Orient Paper's fraud, and adding additional relevant points
indicating that Orient Paper is falsifying its SEC financial statements. We also
found out that Orient Paper's top supplier is an empty shell owned by the
company's CEO, and that as of June 2009, it somehow had acquired 2m
shares of ONP, or about 4% of the company's outstanding shares.  



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CHBT

http://asia.investorplace.com/print-np.html?ph=*5A736A085D111B47D519BB4760AFD6A07F58DDC4

http://www.21cbh.com/

http://chinesecompanyanalyst.files.wordpress.com/2010/08/21cbh-onp-article-7-22-2010.pdf
5/23/2018 CHBT Store Verification Results Start Rolling In - Chinese Company Analyst | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/659080-chinese-company-analyst/90918-chbt-store-verification-results-start-rolling-in 2/39


 
Ample evidence has come out demonstrating that Orient Paper is a fraud, and
Robert Hsu's note did a disservice to investors subscribing to his newsletter. I
see the same poor level of diligence in his latest note on China-Biotics.  
 
In particular, I'm concerned with his following unfounded comment, which,
based on preliminary indications from our private investigators, will be
demonstrated to be patently false by the end of the week. 
 
"This morning, the short seller continues to accuse that some of the stores
listed on CHBT website are actually hotels or supermarkets. Actually,
according to our source in Shanghai, CHBT places some stores in
supermarkets or hotels, similar to how we sometimes see McDonald's in a
Walmart or a Burger King in a shopping mall." 
 
That's just not true, Mr. Hsu. Not only does the company not own standalone
stores at many of its disclosed locations, which is clearly what its SEC filings
imply, but it doesn't even own stores-within-a-store at many of the locations.  
 
I will begin the day with the following account that I received last night from
one of the Shanghai residents who investigated several of the stores for us. I
have disclosed his name and contact information to Seeking Alpha editors.  
 
"I went to visit three locations so far. Mostly in Yangpu District and what I can
confirm is there arent any retail outlets present for CHBT. There could be shelf
space in the supermarket but that's a very different matter. Specifically, 102
Zhongyuan Road, Yangpu District and 1750 Changyang Road, Yangpu District
are two super markets operated under the brand name Oushang. 
 
The supermarkets do have separate stores inside them that sells clothes, food,
even nutritional products. I personally walked around those two stores
thoroughly and could find no signs of CHBT stores. The one on Changyang
Road is right by home so I frequent there all the time. While I could not find
the Shining stores, I was able to find a store that's called Natural Elements, a
direct brand name under Shanghai Jiaoda Onlly Corp. I had a phone
conversation with one of the managers and am pretty sure the store has
nothing to do with CHBT. Also btw, after talking with the sales clerk, she said
5/23/2018 CHBT Store Verification Results Start Rolling In - Chinese Company Analyst | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/659080-chinese-company-analyst/90918-chbt-store-verification-results-start-rolling-in 3/39


they on average make 30-50k RMB on a monthly basis for revenue, that
translates into 4-6k USD a month. Noted, that's a retail space not shelf space.
The places I went are much more of a prime location with significant traffic
flow and tons of ppl walking in the mall. I would really expect places in
Baoshan and others to have much less flow therefore less revenue. So now
you count on a quarterly basis, this store can generate maybe 15k, you need
100 of these to generate 1.5mil...the reported 25mil number, you would be
looking at 1800 retail outlets in a city like Shanghai. That roughly illustrates on
a scale's perspective, their operation through retail distribution is very much
unlikely to build up revenues. 
 
Its a lot harder for me to prove the nonexistence of a retail store in a huge
shopping mall of course other than putting my name behind this. But I think
it's helpful to look at things from a scale's perspective. Even if they do have
the 100 retail stores they claim to have, their revenue numbers are still
unlikely at least from the conversations I had with the sales reps. In any case,
I'm completely convinced that this company is a complete hoax. I took some
photos but those are of the other brand name stores that are apparently
unrelated, so I don't think it would be of any value for you guys. But i think
you can upload it and cite the numbers I quoted you guys as a comp to
illustrate the point. 
 
Also I'd like to point out for you guys the severe lack of seasonality in these
numbers. In China, most of the sales of these types of products happens right
around the Chinese new year when people go around to visit relatives. The
sales should really account for a huge percentage of the annual sales just
because thats when people actually buy that kind of stuff to give out as gifts.
To have a roughly flat sales in the first and second quarter is simply telling,
you will never see that if the reporting is regular. 
 
Again, given the difficulty of proving the nonexistence of a store, I think
focusing on the ability of revenue generation will prove to be fruitful. Like I
said, even if all the stores are real, which they are not, you still cannot be
selling at that levels. To get credible verification however, you will need to get
data from various supermarkets and see what volume of its products are
actually being sold...but again, i cannot imagine a tiny shelf space in a
supermarket or pharmacy can reasonably outsell a separate store inside."
5/23/2018 CHBT Store Verification Results Start Rolling In - Chinese Company Analyst | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/659080-chinese-company-analyst/90918-chbt-store-verification-results-start-rolling-in 4/39


