5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 1/21


A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story
Oct. 17, 2012 11:54 AM ET35 comments
by: Matt Berry


The story behind ClearSign Combustion Corporation (NASDAQ:CLIR) and its ECC
Technology has suffered a critical failure. There is a point in time, before which I find no
credible scientists capable of inventing ECC Technology, and after which all latecomers
are irrelevant to the founding of the technology.


It's a logical problem: what comes after an event does not come before it. Imagine that
you are standing on a riverbank. Upstream, you see a lumberjack by the river cutting
down a tree. It splashes into the water and floats down past you. You follow the log with
your eyes and can see further downstream yet another lumberjack, ax in hand.


Which one cut the tree down? The lumberjack upstream or the lumberjack downstream?
At the least, common sense would confidently eliminate the lumberjack downstream.


Who put together ECC Technology and When?


Here is the simplest expression of the critical failure. MDB Capital has been with
ClearSign from the beginning of its public life and wrote a 26 page research report,
published last month on September 7, 2012.


"In addition, the team retains the original inventor of ECC, Chief Scientist David
Goodson …" ~ MDB Capital Group, Sept. 7, 2012, research initiation.


Mr. Goodson as the original inventor of ECC is a very big problem, as we discovered in
my last article and which we shall summarize shortly.


But April 2009 is also a very big problem for ClearSign. This is the point at which
ClearSign investors stand upon the riverbank. April 2009 is when ECC Technology was
first articulated ... when ClearSign applied for its first patent, touting the technology
currently pending and used in the prospectus to sell shares to investors. Now, just as the
log floating down the river tells us that the lumberjacks downstream did not cut down the
tree, we also know that the later engineers and professors who joined ClearSign after
ECC was declared could not account for that formulation. Any experimentation and
articulation of the technology on that patent application occurs before April 3, 2009. So
let's go over who was upstream and who is downstream from April 2009?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CLIR

http://www.mdb.com/assets/files/cs%20final.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 2/21


Upstream: The currently pending application lists 5 "inventors." Who are they? (I've dealt
with their resumes in greater detail in a previous article: Here, I present a brief summary.)


First, from false patent claims to highly questionable scientific and undisclosed
businesses, David Goodson's credentials in the prospectus were sometimes inflated,
sometimes inadequate, and sometimes downright false. The most humorous: ClearSign
claims that he had once collaborated with Nobel Prize winners ‒ in such a highly unlikely
situation that it is safe to say that somebody lied. This is ClearSign's "Chief Science
Officer," who was said to be the "original inventor of ECC."


Second, where was ClearSign's disclosure of Thomas Hartwick's affiliation with
Sustainable Power Corp (OTC:SSTP)? Sustainable Power Corp was used by John
Rivera, convicted last year for fraud in a classic pump and dump.


Third and Fourth: CEO Richard Rutkowski and CMO Geoffrey Osler are businessmen,
not combustion scientists or engineers. Why are they listed as "Inventors"? Are they
sincerely patenting inventions or inventing patents to sell shares to investors? Why are
they here?


Fifth, Christopher Wiklof is the patent agent.


This is upstream of April 2009 and these are the five "inventors" who first articulated ECC
technology. I cannot find a credible scientist on the patent application. I believe that
ClearSign's pursuit of ECC Technology is a science scam.


(In this particular Seeking Alpha article, I'll set aside the fact that the four effects touted in
the Whitepaper had already been discovered by other scientists and engineers ‒ 15 to 60
years earlier. Any attempt by ClearSign to claim these discoveries for their own, failing to
give credit to the scientists who made the actual discoveries, is tantamount to scientific
plagiarism. For now however, let's return to the critical failure in the ECC story.)


The Lumberjack downstream couldn't have cut down the tree:


The engineers and University of Washington professors that began participation with
ClearSign after April 2009 cannot therefore be those who participated before. This is just
common sense. It's the same as saying that "after" is not "before." But then again, the
mind is full of traps and illusions. When a mental association with prestigious credentials
goes up against the inexorable chronology of events how can "after" come before? We
can do it in language, either mistakenly or dishonestly. We can do it with sloppy thinking.
We cannot however find it in reality. And yet here we are! Since April 2009 ClearSign has
paid for advisors in cash and stock, many from the University of Washington. Clearsign in



https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SSTP

http://www.scribd.com/doc/60631374/Rivera-Summary-Judgment

https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

http://www.flickr.com/photos/58346149@N03/8097313714/in/photostream
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 3/21


my opinion borrows credibility by this association with the professors. They sign non-
disclosure agreements and are said to have no decision-making power, leaving them with
more financial benefits and less legal accountability. These advisors are put front and
center, next to ClearSign's employees in documents, on websites, and even on a recent
research paper, and by this mere proximity many unsophisticated investors take their own
mental association as proof of the legitimacy of ECC Technology.


It appears to work. The point appears to have been lost on many investors, and so we say
it again: It is physically impossible for the professors who arrived after April 2009, to have
made the contribution to ECC Technology before April 2009. As scientists, you have Mr.
Goodson and Dr. Hartwick in April 2009; they fall short. It makes no difference whether
you put even an Einstein or a Newton next to them later.


A Fake-it-till-you-make-it strategy?


Could the later engineers and University of Washington Professors discover a genuinely
new technology? But wait a minute … could we say this without suggesting that
ClearSign's business model was just another Fake-it-till-you-make-it scam? There would
be serious problems with such a ... "business model."


First and most obvious, this would not have been what everyone signed up for.


Second, …


From a business perspective, most Fake-it-till-you-make-it strategies are due to
management's illusion that they can control the uncontrollable. They get further and
further behind, the lie gets bigger and bigger … until they implode.
From a scientific perspective, I'm betting there is no scientist so competent he can
resurrect a living result from a dead scam.


A scam sets up an inverse relationship between integrity and ability.


Damage done: Under normal circumstances one wants the most talented and intelligent
on one's science team. When however one has determined the existence of a scam, then
everything is reversed. The greater the credentials, skills, and intelligence the more
investors they will bring in and the greater the damage done. In principle, this is similar to
something Warren Buffett once said about hiring employees. He said that you want
employees who have three qualities: integrity, intelligence, and energy. However, if they
don't have integrity, their intelligence and energy will kill you. When you think about it, he
tells us, you really want dishonest people to be dumb and lazy.



http://www.amazon.com/Tao-Warren-Buffett-Interpretations-Billionaire/dp/1400103533
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 4/21


Lost Integrity: And when you think about it, once you see that a fraud has taken place, the
more intelligence and experience a scientist has the less integrity one can afford him. This
is my objection to those who tout Dr. Thomas Hartwick's credentials. Once he used those
credentials for Sustainable Power Corp, while the SEC was suing John Rivera for fraud,
those credentials work against him. If one wants to say that he is highly intelligent and
scientifically experienced, then one will have a difficult time arguing that he did not know
what was happening ….


From a business perspective, Rivera was currently being sued by the SEC. How could
Dr. Hartwick not know what he was supporting?
From a scientific perspective, Dr. Hartwick was supposed to be an expert on this
ready-to-commercialize, albeit now discredited, "SSTP Process." If anyone was in a
position to know, it was supposed to be Dr. Hartwick.


There is no room to maneuver here. Either a scientist is competent enough to know that
he is involved in a scam and is therefore untrustworthy, or he does not know the science
well enough and is therefore incompetent. Since one is always free to invest elsewhere,
"Bad or Bad?" is not a choice; it's a mental trap.


For the record, I have until now deliberately avoided mention of Dr. Breidenthal (and the
other University of Washington professors). Being downstream they were irrelevant.
However, recently ...


1. He allowed Mr. David Goodson to be listed as co-author on research he is to present
to the American Physical Society next month


2. He allowed his research, his name, his credentials, and his university to be used in a
ClearSign press release.


So here we are. Dr. Breidenthal is now relevant, whether by passively or actively letting
his name be used … I don't know which. It appears that ClearSign is working hard to
associate itself with the University of Washington, and currently with the American
Physical Society, through Dr. Breidenthal.


How much has Dr. Breidenthal been paid for his role in ClearSign? What are his
credentials? As far as ECC technology is concerned, it doesn't matter. He signed on after
April 2009 and is downstream from the invention of "ECC Technology," the original
inventor of which was said to be David Goodson.



http://meeting.aps.org/Meeting/DFD12/Event/177012

http://ir.stockpr.com/clearsigncombustion/company-news/detail/163/clearsign-demonstrates-novel-method-to-improve-energy-efficiency-in-turbines-and-other-systems
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 5/21


This fact matters. David Goodson's problems are serious and transparent. After thorough
research, I believe that ClearSign's April 2009 set up of ECC Technology and the way it
has been touted to investors constitutes a science scam. I also believe that the professors
who signed on later are intelligent and educated. Therefore, my chief objection to the
University of Washington professors is due to the mere fact that they are here.


The university advisors are paid in cash and stock. Mr. Goodson and ClearSign can stand
next to the ClearSign advisor, Dr. Breidenthal, and borrow credibility by their association
with the University of Washington and the American Physical Society. So here's Mr.
Goodson, listed as co-author on Dr. Breidenthal's research. Did Mr. Goodson make a
genuine contribution or did Dr. Breidenthal's financial interests and/or contractual
obligations with Clearsign find a merely plausible way to put him there? After in depth
research into the false and inflated claims regarding the Chief Science Officer, Mr.
Goodson, I am confident it is the latter.


Analogy: A straight-A student is arrested in a bank robbery. The excellent grades, past
education, and current level of intelligence do not sponge away the crime. In fact they
demonstrate that he has a clearer thought process than most, less room to claim
ignorance, demonstrating in turn his greater guilt. In any event, his grades do not make
him innocent; his being here makes him guilty.


Given his education and intelligence, my case against Dr. Breidenthal is the fact that he is
here.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

https://seekingalpha.com/article/886951-clearsign-the-reinvention-of-fire-or

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2012/10/14/582827-13502613546826866-Matt-Berry_origin.jpg
5/21/2018 A Serious Problem With ClearSign's Story - ClearSign Combustion Corp. (NASDAQ:CLIR) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/929821-a-serious-problem-with-clearsigns-story 6/21


