5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 1/14


VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated
Sep. 19, 2014 3:04 AM ET37 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


VirnetX is at High Risk of Having its Patents Invalidated in the Ongoing Inter Partes
Reexaminations.


The Patent Board has Already Ruled that all of VirnetX's Patents Asserted vs Apple
Are Invalid.


The Patent Board Uses an Easier Standard for Invalidation than the Courts Do.


We believe that the most important thing for the CEO of VirnetX (AMEX: VHC) to address
during his "fireside" chat on September 19th is the current status of the ongoing inter
partes reexaminations of the patents that are at the center of their case against Apple
(NASDAQ: AAPL). Along with updating investors on these reviews, VirnetX's CEO should
also provide shareholders with a description of the path forward on the reviews. These
inter partes reexaminations pose an existential threat to the viability of VirnetX because
they threaten to invalidate VinertX's patents, overruling the prior findings of the CAFC. It is
our belief that the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) has already given preliminary
rulings that VirnetX's patents are invalid. If these rulings are ultimately affirmed, the
existence of the company itself is threatened.


In response to the CAFC's recent ruling that caused the stock of VirnetX to decline a
cumulative 64% in the past three days, the company put out a press release that stated
"The USCAFC affirmed the jury's finding that all 4 of VirnetX's patents are valid." Our last
article on VirnetX discussed our opinion that VirnetX's stock is worth less than $1. This
article will further reinforce our valuation by explaining why all of VirnetX's patents are still
at risk of being invalidated and why we believe there is a high probability that they will
ultimately be invalidated.


At the start, it is important for investors to understand that there are two routes via which
patents can be invalidated - either through the courts or through Patent Office actions
(primarily Inter Partes Review, Inter Partes Reexamination, and Ex Partes
Reexaminations), all of which are done through the PTAB. In order for a jury to invalidate
a patent, the defendant must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the
patent in question was either anticipated or obvious at the time it was issued. In addition to



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VHC

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2502575-virnetx-is-worth-well-under-1-per-share
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 2/14


the high bar of "clear and convincing," parties challenging patents in court face the further
hurdle that the patent is presumed to be valid. In contrast, the PTAB uses the standard of
preponderance of evidence, which is a much lower standard than that used in court. The
reason for this difference is that while the courts act on the assumption that the patents
are valid, the PTAB does not. It is therefore possible for a court to affirm a patent as valid
and for the PTAB to find the same patents invalid based on the same evidence. The
CAFC can then uphold the PTAB's finding of invalidity even if the CAFC had previously
found that a patent was valid. This occurs because the CAFC applies the same standards
as the PTAB does when it hears appeals from patent actions resulting from an inter partes
proceeding whereas the CAFC applies the court's standards when it hears appeals from
lawsuits. Therefore, if in the future the PTAB finds that VirnetX's patents are invalid, it is
entirely possible that the CAFC will affirm the PTAB's finding of invalidity. In this case, the
patents will be treated as though they "never existed."


The above description of the procedural differences between the courts and the PTAB is
especially important to VirnetX because there are four inter partes reexaminations
ongoing at the PTAB covering all four of the patents that were asserted against Apple and
were previously found not invalid by the courts. These inter partes reexaminations for the
patents can be found at the following link. To find the inter partes reexaminations at the
site click the radio button for "Control Number" and enter the control number for the patent
in question (the control numbers are listed below). Unfortunately for VirnetX, the
reexaminations appear to be going very poorly and all of the patents appear likely to be
invalidated by the PTAB:


1) U.S. Pat. No. 6,502,135 (re-ex control no. 95/001,682) - merged with re-ex filed by
Cisco. The last status on this patent was on 6/12/14 and says "Ready for examiner action
after owner/requester comments period after Action Closing Prosecution." It appears that
the examiner is getting ready to invalidate this patent.


2) U.S. Pat. No. 7,418,504 (re-ex control no. 95/001,788) - The examiner has rejected all
60 claims of this patent in view of the prior art and the patent will be invalidated pending
conclusion of the appeal brief filed by VirnetX on 8/27/14.


3) U.S. Pat. No. 7,490,151 (re-ex control no. 95/001,714) - This patent was merged with
the re-examination filed by Cisco. The last action on this was 7/7/14. It looks like owner
petition fighting the merger of the two re-ex proceedings is still pending.



http://portal.uspto.gov/pair/PublicPair
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 3/14


4) U.S. Pat. No. 7,921,211 (re-ex control no. 95/001,789) - The examiner has rejected all
60 claims of this patent in view of the prior art and the patent will be invalidated pending
conclusion of the appeal brief filed by VirnetX on 8/25/14.


In summary, VirnetX has already lost before the examiners on all claims of the '504 and
'211 patents (the patents asserted against FaceTime) and has appealed that decision to
the PTAB. Unfortunately, for VirnetX, the PTAB affirms their decision most of the time. We
consulted our patent attorneys about these ongoing reexaminations and they told us "It is
pretty easy to tell that all claims currently stand rejected in both of the VPN on Demand
patents right now. Figuring out a timeline going forward is more difficult." Ultimately, the
above shows all claims on all four patents are on their way to being invalidated at the
claims office. Following invalidation at the PTAB, VirnetX will have the opportunity to
appeal to the CAFC.


Because VirnetX faces the high likelihood that some or all of its patents will ultimately be
invalidated, there is now a "race" for final judgment because if the PTAB finishes first and
finds the patents invalid, then any non-final district court findings become moot. We saw a
similar race to finality in Fresenius, USA Inc. v. Baxter International, Inc., which is
discussed in this article. In this patent lawsuit, Baxter won a judgment against Fresenius
and the CAFC found the patents in question valid based on the standards used in
lawsuits. Unfortunately for Baxter, a year later the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
cancelled their patent, which caused the federal court to throw out the whole lawsuit and
no damages were ultimately payable. A similar series of events may very well be pending
for VirnetX with regards to its patents covering VPN on Demand. Accordingly, we believe
VirnetX will be highly motivated to have the district court as well as the inevitable appeal
finish before the ongoing patent re-exam becomes final. If the district court decision
becomes final (i.e. survives appeal to the CAFC), then it is binding. Unfortunately for
VirnetX, even if they win this race, the decision would only be binding against Apple. The
patents could later be found invalid and they would then be useless in future cases.


VirnetX shareholders have also taken false comfort in the rejections of IPR requests by
Microsoft, Apple, and RPX. As VirnetX noted in their press release on July 29th, "Like
some of the petitions filed by Apple and all of the petitions filed by RPX, the USPTO found
that Microsoft's petitions were not filed within the time limit imposed by the statute and
declined to institute inter partes review." This press release clearly explains that the IPRs
were not denied because they had no validity, but rather because they fell outside the time
limit. The IPR process was not available until 2012, which means that it was unavailable to



http://www.pharmapatentsblog.com/2013/07/08/fresenius-escapes-25-million-damages-award-based-on-invalidation-of-baxter-patent-in-ex-parte-reexamination
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 4/14


Apple and Microsoft when VirnetX filed its original lawsuits. Since there is a one year
statutory bar on IPR filings after a lawsuit is initiated, Apple and Microsoft exceeded the
allowable time limits.


However, Microsoft has proven that if a defendant does not exceed the allowed time limits
for filing IPRs, it can get an IPR accepted. VirnetX announced on August 4th 2014, "The
United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) granted two petitions for inter partes
review (IPR) filed by Microsoft Corporation. These petitions seek review of certain claims
of VirnetX's U.S. Patent No. 7,987,274 ('274 patent). The '274 patent is one of six VirnetX
patents that were asserted in a patent infringement suit against Microsoft in 2013."
Microsoft was able to get these patents reviewed via the IPR process because the lawsuit
was filed in 2013, so Microsoft was not barred by a timeline. Therefore, VirnetX
shareholders should be aware that going forward IPRs are going to be a real hurdle and
that getting a patent overturned has been quite successful, as can be seen in this article.


This timing issue also explains why VirnetX has not filed lawsuits based on these patents
against other companies. VirnetX knows that if it sues someone else, the new defendant
will not be time barred from filing new IPRs. Therefore, there is a very high probability that
the IPRs would be accepted. If the PTAB subsequently invalidated the patents before the
Apple case was finished, then Apple would no longer be liable for any damages. As we
explained earlier, if the patents are invalidated before VirnetX gets to final judgment, then
Apple will have been deemed not to infringe with regards to VPN On Demand.


There also seems to be some confusion on FaceTime. Some shareholders seem to
believe that because the direct communications link definition was upheld that FaceTime
must infringe some parts of VirnetX's patents. However, that is not the case. For FaceTime
to infringe a patent, it must meet all the conditions of at least one claim within a patent.
There are no claims in any of VirnetX's asserted patents that are tied to direct
communications and not to secure communications links. Accordingly, all the claims
against FaceTime must be retried or dropped.


Ultimately, VirnetX is facing a dire situation. VirnetX's patents covering both FaceTime and
VPN on Demand are on their way to being invalidated as evidenced by the initial PTAB
rulings of invalidity. VirnetX is now in a race with Apple to get a final judgment and it
appears that Apple may very well win this race. It is unclear how VirnetX could possibly
complete both a new trial on FaceTime and damages at the district court level and also
have an inevitable appeal heard at the CAFC before the re-examinations are completed
and on appeal. Furthermore, it is still unclear whether VirnetX could even win a new trial
on FaceTime because as we have previously discussed, the VPN on Demand only



http://www.merchantgould.com/OurPractice_PostGrant_IPR_Statistics.aspx
5/18/2018 VirnetX Patents At High Risk Of Being Invalidated - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated 5/14


