Muddy Waters, LLC 


(d/b/a Muddy Waters Research) 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 


Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 
 
 


These Terms of Use govern current reports published by Muddy Waters Research and supersede any prior Terms of Use for older reports of Muddy Waters 
Research, which you may download from the Muddy Waters Research’s website. 


The reports on this website have been prepared by Muddy Waters, LLC (“Muddy Waters Research”) and are for informational purposes only.  Under no circumstances 
should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other 
financial instruments.  


Muddy Waters Research is an online research publication that produces due diligence-based reports on publicly traded securities.  The reports contained herein are 
published by and the property of Muddy Waters Research, and this website is owned by Muddy Waters Research.  The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are 
solely attributable to Muddy Waters Research and are not attributable to any Muddy Waters Related Person (defined below) (other than Muddy Waters Research). 


By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Use.  You agree that use of the research on this website is at your own risk.  
You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold harmless Muddy Waters Research, and its affiliates and related parties, including, but not limited to any 
principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Muddy Waters Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect 
losses (including trading losses) attributable to any information on this website or in a research report.  You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before 
making any investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments that reference the 
Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer.  You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis 
and opinion on this website.  You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person 
has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use.  If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website on your own behalf, 
you agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use.  If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website as an agent 
for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Use. 
 
You should assume that, as of the publication date of Muddy Waters Research’s reports and research, Muddy Waters Related Persons  (possibly along with or through its 
members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants), Muddy Waters Related Persons’s clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors have a position 
(long or short) in one or more of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to one or more of these securities), and therefore 
stand to realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of a Covered Issuer decline or appreciate.  Muddy Waters Research and/or the 
Muddy Waters Related Persons intend to continue transacting in the securities of Covered Issuers for an indefinite period after an initial report on a Covered Person, and 
such person may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position and views as stated in the research report published by Muddy Waters 
Research.  Muddy Waters Research will not update any report or information on its website to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Muddy Waters Related 
Person. 
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security.  Neither Muddy Waters Research nor any Muddy Waters Related Person are offering, selling or 
buying any security to or from any person through this website or reports on this website.  Muddy Waters Research is affiliated with Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“MWC”).  
MWC [is a registered investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and] is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction.  MWC 
does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing.  You understand and agree that 
MWC does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you.  Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial 
situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and MWC has no such knowledge about you. 
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Muddy Waters Research’s research and reports express its opinions, which Muddy Waters Research has based upon generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through Muddy Waters Research’s due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of its ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that Muddy Waters Research believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected 
persons of the Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly).  However, 
such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied.  Muddy Waters Research makes no representation, express or implied, as to 
the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  Further, any report on this site contains a very 
large measure of analysis and opinion.  All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters Research does not undertake to update or 
supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
In no event shall Muddy Waters Research or any Muddy Waters Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any information on this website.  This limitation of liability 
applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Muddy Waters Research or any Muddy Waters Related Persons.  You accept all risks in relying on the 
information on this website.  
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / 
reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/.  If you have obtained 
Muddy Waters Research’s research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the 
Terms of Use. You further agree that any dispute between you and Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters 
Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions.  You knowingly 
and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California and waive your right to any 
other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters Research is based in San Francisco, California. The failure of Muddy Waters Research to exercise or enforce 
any right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision.  You agree that each Muddy Waters Related Person is a third party 
beneficiary to these Terms of Use.  If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the 
court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and 
effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising 
out of or related to this website or the material on this website must be filed within one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause 
of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred. 


Page 1 of 11
Prothena Corp PLC (PRTA US) 
June 29, 2017 


 
Questioning Whether NEOD001 is Efficacious 


 
 
Company:  
Prothena Corp PLC  
 


 
Stock Price: $55.15 


Ticker:  
PRTA US 
 


Market Cap: 2.1 billion 
 


Industry:  
Biotechnology 
 


Float: 100% 
 


Report Date:  
June 29, 2017 
 


Average Volume (90-day): 270,000 shares 
 


 
We are short PRTA.  The publicly-available data, in our opinion, does not show that NEOD001 
is efficacious.  Our impression appears to run contrary to that of the sell-side.  We believe that 
perceived positive responses to the drug are quite possibly – if not likely – due to previous 
plasma cell directed (“PCD”) therapy, and also to the manner in which some early trial data has 
been presented.  Further, NEOD001’s proposed mechanism of action is not proven.  
 
AL amyloidosis is a horrible disease.  We would be happy to be wrong about our reading of the 
data.  However, even if NEOD001 were to be approved, we see the Street’s peak annual sales 
estimates generally of over $1.5 billion as unrealistic.  The patient population is small, and we 
believe most payers are unlikely to reimburse for this drug if it were priced at a level sufficient to 
put the peak annual sales estimates within reach.   
 
We note that insiders hold virtually no shares, immediately sell substantially all stock received 
through option exercises; and, that PRTA raised an additional $155.3 million gross in an equity 
offering in March 2017.1  A recent investor conversation with PRTA’s CFO led him to take a 
tone described as defensive when asked pointed questions about the trial data.2  These 
observations lead us to believe that management might share our concern about the efficacy of 
NEOD001.  We also find it noteworthy that PRTA presently plans not to release interim data 
from its Phase 3. 
 
We Conclude Publicly Available Trial Data Does Not Support that NEOD001 is Efficacious 
 
The publicly-available data from the Phase 1/2 trial conducted on NEOD001 do not, in our view, 
support a conclusion that NEOD001 is efficacious.  The main issue we see is that patients’ 
improvements in biomarker levels are quite possibly – if not likely – to have been caused by 
                                                
1 http://ir.prothena.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=1015749 
2 A transcript of the relevant portion of the conversation is infra.  


Page 2 of 11
previous plasma cell directed (“PCD”) treatments.  In contrast to the conclusions Liedtke et al 
presented at American Society of Hematology (“ASH”) 2016, we see the timing of patients’ 
organ responses as consistent with responses from PCD treatments, which often consist of 
chemotherapeutic agents.3  We see in the data a lack of correlation between cardiac responses 
and the depths of hematologic responses, which casts doubt on NEOD001’s efficacy.  The 
NEOD001 “Best Response Analysis” is misleading in our view as to efficacy, and we further 
believe it has led to undue optimism about the drug. 
 
Between 2013 and 2016, PRTA conducted a Phase 1/2 trial on 69 patients with AL Amyloidosis. 
The first 27 patients were part of the dose escalation and 42 additional patients were added to the 
expansion cohort.  Patient discontinuation in the dose escalation part of the study was substantial, 
10 patients did not complete the study and one patient died.4  All patients had previously 
undergone PCD treatment, generally consisting of various combination of chemotherapy 
alkylating agent, protesome inhibitor, steroid and some patients had autologous transplantation.  
The trial was not placebo controlled, which of itself makes the data of questionable value without 
a control arm.  (The current Phase 2B and Phase 3 trials are placebo-controlled.)  
 
The publicly-available data trail shows biomarker responses that we believe are consistent with 
improvements expected from PCD therapy.  The current treatment standard for AL amyloidosis 
seeks to improve end-organ function – i.e., achieve a very good partial to complete organ 
response – through PCD therapy that eliminates the precursor protein of the amyloid that is 
depositing in the body.  Research shows better hematologic responses improves the chances of 
organ responses, and significantly impact overall survival.   
 
There are a number of PCD treatments that are effective in generating hematologic responses.5  
These treatments include combinations of dexamethasone, oral melphalan, oral 
cyclophosphamide and the proteasome-inhibitor bortezomib (Velcade).  Many of these 
medications are authorized for multiple myeloma, and are often used off label for the treatment 
of AL amyloidosis.  Two independent retrospective studies of hematologic response rates show 
the combination therapy of cyclophosphamide-bortezomib-dexamethasone (CyBorD) is highly 
efficacious.  One study reported a hematologic response rate of 94% and a complete hematologic 
response rate of 71%, while the other reported a 81% hematologic response rate and 42% 
complete hematologic response rate.6,7   
 
Timing of Organ Responses versus Hematologic Responses 
 
Liedtke et al presented slides at ASH that appear to suggest that NEOD001 trial patients’ organ 
responses were likely due to the drug.  We do not agree with that interpretation.  One of the key 
slides is below.  The graph on the left, showing the cumulative probability of an organ response 
following nFLCr (normalization of the free light chain ratio, a surrogate for hematologic 


                                                
3 Liedtke et al. Presented at the 58th ASH Annual Meeting & Exposition; San Diego, CA: December 3-6, 2016. 
Abstract 647.  
4 Gertz et al. J Clin Oncol 34:1097-1103 
5 see Palladini et al 2012. 
6 Mikhael et al Blood 2012. 119(19): 4391-4394 
7 Venner et al Blood 2012. 119(19): 4387-4390 


Page 3 of 11
complete response) following chemotherapy, states that the median time to organ response is 
only 2.1 months.  (This data is drawn from Kaufman et al8)  Because Liedtke et al point out that 
the median time in the NEOD001 study from the last PCD treatment was 5.8 months, the 
implication is that the organ responses observed are likely due to NEOD001 because PCD 
treatments may have already manifested any organ responses by the commencement of 
NEOD001 treatment.  However, closer examination of the Kaufman et al data belies this 
conclusion, and emphasizes that there was no wash out period in these trials to control for 
lingering effects of PCD treatments. 
 
  


                                                
8 Kaufman et al. Am. J. Hematol. 90:181-186, 2015 


Page 4 of 11
Liedtke et al slide presenting Kaufman et al data: 
 


 
 
A close look at the cumulative probability of an organ response yields makes a contrary point 
(red lines added to Kaufman et al graph): 
 
 





6 FLC, free light chain; IVS, interventricular septum; nFLCr, normal ratio of involved and uninvolved free light chains; NYHA, New York Heart Association; sMC, serum monoclonal component. 
 
Modified with permission from Kaufman GP et al. Am J Hematol. 2015;90:181-186. Modified with permission from Palladini G et al. Circulation 2003;107:2440-2445. 


Background: If Organ Response Occurs After 
Hematologic Response (HR), It Is Generally Rapid 


•  FLC reduction is paralleled by simultaneous NT-proBNP 
reduction and clinical improvement 


-40 


Median time to organ response:    
2.1 months (n=231) 


Follow-up From Achievement of nFLCr, months 
-20 0 20 40 60 80 


0.1 


0.2 


0.3 


0.4 


0.5 


0.6 


0.7 


0.8 


0.9 


C
um


ul
at


iv
e 


P
ro


ba
bi


lit
y 


of
 O


rg
an


 R
es


po
ns


e 


Date 


Page 5 of 11
When we add lines to the graph at approximately zero, 10, 20, 30, and 40 months, we see that 
organ responses have been observed up to approximately 40 months after hematologic 
responses.  Note also that close to 30% of the patients had an organ response before a 
hematologic response.  The organ response preceding hematologic response would seem to 
impact the 2.1 month-median response time that Liedtke et al cite.   
 
Kaufman et al shows the below rates of eventual organ responders achieving an organ response 
within six and 12 months from nFLCr, which was the surrogate for a complete hematologic 
resposne:9 
 


Organ Six Months from nFLCr 12 Months from nFLCr 
   


Heart 75% 87% 
Kidney 64% 84% 
Liver 71% 87% 
Nerve 63% 75% 


 
The above table shows that shows that if an eventual organ responder did not achieve an organ 
response within six months from nFLCr, he had an approximately 50% chance of achieving it 
within next six months without NEOD001.   
 
We calculated the months 6-12 response rates from the Kaufman et al data in the following 
manner: (12-month rate – six month rate) / (1 – six month rate): 
 


Organ Formula Months 6-12 OR Rate 
   


Heart (87%-75%) / (1-75%) 48% 
Kidney (84%-64%) / (1-64%) 56% 
Liver (87%-71%) / (1-71%) 55% 
Nerve (75%-63%) / (1-63%) 32% 


 
The NEOD001 studies only enrolled patients who had already had a HR.10,11  Based on the 
foregoing, we therefore conclude the NEOD001 patients’ median time since the last PCD 
treatment of 5.8 months to be unpersuasive with respect to the drug’s efficacy.  We suspect that 
the improvements in biomarker levels could be attributable to PCD therapy, rather than 
NEOD001.  
 
We urge PRTA to release data by individual patient so that investors can better analyze the 
timing of organ responses, and have a better basis to judge efficacy.   
 


                                                
9 Kaufman et al. Am. J. Hematol. 90:181-186, 2015 
10 Gertz et al. Presented at the 58th ASH Annual Meeting & Exposition; San Diego, CA: December 3-6, 2016. 
Abstract 644 
11 Liedtke et al. Presented at the 58th ASH Annual Meeting & Exposition; San Diego, CA: December 3-6, 2016. 
Abstract 647 
 


Page 6 of 11
Cardiac Responses versus Depths of Hematologic Responses  
 
We see in the data a lack of correlation between cardiac responses and the depth of hematologic 
responses, which casts doubt on NEOD001’s efficacy.  Kaufman et al’s analysis establishes that 
there should be a relationship between the depth of hematologic responses and organ responses. 
The Liedtke et al slides below show the cardiac and renal response rates on the Y axes, versus 
the depths of the hematologic responses on the X axes (best and last, respectively).  The 
hematologic responses are categorized as CR (complete response), VGPR (very good partial 
response), and PR (partial response).  The renal response tables show the trend one would 
expect: A deeper hematologic response seems to lead to a greater likelihood of organ response.  
However, the cardiac response breaks from that pattern – we inserted red trend lines based on the 
VGPR and PR to illustrate the seeming underperformance of the CR category.  The criticism of 
this comparison is of course the small sample size; however, small sample size is an inherent 
problem in the NEOD001 trial data to date.   
 





Page 7 of 11
One possible explanation for the apparent lack of correlation is that enrolled patients had 
multifactorial congestive heart failure.  If this is the case, it points again to weaknesses in the 
trial data in terms of establishing efficacy.  
 
NEOD001 Best Response Analysis is Seemingly Misleading 
 
The NEO001 “Best Response Analysis” is misleading in our view as to efficacy, and we further 
believe it has led to undue optimism about the drug.  The below slide shows a “Best Response 
Analysis” for NEOD001, and appears to show 47% of the patients were stable, and 53% 
responded.  We view this presentation of data as questionable with regard to establishing 
efficacy.   
 
First, this presentation measures the largest biomarker improvement (if any) a patient had during 
the trial – in our view, it does not establish that the patient’s biomarkers consistently improved, 
nor that the patient had a positive overall outcome.  The corollary to this issue is that it is 
showing changes in NT-proBNP levels, and as we discuss infra, NT-proBNP can change 
substantially from day-to-day for these patients due various factors.12,13,14  We think of the Best 
Response Analysis as akin to extrapolating that former Major League Baseball journeyman Mark 
Whiten should be inducted into the Hall of Fame based on the one game in which he hit four 
home runs and 12 RBIs.15  To help investors gauge efficacy, PRTA should release NT-proBNP 
levels for each patient in the cohort over the life of the study. 
 


                                                
12 Bonfils et al. Eur J Heart Fail. 2010  
13 www.acep.org/Clinical---Practice-Management/Focus-On--Brain-Natriuretic-Peptide/ 
14 O’Hanlon et al. J Cardiac Fail; 2007; 13:50-55 
15 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Whiten  


Page 8 of 11
The second problem with the NEOD001 Best Response Analysis is that it excluded patients with 
progressive renal dysfunction.  It is widely accepted that an improvement in renal function is 
associated with lower NT-proBNP levels, and that progressive renal dysfunction negatively 
impacts NT-proBNP levels.16  Therefore, by excluding patients with progressive renal 
dysfunction from this analysis, a) the cohort does not match what the real world patient 
population would look like, and b) the NT-proBNP measurements would seem to be favorably 
skewed, thereby likely overstating efficacy.   
 
In the Phase 1/2 dose escalation study 10 patients were discontinued in the study and 1 patient 
died.   
 
Lack of Correlation Between Doses and Responses in 2014 Sample Patients 
 
We understand that PRTA published the below graph in 2014.  However, it appears to no longer 
be available on PRTA’s website.  The graph shows data that we believe belies the notion that 
NEOD001 is efficacious.  It shows that eight patients in the Phase 1/2 study received doses that 
ranged from 0.5 mg / kg to 4.0 mg / kg.  Our interpretation of this graph is that there was no 
correlation between response and dose size – if anything, the relationship appears to be almost 
inversely correlated in that the patients at lower dosages seem to have responded better than the 
patients at higher dosages.  (It should be noted though that the ninth patient, at 8.0 mg / kg only 
had only two data points, the first of which evidenced a 30% or greater decrease of NT-proBNP.)   
 


 
 
The Phase 3 dose is 24 mg / kg, which implies that PRTA views 0.5 mg / kg to 4.0 mg / kg doses 
as sub-therapeutic; however, 50% (four out of eight) patients at these doses experienced organ 
responses, which calls into question whether the responses were due to PCD treatments or 
NEOD001.   
 


                                                
16 Palladini et al. J Clinical Oncology; 2012 


Page 9 of 11
Also, if we look at the six patients who each had at least six cycles of therapy, we see that while 
five out of six each had a response at some point in time (a Best Response Rate of 83%), at most 
points in time the response rate was 50% - if nothing else, this shows how a Best Response 
Analysis overstates the results of the trial. 
 


Cycle 2 3 4 5 6 
Rate 50% 50% 50% 83% 33% 


 
It appears PRTA has not published any dose-specific data since 2014, nor does it appear to have 
published dose-specific data on doses between 8.0 mg / kg and the Phase 3 dose of 24 mg / kg.   
 
Other Criticisms About Concluding NEOD001 is Efficacious from the Trial Data 
 
Investors who think that NEOD001 is likely to be efficacious based on the trial data to date are 
also overlooking other issues in the studies: 
 


• There have been no control arms.  As we have argued, patients experiencing a 
hematologic response, which was a criterion to enroll, have a significant chance of 
experiencing an organ response.  A control arm in the earlier NEOD001 studies would 
have made them a better basis for judging its efficacy. 


• Based on what we understand of the trial, it seems one patient could be counted as a 
responder multiple times.  PRTA defined cardiac responses as 30% and greater than 300 
pg / ml reductions in NT-proBNP levels from baseline.17  It is not clear that PRTA did 
not count the same patients’ organ responses multiple times.  As with our other questions 
surrounding the trial data, PRTA releasing the data on an individual patient basis would 
go a long way toward understanding this. 


 
Even if the FDA Approves NEOD001, it is Unclear to us how it will Achieve Analysts’ 
Expectations for Peak Annual Sales  
 
The Street seems to expect NEOD001’s peak annual sales will approximate $1.5 billion or more.  
We see these estimates as extremely optimistic because AL amyloidosis is a rare disease, with 
approximately 4,500 new cases diagnosed in the U.S. per year.  With a small addressable market, 
we have seen sell side analysts assuming per patient treatment will total $200,000 to close to 
$300,000.  At those levels, we see widespread reimbursement for NEOD001 as unlikely.  First, 
existing PCD therapies are fairly effective, and NEOD001 would be additive.  Second, the 
disease usually affects people aged 50 or older, whom we see as relatively more subject to 
increased payer constraints.   
 
Insiders Have Near Zero Share Ownership 
 
We repeatedly state throughout this report that seeing data on an individual patient level would 
go a long way to allowing investors to sort out whether improvements in biomarker levels were 


                                                
17 Gertz et al. J Clin Oncol 34:1097-1103, 2016 


Page 10 of 11
due to PCD treatments or NEOD001.  We expect that PRTA insiders though generally have 
access to much richer data than does the public.   
 
Insiders seem to have voted on PRTA with their feet.  Bloomberg shows that insiders currently 
own 0.04% of the shares (in addition to options).  Also according to Bloomberg, since June 1, 
2014, insiders have exercised options for 485,542 shares, and on the same days sold 478,876 of 
those shares.  It is therefore fair to ask whether investors are far more bullish than insiders are. 
 
Defensive Tone and Statements by CFO Support Our Concerns 
 
An investor who recently spoke with PRTA’s CFO found his tone in response to questions about 
releasing the individual patient trial data defensive, which could be an indicator that PRTA 
senior management is concerned about whether the data shows efficacy.  Below is the exchange: 
 


Q: Okay.  You know, we worked the data also and looking at the presentations of mean, 
like certainly made this kind of harder to really work out.  Would you guys be able to 
provide data on a patient-by-patient basis, you know, with the response to the PCD 
therapy? 
 
Mr. Nguyen: No.  We haven’t disclosed that information yet.  We think we’ve shown it 
here.  But I hear what you’re saying, but we’re not going to show that. 
 
Q: Okay.  Why? 
 
Mr. Nguyen: Because we’re -- at this point, we would either show that in a publication -- 
you know, the KOLs and us worked it out.  I don’t personally know why the answer to 
that is, but we’re not prepared to show it. 


 
When combining this reaction to PRTA insiders’ consistent share selling (down to effectively no 
ownership) and the March 2017 equity issuance, we suspect insiders lack confidence in 
NEOD001’s approval prospects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Page 11 of 11
