Muddy Waters Capital, LLC 


 info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research:  Carson C. Block, Esq.	
  








Terms of Service: 


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service. You agree that use 
of the research on this website is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC, Muddy Waters Capital 
LLC, or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further 
agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities 
covered herein. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 
analysis and opinion on this site. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other 
person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive the 
contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 


You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters Capital LLC 
(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our 
clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, 
swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize 
significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities 
of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, or neutral 
at any time hereafter regardless of our initial position and views as stated in our research. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any 
security to or from any person through this site or reports on this site. Muddy Waters Capital LLC is not registered as an 
investment advisor in any jurisdiction. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an 
investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) 
Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 


Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be 
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise 
owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without 
warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters Capital LLC makes no representation, express or 
implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 
obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC does not undertake to update 
or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 


You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information 
(whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by 
providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters Capital 
LLC research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that 
link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your use of this report and / or 
the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of 
California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the 
personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any 
other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters Capital LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy 
Waters Capital LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of 
this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, 
the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the 
provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this 
governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or 
cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after 
such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. 


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 22
When Genius Fails 
 
 
Report Date: December 16, 2015 
 
Company:  
Groupe Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA 
 
Ticker:  
CO FP 
 
Industry: General Retail 
 


 
Estimated Value (€): 6.91 / share 


  
Stock Price (€): 48.97 


 
Market Cap (€): 5.66 billion 


 
Float: 56.5m 


 
Avg Volume: 724,000 


 
 
Groupe Casino (CO FP) is one of the most overvalued and misunderstood companies we 
have ever come across.1  The basic problem with Casino is that its financial statements 
are literally meaningless to understanding the company’s (poor) health.  They do not 
distinguish between what Casino owns and what it owes.  (Spoiler: we estimate Casino’s 
LTM leverage ratio at 8.9x.)  
 
Casino’s controlling shareholder Jean-Charles Naouri is a genius.  He won first prizes in 
France’s high school Latin and Greek exams, completed his baccalaureate degree at 15, 
and earned a PhD in math in only one year.  Like the geniuses who founded the hedge 
fund Long-Term Capital Management, which spectacularly collapsed, Mr. Naouri has an 
affinity for leverage.  One would expect Casino to be a relatively boring hypermarket 
retailer; however, together with its parent, Rallye SA (RAL FP), Casino increasingly 
resembles a highly levered hedge fund.  One example is Casino’s total return swaps on 
listed equities, which we estimate have a mark-to-market loss of approximately €500 
million. 
 
Casino and Rallye are now experiencing their version of a “six sigma event”, with 
emerging markets (80% of consolidated EBITDA) unwinding, currencies selling-off, and 
a sharply deteriorating core business.  Casino obfuscates these problems by (i) adding 
complexity to its already convoluted structure and financials, (ii) engaging in financial 
engineering to improve the optics of its financials, and (iii) by hollowing out the 
productive value of the businesses in order to keep Rallye from collapsing.   
 
Our report peels away many layers of the onion to show that Casino is dangerously 
leveraged, and is being managed for the very short-term.  We explain that Casino’s shares 
are worth as little as €6.91, and correspondingly, the shares of Rallye are likely going to 
zero.  If Casino trades at our estimated value of €6.91, the recovery on Rallye’s bonds 
should be about €0.15.    
 
Key Findings 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 The full legal name of the listed company is Groupe Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA. 


Page 2 of 22
We are short shares of France-based retail conglomerate Casino (CO FP) because their 
value could be as little as €6.91 per share, which is 86.2% lower than its last close.  We 
are short Casino’s credit, which S&P rates BBB-, because we estimate Casino’s LTM 
adjusted leverage is 8.9x, and the parent has €3.3 billion in maturities coming due 
through 2017.2  We are short shares of Casino’s parent and largest shareholder Rallye SA 
(RAL FP) because we value them at zero.  We are short the credit of Rallye because we 
consider a default probable in the next two years.   
 
Our base case value for Casino shares is €6.91.  This is based on estimates of LTM 
numbers.  Casino’s financial statements greatly mislead investors about the value of 
Casino’s equity.  Casino management then obfuscates and refuses to release key 
clarifying information, thereby continuing the misperception of value that is clear to 
insiders.  On the surface, Casino appears to be prudently managed with moderate 
leverage (net debt to EBITDA) of only 3.0x.  Unfortunately, Casino shareholders have far 
less cash and cash flow to meet those obligations than it appears.   
 
Casino has only fractional ownership in a number of businesses that it fully consolidates.  
That is, even though Casino only owns portions of these businesses – in one case only 
14.2% – Casino reports their results as though they were its own.  Casino then borrows 
against these numbers.  The concept is similar to a trustee of someone else’s trust taking 
the trust’s account statements to the bank and getting a loan based on the assets.  (The 
trustee would obviously be acting illegally; Casino’s accounting is legal.)  We estimate 
Casino’s LTM leverage ratio is 8.9x.3  Ideally, a company consolidating results of 
proportionally-owned companies has the debt spread out among the consolidated 
companies.  That is not the case with Casino – there is a massive gap between what is 
owned, and what is owed.  Casino owns only 49% of the estimated LTM EBITDA, but 
owes 93% of adjusted net debt.   
 
Casino’s leverage, compounded by the massive debt at its parent, RAL, is causing 
management to hollow out the productive value of Casino.  Even though Casino realized 
€1.7 billion by cramming an abusive transaction down the throats of one of the 
companies it consolidates, Almacenes Exito SA, parent-level and consolidated cash have 
both dropped precipitously while debt has climbed.  Casino’s consolidated subsidiary 
GPA is one of the largest tax dodgers in Brazil, according to the government’s official 
list.  Casino guarantees this liability for up to € 3 billion.  (Our debt and leverage 
calculations do not include this contingent liability.)   
 
A bulge bracket bank raised the possibility that Rallye becomes a zero – in a recent note, 
the bank estimated that if Casino shares hit €46, then Rallye has no equity value left.  We 
see the Casino deleveraging “plan” that was announced December 15th as an empty, and 
desperate ploy to buy time for Rallye by trying to prop up Casino’s price.  (Casino had 
previously closed at €45.995.)   
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
2 €1.9 billion of commercial paper, estimated €500 million of TRSes, €379 million of 2016 bonds, €538 
million of 2017 bonds. 
3 We explain the basis for the adjustments and estimates in detail in the report.   


Page 3 of 22
The deleveraging “plan” is clearly shambolic.  The press release read that the 
deleveraging would be accomplished through asset sales.  But when Casino held the call 
to explain the announcement, the CFO repeatedly stated that sale proceeds might be used 
for dividends or capital expenditures.  When analysts asked pointed questions and 
pressed on where Casino would get the money to deleverage, the CFO made vague 
statements about France free cash flow rising substantially from its present level, which 
seems to be about zero.  We estimate that debt is € 10.9 billion, and the France 
subsidiaries just below the parent have net cash of € 1.7 billion.  The notion that a 
company with this little free cash flow, and that is using asset sales for other purposes, 
and somehow burning substantial amounts of cash in ways that have not been explained, 
can pay off meaningful amounts of debt over the next year is astonishing.  
 


I. The fundamental problem with Casino 
 
The basic problem with Casino is that its financial statements are literally meaningless to 
understanding the company’s (poor) health.  It has about half the EBITDA its financials 
show, but almost all of the debt.   
 
For the LTM period, it appears as though Casino has EBITDA of €2.6 billion.  However, 
its true economic ownership (“proportional”) EBITDA really is only €1.4 billion.4  To 
eliminate the income inflation of financial engineering, EBITDA likely should be further 
adjusted downward by approximately €165 million to €1.2 billion.5   
 
While Casino’s financials overstate EBITDA by an estimated 100%, the portrayal of the 
debt is much more accurate.  Casino’s real net debt is approximately 93% of the amount 
shown on the consolidated financials.  In other words, while Casino’s chairman wrote in 
the 2014 annual report Casino’s balance sheet was “strong” and its leverage ratio was a 
conservative 1.8x, a leverage calculation based on debt and EBITDA actually owned by 
Casino, along with estimated adjustments to offset financial engineering profits, results in 
a leverage ratio at that time of 6.1x.  (Note the substantial deterioration in our estimated 
leverage ratio since then.) 
 
Casino’s financials are so misleading because it consolidates financials of businesses in 
which it has only fractional stakes.  For example, while Casino only owns 14.2% of Latin 
America electronics retailer Via Varejo it consolidates the entire amount of Via Varejo’s 
EBITDA, which on a LTM basis accounted for approximately 21% of Casino’s overall 
reported EBITDA. 6  Casino fully consolidates the financial statements of this business 
because accounting standards require a company to fully consolidate results of companies 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
4 The LTM period is through June 2015 for Casino-France Retail and BigC Vietnam, and through 
September 2015 for the other business segments, based on public filings for CBD, Exito, Via Varejo, BigC 
Thailand, and Cnova. 
5 See Section IV. 
6 Casino owns a 50% interest in a holding company that owns 37.5% of CBD, which owns 43.3% of Via 
Varejo. Casino also directly owns 3.7% of CBD and 54.8% of Grupo Exito. Grupo Exito owns the other 
50% of the holding company that owns CBD. This results in Casino owning 14% of Via Varejo through its 
32.73% ownership of CBD. 


Page 4 of 22
over which it exercises control.  However, consolidation does not confer rights to cash 
flows.  Dividends are distributed in proportion to the actual ownership of the business. 
Casino has an indirect stake in Via Varejo through its 32.73% ownership of common 
shares of CBD.  The non-controlling shareholders of CBD largely own preferred 
common shares.7  Preferred common shares are better protected than common shares 
when it comes to dividend payments, dissolution of the business, and also have 
withdrawal rights that can force Casino to buy the preferred shares in certain situations.8 


The bar graph below shows the difference between the consolidated EBITDA Casino 
reports, and what it proportionally owns.9 


 
 
* LTM estimates based on September 30th results where available, and June 30th results 
where not. 
 
  


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
7 CBD Form 20F 2014, p. 73. 
8 CBD Form 20F 2014, p. 87. 
9 Note that these are LTM estimates, gleaned from a combination of September 30th and June 30th reports. 


€2,450 


€1,210 


€0 


€500 


€1,000 


€1,500 


€2,000 


€2,500 


€3,000 


Consolidated EBITDA Proportional EBITDA 


Casino Consolidated v. Proportional 
EBITDA LTM* 


in millions of Euro 


Page 5 of 22
These bar graphs show the EBITDA that 
Casino consolidates by entity, along with 
Casino’s economic (or “proportional”) 
ownership of EBITDA. Note: Charts for 
Casino’s operations in France Retail and 
BigC Vietnam are not included because 
these are 100% owned. 





€816 


€267 


€0 
€200 
€400 
€600 
€800 
€1,000 


Consolidated 
EBITDA 


Proportional 
EBITDA 


CBD/GPA Consolidated v. 
Proportional EBITDA LTM Sep 


2015 
in millions of Euro 


€500 


€71 


€0 
€100 
€200 
€300 
€400 
€500 
€600 


Consolidated 
EBITDA 


Proportional 
EBITDA 


Via Varejo Consolidated v. 
Proportional EBITDA LTM Sep 


2015 
in millions of Euro 


€347 


€203 


€0 


€100 


€200 


€300 


€400 


Consolidated 
EBITDA 


Proportional 
EBITDA 


BigC Thailand Consolidated v. 
Proportional EBITDA LTM Sep 


2015 
in millions of Euro 


€255 


€140 


€0 
€50 
€100 
€150 
€200 
€250 
€300 


Consolidated 
EBITDA 


Proportional 
EBITDA 


Exito Consolidated v. Proportional 
EBITDA LTM Sep 2015 


in millions of Euro 


€8 


€4 


€0 


€2 


€4 


€6 


€8 


€10 


Consolidated 
EBITDA 


Proportional 
EBITDA 


Cnova Consolidated v. 
Proportional EBITDA LTM Sep 


2015 
in millions of Euro 


Page 6 of 22
Below is a graph comparing reported leverage to economic, adjusted leverage.10  This is 
the real issue with Casino – it has far more debt to enterprise value than investors realize. 


 
 
*Casino’s reported LTM leverage is as of June 30th; MWC LTM leverage is as of September 30th for 
consolidated companies that report quarterly, blended with parent reporting as of June 30th. 
 
Deconstructing Casino’s Economics is Cumbersome 
 
It takes a lot of time and effort to sort through all of the data to back out what really 
belongs to Casino.  Accounting standards mandate consolidation when there is effective 
control of a company, but we have never seen consolidation practices lead to such an 
egregious misrepresentation of financial health.  Credit ratings analysts are fooled by 
Casino’s presentation and mistakenly estimate proportional leverage at 4x, which is why 
Casino has to date been rated as investment grade.11  As a result of this complexity, 
investors, lenders, and ratings analysts have completely misjudged Casino’s value, health, 
and risk.  We expect Casino to re-rate. 


 
To deconstruct the financial statements into its component parts so that a proportional 
EBITDA number can be calculated, as well as to understand the composition of debt and 
cash at each of the underlying businesses, we start with the consolidated financial 
statements for Casino Group and the Casino Parent.  Then we analyze public filings from 
consolidated listed companies in which Casino owns a partial interest. These entities are:  
CBD, Via Varejo, Grupo Exito, BigC Thailand, and Cnova.  Casino also provides 
segment reporting for the French retail segment, the listed entities and BigC Vietnam on 
an annual and semi-annual basis.  Once the business segments have been deconsolidated 
the legal ownership for the respective business can be applied to calculate a proportional 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
10 Adjustment for likely France retail EBITDA inflation of €165 million through related party transactions. 
11 S&P RatingsDirect Report on Casino Guichard-Perrachon & Cie S.A., December 11, 2015, p. 4 


3.00x 


8.90x 


0.00x 
1.00x 
2.00x 
3.00x 
4.00x 
5.00x 
6.00x 
7.00x 
8.00x 
9.00x 


10.00x 


Casino Published MWC Proportional 


Casino Reported LTM Leverage vs. 
MWC LTM Leverage*  


Page 7 of 22
financial metric (EBITDA, debt, cash, etc.). The below table sets forth the ownership 
interests Casino has in its core businesses that are 100% fully consolidated on its 
financial statements. 





The above shows what the parent owns.  However, it is a bit misleading in that CBD 
already consolidates Via Varejo and GPA (see Appendix 1).  Therefore, when valuing 
these two entities in Section VI, we do not place separate values on them because those 
values are captured in CBD’s enterprise value.  It is also important to note that all debt at 
the listed companies is already factored into the equity prices, which is why it is 
important to de-consolidate the debt and cash for valuation purposes. 
 
The next issue is determining what the parent owes.  The following table allocates debt 
and cash between the listed consolidated subsidiaries and the wholly owned entities. 
 


 
 
In our Equity Valuation Section VI, we use €9.2 billion as the net debt figure. 
 


II. Casino’s €2 billion Deleveraging Sham 
 
On December 15th, Casino issued a press release titled “Casino Group Decides to 
Strengthen its Financial Flexibility with a Deleveraging Plan above € 2BN in 2016”.  
While the company stated the board developed this “plan” as part of its annual strategic 


Page 8 of 22
review, it is clear that it had not been thought through.  Casino’s CFO, Antoine Giscard 
D’Estaing, was unable to explain how the asset sales will occur, expected prices or 
valuations, or the tax implications.  Despite trumpeting this as a “deleveraging”, Mr. 
Giscard D’Estaing was also unable to explain how proceeds would be upstreamed to pay 
off debt.  He added to the confusion by holding out the possibility the proceeds might be 
used for dividends or even local investments.   


When pressed on the contradictions between deleveraging and paying anybody other than 
creditors, he implied that hugely improved internal cash flow could close the gap.  
Although Mr. Giscard D’Estaing was careful not to offer any of his own guidance, he 
helpfully pointed out that “some analysts” are forecasting France EBITDA to grow by 
€100 million to €150 million in 2016.  Mr. Giscard D’Estaing also let listeners know that 
“some analysts” are forecasting that France FCF will grow from its “close to zero” level 
today to €200 million to €300 million next year.12   However, he did not mention that 
other analysts (including ourselves) have repeatedly asked the company whether France 
EBITDA and FCF have been inflated through the asset sale transactions with related 
party Mercialys.  (Spoiler: we estimate Casino used these transactions by definition to 
inflate 2014 and LTM EBITDA by € 140 million and € 165 million.)  Because Casino 
either repurchases or leases back these properties, they are effectively just financing – 
i.e., they should never be included in EBITDA or have valuation multiples applied to 
them.   


Casino investors heard a similar story about six months ago when the company 
announced a €1.7 billion deleveraging transaction by force-feeding some assets to Exito 
largely at an above market price.  Exito investors, whose shares have declined by 37.5% 
since the announcement, might be surprised to learn that we estimate Casino’s 
proportional net debt grew from €9.7 billion to €10.8 billion from FY 2014 through 30-
September, while economic ownership in these assets fell.  This growth in net debt is also 
despite the (not as well publicized) €607 million of asset sales to related party Mercialys 
during the same period. We encourage investors to again make Mr. Giscard D’Estaing 
uncomfortable by insisting he explain where these “deleveraging” proceeds have gone.  


The table below shows the aftermath to Exito of Casino’s “value creating” transaction, in 
relation to its Bloomberg LatAm comps. 


 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
12 Mr. Giscard D’Estaing stated “So some analysts have forecast at this stage of an improvement from a 
level [of FCF] which is close today to a 0,…” 


Page 9 of 22
Cynics might think that Casino did not have a real deleveraging plan to announce this 
week, and that they had ulterior motives for issuing the press release.  Casino stock had 
closed the day before at €45.99.  In a recent note, a bulge bracket bank estimated Rallye’s 
value at zero when Casino trades at €46.  Rallye management touts that it has €1.8 billion 
of borrowing capacity (at Rallye).13  These borrowings require Rallye to pledge Casino 
shares to secure borrowings.14   


III. Hollowing Out to Sustain Liquidity 
 
To maintain liquidity, Casino resorts to hollowing out the business through asset sales 
that destroy the productive value of the company.  Casino’s free cash flow appears to fall 
well short of debt service requirements at Casino and at its parent, Rallye SA (RAL FP).  
Rallye is Casino’s largest shareholder, and controls the company.  Rallye has effectively 
become a parasite because it has borrowed so much against the dividend stream it 
anticipated receiving from Casino.  (Rallye has € 2.8 billion net debt, compared to a 
market cap of only € 731.7 million.15)  The problem now is that free cash flow from 
Casino’s deteriorating businesses cannot sustain the dividends Rallye requires to service 
its mountain of debt.   
 
We estimate that in 2014, Rallye incurred interest expense of approximately €95 million.  
Because substantially all of Rallye’s cash flows come from Casino dividends, Casino has 
to dividend out roughly twice that amount for Rallye to service its debt.  Casino guides 
that annual interest expense in France is roughly € 150 million.  (Note that a rough 
calculation based on bonds outstanding generates annual interest in excess of €300 
million.  The lower number is apparently due to an interest rate swap.  We are unable to 
understand how an interest rate swap would have this profound an affect on France 
interest.)  The interest expense on the perpetual securities, which must be paid in order 
for Casino to pay dividends, is approximately €50 million.  Therefore, Casino’s de facto 
financing obligations roughly total at least €425 million annually, and we would expect a 
number close to €600 million without the quixotic interest rate swaps.  We estimate that, 
and Mr. Giscard D’Estaing confirmed during the December 15th call, Casino’s France 
free cash flow is approximately zero at present.  The bleak math here is not hard.   
 
Mr. Naouri is thus faced with a choice between bad and worse.  “Worse” to him is to 
cease Casino’s dividends and let Rallye collapse.  If Rallye collapsed, he would lose most 
if not his entire Casino holding.  “Bad” is to suck as much cash out of Casino as possible 
in order to pay Rallye interest, even though that means value destructive asset sales, 
leveraging up Casino subsidiaries, and prioritizing dividends over prudent financial and 
debt management.  Absent a substantial improvement in the business, this modus 
operandi could impair recovery value for Casino bondholders.  Given our estimate of 
proportional leverage of 8.9x, Casino should think long-term, stop selling assets to pay 
dividends, and use free cash flow to reduce proportional leverage.  
 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
13 Rallye Annual Report 2014, p. 181. 
14 Email from Rallye investor relations 
15 Source: S&P Capital IQ. 


Page 10 of 22
It is unfortunate to see Casino put its wholly owned BigC Vietnam business up for sale.  
While Mr. Giscard D’Estaing tried to dismiss BigC Vietnam as only 2.5% of 
international revenue, he did offer that it is growing at a mid-teens rate with EBIT 
margins approximately 5.5%.  BigC Vietnam is exactly the type of business Casino 
shareholders want to own.  Selling this business clearly illustrates that Casino is 
liquidating – not growing.  The venality of Casino’s management further underscored by 
Exito’s planned sale of stakes in its malls. Consider how poor the commercial real estate 
market in Colombia is right now: is definitely not selling into strength.  
 
As investors who are short Casino’s stock we would love to see Casino liquidate all of its 
assets. Reason being, our valuation indicates that the sum of the parts of Casino’s assets 
are worth only €6.91 per share  
 


IV. Casino Likely Inflates France EBITDA to Disguise Deterioration 
 


Casino’s France retail June 2015 LTM EBITDA was likely inflated by real estate 
transactions with Mercialys by up to €165 million. Casino sold €607 million in real estate 
to Mercialys between January 1, 2014 and June 30, 2015. 16   We estimate these 
transactions generated accounting net gains on sale of €218 million.17  We believe these 
gains have been accounted for in a manner that inflates EBITDA.  Regardless of whether 
these gains are included in EBITDA, the fact that Casino generally either leases or buys 
back these properties makes these sales de facto financing transactions.  To the extent 
Mercialys pays prices that generate gains on sales for Casino, presumably it is because 
Casino is going to effectively repay Mercialys (either through lease or purchase), making 
the entire concept of gains on sale spurious.   
 
It is our understanding that these sales are largely of stores where due to shrinkage of 
Casino’s business, there is now excess space.   Casino sells the locations to Mercialys, 
which then downsizes the Casino store footprint and reconfigures the excess space for 
lease or sale to third parties.  Casino has a repurchase or lease option for the downsized 
location. 
 
On a LTM basis, our estimate of likely EBITDA inflation from these transactions is €165 
million.  If we are largely correct about the inflation of France retail EBITDA, it means 
that the core business in France has been in a significant decline since 2013. 
 


 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
16 Groupe Casino 2014 Registration Document, p.47 and Groupe Casino Interim Financial Report, 30 June 
2015, p. 28.. 
17 See Table: Analysis of Casino-Mercialys Real Estate Transactions 
 


Page 11 of 22
To estimate these numbers, we first backed into the gains on sale in each period.  We did 
this by finding the disclosures on the “neutralisation” for the gains on sales to Mercialys.  
Because Casino owns 40.25% of Mercialys, Casino makes an accounting adjustment to 
avoid flowing 40.25% of the gain on sale to Casino’s balance sheet.  The neutralisations 
were €36 million, €94 million, and €38 million respectively in H1 2014, FY  2014, and 
H1 2015.  Dividing each neutralisation by 40.25% yields the total gain on sale.   
 
To find the amount of gain on sale that Casino booked, we subtracted the neutralisation 
from the aggregate gain on sale.  In H1 2015, Casino also reported €22 million in gains 
on sale from Mercialys selling properties to an affiliate, Hyperthetis Participations.  The 
results are as follows: 
 
Table: Analysis of Casino-Mercialys Real Estate Transactions 


 
 
We believe that substantially all of these gains are included in EBITDA.  We recently 
emailed Casino’s director of investor relations the following question: 
 


“I read the CFO's comments in the earnings transcripts and spoke [to] some of the 
equity analysts who told me that the gain on sale is included in French EBITDA, 
can you please confirm.” 
 


We received a reply that appears to confirm Casino includes such gains in EBITDA: 
 


“If you mean by “gain on sale” the gain from real estate promotion (i.e. the selling 
of walls/sites + rights to build attached and one day the option to buy back the 
walls of the shrunken stores) yes it is included in the EBIT/EBITDA” 


 
The aforementioned answer is not as clear as it could be, which is consistent with 
Casino’s muddling on this issue.  On the October 15, 2015 Casino earnings call, an 
analyst asked Mr. Giscard D’Estaing to quantify the gains on sale flowing through 
EBITDA.18  Mr. Giscard D’Estaing’s response was lengthy and failed to address the 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  


18 The question was “…I think traditionally, your French EBIT include a bit of a capital gain from 
property-related transactions.  Could you provide us with a number, how much of these capital 


Page 12 of 22
question, other than to say the company does not disclose the “exact number”, but that 
the numbers are fairly consistent from year-to-year.  There is one portion of the response 
we found interesting for its defensiveness: 
 


“…The very important message here is, there is value creation here, both for the 
owner of the stores, the parkings and I think where new activity is created, this is 
us and there is value creation as well from Mercialys.  So the message here is we 
expect these renovations to continue and we expect to generate some profits from 
these projects in the future as well.  I think in the interest of the investor 
community, we might organize, together with Régine and the team of Mercialys, 
a site visit so people realize that this is not financial engineering…”19 
 


Regardless of the denial, booking gains from sale on these transactions seems exactly like 
financial engineering.   
 
The disclosure of Casino’s treatment of the proportional gains on sales from Mercialys to 
Hyperthetis is consistent with our belief that Casino flows substantially all of its real 
estate gains through EBITDA: 
 


“Mercialys created the company Hyperthetis Participations including 6 real estate 
assets resulting from the asset transfers made by Casino to Mercialys in 2014. 
This newly created company is 51% held by Mercialys and 49% by a third party 
investor. The transaction resulted in the recognition in “other income” of an 
additional fraction of 49% of the profit from the sale which had previously been 
eliminated to the extent of 40%. On the other hand, the dilution of the Group in 
Hyperthetis Participations was recognised in share of profit of equity-accounted 
entities.”20  


 
(“Other income” flows into operating income, which is the basis for the EBITDA 
calculation.)   
 
If Casino flows much of the gains from sale through EBITDA, it would on the surface 
appear to contradict its accounting policy, which could be why IR refers to the 
transactions as “real estate promotion”, rather than “disposal”.  The policy disclosure 
reads: 
 


“An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when 
no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.  The gain or 
loss arising from the derecognition of an asset is determined as the difference 
between the net sale proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset.  It is 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
gains you expect to contribute to your French profit this year, and also maybe how this amount 
compared to last year?  And related to that, should we be expecting a lot of these transactions to 
happen also next year, and is that included in your budget?” 


 
19 15 October 2015 Casino Q3 Sales/Trading Statement Call 
20 Casino H1 2015 Results, p. 28. 


Page 13 of 22
recognised in profit or loss (“Other operating income and expense”) when the 
asset is derecognised.”21 


 
(“Other operating income” is below the operating income line, and would traditionally be 
excluded from EBITDA.)   
 
Casino’s disclosures of the components of Other Operating Income support our 
contention that substantially all of the gains on property sales to Mercialys flow into 
EBITDA.  In 2013, Casino disclosed Other Operating Income from gains on asset 
disposals:22,23 
 


 
 
In 2014, there was no disclosure about significant asset disposal gains in Other Operating 
Income, leading us to believe that substantially all of the gains were excluded from Other 
Operating Income, and therefore are included in Casino’s EBITDA.24 
 





	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
21 Casino 2014 Financial Statements, p. 72; 2013 Financial Statements, p. 31. 
22 Casino 2013 Financial Statements, p. 11. 
23 Casino slightly restated the amount of 2013 disposals upward by €3 million in 2014. 
24 Casino 2014 Registration Document, p. 20. 


Page 14 of 22
Investors should adjust Casino’s EBITDA to exclude any accounting gains from the sale 
of real estate.  Because the sale of real estate relates primarily to downsizing excess retail 
square footage, these are really gains from operational restructuring.   Further, because 
Casino essentially repays Mercialys for these purchases (either by leasing or buying the 
properties), these sales are really financing cash flows, and including them in operating 
cash flow would be highly misleading. It is unclear if bank covenants require the 
company to eliminate these gains from EBITDA calculations.  
 
Mercialys’s creation of the Hyperthetis joint venture allows Casino to book another gain 
on sale when Mercialys sells properties to the joint venture.  Casino also has a call option 
to buy back these properties at market price covering 100% of the assets of Hyperthetis 
that can be exercised from 30 September 2020 to 31 March 2022.25 This again illustrates 
it is a financing transaction for Casino, and that it is possibly dressed up as operating cash 
flow. 
 


V. S&P Methodology Understates Casino Proportional Debt 


S&P calculates Casino’s proportional lease adjusted debt as of FY 2014 to be €9.4 
billion.  We believe S&P’s methodology significantly understates the amount.  Our 
proportional lease adjusted debt calculation as of FY 2014 is €15.6 billion.  We estimate 
that the LTM lease adjusted debt has blown out to €17.7  billion.26  The table below 
compares S&P’s methodology to our own: 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
25 Groupe Casino Interim Financial Report, 30 June 2015, Section 3.2.3, p. 28. 
26 Estimate based on September 30th filings where available, June 30th where not. 


Page 15 of 22
Based on FY 2014, the items we include that S&P does not are i) the full value of the 
intermediate hybrid securities, ii) the total return swap liability, and iii) an additional €7.9 
billion of operating lease adjustments. 


• We include the full value of the intermediate hybrids because Casino must pay the 
hybrid coupons before paying dividends to Casino shareholders.  Because 
Casino’s controlling shareholder, Rallye, needs Casino’s dividends to avoid 
collapsing, Casino is de facto obligated to pay the hybrid dividends.   


• The total return swaps on notional value €735 million of CBD and BigC Thailand 
equities (as of FY 2014) are liabilities that Casino must eventually settle 
(provided the underlying positions remain negative).  Starting in 2011, Casino 
entered into a series of TRS transactions in the shares of CBD and BigC Thailand.  
Those shares have declined precipitously, and as of H1 2015, Casino had a TRS 
liability of € 371 million.27  We estimate that due to continuing declines in the 
underlying securities, as of 16 December 2015, the liability has increased to 
approximately €480 million.28  We are not sure of the rationale for the TRSes 
other than they seem to be levered punts.   


• We believe S&P has greatly understated Casino’s operating lease obligations.  
Credit convention is to multiply operating lease expense (on long-term leases) by 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
27 Groupe Casino Interim Financial Report, 30 June 2015, p. 35. 
28 Based on the estimated reference price of the underlying securities relative to the trading price. 


Page 16 of 22
eight in order to adjust for the debt they represent.  S&P discounts Casino’s 
contracted lease expenses to the present.  The problem is that Casino nominally 
has short-term leases, but Casino obviously needs to renew the leases to continue 
operating its business.  As a result, S&P assumes a small number of future lease 
payments. 
 
We believe that S&P should assume that Casino renews the leases required to 
generate the level of EBITDA necessary for the rating.  To illustrate the absurdity 
of S&P’s approach in this situation, take an example of two identical retailers – 
one with a 10-year lease and one with a 1-year lease.  Under S&P’s methodology, 
the company with the 10-year lease would be a much worse credit.  This 
obviously does not jibe with reality.  (The reality is Casino is going to renew these 
leases if it is going to stay in business.)  We wonder whether Casino structures its 
leases as short-term in order to game S&P’s debt calculation methodology.   


S&P’s BBB- rating is based in large part on the leverage ratio.  S&P uses December 31, 
2014 numbers, which in Casino’s case, are significantly better than its LTM numbers.  
Casino and its subsidiaries have evidenced significant deterioration since 2014.  Casino 
itself reports semi-annually, but its listed subsidiaries report quarterly.  We have 
estimated LTM numbers for Casino as a group by using the September 30th financials 
where available, and holding steady Casino’s balance sheet numbers from June 30th.   


 
VI. Equity Valuation 


 
 
EBITDA is the main metric driving the enterprise and equity valuations.  Casino has both 
listed public company investments and private wholly owned investments.  For the listed 
public company investments, we use Casino’s ownership interest in the common shares 
multiplied by the current public market-trading price of the stock.  We value Casino’s 
wholly owned privately held businesses using EBITDA and an E/V to EBITDA multiple.   
Casino has wholly owned businesses including the French retail entities and BigC 
Vietnam.    
 
We calculate the EBITDA for the wholly owned France Retail operation, adjust to 
remove an estimated financial engineering contribution of €165 million in 2014, apply a 
multiple that reflects the health of the business (8x), and subtract the net debt to arrive at 
an equity value of €5.7 billion.  For the wholly owned Vietnam retail operation, we apply 
a multiple that reflects the health of the business (10x), and subtract the net debt to arrive 
at an equity value of €468 million.  We then take the sum total of all of the equity values 
for the wholly owned and partially owned businesses (€4.5 billion), and add non core 
assets (€1 billion) to arrive at a value that is distributable or applied to cover the parent 
debt and financial obligations.  The residual value that is left is the Casino equity value: 
€6.91 per share.  


Page 17 of 22
Our base case sum-of-the-parts valuation is € 782 million (€6.91 per share).  The following table shows our methodology and 
calculations. 
 


Page 18 of 22
Appendix 1: Rallye and Groupe Casino Corporate Structure 


Page 19 of 22
Page 20 of 22
Page 21 of 22
Page 22 of 22
