5/20/2018 AmTrust Financial's Statutory Financials Indicate Reported GAAP Profits Might Be Overstated - AmTrust Financial Services, Inc. (NASD…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2050093-amtrust-financials-statutory-financials-indicate-reported-gaap-profits-might-be-overstated 1/10


AmTrust Financial's Statutory Financials Indicate Reported GAAP
Profits Might Be Overstated
Feb. 26, 2014 10:37 AM ET29 comments
by: Gotham Investing


The statutory filings of AmTrust Financial Services, Inc. (Ticker: AFSI) indicate the
Company's underwriting results are much worse than they report to investors. In fact, it
appears AFSI is losing money in their insurance operations instead of generating the
profits they claim.


Investors, regulators, and rating agencies should take note. If or when they do, the stock
could fall significantly.


AFSI US Statutory Filing Financials (Net):


Statutory filings for US groups (in AFSI's case Technology Insurance Company &
Affiliates) show the financial results of various entities net of reinsurance, even if the
reinsurer is owned by the same holding company as is the case for AmTrust International
Insurance (AFSI's Bermuda Captive Reinsurer). Based on these results, it would appear
that AFSI's US operations are stable and profitable. However, this doesn't tell the full story.


Below are the results of TIC & Affiliates for 2010-2012 net of all reinsurance (including
from other AFSI subs):


Source: TIC & Affiliates Statutory Filings


I pulled the data from statutory filings and show screenshots of the source below:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AFSI

https://eapps.naic.org/insData/
5/20/2018 AmTrust Financial's Statutory Financials Indicate Reported GAAP Profits Might Be Overstated - AmTrust Financial Services, Inc. (NASD…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2050093-amtrust-financials-statutory-financials-indicate-reported-gaap-profits-might-be-overstated 2/10


Source: TIC & Affiliates Statutory Filings


AFSI US Statutory Filing Financials, Adjusted to Eliminate Reinsurance from other AFSI
subs


Since the financials shown above include the benefit of reinsurance, one would need to
adjust those to eliminate the benefit of reinsurance from other AFSI subs (but not from
third parties) to see what the US operations contributed to profits across all AFSI entities
(net of third party reinsurance).


Fortunately, the Schedule Y allows us to do this. As AFSI's CEO, Barry Zyskind said on
the most recent conference call:



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2020141-amtrust-financial-services-ceo-discusses-q4-2013-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
5/20/2018 AmTrust Financial's Statutory Financials Indicate Reported GAAP Profits Might Be Overstated - AmTrust Financial Services, Inc. (NASD…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2050093-amtrust-financials-statutory-financials-indicate-reported-gaap-profits-might-be-overstated 3/10


I want to address the references to Schedule Y to the annual statements filed by our
US insurers. Schedule Y is intended to show the net income effect of reinsurance
agreements with affiliated insurers within a holding company group. Schedule Y
shows correctly the aggregate net income effect to our Luxembourg companies
resulting from their assumption of intra-company financial losses from AmTrust
International. It corresponds to the reduction of their equalization reserves. Schedule
Y also shows the net effect to AmTrust International of all intra-company
reinsurance, including a cession of a net loss to the Luxembourg companies.


In other words, Schedule Y (column 9 below) shows the subsidy received (provided) by
other insurance companies owned by the holding company.


Adjusting for the subsidies AFSI's US insurance entities are receiving from offshore AFSI
subsidiaries (to see the total profit/loss to AFSI from US operations regardless of where it
ends up, onshore or offshore), the results look rather different and show significant losses
in 2011 and 2012:


Source: TIC & Affiliates Statutory Filings


This is in stark contrast to the results AFSI reports to investors (SEC filings show $110mm
- $150mm of underwriting profits for 2010-2012). Since 70% of AFSI's premiums earned
are in the US (Source: 10-K) and there are only minor accounting differences in GAAP
and SAP accounting (the main one being the timing of acquisition cost recognition).


Further, insurance regulators and rating agencies use this data to determine the strength
and quality of AFSI's insurance operations. By reporting steady profits on a net basis,
AFSI gets credit from AM Best and regulators for its ability to generate earnings to
replenish capital. If the intra-company agreements that turn losses into reported profits are
not well disclosed in the "interrogatories," regulators might take a different view of AFSI.


I intend to write a follow-up article on AFSI's reinsurance interrogatories and how they
conflict with management statements elsewhere, which will further highlight the problems
with AFSI's disclosures.
5/20/2018 AmTrust Financial's Statutory Financials Indicate Reported GAAP Profits Might Be Overstated - AmTrust Financial Services, Inc. (NASD…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2050093-amtrust-financials-statutory-financials-indicate-reported-gaap-profits-might-be-overstated 4/10


Schedule Y screenshots below. US entities that are part of the TIC & Affiliates reporting
group are outlined in red.
5/20/2018 AmTrust Financial's Statutory Financials Indicate Reported GAAP Profits Might Be Overstated - AmTrust Financial Services, Inc. (NASD…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2050093-amtrust-financials-statutory-financials-indicate-reported-gaap-profits-might-be-overstated 5/10


