Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 


	
Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as follows. To be authorized to 
access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of whether you have downloaded its reports directly from 
the Muddy Waters Research website or someone else has supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy 
Waters Capital. 


 
By downloading from, or viewing material on the Muddy Waters Research website, you agree to the following Terms of Service. 
You agree that use of Muddy Waters Capital LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters Capital 
LLC, Muddy Waters, LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information on this 
site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities 
covered herein. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and 
opinion contained herein. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this transcript to any other person unless 
that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive this transcript as an agent for any 
other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters Capital LLC (possibly along 
with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors 
and/or their clients and/or investors, has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related 
to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either 
declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period of time, 
and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time regardless of our initial position and views as stated in our research. 
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to 
or from any person through this report or reports on the website. Muddy Waters Capital LLC is registered as an investment advisor 
only in the United States, but it does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship 
evidenced in writing. 
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 
"FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO.  
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences 
and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained 
herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not 
insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to 
the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy 
Waters Capital LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of 
analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC does not 
undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) 
in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained 
Muddy Waters Capital research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without 
going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your viewing and use of any 
reports or other materials on the Muddy Waters Research website shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without 
regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive 
jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable 
law, given that Muddy Waters Capital LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters Capital LLC to exercise or 
enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of 
these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court 
should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms 
of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless 
of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material 
herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. 


Page 1 of 34
Report Date: August 25, 2016 
 
Company:  
St. Jude Medical, Inc. 
 
Ticker:  
STJ US 
 
Industry: Medical Devices 
 


Stock Price: $ 81.88  
 
Market Cap: $23.3 billion 
 
Float: 97.5% 
 
Average Volume: 1.9 million shares 
 


 
This version has been updated state that Dr. Nayak speaks for himself, and not his employer.   
 
Summary 
 
Muddy Waters Capital is short St. Jude Medical, Inc. (STJ US).1  There is a strong possibility 
that close to half of STJ’s revenue is about to disappear for approximately two years.  STJ’s 
pacemakers, ICDs, and CRTs might – and in our view, should – be recalled and remediated.  
(These devices collectively were 46% of STJ’s 2015 revenue.)  Based on conversations with 
industry experts, we estimate remediation would take at least two years.  Even lacking a recall, 
the product safety issues we present in this report offer unnecessary health risks and should 
receive serious notice among hospitals, physicians and cardiac patients.   
 
We have seen demonstrations of two types of cyber attacks against STJ implantable cardiac 
devices (“Cardiac Devices”): a “crash” attack that causes Cardiac Devices to malfunction – 
including by apparently pacing at a potentially dangerous rate; and, a battery drain attack that 
could be particularly harmful to device dependent users.2  Despite having no background in 
cybersecurity, Muddy Waters has been able to replicate in-house key exploits that help to enable 
these attacks.   
 
We find STJ Cardiac Devices’ vulnerabilities orders of magnitude more worrying than the 
medical device hacks that have been publicly discussed in the past.  These attacks take less skill, 
can be directed randomly at any STJ Cardiac Device within a roughly 50 foot radius, 
theoretically can be executed on a very large scale, and most gallingly, are made possible by the 
hundreds of thousands of substandard home monitoring devices STJ has distributed.3  The STJ 
ecosystem, which consists of Cardiac Devices, STJ’s network, physician office programmers, 
and home monitoring devices, has significant vulnerabilities.  These vulnerabilities highly likely 
could be exploited for numerous other types of attacks.   
 
Key vulnerabilities can apparently be exploited by low level hackers.  Incredibly, STJ has 
literally distributed hundreds of thousands of “keys to the castle” in the form of home monitoring 
units (called “Merlin@home”) that in our opinion, greatly open up the STJ ecosystem to attacks.  
These units are readily available on Ebay, usually for no more than $35.  Merlin@homes 
generally lack even the most basic forms of security, and as this report shows, can be exploited 


                                                             
1 The short positions are held by funds Muddy Waters Capital LLC manages. 
2 See Demonstrated Attacks – Likely Just Two of Many Possibilities infra. 
3 It would have been illegal to attempt to validate the large scale attack theories. 


Page 2 of 34
to cause implanted devices to malfunction and harm users.  We believe that courts will hold 
STJ’s lack of security in its Cardiac Device ecosystem is grossly negligent, unless STJ settles the 
litigation we see as inevitable. 
 
The vulnerabilities result from an apparent lack of device security; and, the communication 
protocols for the Cardiac Device ecosystem – which we believe lacks basic protections such as 
encryption and authentication – are in fact compromised.  As a result, an attacker can 
impersonate a Merlin@Home unit, and communicate with the Cardiac Devices – and likely even 
STJ’s internal network.  While STJ might be able to patch one particular type of attack, the mass 
distribution of access points to the inner workings of the ecosystem via the home monitoring 
devices requires in our opinion, a lengthy system rework.   
 
Dr. Hemal Nayak, a cardio electrophysiologist at the University of Chicago, is recommending 
his patients unplug their Merlin@home units; and, he is not going to implant STJ devices until 
the problems discussed in this report are remediated.  (His statement is in the Appendix.)  Dr. 
Nayak is the medical advisor to MedSec Holdings Ltd. (“MedSec”), which is the cybersecurity 
research firm that identified the vulnerabilities in STJ’s ecosystem.4  (Dr. Nayak is also a 
member of its board.)   
 
Background 
 
MedSec is a cybersecurity research firm focused on the healthcare industry.  It contacted Muddy 
Waters after largely completing an assessment of major manufacturers’ pacemakers and 
implantable cardioverter defibrillators (“ICDs”).5  
 
The lack of security in the STJ pacemaker and ICD infrastructure stunned MedSec.  STJ’s 
apparent lack of device security is egregious, and in our view, likely a product of years of 
neglect.  Moreover, STJ’s devices were even the subject of a U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security investigation into cybersecurity flaws in 2014, yet these gaping holes seem to persist.6  
As a result, neither MedSec nor Muddy Waters was confident that STJ would put patients before 
profits if it were approached behind closed doors.  Muddy Waters and MedSec agreed that users’ 
interests are best served by being made aware of these serious issues.  While standard practice in 
the cybersecurity industry is to notify companies of vulnerabilities before discussing them 
publicly,  MedSec licensed its research to Muddy Waters so that we could bring these issues to 
light (without revealing detailed vulnerability information). Muddy Waters has engaged MedSec 
as consultants in addition to licensing its research on STJ.  MedSec is receiving compensation 
related to investment profits from the funds Muddy Waters manages.    
 
MedSec has given Muddy Waters multiple demonstrations evidencing how hollow STJ’s device 
security is.  To illustrate the severity of these vulnerabilities, MedSec demonstrated two types of 


                                                             
4 Dr. Nayak had been granted an immaterial equity interest in MedSec prior to MedSec reaching its conclusions 
regarding STJ. 
5 MedSec believes this study is the first of its kind.  It expects to publicly release the study in September 2016. 
6 http://www.reuters.com/article/us-cybersecurity-medicaldevices-insight-idUSKCN0IB0DQ20141022 


Page 3 of 34
attacks that could do severe harm to devices and users, and theoretically could be deployed on a 
large scale.7   
 
In addition to making an investment case, the purpose of this report is to inform device users and 
their physicians of these risks.  MedSec and we believe that users have a right to know that there 
are serious security problems with their implanted Cardiac Devices, and the related devices.  
However, we are withholding and redacting technical information that could give potential 
attackers a roadmap.   
 
We are unaware of any imminent threat to patient safety.  However, we believe it is prudent from 
a security standpoint for STJ to immediately disable the RF capability of patients’ implanted 
devices.  Regardless, Cardiac Device users should speak with their physicians about the risks.  
Muddy Waters is providing the United States Food and Drug Administration and Department of 
Homeland Security with a version of this report, and expects to facilitate dialogue between the 
agencies and MedSec. 
 
As we detail in this report, Muddy Waters believes there is a strong possibility that STJ will need 
to recall its pacemakers, ICDs, and CRTs while it hardens security of the device ecosystem.  This 
recall would likely entail a moratorium on sales of these devices, and we estimate this 
moratorium would be effective for a remediation period of at least two years.   
 
The devices MedSec studied, and that formed the basis for these conclusions included 
pacemakers and ICDs; but, did not include CRTs.  Because the CRTs are compatible with the 
compromised Merlin@home devices, this report assumes that they have similar vulnerabilities, 
and should also be recalled and remediated.  (Were the CRTs not to have the expected or similar 
vulnerabilities, then the products would not need to be recalled.) 
 
The Merlin@home devices were obtained second hand – often from online vendors.  The 
programmers were obtained via a third party partnership with a licensed physician.  The 
observations regarding device security in this report are derived from the substantial majority of 
devices studied, and it is possible that newer versions of these devices have some security 
enhancements that could eliminate some seemingly minor vulnerabilities in those particular 
devices.   
 
However, even if new generations of devices have some enhancements, we still view the entire 
ecosystem as greatly compromised.  There are likely hundreds of thousands of Merlin@home 
devices with easily exploitable vulnerabilities in the world, and vulnerable devices are easily 
purchased online for no more than $35.  This train has already left the station. 
 
STJ’s Compromised Cardiac Device Ecosystem 
 
For our purposes, the Cardiac Device ecosystem consists of four components: the implantable 
device, the Merlin programmer, the STJ network, and the Merlin@home.8 
 
                                                             
7 It would have been illegal to try to validate the ability to commit large scale attacks. 
8 The device pictures supra are representative, and are not pictures of the actual devices studied. 


Page 4 of 34
Implantable Device 
 





The Cardiac Devices are implanted in patients typically to treat 
tachycardia and bradycardia.  They are radio frequency (“RF”) 
enabled, so that they can communicate with the Merlin@Home 
devices and programmers.   
 
Cardiac Devices accounted for 46% of STJ’s 2015 revenue: 
 


ICDs and CRTs    $1,582 million      29% 
Pacemakers            $941 million       17% 
 


Programmer 
 





Physician office programmers (called “Patient Care Systems”) 
are roughly the size of a typewriter.  They are critically 
important devices in the STJ Cardiac Device ecosystem.  The 
programmer, typically used by a physician or medical 
professional, is designed to interrogate, program, display data 
and test STJ implantable devices.  Every feature that can be 
changed in the implantable can be done by the programmer, as 
there is no other device with a higher level of sophistication.  
For an RF capable implantable device, a wand is used to unlock 
the device, and then the transmission of data occurs over RF. 
The programmers studied lack encryption and also present a 
substantial vulnerability.   


Merlin.net Network 
 





The STJ network enables the transfer of data between the 
implanted devices, programmers, Merlin@home, and 
physicians. Information transmitted includes patient data, remote 
performance diagnostics, and updates related to the device. 


Merlin@Home 
 





The Merlin@Home device, which is about the size of a 
hardcover book, communicates with Cardiac Devices over RF.  
Its purpose is to receive device and patient health data from the 
Cardiac Devices, and then transmit it to STJ’s Merlin.net 
network.  There are literally hundreds of thousands of @home 
devices in the wild, and used devices with easily exploitable 
vulnerabilities are readily available on Ebay.  The devices 
contain critical information and code without encryption, and are 
effectively “keys to the castle” that open the door to attackers.   


 
Any programmer or Merlin@home device can generally communicate with any Cardiac Device 
because there is no strong authentication built into the protocol.  Attackers who can reverse 
engineer the communication protocol can access and impersonate parts of the ecosystem, 
including the Cardiac Devices.   
 


Page 5 of 34
Usually, devices part of an ecosystem such as this one would have defenses including strong 
authentication, encrypted software and code, anti-debugging tools, and anti-tampering 
mechanisms.  A manufacturer might also might require wand activation before allowing RF 
communication (meaning the home device would have to be within inches of the Cardiac 
Device).  STJ’s major competitors have used the aforementioned techniques (among others) to 
protect their protocols.  The Merlin@homes studied generally had none of these defenses.  
 
In Security Well Below Industry Standards infra, we present a table comparing STJ’s lack of 
security to the major competitors studied.   
 
Hundreds of Thousands of Keys to the Castle 
 
Perhaps most shocking about STJ’s lack of security is that it has distributed hundreds of 
thousands of devices that are apparently so easily analyzed for vulnerabilities.  There are 
numerous Merlin@home units for sale on Ebay – usually for no more than $35.  The below 
screenshot shows the ready availability of the Merlin@home devices on Ebay.9 
 


                                                             
9 The search was run on August 3, 2016. 


Page 6 of 34
When a patient receives a Cardiac Device implant, it is usually bundled with a Merlin@Home 
monitor. Previous generations of these devices were shown to be vulnerable to hacking within 
very close proximity.10  However, these devices had wands that needed to be within inches of the 
Cardiac Device in order to communicate.  Merlin@home devices and implants now have 
additional RF capabilities, with a communications range of approximately 50 feet.  They now 
pose a far more significant risk to user safety than before.  The Merlin@home devices MedSec 
tested generally only required approximately 10 minutes to get access to the root directory.  
                                                             
10 http://www.secure-medicine.org/public/publications/icd-study.pdf 


Page 7 of 34
“Getting root” on the Merlin@home devices exposes sensitive STJ network credentials.  We 
believe the ease of getting root shows how poor the device security is.  MedSec identified three 
methods to get root on the @home devices. 
 
There are numerous ways in which the Merlin@home devices violate security standards (and 
defy logic): 
 


• No apparent tamper-proofing or hardware identity protection.  Chip models are clearly 
displayed, aiding the research process for an attacker. 
 


• Unprotected software.  While patient data is encrypted, the Merlin@home device has 
entirely unencrypted software. Competing systems use some form of encryption to 
protect the proprietary applications.  Extracting software from the @Home device can be 
done by identifying the chip, and reading the data off it.  The Merlin@home’s Samsung 
flash memory has been publicly documented to be vulnerable.11 
 


• Lack of a layered defense.  In MedSec’s opinion, the use of off-the-shelf components and 
the lack of anti-debugging mechanisms made the Merlin@home device significantly 
easier to reverse engineer and locate numerous vulnerabilities.  The manufacturer left 
many developmental items on the devices that should not be present, such scripts that 
allow debugging and development mode to be turned on.  All of the competitors 
incorporated additional security measures.  Some manufacturers required short range 
authentication (via a wand).   
 


• Easy availability of device firmware.  MedSec was also able to obtain the @home 
device’s firmware in three ways: 
o Decapitating the Samsung memory chip, 
o Getting root on the @home device and simply copying the files to the USB port,  
o [Redacted.] 


 
MedSec believes a software update was likely pushed to some of the Merlin@home devices that 
made them appear more secure; however, in MedSec’s opinion, this update represented a very 
slight change in security.  This might have been STJ’s response to the 2014 issues.  
Merlin@home units manufactured in 2016 appear to have the same type of vulnerabilities.12 
 
Getting Root Opens the Door 
 
The first shocking thing one encounters when getting root on the Merlin@home device is 
unencrypted security information that takes no additional effort to access.  This information 
includes: 
 


                                                             
11 See https://www.blackhat.com/docs/us-14/materials/us-14-Oh-Reverse-Engineering-Flash-Memory-For-Fun-And-
Benefit-WP.pdf 
12 Devices manufactured in 2016 are difficult to obtain on the secondary market.  MedSec was able to obtain one 
such device, and was able to get root using a previously identified exploit. 


Page 8 of 34
• The toll-free access number for the Merlin network.  (The @home devices connect to the 
Merlin network either through a phone line connection or a 3G token.) 


• The User ID and Password for the Merlin network.  These credentials are static – i.e., 
they are used to authenticate all @home devices on which MedSec got root.   


• STJ server IP addresses (in older device versions),   
• SSH keys (in older device version).  SSH keys are the “private” keys in a “public / 


private” key pair system.  (See: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/SSH_keys)  MedSec 
is prohibited by law from testing whether these SSH keys are still in use by STJ’s 
network.  Even if the SSH keys have been changed, their unencrypted existence on older 
@home devices is shocking.  If the keys are still in use, they could assist an attacker with 
a network-based attack. 


 
The network credentials present on the @home device likely could be exploited to obtain 
confidential (and legally protected) patient data from the Merlin network.  Also due to legal 
prohibitions, MedSec was unable to confirm this theory. 
 
Below are screenshots evidencing Muddy Waters got root on Merlin@home devices (using 
exploits developed by MedSec): 





 
 
 
 Security Well Below Industry Standards (the Case for Gross Negligence) 
 
We have little doubt that STJ is about to enter a period of protracted litigation over these 
products.  Should these trials reach verdicts, we expect the courts will hold that STJ has been 


Page 9 of 34
grossly negligent in its product design.  (We estimate awards if litigated to a verdict could total 
$6.4 billion.13)   
 
One of the purposes of this report is unapologetically to single out STJ for what we see as its 
incompetence in, or indifference to, device security.  In contrast, some competitors’ devices had 
some surprisingly advanced device security features on home monitoring units.  One competitor 
went as far as developing a highly proprietary embedded OS, which is quite costly and rarely 
seen.  Healthcare cyber security is a nascent field, and one in which manufacturers and providers 
are challenged to catch up.  However, STJ’s lack of security is stunning in comparison to that of 
its three major competitors.   
 
Medtronic (MDT US), the largest player in the space, took a much different approach to patient 
remote monitoring using the MyCareLink Patient monitor device pictured below: 








MDT’s MyCareLink monitor has a wand that has to be detached and put within inches of the 
implantable to communicate – similar to earlier versions of STJ’s home monitoring devices.  As 
a result, even if all of the MyCareLink monitors were compromised, an attacker would only be 
able to modify the device to perform in person attacks over a distance of a few inches. 
 
The STJ communication protocol does not include the use of any unique or one-time tokens, 
such as a user-provided password. Instead, devices exchange an IMD (a unique identifier) to 
create sessions.  As a result, any programmer or Merlin @ Home device can communicate with 
any Cardiac Device, and once the communication protocol is understood, generally any device 
can be impersonated. 
 
MedSec and Muddy Waters believe it is prudent from a security standpoint for STJ to disable the 
RF capability of patients’ implanted devices.  
 
The following table compares the security on STJ’s Merlin@home to the devices manufactured 
by the three major competitors MedSec studied.  


                                                             
13 Assumes damages of $15,000 per each of 260,000 Merlin@home device users, plus damages of $5,000 per each 
of an estimated 490,000 U.S. Cardiac Device users who do not use Merlin@home. 


Page 10 of 34
Page 11 of 34
The Merlin@home circuit board shows some of the device’s substandard security.  STJ’s RF 
chip is clearly an off the shelf un-customized Zarlink chip.  (There is a readily available 
datasheet that contains important information about the packet structure the Zarlink chip uses.)  
In contrast, the other manufacturers have proprietary RF chips developed specifically for their 
protocols.14  STJ also uses a Samsung memory chipset for which there is a public presentation 
about how to extract the contents. Further, none of the major chips appear to be proprietary.  The 
competitors’ devices contained numerous customized chips (with no publicly available data 
sheets). 
 
 





 
Whether SJM’s conduct constitutes simple negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness we 
leave to the courts, based on a full discovery record.  What we can say is that it constitutes an 
extreme departure from industry standards, as evidenced by the security efforts its competitors 
have made, and further shows a remarkable indifference to protecting its customers from 
cybersecurity threats.  Regardless, we have little doubt that STJ is about to enter a period of 
protracted litigation over these products.  Should these trials reach verdicts, we expect the courts 
will hold that STJ has been grossly negligent in its product design.  (We estimate awards could 
total $6.4 billion.15)   
 
Merlin Programmers are also Non-Secure 
 
Perhaps more worryingly, the physician office programmers are not well secured either. 
Shockingly, the STJ programmer has an easily accessible removable SATA/IDE harddrive. The 
hard drive is unencrypted and applications can be easily read from, modified, and rewritten to the 


                                                             
14 The competitors’ RF chips could be custom modified chips produced by a major manufacturer such as Zarlink. 
15 Assumes damages of $15,000 per each of 260,000 Merlin@home device users, plus damages of $5,000 per each 
of a conservatively estimated 490,000 U.S. Cardiac Device users who do not use Merlin@home. 


Samsung K9F1208 Family 
Memory Chipset  


Zarlink Chip 


Page 12 of 34
hard drive using a SATA/IDE to USB adapter cable. This makes the vulnerability discovery 
process for an attacker significantly easier.  If the applications are reverse engineered it could 
potentially allow an attacker emulate the full functionality of the programmer using custom 
hardware in a much more compact form – e.g., a pocket size device.  
 
These devices are readily available online for a few thousand dollars – including occasionally on 
Ebay.  A Merlin programmer available on Ebay on August 10, 2016: 
 





Page 13 of 34
Incompetence or Indifference? 
 
We believe the foregoing issues evidence a company that either does not know how to do device 
security, or does not care about it.  Ironically, STJ touts its claimed strength in network 
security.16  It strikes us as bizarre that STJ seems so focused on its internal corporate network, 
which is arguably its last line of defense (and does nothing to protect against local attacks), while 
distributing hundreds of thousands of non-secure Merlin@home devices into the homes of its 
customers. 
 
Although MedSec has spent considerable time researching STJ’s devices (and those of its major 
competitors), it expects that there are numerous additional security issues with its Cardiac Device 
ecosystem.  MedSec extrapolates this based on the obvious lack of attention to security evident 
in the devices it has researched.  This seeming shoddiness is more likely than not a systemic 
problem at STJ, rather than an isolated one.  
 
MedSec was able to review only a small portion of the massive code base, yet it found 
vulnerabilities on a regular basis.  STJ should and could identify and fix these as subset of the 
MedSec identified vulnerabilities, and new vulnerabilities will likely continue to exist, unless 
                                                             
16 STJ seems quite proud of its “CTAC” – “Cyber Threat Action Center”.  “CTAC’s mission is to identify, protect 
against, respond to, and enhance resiliency against cyber security threats. Learn how St. Jude Medical fulfills this 
mission by using threat intelligence to monitor for emerging threats against the healthcare industry and make 
informed verdicts on events in its SIEM.” https://www.recordedfuture.com/st-jude-medical-webinar-announcement/ 
 


Page 14 of 34
STJ reworks large portion of the code of the Merlin@home, Programmer, and implantable 
Cardiac Devices.  The company should include anti-fuzzing, anti-debugging methods, buffer 
overflow protection, integer overflow protection, and string format protection. 
 
Demonstrated Attacks – Likely Just Two of Many Possibilities 
 
In the U.S. alone, STJ has over 260,000 active Merlin@home devices in the homes of users of 
Cardiac Devices.17  (The worldwide number is likely hundreds of thousands of units higher.)  
Many Merlin@home users keep the devices in their bedrooms, connected to STJ’s network 
while they sleep. 
 
With relatively little effort, MedSec exploited tools on the @home devices to code the attacks.  
Then, using compromised @home devices or software defined radios (“SDR”), MedSec 
demonstrated two types of potentially catastrophic attacks:18  
 


• “crash” attacks that remotely disable cardiac devices, and in some cases, appear to cause 
the Cardiac Device to pace at a dangerous rate, and 
 


• a battery drain attack that remotely runs Cardiac Device batteries down. 
 
These attacks were all demonstrated locally – within 50 feet, which is the approximate broadcast 
radius of a Merlin@home unit.  (More powerful antennae can theoretically increase the range.)  
MedSec outlined an exact method that could be used to launch similar attacks on a large scale 
basis – either through established techniques for [redacted], or possibly through STJ’s network 
itself.  It would have been illegal for MedSec to test the proof of concept. 
 
It is important to note that MedSec demonstrated these attacks on pacemakers and ICDs.  CRTs, 
which were 16% of 2015 revenue, were unavailable for the demonstrations.  Because these 
attacks exploit the communication protocol between the Merlin@home devices and the Cardiac 
Devices, MedSec is confident that CRTs are similarly vulnerable. 
 


a. “Crash Attacks” 
 
The Crash Attacks involve broadcasting a combination of signals that places Cardiac Devices 
into a state of malfunction.  Many of the Cardiac Devices tested are vulnerable to attacks 
broadcast through a single Merlin@home device that is either compromised, or via a software 
defined radio (“SDR”) using a broadcast antenna.  The Crash Attacks generally took less than 
one hour to take effect. 
                                                             
17 As of May 2014 – see http://investors.sjm.com/investors/financial-news/news-release-details/2014/Pacemaker-
and-Defibrillator-Patients-Adhering-to-Remote-Monitoring-with-St-Jude-Medicals-Merlin-Technology-Saw-More-
than-Double-Survival-Rate/default.aspx 
18 “Software-defined radio (SDR) is a radio communication system where components that have been typically 
implemented in hardware (e.g. mixers, filters, amplifiers, modulators/demodulators, detectors, etc.) are instead 
implemented by means of software on a personal computer or embedded system.” - 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software-defined_radio (citing: Software Defined Radio: Architectures, Systems and 
Functions (Markus Dillinger, Kambiz Madani, Nancy Alonistioti) Page xxxiii (Wiley & Sons, 2003, ISBN 0-470-
85164-3)) 


Page 15 of 34
In many cases, the Crash Attack made the Cardiac Device completely unresponsive to 
interrogations from Merlin@home devices and Merlin programmers.  It was therefore impossible 
to tell whether, and how the Cardiac Devices, are functioning.  MedSec strongly suspects they 
were in many cases “bricked” – i.e., made to be non-functional.  It is likely physicians would 
explant a device that did not respond to the programmer.  
 
In some cases, a Cardiac Device subjected to a Crash Attack was still able to communicate with 
the programmer, and the information displayed was alarming.  In a Crash Attack demonstration 
we witnessed on an ICD, the Crash Attack appears to have caused the device to pace at a rapid 
rate that could have adverse health consequences if it performed this way in a user.19  Below is a 
screenshot from the programmer showing the apparent malfunction.  The red error messages 
above the lowest line are also indicators that the device is malfunctioning.   


                                                             
19 Interpretation of pacing data by MedSec medical advisor and board member, Dr. Hemal Nayak.  See The 
Appendix.   


Page 16 of 34
b. Battery Drain Attack 
 
MedSec has demonstrated a Battery Drain attack that generates signals from the Merlin@home 
device to run down batteries in Cardiac Devices at a greatly accelerated rate.  The attack version 
MedSec tested depleted the batteries at approximately three percent of capacity per 24-hour 
period.20  MedSec has since optimized the code.  Many Merlin@home users have their devices in 
                                                             
20 The exact depletion rate depends on the type and version of device. 


Page 17 of 34
their bedrooms, making it possible to run down batteries while users are sleeping.21  While 
untested, MedSec believes the new code would drain devices at six times the rate – or in 
approximately two weeks of nightly broadcasts.  While the Battery Drain attack appears 
inefficient for a local attack, it could have severe consequences if deployed on a large scale.22  A 
minority of Cardiac Device users are device dependent, and they are the group to whom the 
Battery Drain attack poses the most significant risk.23  
 
A large scale attack is theoretically possible either through [redacted] and possibly through STJ’s 
own Merlin network.  An attack through the Merlin network could be possible because of the 
compromised login credentials for the network, giving rise to the possibility that the network 
would be unable to distinguish a genuine Merlin@home device from an attacker.  Even if the 
particular vulnerabilities discussed in this report are fixed, the Cardiac Devices are likely 
susceptible to other attacks without a new communication protocol in place.  Based on our 
conversations with industry experts, we estimate it would take at least two years to deploy a new 
protocol on the current generation of devices. 
 
We are unaware of any imminent threat to patient safety.  However, we believe it is prudent from 
a security standpoint for STJ to immediately disable the RF capability of patients’ implanted 
devices.  MedSec’s medical advisor, Dr. Hemal Nayak, who is a cardiac electrophysiologist, has 
advised his patients to disconnect their Merlin@home units.  He is no longer implanting STJ 
devices until the problem is remediated.  (Dr. Nayak’s statement to physicians and patients is in 
the Appendix.)   
 
Analysis of Recall Likelihood & FDA Medical Device Cybersecurity Regulatory 
Framework 
 
We believe in-home communication compatible Cardiac Devices should be recalled, either 
voluntarily by STJ or mandatorily by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”).  This 
recall would likely take the form of a moratorium on selling new devices until STJ completes 
development of a new RF communication protocol.  Based on our conversations with industry 
experts, we estimate a two-year timeline to develop and deploy the protocol.   
 
FDA Statutory and Regulatory Basis for Device Recalls 
 
Manufacturers independently initiate the overwhelming majority of medical device recalls.24  
These are labeled “voluntary” recalls conducted pursuant to 21 CFR Part 7. However, the FDA’s 
authority pursuant to Section 518(e) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”)25 


                                                             
21 Per Dr. Hemal Nayak, MedSec medical advisor and board member. 
22 Note that Cardiac Devices generally have an audible low battery indicator.  A concern is that physicians and 
patients would assume a normal delay between onset of the indicator and depletion. 
23 http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/712198_2 
24 In 2014, FDA released its “Medical Device Recall Report – FY 2003 to FY 2012” available at 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/AboutFDA/CentersOffices/OfficeofMedicalProductsandTobacco/CDRH/CDRHTra
nsparency/UCM388442.pdf  (last accessed Aug. 22, 2016). That Report states “[i]n rare cases, such as when a 
device firm in uncooperative, FDA may perform a mandatory recall. However, all medical device recalls during this 
report period were performed on a voluntary basis by the firms.”  
25 21 USC § 360h(e). 


Page 18 of 34
and its related regulations found in 21 CFR Part 810 to mandate medical device recalls likely 
explains the high rate of “voluntary” recalls.26  Should STJ not voluntarily recall these Devices 
once informed of the high probability that the device would cause serious, adverse health 
consequences or death, the FDA has ample regulatory basis to order a recall.  There are three 
major competing device manufacturers.  While not ostensibly part of the FDA’s analysis, it is 
notable that recalling STJ’s Devices would not deprive patients of an essential device. 
 
FDA Draft Guidance Document on Postmarket Device Cybersecurity 
 
The FDA issued a draft guidance document entitled  “Postmarket Management of Cybersecurity 
in Medical Devices” (the “Draft Guidance”) on January 22, 2016. The Draft Guidance details 
FDA’s current thinking on “managing postmarket cybersecurity vulnerabilities for marketed 
medical devices.” Specifically, the Draft Guidance provides requirements for circumstances in 
which cybersecurity vulnerabilities must be reported to FDA and may require additional actions, 
including recall.27,28   
 
The Draft Guidance focuses on “assessing the risk to the device’s essential clinical 
performance”.29  Essential clinical performance is the “performance necessary to achieve 
freedom from unacceptable risk”.30  Manufacturers define the essential clinical performance 
standards.31  Our analysis assumes that STJ’s definition of essential clinical performance for the 
Devices includes (whether explicitly or implicitly) the ability to communicate with physician 
programmers, avoid rapid battery depletion, and maintain safe pacing.  Further, we emphasize 
throughout this report our view that other researchers are likely to develop additional attacks that 
could compromise the essential clinical performance of the Devices.  The Draft Guidance 
acknowledges that “a cybersecurity vulnerability might impact all of the medical devices in a 
manufacturer’s portfolio based on how their products are developed…”32 
 
The Draft Guidance provides that manufacturers assess the risk a vulnerability presents to 
essential clinical performance by considering: a) the “exploitability” of the vulnerability, and b) 
the severity of the impact to patients’ health if it were exploited.33  If a risk is “uncontrolled”, 


                                                             
26  “The vast majority of all recalls are voluntary… Recalls are almost always voluntary, meaning initiated by a firm. 
A recall is deemed voluntary when the firm voluntarily removes or corrects marketed products or the FDA requests 
the marketed products be removed or corrected.” FDA’s openFDA, available at 
https://open.fda.gov/device/enforcement/ (last accessed Aug. 22, 2016). 
27 FDA’s Draft Guidance Document, “Postmarket Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices – Draft 
Guidance for Industyr and Food and Drug Administration Staff,” available at 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/medicaldevices/deviceregulationandguidance/guidancedocuments/ucm482022.pdf 
(dated Jan. 22, 2016, last accessed Aug. 22, 2016).  
28 The draft guidance is not a final agency action and is subject to modification prior to adoption. As for all FDA 
guidance documents, the “draft guidance, when finalized, will represent the current thinking of the [FDA] on this 
topic. It does not establish any rights for any person and is not binding on the FDA or the public.” topic. 
29 Draft Guidance, part VI. 
30 Draft Guidance, part IV.E. 
31 Id. 
32 Draft Guidance, part V.B. 
33 Draft Guidance, part VI. 


Page 19 of 34
then manufacturers should remediate it.34  Based on our conversations with industry experts, we 
estimate this remediation would take at least two years.   
 
In terms of understanding the probability of an attack taking place, University of Michigan 
medical device cybersecurity research Kevin Fu pointed out that the malicious third party 
controls the probability distribution of an attack.35 
 
To determine whether a risk is uncontrolled, the Draft Guidance suggests that manufacturers 
look to cybersecurity vulnerability assessment tools to determine exploitability.  It mentions one 
tool that could assist, called the “Common Vulnerability Scoring System”, version 3.0.36,37  
Based on our inputs to the CVSS 3.0 model, the exploitability of the vulnerabilities for the 
Devices ranges from “High” to “Critical”.  Further, FDA’s Draft Guidance indicates that 
manufacturers “should also have a process for assessing the severity impact to health, if the 
cybersecurity vulnerability were to be exploited.”38 The Draft Guidance suggests one for such 
assessment to be the ANSI/AAMI/ISO 14971: 2007/®2010: Medical Devices – Application of 
Risk Management to Medical Devices.39 Pursuant to this tool, a common term for assessing a 
qualitative severity level resulting in patient death would be “catastrophic” while, on the lower 
end of the severity spectrum, a common term for a severity level resulting in inconvenience or 
temporary discomfort would be “negligible.”40  
 
As shown supra, MedSec has demonstrated an attack that can cause a Device to pace at a 
potentially dangerous rhythm.  MedSec has also demonstrated a battery drain attack, and certain 
Device dependent patients could experience severe health consequences if their Devices lost 
power and failed to function.41  Based on the Draft Guidance and its recommended tools, we 
therefore assess the severity of the exploit to patient health to be “catastrophic.”  The below 
matrix from the Draft Guidance deems a vulnerability with high exploitability and catastrophic 
impact if exploited an uncontrolled risk.42   
 
 


                                                             
34 Draft Guidance, part VIC. 
35 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=shTj9WVhVyU&feature=youtu.be 
36 Draft Guidance, part VI.A. 
37 The tool is available at: https://www.first.org/cvss/calculator/3.0 
38 Draft Guidance, part VI.B. 
39 Id. 
40 Id. 
41 According to MedSec medical advisor Dr. Hemal Nayak. 
42 The matrix is in the Draft Guidance, part VI.C. 


Page 20 of 34
The Draft Guidance provides several examples of uncontrolled risks. One examples is strikingly 
similar to the vulnerabilities and attacks MedSec has discovered: 
 


Examples of Vulnerabilities Associated with Uncontrolled Risk 
That Must Be Remediated and Response Actions: 
 
 A manufacturer becomes aware of a vulnerability via a researcher 
that its Class III medical device (e.g., implantable defibrillator, 
pacemaker, etc.) can be reprogrammed by an unauthorized user. If 
exploited, this vulnerability could result in permanent impairment, 
a life-threatening injury, or death.  The manufacturer is not aware 
that the vulnerability has been exploited and determines that the 
vulnerability is related to a hardcoded password, and cannot be 
mitigated by the device’s design controls. The risk assessment 
concludes that the exploitability of the vulnerability is moderate 
and the risk to the device’s essential clinical performance is 
uncontrolled. The manufacturer notifies appropriate stakeholders, 
and distributes a validated emergency patch. The manufacturer is 
not a participating member of an ISAO and reports this action to 
the FDA under 21 CFR 806.10.43 


 
Pursuant to the Draft Guidance, FDA recommends specific changes to address vulnerabilities 
associated with the types of uncontrolled risks described in this example. Among other actions, 
the manufacturer should “identify and implement risk mitigations…such as a work-around or 
temporary fix.”44 Additionally, manufacturers should report these vulnerabilities to FDA 
pursuant to 21 CFR part 806.45 However, FDA states in the Draft Guidance that it does not 
intend to enforce these reporting requirements if three circumstances are met: 1) there are no 
known serious adverse events or deaths associated with the vulnerability, 2) within 30 days of 
learning of the vulnerability, the manufacturer identifies and implements changes to lower the 
                                                             
43 Draft Guidance, part VII.B. 
44 Id. 
45 Id. 


Page 21 of 34
risk level and notifies users, and 3) the manufacturer is a participating member of an ISAO, like 
NH-ISAC.46  
 
As described in more detail infra, it will likely be impossible for STJ to identify and implement 
changes to the Devices within 30 days of learning of the vulnerabilities, and will therefore be 
subject to the reporting requirements imposed by FDA under 21 CFR § 806.10, which includes 
notification to all the customers in the distribution chain.47 
 
Recall Likelihood and Conclusions 
 
The vulnerability in the ecosystem is the compromised communication protocol between the 
Merlin@home units and the Cardiac Devices.  Because in-home units are widely available and 
easy to exploit, MedSec believes that STJ must develop a new communication protocol in order 
to secure the Cardiac Devices.   
 
We estimate that it would take STJ at least two years to develop a new RF communication 
protocol.  We assume the total team size required for this project would be 10 to 15 people.  We 
understand that adding people to the team would likely not speed up the development time.  Our 
assumption includes an expected approval timeline of three to six months.  
 
STJ’s lack of adequate attention to secure system architecture and design and implementation has 
resulted in an embedded system eco-system that will be very difficult to remediate.  These 
solutions would then need to be written into the existing code base. In simpler situations, a 
security update can be applied to the protocol without affecting the rest of the system.  In this 
case, STJ appears to have intertwined many of the different layers of communication throughout 
the software.  As a result, it appears there is no part of the programming stack on which a 
remediation effort could focus.  Large parts of the extremely large codebase would have to be re-
written.  
 
To protect existing Device users, STJ could disable the Devices’ RF (radio frequency) 
capabilities as a “compensating control”.  A compensating control is a countermeasure used in 
the absence of sufficient controls designed into the device.48  MedSec’s observations of STJ’s 
devices cause it to believe this is practicable to implement.  With the RF disabled, devices would 
be unable to use the in-home devices and network and would need close proximity for 
interrogation.  As a result, certain patients would need to see their physicians more frequently to 
compensate for the lack of remote monitoring.49  It should be noted MedSec sees no reason to 
expect STJ’s major competitors to interrupt access to their home monitoring networks. 
 
Pursuant to 21 CFR § 7.40, STJ should recall its Devices because the Devices present “a risk of 
injury or gross caption or are otherwise defective” as demonstrated by MedSec’s research and in 
light of FDA’s current medical device and cybersecurity policies. Should STJ not voluntarily 
                                                             
46 Id. 
47 FDA’s “Guidance for Industry: Product Recalls, Including Removals and Corrections,” available at 
http://www.fda.gov/Safety/Recalls/IndustryGuidance/ucm129259.htm (last accessed Aug. 22, 2016). 
48 Draft Guidance, part IV.A. 
49 According to MedSec medical advisor Dr. Hemal Nayak.  However, he points out that remote monitoring 
improves patient outcomes and survival. 


Page 22 of 34
recall the Devices, FDA has a regulatory basis to and could mandate that STJ recall the Devices 
pursuant to its recall authority granted under section 518(e) of the FDCA and 21 CFR part 810. 
 
Medical device recall precedents support our view that the devices should be recalled – in our 
opinion, the risks and severity of the STJ vulnerabilities rise at least to the levels of the following 
recalled devices.  
 
Hospira Pump Recall Case Study50 
 
In late 2013, well-known researcher Billy Rios purchased a Hospira Symbiq infusion pump on 
eBay for around $100 on a lark. Such pumps are commonplace in hospitals where health care 
providers use them to automatically deliver IV drips and injectable drugs to patients. Rios didn’t 
have anything in particular in mind for the device, mostly looking to tinker. He soon discovered 
that he could remotely take over the device, which could have lethal consequences if used 
maliciously. 
 
Recognizing the implications of his discovery, Rios sent his detailed findings to the Department 
of Homeland (DHS) Security Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team 
(ICS-CERT). In turn, ICS-CERT notified the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and sent a 
report to Hospira. 
 
Interestingly, in 2013 Hospira had already decided to discontinue the Symbiq pump and planned 
to spend $300-$350 million on doing away with its legacy pumps and developing replacements, 
purportedly due to scrutiny by the FDA of quality issues.51,52 
 
Months passed without Rios hearing a word from Hospira and there was no indication that 
government agencies were preparing to take action. Rios renewed the fight after a medical scare 
forced him into a hospital—and hooked up to a Hospira pump—for several days. He filmed 
himself hacking into the infusion pump and provided DHS and FDA with sample computer code. 
 
This tangible evidence showing how easily he could craft code that could kill someone prompted 
the FDA to take action. In July 2015, it issued an advisory urging hospitals to stop using 
Hospira’s infusion pump.53,54,55  
 
Pharmaceuticals giant Pfizer proceeded with its acquisition of Hospira (announced in February 
2015) despite the negative publicity and closed the $17 billion deal in September 2015.  In May 


                                                             
50 This case study draws heavily from the November 2015 Bloomberg article It’s Way Too Easy to Hack the 
Hospital: http://www.bloomberg.com/features/2015-hospital-hack/ 
51 http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-05-02/business/ct-biz-0502-hospira-20130502_1_symbiq-infusion-device-
hospira-chief-executive-f 
52 http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=175550&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1813491 
53 http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/Safety/AlertsandNotices/ucm446809.htm 
54 http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/Safety/AlertsandNotices/ucm456815.htm 
55 http://www.kaloramainformation.com/article/2015-08/FDA-Warning-Formalizes-Growing-Cybersecurity-
Concerns-Medical-Devices 


Page 23 of 34
2016, however, reports surfaced that Pfizer was looking to sell Hospira’s troubled pump business 
for $1.2-$2 billion.56  
 
Guidant Recall Case Study 
 
Johnson & Johnson announced that it was acquiring Guidant on December 15, 2004, for $76 a 
share, at a cost of $25.4 billion.57  Shortly after the acquisition announcement, issues with 
Guidant’s pacemakers and heart defibrillators arose. Almost 200,000 of its pacemakers and 
88,000 heart defibrillators were impacted by safety warnings or recalls. Guidant had long failed 
to notify doctors of the risks of one sort of defibrillator short-circuiting.58 The Securities and 
Exchange Commission opened a formal inquiry into “product disclosures and trading in Guidant 
stock”.  
 
Eliot Spitzer, New York's attorney general at the time, alleged that Guidant kept from the public 
a design flaw in one of its defibrillators.59 Shortly afterward, Johnson & Johnson, invoked the 
“material adverse change” clause (MAC).60,61  Guidant’s stock dropped to a low of $56.53 or 
down 25.6% from the $76 offer price. Ultimately, Boston Scientific stepped in and bought 
Guidant, but the acquisition proved to be even more costly with almost $9 billion of write downs 
from 2006 to 2012 and a $600 million settlement with Johnson & Johnson in 2015.62,63,64   
Boston Scientific’s market capitalization a few years after buying Guidant for $27.2 billion 
dropped below $13 billion and hit a low of $7.7 billion in 2012.    
 
Boston Scientific Case Study 
 
Boston Scientific’s ill-fated 2006 acquisition of Guidant in 2006 came to a head in March 2010 
when the company announced a recall of its entire lineup of implantable defibrillators, a legacy 
Guidant business area. The news prompted an overnight 13% drop in Boston Scientific’s share 
price, erased hundreds of millions in annual revenue, and resulted in a drop in total market share 
for defibrillators from 28% to 22%. A study at the time by McKinsey, a consulting firm, 
estimated that the company would lose $5 million each day these products were off the 
market.6566 
 
Boston Scientific recalled (to their credit, voluntarily) the devices upon discovering that two 
manufacturing process changes were made without FDA approval. The scope of those changes 


                                                             
56 http://www.biospace.com/News/pfizer-rumored-to-be-selling-its-hospira-pumps/417636 
57 http://www.investor.jnj.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=150615 
58 http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2005/06/17/AR2005061700680.html 
59 http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB113103013711487375 
60 http://www.themiddlemarket.com/maj/20051201/31774-1.html 
61 http://www.economist.com/node/5139360 
62 https://www.lawyersandsettlements.com/articles/guidant_pacemaker/guidant-pacemakers-settlement-
01212.html?utm_expid=3607522-
13.Y4u1ixZNSt6o8v_5N8VGVA.0&utm_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com% 
63 http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052748704471204575210191743610672 
64 http://blogs.wsj.com/moneybeat/2015/02/18/can-boston-scientific-finally-move-on-from-its-guidant-mistake/ 
65 McKinsey and Company, The Business Case for Medical Device Quality, p. 4. 
66 http://www.reuters.com/article/dealtalk-bostonscientific-idUKN0113666920100401 


Page 24 of 34
was not divulged. The company asked doctors to cease implanting the devices and return all 
inventory, although implanted devices were deemed safe.67 
 
Boston Scientific Revenue Market Share Loss:  


 
*Millennium Research Group  
 


                                                             
67 http://www.drugrecalllawyerblog.com/2010/03/heart_devices_and_the_companie.html 


Page 25 of 34
Boston Scientific ICD Revenue Drop (including Leads) after Recalls:  


 
*Millennium Research Group  
 
 
 
 
Valuation 








Network Shut Down and Repair Scenario:  
 
Assumes that St. Jude shuts down the Merlin@home network for eight quarters to repair and re-
architect the entire network.  We think approximately 46% of St. Jude’s revenues could be 
related or connected to the Merlin@home device.  This includes the entire CRM segment and 
78% of the Heart Failure segment, or 16% of total revenues.  We sensitized our Discounted Cash 
Flow (DCF) model with the following assumptions for eight quarters and modeled out a 
subsequent recovery to normalized levels thereafter.  Given that this scenario is more of a topline 
issue, we conservatively left expenses and margins relatively unchanged from management 
guidance to demonstrate the negative impacts to the stock price.  In a more realistic scenario, 
expenses, capital expenditures and interest expense could be a lot higher. 


Page 26 of 34
Main Assumptions: 
 


• Traditional CRM Segment Decline:  Traditional CRM segment (25% of 2015 Total 
Revenues) drops to zero for eight quarters and then starts coming back in 2018 and 
beyond.   


• Heart Failure Segment Decline: Approximately 78% of the Heart Failure segment 
(20% of 2015 Total Revenues) comes from CRT-D and CRT-P cardiac devices, which 
are also connected to the Merlin@home device.  We reduce all Merlin network related 
CRT revenues to zero and assume it goes under a network repair for eight quarters. 


• Atrial Fibrillation Segment Growth: Management 2016 guidance is in the 10% to 11% 
growth range.  In this scenario, the CRM network slow down also impacts the AF 
segment, and we assume 8% growth through 2018 in this segment.  


• Cardiovascular Segment Growth: According to management, the Cardiovascular 
segment is expected to grow 1% to 3% for 2016. In this scenario, the Merlin@home 
issues also negatively impact this segment and thus moves growth to zero percent. 


• Neuromodulation Segment Growth: Management 2016 guidance, is in the 7% to 9% 
range.  We think growth moves to 5% with technology security concerns in this segment. 


• Gross Margins: Management 2016 guidance, of 69.0% to 69.5%, however we think 
margins will be impacted by lower ASPs and pressure from the CRM segment and thus 
assume 67% gross margin until 2Q18E.   


• SG&A: Management 2016 guidance range of 31.3% to 31.8%, however we think the 
percentage moves higher over an eight quarter period and closer to 33%.   


• R&D: R&D is expected to remain in the 12.5% to 13% of sales range in our model and 
where management has been guiding for 2016.  R&D moves to 17% for an eight quarter 
period to leave the expense level relatively flat with 2015’s R&D spend levels.  


• Other Expenses and Interest Expenses: Management guidance for 2016 of ~$155 
million to $165 million, primarily driven by interest expense on our outstanding debt.  
Interest costs would most likely increase in a scenario where their largest revenue 
segment was under pressure, but for purposes of this exercise we are keeping expenses 
in-line with current 2016 guidance through the entire DCF modeling period. 


• Tax Rate: For full year 2016, we continue to expect the effective tax rate to be in the 
range of 15.5% to 16.5%.   


• Capital Expenditures: Capex as a percent of sales is expected to increase to 5% from a 
historical range of 3% to 4% for an eight quarter time period and return to historical 
ranges thereafter.  


• Working Capital:  Working capital remains flat at zero.  
• Assumes debt maturities are refinanced in the market at the moment at the same rate.  
• Longer dated revenue growth rates of 12% in 2019E and 8% in 2020E, margins, capex 


and tax rates recover to 2015 levels and remain relatively stable.  
• Assuming no foreign currency fluctuations.  





Page 27 of 34
Main DCF Assumptions: 
 


• Growth and margins return to normalized levels after eight months, for example, 
EBITDA margins move back to 28% in 2019, after declining to 24% in 2017.   


• WACC: Sensitized WACC from the 6% to 11% range.  According to Bloomberg, 
WACC was 7.7% prior to the merger announcement and peers are higher than the 6.5% 
currently shown on Bloomberg.        


• Perpetuity Growth Rate:  -5% to +3% growth 
• Assumes a $1 billion settlement in four years for product liability class actions.  


 
 
DCF and Stock Price Sensitivity Results: 


 
Sensitivity to St. Jude Medical’s current stock price is in the lower table.  


Page 28 of 34
Share Loss and Revenue Loss Scenario:   
 


• In this scenario, the company loses market share and revenue, but continues to operate its 
Traditional CRM and Heart Failure segment.  Even if the device is not recalled 
immediately, we think physicians and hospitals could decrease their orders of these 
cardiac devices given this cybersecurity issue.  


• As an example, Thoratec, a heart circulatory device company that St. Jude Medical 
acquired in 2015, experienced severe market share loss from 2012 to 2015, after 
researchers published that the HeartMate II LVAD defect increased the chance of blood 
clots.  The quarterly sales from peak to trough were down 18.4% in Q314, which was 
primarily driven by safety concerns with their HeartMate products. Thoratec stock 
dropped 30% on their 2Q14 earnings after experiencing greater than expected share loss 
and missing expectations. 68 


• We sensitized revenues in the Traditional CRM segment to drop 14.4% in 2016E, -20% 
in 2017E and -8.7% in 2018E. 


• The Heart Failure segment begins to decrease in 3Q16E, but grows 11.4% in 2016E and 
declines 20% in 2017E and begins to stabilize at -8% growth in 2018E.   


• Overall revenues are flat in 2018E, +12% in 2019E and +8% in 2020E. 


                                                             
68 http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-11-27/thoratec-s-heart-pump-may-cause-blood-clots-study-
suggests 
http://www.massdevice.com/thoratec-nejm-article-cost-us-market-share/ 
 


Page 29 of 34
• The remaining assumptions remained the same as the prior scenario.  


 
Sensitivity to St. Jude Medical’s current stock price is in the lower table.  


 
 
 
Covenant Breach in 3Q16 Highly Likely: 
 
Under the network shutdown scenario, the company would breach their 4.0x bank loan covenant 
in 3Q16.  We used Schedule 2 Section 7.13 in the Term Loan Agreement to calculate the 
company’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio, using 2015 numbers and found that it could have 
already breached their covenant.  Our calculation was closer to 4.45x vs. 4.25x as defined by the 
covenant at that time.  There could have been a number of non-cash add backs that allowed it to 
stay current with the covenant in 2015.     


Page 30 of 34
The company is already close to breaching the covenant and is suffering from a slowdown in its 
Traditional CRM products.  We think any additional pressure on the topline would cause a 
breach in the covenant in the near-term.  As a reminder, the covenant does step down to 4.0x in 
2016 from 4.25x in 2015 and then down to 3.5x thereafter.  We believe the company will need to 
renegotiate this covenant in a timely manner and banks could ask for security (potentially $3.8 
billion of secured debt when including the revolver and term loan), higher lending rates and 
lower the capacity on the $1.5 billion revolver, further straining liquidity.   Any default that 
could arise from a covenant breach on the term loan would also be a cross default into the bonds.  
 
Potential Liquidity Issues: 
 
Liquidity could start becoming constrained after a covenant breach, which could lead to a 
reduction to its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and potential downgrades to their 
commercial paper (CP) rating, which is currently at A-2/P-2.  The company is highly dependent 
on its CP program for liquidity and currently has $387 million of commercial paper outstanding. 
Any disruption in the CP rating could negatively impact their access to this market. St. Jude 
Medical does have yearly debt amortization from its term loan, and its nearest bond maturity 
($500 million) is in September 2018, which could be an issue to refinance if it does not address 


Page 31 of 34
these issues with its Merlin network. In 2015, the company generated $853 million of free cash 
flow (Cash from Operating Activities less Capital Expenditures). 
 
Potential Credit Rating Downgrades: 
 
Rating agencies already have St. Jude Medical on negative watch for a downgrade.  The 
companies increasing leverage profile from its recent acquisitions has tipped leverage over 
4.25x, which is already high for a single A rated company.  According to a Moody’s report in 
May 2016, Investment Grade Leverage (Debt/EBITDA) for 2015 was 2.35x vs.4.25x for STJ.69    
Along with the potential Merlin network issues, we think agencies will need to reevaluate their 
ratings and possibly downgrade their ratings increasing the company’s borrowing costs and cost 
of capital.   
 
 
  


                                                             
69 Moody’s Sector In-depth Report May 20, 2016, page 10 


Page 32 of 34
Appendix 
Letter to Patients and Physicians from MedSec medical advisor and board member Dr. Hemal Nayak70 


 
Dr. Nayak speaks for himself, and not his employer. 








                                                             
70 Dr. Nayak has been granted an immaterial equity interest in MedSec. 


Page 33 of 34
Page 34 of 34
