Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








  


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 18
Muddy Waters, LLC 
www.muddywatersresearch.com 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 


November 20, 2014 
 


 
Company:  
Superb Summit International Group Limited 
Industry: Forestry 
Report Date: November 20, 2014 


 
Stock Price: HK$1.55 
Market Cap: HK$12.3bn 
Float: 4.27 Billion 
Avg Volume: 22.3 Million  





 
Superb Summit (Part I): It’s a Long Way Down from Here 


 
We are short Superb Summit International Group Ltd. (1228.HK, “Superb”) because virtually all 
of its reported 2012 and 2013 revenue belongs to a different company, its recent acquisition of a 
stake in coal liquefaction company Beijing Jinfeite (“JFT”) is utterly without substance because 
JFT is effectively a one-man operation, and Superb has an unbroken seven-year track record of 
completely failing in every new line of business it has purportedly pursued.  In short, Superb’s 
raison d’etre is being a public company.  
 
Superb Summit Reported 2013 Revenue of HK$773.3 million.  Its Real Revenue Was 
Likely Close to Zero. 
 
Almost all of the revenue Superb Summit reported in 2013 and 2012 was likely attributed to 
Superb Summit’s purported subsidiary Tianjin Libao Coal Trading Company (“Tianjin Libao”).  
The problem is that Superb Summit has never owned any stake in Tianjin Libao.  Superb 
Summit falsely claims to have acquired 80% of Tianjin Libao in 2012.  It is hard to think of an 
explanation other than fraud to explain why Superb Summit claims to own a company that it in 
fact does not own.   
 
Tianjin Libao purportedly enabled Superb Summit to enter the coal trading and logistics 
business.  Superb Summit claimed to acquire Tianjin Libao in July 2012, which is when Superb 
Summit first began issuing releases about coal trading agreements with China State Shipbuilding 
Corp.’s (“China Shipbuilding”) procurement department.1,2 None of Superb Summit’s 
subsidiaries shown in the 2013 AR have coal-related businesses in their scopes of business.3  The 
first year for which Superb Summit recorded coal trading revenue was 2012, during which 
Tianjin Libao constituted the entirety of Superb Summit’s coal trading revenue. 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2012/0726/LTN20120726006.pdf 
2 The procurement department later became a subsidiary of China Shipbuilding, and was named China State 2 The procurement department later became a subsidiary of China Shipbuilding, and was named China State 
Shipbuilding Logistics Corp. (“China Logistics”).   
3 In the 2012 AR, Superb Summit shows a Tibet coal trading subsidiary (Lhasa Summit Ganjing Industrial 
Development Ltd.); however, if this subsidiary were material in 2013, another disclosure would have been required.  
According to the 2014 interim report, the Tibet subsidiary was dissolved in 2014, and Tibet SAIC’s website is 
showing no information on the entity. 


Page 2 of 18
Superb Summit falsely claims to have acquired Tianjin Libao 
 
Superb Summit’s 2012 AR reads: 
 


“On July 31, 2012, the Group acquired 80% equity interest in Tianjin Libao Coal Trading 
Company (“Tianjin Libao”), a company incorporated in Tianjin, People’s Republic of 
China (“the PRC”) at a total consideration of RMB 1,300,000 (equivalent to 
HK$1,579,858).  Tianjin Libao is principally engaged in trading of coals in PRC. 
 
The acquired business contributed revenue and net loss of HK$112,080,000 and 
HK$61,901,000 respectively to the Group for the period form 31 July 2012 to 31 
December 2012.”4 


 
Superb Summit’s 2013 AR shows it owns 80% of Tianjin Libao: 
 


 
 
Tianjin SAIC shows that Superb Summit’s ownership claim is completely false.  The current 
owners are companies named Lvse Juguang, Beijing Zhongjia, and Beijing Wangxincheng.  Nor 
does Superb Summit own any of these companies that own Tianjin Libao.  Six individuals are 
the ultimate beneficial owners of Tianjin Libao, as shown below. 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
4 Superb Summit 2012 AR, p. 110. 


Page 3 of 18
Moreover, Superb Summit has never owned Tianjin Libao.  The below table shows the history of 
its ownership from inception. 
 





There were no changes to Tianjin Libao’s Legal Representative, directors, manager, or 
supervisor from December 2007 until February 2014.  In China, when one company buys 
another, there are usually changes to at least one of the aforementioned positions – otherwise, it 
would be hard to actually exercise control of the acquired company.   
 
It would be ridiculous on its face if Superb Summit were to respond by stating that it merely 
overlooked perfecting ownership.  Very few people in the world would do business that way – 
especially when the company in question is the only material revenue producing entity of a 
public company.  Putting that to the side though, the lack of any changes to Tianjin Libao’s 
insiders between 2010 and 2014 further indicate there was no change of control.  The table 
below shows the changes to Tianjin Libao’s insiders over the years. 
 


Page 4 of 18
Superb Summit’s claim to own a stake in Tianjin Libao is completely false, and Superb is 
therefore not permitted to consolidate any results from Tianjin Libao.5 
 
Substantially all of Superb Summit’s 2013 and 2012 revenue appears to have been attributed to 
Tianjin Libao.  Superb Summit’s reported revenue is therefore massively and improperly 
inflated. 
 
Superb Summit attributed 93.2% of its 2012 revenue to Tianjin Libao.  Superb Summit’s 2012 
revenue should therefore be restated from HK$120.3 million to HK$8.2 million.   
 
Superb Summit reported revenue of HK$ 773.3 million in 2013, but its actual revenue appears to 
be no greater than HK$ 18.8 million (if that).  All of Superb Summit’s HK$773.3 million 2013 
revenue was attributed to “sale of coal and related products”.  We therefore assume that Superb 
Summit’s real 2013 revenue was zero; however, Superb Summit made no specific disclosure 
related to Tianjin Libao’s purported 2013 revenue.  
 
Paying HK$1.5 Billion for Jinfeite would be like Paying for a Bentley and Getting a Bus 
Pass. 


 
Jinfeite is barely a business, its technology has little value, and 
purchase of the JFT stake highly likely was not an arms length 
transaction.  Superb Summit’s May 2014 purchase of a 40.8% 
(indirect) stake in Beijing Jinfeite Energy Technology Company 
Ltd. (“JFT”) for HK$600 million, valuing JFT at HK$1.5 billion, 
does not even pass the laugh test.  JFT is a tiny, obscure 
chemical engineering consulting business with few of its own 
long-term assets, no in-house R&D team, and only a single 
engineer (its founder).  Its key technology consists of the 
founder’s know-how to customize catalysts for coal liquefaction, 
which is an approximately 100-year old technology.  Recent 
regulatory changes in China that prohibit the construction of 
small coal liquefaction plants could prevent JFT from doing any 
business other than building demonstration plants.  (One expert 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
5 We preclude the possibility of Tianjin Libao being a “variable interest entity” because coal trading is not 
prohibited from foreign investment, there are no VIE disclosures, and there is no share pledge registered at SAIC. 


Page 5 of 18
whom we consulted believes that the prohibition could apply even to demonstration plants.)  All 
of JFT’s prior projects, albeit demonstration projects, are a fraction of the minimum permitted 
capacity.  As we discuss infra, Superb Summit did not actually acquire JFT from its original 
shareholders – it purchased the stake from a mysterious “Mr. Ng” who only held his shares for 
two months before agreeing to flip 51% of them to Superb Summit.6  We do not know how much 
cash Mr. Ng actually paid, but we feel confident that it was massively less than a HK$1.5 billion 
valuation.  This is particularly the case because the entity through which he purchased the JFT 
stake, Chongcheng, only has registered capital of US$10,000 – making it unclear how he could 
legally pay much more for the stake. 
 
Amazingly, Superb Summit’s stock has soared over 300% since announcing on June 7, 2013 the 
letter of intent to acquire JFT: 
 


 
 
JFT is Barely a Business 
 
Superb Summit can be commended for truthfully disclosing that JFT essentially had no revenue 
in 2013 and barely has positive net assets.  What Superb Summit has not told investors is that 
JFT is effectively a one-person consulting business without an engineering, R&D, or marketing 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
6 Mr. Ng’s company Chongcheng (Shanghai) became an 80% owner in JFT in January 2014.  Superb Summit 
announced the purchase of 51% of the shares of the holding company that owns Chongcheng in March 2014.  The 
purchase closed in May 2014. 


Page 6 of 18
department.  JFT has been in existence since 2008.  The reason that it has never generated much 
revenue is not because it was still developing its technology, or waiting for the right partner to 
help commercialize its technology, or waiting for the coal liquefaction industry in China to 
develop.  The reason JFT has not grown into a substantial company is the same reason why your 
neighborhood tailor has not developed into a world famous fashion brand – there is no scalable 
business there.   
 


 
 
Note that JFT has very few tangible assets of its own.  The bulk of the assets on its balance sheet 
is Construction in Progress, which will be transferred to its client upon completion of the project.  
Each project will typically yield new patents in the form of new chemical catalysts.  Intangible 
assets, such as catalysts, formulation, or process improvements will usually be transferred to the 
client, calling into question Superb Summit’s HK$1.5 billion of patent value resulting from the 
transaction. 
 
JFT is essentially a one-man band.  Substantially all of its IP is in the head of its founder, Mr. Jin 
Jun.  Mr. Jin was a chemical engineer with PetroChina until 2006 when he left to start his 
consulting business.  Mr. Jin’s son, Jin Fei, handles administrative matters for JFT.  JFT has a 
total of five to six people in its office: one general manager, one accountant, one supervisor, and 
one to two office staff.  JFT has no direct engineering employees other than Mr. Jin, and it 
outsources the design work to third party design institutes or technical personnel at some of its 
project sites.  It also sub-contracts the construction of plant equipment.  JFT process payments to 
about 100 temporary site construction and maintenance workers its client selects. 
 
JFT is essentially a niche consulting firm, and its role in the construction of coal liquefactions 
plants is limited.  JFT oversees the design and installation of the processing lines that produce oil 
from coal, or extra heavy crude oil, using iron-based catalysts.  JFT’s clients are oil companies. 
The oil companies provide the location and facilities, and JFT is responsible for working with a 
design firm to prepare the full set of designs, including the designs for the specific 
equipment/devices/parts.  JFT is also responsible for paying the temporary labor for installing the 
processing lines.  Once completed, JFT will transfer the production line to the client. After 
completion, JFT might also do maintenance work. 
  
Mr. Jin’s largest added value is that he helps formulate the chemistry requirements for the 
project.  He also operates as somewhat of a managing contractor, building and operating the 
projects, and then transferring them to the clients.  JFT’s projects have all been medium size 
demonstration units.  To date, JFT has built three projects.  None of the projects have been 


Page 7 of 18
commercial scale.  The first project was only 5,000 tons per year (100 barrels per day), another 
10,000 tons per year (200 barrels per day), and the largest is approximately 100,000 tons per year 
(2,000 barrels per day).  
 
Even though Mr. Jin Jun runs JFT and is its only revenue generator, he has never appeared as an 
owner of its shares.  Instead, his son and a Ms. Zhang Manxia were the only shareholders prior to 
“Mr. Ng” purchasing 80% of JFT.  The fact that Mr. Jin Jun was not a public shareholder along 
with JFT’s business model give rise to the question of whether a non-SOE business would ever 
engage JFT.  (When considering this strange series of transactions involving Superb Summit and 
JFT, it is worth remembering the PRC government has recently made a point of investigating 
people working at the state-owned oil majors.) 
 
JFT’s revenue model is to charge up to 20% of the gross project value as its fee.  However, JFT 
must pay a significant amount of the fees to third parties because of its reliance on outsourcing.  
It is unclear what its fee would be if it worked on a significant project; however, JFT appears not 
to have the capability to have a major role on a large-scale project.   
 
Coal liquefaction has limited potential for growth and is dominated by much larger and heavily 
capitalized players.  The core technology for coal liquefaction has existed for over 100 years and 
was utilized by Germany in WWII and many other nations since.  It is very water intensive, and 
creates a good deal of carbon dioxide.  Coal liquefaction only makes commercial sense if oil 
prices are high because the process is highly energy intensive, and maintenance expenses and 
capex tend to be quite high. The two major developers of coal liquefaction in China are Shenhua 
Energy Co. Ltd. (with its subsidiary China Shenhua Coal to Liquid and Chemical Corp. Ltd.) and 
Yitai Coal Oil Manufacturing Co. Ltd.7  Shenhua is one of China’s largest SOE’s and one of the 
largest coal companies in the world. CSCLC has completed numerous demonstration projects, 
including a RMB 15 billion Direct Coal Liquefaction Demonstration Project to produce one 
million tons of oil per year.  (We understand that JFT’s largest demonstration project was 
approximately 100,000 tons per year.) 


The major trend in China now is toward the gasification of coal, which is a process that is more 
complex and capital intensive than liquefaction.  Shenhua established multiple research institutes 
for developing and improving liquefaction and gasification technologies.  Shenhua also 
established a joint venture with General Electric.   


The bottom line is that coal liquefaction is a challenging technology.  While JFT might be a nice 
consulting gig for Mr. Jin, JFT is not even close to playing in the top tier of major projects in 
China – and almost certainly never will be.   


A recent National Energy Agency regulation prohibits construction of coal liquefaction plants 
with capacities lower than one million tons per year.  We understand that this regulation will 
likely be enforced reasonably strictly.  Given that JFT’s largest project to date is only 100,000 
tons per year, this regulation imperils its ability to do business. The demonstration project for 
China Shipbuilding is supposed to be well below that threshold.8  


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
7 http://www.csclc.com.cn/ens/gsxx/fengs/2010-12-20/292.shtml 
8 http://www.nea.gov.cn/2014-07/25/c_133510624.htm 


Page 8 of 18
JFT’s Patents are Worth Very Little – Definitely not Anything Close to the HK$1.5 billion 
claimed on Superb Summit’s Balance Sheet. 
 
JFT’s three patents are of little value.  However, this did not stop Superb Summit from booking 
them as intangible assets worth HK$1.5 billion.   
 
Because the catalytic and refining processes are not new, the major challenge is adapting them at 
each project to the particular types of coal being used and various other factors.  It is typical in 
China to file for a patent each time a new plant is built, as the processes are somewhat 
customized.  We understand that there is little commercial value to the patents because they are 
neither applicable elsewhere (due to the patents resulting from customization) nor cover the 
fundamental technology.  We understand that because the clients are typically state-owned 
enterprises, the SOEs like to obtain patents because they make the project sound more 
impressive.  JFT typically transfers most to all of the technology and patent rights on a given 
project to the client, while the rest is retained in Mr. Jin Jun’s name.  Purchasing JFT does not 
provide a portfolio of highly valuable patents that can be used to build an industrial powerhouse.   
 
JFT’s HK$1.5 Billion Valuation is a Farce, and is Based on a Reality-Independent Financial 
Model 
 
JFT was valued based on a discounted cash flow model with the overall assumption that JFT’s 
future performance will be many orders of magnitude better than in the past.  We believe that 
Superb Summit manipulated the valuation to astronomical levels in order to justify paying a 
massive HK$600 million to the mysterious intermediary Mr. Ng.  Beijing Tian Hai Hua Asset 
Valuation Firm appears to have had 2013 revenue less than RMB 10 million, possibly making 
Superb Summit a reasonably large client.9  
 
The most perverse aspect of this transaction is that the consideration Superb Summit would pay 
for its JFT stake purportedly was not fixed – the amount would have been less had the valuation 
not hit the upper band of its limit.  Thus, in an arms length transaction, Superb Summit’s 
incentive would have been to keep the valuation low so that it would pay less for the business.  
Of course when one considers the more than 300% gain in Superb Summit’s stock since June 7, 
2013, other reasons for an inflated valuation present themselves. 
 
There are other reasons why the purportedly independent valuation Superb Summit 
commissioned seems spurious.  Inconsistent with prior practice, Superb Summit did not release 
the actual valuation report.  Instead, Superb Summit released a letter from each of CCB 
International Capital Ltd. and Superb Summit’s auditor, Parker Randall CF (H.K.) CPA Ltd. 
discussing the valuation.  
 
To say that it is “optimistic” to value a company with RMB 3,000 (three thousand only) in 
revenue in 2013 and RMB 975,000 of net assets at RMB 1.2 billion would be a gross 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
9 Based on the minimum amount of revenue to make the Top 100 PRC Valuation Firm list for 2013, published by 
the Ministry of Finance – see 
http://www.mof.gov.cn/zhengwuxinxi/caizhengxinwen/201404/t20140422_1070340.html. 


Page 9 of 18
understatement.  The valuation was based solely on a discounted future cash flow model, and it 
is clear that Superb Summit had a large influence on the assumption.  The auditor’s letter reads 
in relevant part: 


 
“The directors of [Superb Summit] are solely responsible for the preparation of the 
Discounted Future Cash Flows with the Valuation which the directors have adopted the 
Valuation prepared by the Valuer with those bases and assumptions stated in the 
Valuation with input from the Company and the Valuer.”  
 


The auditor, Parker Randall, also seems to express skepticism about the valuation (this is no 
small feat, as we have significant concerns about Parker Randall and its engagement partner Man 
Fai “Parker” Seto): 


 
“The Discounted Future Cash Flows depend on future events and on a number of bases 
and assumptions which cannot be confirmed and verified in the same way as past results 
and not all of which may remain valid throughout the period.”  


 
There is precedent for showing that Superb Summit’s valuation of JFT is ridiculous.  China E-
Learning Group Ltd. (8055.HK) comes from the same lineage as Superb Summit.  The 
companies’ largest shareholder is the same company – Magic Stone Fund (China),10 which is 
principally owned by Mr. Yang Dongjun.  Mr. Yang controlled a PRC company called Feifei 
Senwang Muye that sold assets that both Superb Summit and E-Learning ultimately bought.  
(Both companies’ purchases first passed through intermediaries before the public companies 
bought them.)  
 
At the time E-Learning acquired a company called the New Beida Group in October 2007, it 
made a series of projections that were very optimistic, and valued New Beida at HK$800 
million.  Similar to what must have been the case with JFT, the revenue projection showed an 
enormous jump in the first year after the acquisition, with each subsequent year growing at a 
very healthy clip.   
 
However, New Beida turned out to be a pipedream.  We are confident the same will be the case 
with JFT.  The table below shows the assumptions made in valuing New Beida, versus the reality 
of the first three years of ownership. 
 





	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
10 Source: Bloomberg 


Page 10 of 18
Incidentally, the New Beida valuation was also done by an “independent” asset valuation firm, 
LCH (Asia-Pacific) Surveyors Ltd.  Ultimately in 2008 and 2009, E-Learning wrote off the 
entire amount of goodwill that resulted from the transaction.  
 
Superb Summit’s HK$ 600 Million Purchase of a 40.8% Indirect Stake in JFT is Likely a Sham. 
 
The following describes the major events leading to Superb Summit’s acquisition of the 40.8% 
indirect stake in JFT: 
 


• On June 5, 2013, Superb Summit signed a letter of intent to acquire “no less than 
80%...or the controlling interest” of JFT.  At the time Superb Summit made the 
announcement, it did not disclose JFT’s name, and only referred to it as the “Target 
Company”.  As of this date, Mr. Jin’s son and a Ms. Zhang together owned 100% of JFT.   








• On December 25, 2013, a new PRC entity was formed, Chongcheng (Shanghai) Energy 
Technology Co. Ltd.  The shareholder was a Seychelles company called Cosmic Summit 
Ltd.   


• On January 10, 2014, Chongcheng bought 80% of the registered capital of JFT. 
Strangely, Superb Summit never disclosed the full name of the beneficial owner of 
Cosmic Summit – it only identified him as “Mr. Ng” in the various disclosures about the 
transaction.  Mr. Ng owned his stake in Cosmic Summit through a BVI company called 
Sherri Holdings Resources Ltd.  We cannot know for certain who Mr. Ng is, but 
Chongcheng’s legal representative was Wu Rizhang (吴⽇日章).  (“Wu” is the Mandarin 
equivalent of “Ng”), so it is possible that Wu Rizhang was the seller of the indirect stake 
in JFT. 


• On March 3, 2014 Superb Summit agreed to buy a 40.8% indirect stake in JFT for up to 
HK$600 million.  The actual consideration amount could have been less than HK$600 
million, and would be determined by the “independent” valuation that Superb Summit 
would commission.   





Page 11 of 18
• On March 23, 2014 Superb Summit announced that the valuer, Beijing Tian Hai Hua, had 
valued JFT at HK$1.5 billion, which of course necessitated that Superb Summit pay the 
maximum possible HK$600 million for its stake.   


• On May 30, 2014, Superb Summit announced that it would satisfy the consideration with 
only HK$50 million in cash, issuing a HK$500 million promissory note for the balance.   


• Also on May 30, 2014, Superb Summit closed the transaction by acquiring 51% of 
Cosmic Summit from Sherri. 





Page 12 of 18
The JFT acquisition seems likely to be a sham transaction for the following reasons: 
 


1. Superb Summit paid the bulk of the consideration with “funny money” – i.e. Superb 
Summit issued a HK$550 million promissory note for the stake.  The promissory note is 
purportedly due February 28, 2015.11  As shown below, since the present management 
became involved with Superb Summit in 2007, Superb Summit has never had close to 
HK$550 million in cash on the balance sheet.  Moreover, Superb Summit’s operation 
cash flow is greatly negative.  Unless Superb Summit converts the note to equity, it will 
almost certainly have to raise money in order to pay this note.  It is unlikely that a bona 
fide, arms-length seller with any financial sophistication would have accepted this credit 
risk, especially at 1% per year.12 





	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
11 http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2014/0530/LTN20140530893.pdf 
12 http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2014/0530/LTN20140530893.pdf 
	
  


Page 13 of 18
2. Superb Summit’s failure to provide Mr. Ng’s full name is unusual and can reasonably be 
interpreted as a deliberate attempt to obscure his identity.  In Superb Summit’s past 
acquisitions, it generally fully identified the individuals who beneficially owned the 
companies and assets being purchased.  This circumspection also gives rise to serious 
concerns about whether Mr. Ng is really an arms-length party.   
 


3. That Superb Summit acquired JFT through an intermediary who had held the shares for a 
mere four months gives rise to a reasonable suspicion that the transaction is not arms 
length, and that there could have been substantial inflation of the value of the JFT stake.   


 
The particularly damning fact is that the June 5, 2013 letter of intent gave Superb Summit 
the exclusive right for the next 12 months to negotiate the purchase of JFT with “a PRC 
individual holding the entire equity interest in the Target Company as at the date of the 
Letter of Intent”.13  Chongcheng had not even been established at that point in time. 


 
It is therefore clear that Superb Summit caused Mr. Ng to be inserted into the transaction 
because as of the date of the LOI, none of Mr. Ng, Cosmic Summit, or Chongcheng 
owned any equity of JFT.  Moreover, the possible seller of the stake to Superb Summit, 
Wu Rizhang, is a Hong Kong resident.14 


 
4. Chongcheng’s registered capital is only US$10,000.  It is difficult to understand how 


Chongcheng could have legally paid much more than its registered capital amount for 
JFT, which is therefore one more reason to doubt that the HK$600 million purchase is an 
arms-length transaction.  
 


Our interpretation of the preceding information is that Superb Summit likely influenced the 
valuation by providing wildly optimistic assumptions without significant input from JFT 
management.  If we are correct, it would also support the proposition that the transaction was not 
arms length because a less optimistic set of assumptions would have allowed Superb Summit to 
pay less than HK$600 million for the stake.  
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
13 We note that there is a small error in the LOI because two PRC individuals owned the registered capital of JFT. 
14 Chongcheng SAIC file. 


Page 14 of 18
Superb Summit Has Announced Numerous New Business Lines over the Past Seven Years, 
None of Which has Amounted to Anything. 
 
Superb Summit has an unblemished track record of failing in new initiatives, which is likely due 
to decision-making being driven more by stock promotion than real business considerations.  
(We fully expect JFT to follow this pattern.)  Since Superb Summit stopped focusing on 
manufacturing electronic calculators in 2007, it has shown no competence in any line of business 
whatsoever, despite numerous announced ventures and initiatives.  This list of abject failures 
includes: 
 


• entering the forestry business, which purportedly included timber marketing, processing 
and forestry investments,15 


• establishing an electronic timber exchange for China, 
• building a forestry products exhibition center in Tianjin,16 
• developing a port in Tianjin,17 
• acquiring Australian gold mining companies,18 
• buying “not more than one billion cubic meters” of natural gas per year, 19 and 
• buying a majority stake in a coal conveyer belt and logistics companies. 20 


 
It should not surprise anybody that these various initiatives amounted to nothing.  Many of them 
would have required Superb Summit have a competence in something.  Superb Summit’s only 
business skill seems to be having a public company, which is not really applicable to undertaking 
real world projects. 
 
Failure #1: Forestry business is a 95%+ failure 
 
The closest Superb Summit has come to not failing is in its forestry business that it entered 
through the acquisition of Green & Good Limited in 2007. 
 
Superb Summit’s initial pronouncements focused on the acquisition of 70% of “Green and Good 
whose sole asset is the entire equity interest in LEEKA Wood, a WOFE, whose subsidiaries and 
itself are principally engaged in the (i) exploitation and management of timber resources in the 
PRC; and (ii) research and development, processing, manufacture, distribution, marketing and 
sales of a wide range of wood products.”21  It sounded as though Superb Summit were acquiring 
a fairly robust business: “The consideration has been determined with reference to, amongst 
other things, (i) the business prospect, potential profitability, market scalability and product mix 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
15 June 11,2008: http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a28571-e01228.pdf 
16 Sept 15,2010: http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a62873-
e_announce12282010_09_15_3rddraft.pdf 
3 Dec 3,2010: http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a66148-
e_ssie_announcement2010_12_03c.pdf 
18 Nov 17,2011: http://file.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a111117.pdf 
19 April 8,2013: http://file.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a130408a.pdf 
20 July 17,2012 http://file.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a120718.pdf 
21 June 8,2007 http://file.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a070611.pdf 


Page 15 of 18
of LEEKA Wood and its subsidiaries, (ii) the asset quality back-up by Green & Good Group, 
(iii) the Profit Guarantee.”22 
 
However, Superb Summit managed to report a cumulative total of only HK$194 million in 
forestry-related revenue in the seven full years it has owned the forestry business.  (This revenue 
number excludes the HK$265 million in dubious 2007 revenue Superb Summit generated by 
purportedly selling logs to Feifei Senwang Muye.)  Superb Summit paid HK$1.8 billion for the 
forestry business.23  Thus, in our view, the forestry business is only a 95% failure.  Regardless, 
the forestry business seems like a stunning success compared to all of Superb Summit’s other 
announced ventures though. 
 
Failure #2: China electronic timber exchange initiative is a failure 
 
Superb Summit announced that it had obtained permission from the National Timber Association 
Industry Administration Office to build an electronic trading platform for timber products.24 The 
business opportunity for an electronic standardized platform was detailed in a June 2008 
pronouncement “By proceeding to comprehensive and in-depth research, investigation and 
analysis on the issue of standardization of the current transaction flow in sawn wood and major 
wood-based panel, making reference to the relevant information in domestic and overseas timber 
trade standardization as well as conducting on-site investigation and study, the following five 
sets of standards to China’s timber trading activities were proposed by the Study and being 
reviewed by experts of the National Technical Committee 41 on Timber of Standardization 
Administration of China, which served to lay the foundation in facilitating related industry 
standards in the future and in establishing a well-regulated timber trading market: 
 
1. Standardization in trading of sawn wood; 
2. Standardization in trading of medium density fibreboard; 
3. Standardization in trading of particle board; 
4. Standardization in trading of joinery board; and 
5. Standardization in trading of plywood;”25 
 
Despite all of the pomp of Superb Summit’s statements, its electronic timber exchange seems 
never to have gone anywhere, and quickly disappeared from releases. 
 
Failure #3: Timber exhibition center initiative is a failure 
 
Superb Summit appears never to have made any material progress on developing a timber 
exhibition center.  Superb Summit continued its obsessive fantasy with the timber business 
through a series of releases from 2008 through early 2011 culminating in a claim that it had 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
22	
  June 8,2007 http://file.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a070611.pdf	
  
23 Total consideration paid for the 70% G&G acquisition was HK$955.3m as per the disclosures on p50 + 51 of the 
2008 AR. The remaining 30% of G&G was purchased in consideration for HK$799m, split across Convertible Note 
A with a principal amount of HK$417m and Convertible Note B with a principal amount HK$382m. This is 
explained in note 33 (ii) on p116 of the 2009 AR.  
24 Oct. 21, 2008: http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a33345-e01228.pdf 
25	
  June 19, 2008:	
  http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a28856-e01228.pdf	
  


Page 16 of 18
proposed a joint venture with the Dagang Management Committee of Tianjin Binhai new area 
and Tianjin Goods Trading Market Co. Ltd.to construct a timber trading, exhibition and 
convention center and logistics base for the National Bonded Trading Processed Manufacturing 
Industry.26 
 
Failure #4: Tianjin port initiative is a failure 
 
Superb Summit appears to have completely fizzled in its efforts to build a timber port and 
quarantine area for imported timber.  In December 2010, Superb Summit announced a joint 
initiative with Tianjin Port in which the two would invest in each other, and Tianjin Port would 
provide 100 hectares or more of land for Superb Summit’s effort.  The port initiative appears to 
have died after Superb Summit’s January 5, 2011 release that offered more detail on the plan.  At 
the time, Superb Summit wrote “Tianjin Harborside (wholly owned by Tianjin Port) will provide 
120 hectares, assist in acquiring commercial and residential lands, secure a preferential price for 
Superb while conducting tender auction”, and “Tianjin will provide additional land to provide 
commercial accommodation services and living facilities.”27	
  
 
Failure #5: Plan to acquire Australian gold mining companies fails 
 
Superb Summit’s November 17, 2011 announcement that it was in negotiations to potentially 
acquire Stone Resources Holding and Crescent Gold Ltd., which both own gold mining 
properties in Australia, lasted less than one year before the Framework Agreement was 
terminated.  At the time of the initial announcement, Superb Summit stated, “Part of the Gold 
Mine(s) A has been explored and ascertained to contain approximately 780,000 ounces of gold”, 
and “Target Company B owns the mining right as to certain gold mine(s) containing 2,070,000 
ounces of gold.”28 
 
Failure #6: Initiative to buy “not more than one billion cubic meters” per year of natural gas 
fails29 
 
Technically maybe Superb Summit did not fail in buying “not more than one billion cubic 
meters” per year of natural gas, as it appears to have bought none.  Nonetheless, we consider this 
initiative a failure because it seems that the intent was to create the impression that Superb 
Summit was going to do something significant, and it likely ended up doing nothing.  At the 
time, Superb Summit “Party A and Party B agree to explore the PRC and international natural 
gas markets, compete for long-term and stable natural gas resources supply within and outside 
the PRC, establish sales channels and explore the forms of cooperation, ranging from trading to 
industrial investment…The Strategic Cooperation Agreement will be effective for a term of ten 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
26	
  Sept 15,2010: http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a62873-
e_announce12282010_09_15_3rddraft.pdf	
  
27	
  Jan 5,2011: http://www.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a67406-
e_announcement2011_01_05%28draft_07%29.pdf	
  
28	
  Nov 17,2011: http://file.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a111117.pdf 
29	
  April 8,2013: http://file.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a130408a.pdf	
  


Page 17 of 18
years, and will be automatically extended if there is no written objection from either party." 30  
We look forward to the automatic renewal of the agreement. 
 
Failure #7: Initiative to buy stake in Mongolia to China coal conveyer belt and logistics 
companies fails 
 
In July 2012, Superb Summit went on a coal kick.  It falsely claimed to acquire Tianjin Libao on 
July 11, 2012.31  On July 17 and 18, 2012, it also announced a complex series of LOIs to acquire 
stakes in seven Mongolia to China conveyer belt and logistics companies.  It supplemented those 
announcements on July 25 and 28, 2012 by announcing a coal supply agreement and mine 
acquisition.  The purchases announced in these releases never came to fruition.  As for the coal 
supply agreement, if coal were supplied, it was not by Superb Summit. 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
30	
  April 8,2013: http://file.irasia.com/listco/hk/superbsummit/announcement/a130408a.pdf	
  
31	
  July 11,2012 p.110: http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2013/0429/LTN20130429321.pdf	
  


Page 18 of 18
