5/22/2018 The HCI Group: Inconsistent And Unprofessional - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3402675-the-hci-group-inconsistent-and-unprofessional 1/10


The HCI Group: Inconsistent And Unprofessional
Aug. 5, 2015 2:00 PM ET36 comments
by: RH Analytics


Summary


Better-than-expected numbers were overshadowed by inconsistent and
contradictory comments by management regarding growth opportunities.


Backtracking on previous comments, management guides expectations toward a
4Q15 assumption of risky wind-only policies from Citizens.


Management resurrected the "flood opportunity", this time indicating it could
generate $500M in premiums annually for the company.


HCI always seems to hold out the hope of growth, but this time inconsistencies with
previous comments render management unprofessional and not credible, in our
view.


Last night the HCI Group (NYSE:HCI) reported 2Q15 financial results. Despite the fact
that EPS numbers were better than expected, we don't think the results warrant investor
excitement. Just the opposite. Discussions on the conference call revealed management
to be inconsistent, and in our view, unprofessional and not credible.


HCI is considered a growth company in the low to no growth Florida insurance business.
Historically, HCI has grown policy count and premium by assuming multi-peril policies from
Citizens Insurance, the state-owned carrier in Florida, and the acquisition of books of
business from failed carriers in the state. Increased competition for takeouts has shrunk
the multi-peril pool considerably, leaving policies HCI appears to consider unattractive.


Approximately 18 months ago, the opportunity for large takeouts waning, HCI began
underwriting flood insurance in Florida in effort to drive growth. However, various issues
emerged to undermine the opportunity. Consequently, underwriting to date has been
minimal, meriting barely a mention in the 1Q15 10-Q.


In another attempt to drive growth, HCI entered into two assumption agreements in 1H15
dominated by wind-only policies. Wind-only policies have been deemed largely
untouchable by other private insurers, because high expected losses make them
extremely expensive to reinsure and largely unprofitable. In our note, HCI Group: More
Risk, Less Return, we illustrated why wind-only policies are unlikely to be profitable.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2855766-hci-group-more-risk-less-return
5/22/2018 The HCI Group: Inconsistent And Unprofessional - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3402675-the-hci-group-inconsistent-and-unprofessional 2/10


The 2014 and early 2015 wind-only takeout were expected to be the last. On the 4Q14
conference call an investor asked about when takeouts would not be available. Mr. Patel
replied that "I think we are pretty much there now". We wrote about that in our note HCI
Group: Patel Admits Game Over.


Without either takeouts or new products to drive growth, on the 1Q15 conference call, Mr.
Patel directed attention to the potential for a transformative acquisition, likely outside of
insurance. We addressed Mr. Patel's hope-inspiring discussion of acquisitions in HCI
Group: You Can Have Your Donut and Eat it Too.


It appears as if HCI has come full circle in 2Q15. On the conference call, Mr. Patel touted
the growth opportunities available both with wind-only takeouts from Citizens and flood
insurance. Contradicting previous commentary, Mr. Patel characterized opportunities with
Citizens' wind-only policies as an "untapped pool" as he set expectations for a 4Q15
takeout.


Mr. Patel then implicitly slighted his competition for pursuing soft-rate muti-peril business
outside the state. HCI, apparently at the vanguard, is going to pursue hard-rate flood
insurance outside the state - a much stronger opportunity. Mr. Patel then went on to
quantify the flood opportunity stating that the company could gain a 15% to 20% market
share over time for $500M in annual premiums.


On every conference call, HCI seems to hold out some hope for future growth. In doing so
on this call, the company has come full circle to resurrect growth drivers that only recently
appear to have been declared dead.


We would be surprised how anyone who has listened to or read recent conference call
transcripts could take management guidance seriously. In our opinion, mounting
inconsistencies are unprofessional and raise serious questions about management's
credibility. To our mind, it appears as if management is grasping for ways to obscure a
dying business model from investor view.


Disclosure: I am/we are short HCI.


I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is
mentioned in this article.


 Like this article



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2985076-hci-group-patel-admits-game-over

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3127456-hci-group-you-can-have-your-donut-and-eat-it-too
5/22/2018 The HCI Group: Inconsistent And Unprofessional - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3402675-the-hci-group-inconsistent-and-unprofessional 3/10


