5/23/2018 Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge? - Sportsman's Warehouse Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:SPWH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2944246-sportsmans-warehouse-too-many-bullets-to-dodge 1/8


Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge?
Feb. 24, 2015 9:59 AM ET
by: The Street Sweeper


Summary


Sportsman’s Warehouse could easily fall short of Wall Street estimates when the
company reports its financial results for the most important quarter of the entire year.


The company’s largest publicly-traded competitor has already admitted that it offered
steep discounts in order to gain market share during the “wickedly competitive”
holiday shopping season.


SPWH has racked up so much debt that the company looks almost as highly
leveraged as a rival chain that’s literally on the brink of default.


Given the onerous nature of its debt load, SPWH may need to carry out a dilutive
secondary offering in order to raise additional cash before too long.


SPWH continues to wait on an elusive rebound in gun sales that, despite a recent
uptick in FBI background checks, still looks unlikely to materialize any time soon.


By Melissa Davis, TheStreetSweeper Senior Editor


Sportsman's Warehouse (Nasdaq: SPWH) looks an awful lot like a sitting duck right now.
Since its largest pure-play competitor has already shot off its mouth about the "wickedly
competitive" nature of the recent holiday season ahead of the company's fourth-quarter
report, SPWH must feel like it's treading water with the equivalent of a neon target on its
back.


Unless SPWH somehow managed to dodge a relentless slew of bullets over the holidays,
in fact, the company has probably spent the past couple of months in serious pain. We
should know for sure in a matter of weeks.


With rival Cabela's (NYSE: CAB) slashing its prices in order to steal business away from
the competition during the crucial holiday season, however, SPWH sure looks vulnerable
to a devastating miss. Just listen to some of the noisy warning shots fired by CAB earlier
this month, and imagine the fallout that SPWH likely suffered as a direct result.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SPWH

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2912506-cabelas-incorporated-cab-q4-2014-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CAB
5/23/2018 Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge? - Sportsman's Warehouse Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:SPWH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2944246-sportsmans-warehouse-too-many-bullets-to-dodge 2/8


We felt like when we talked to you guys in October that it was going to be a
promotional environment, and we felt pretty good about our November and
December promotional cadence. [But] as we started getting into November, it
became very clear that it sure felt like there was a lot less consumer disposable
income. And retailers, mostly outside of our space, really started cranking up offers -
to the point that some were almost ridiculous - weeks ahead of Black Friday. We just
felt like, to protect our franchise and to maybe be opportunistic and take share, we
had to jump into the fight. And what that meant was it took more discounts, as the
consumer was very promotionally minded in the quarter.


It was definitely a war for the customer's dollar in November and December, [AND] I
don't think we were unique in feeling the unbelievable pressures… It was a wickedly
competitive environment. [SO] we used our leadership position to get in the fight -
which a lot of our competitors can't. And that was kind of the story of the quarter.


While we didn't feel great about the earnings impact, we definitely took it to people
from a share standpoint… During the quarter, we were able to grow market share in
almost all of our major merchandise categories. We are pleased with our ability to
grow share during the quarter and further pleased we have seen this trend continue
into the first quarter of 2015.


It's a whole new world, with affiliate networks and mobile apps and comparison
shopping engines and all of that stuff. And I don't think the promotional environment
in the fourth quarter of THIS year - unless the economy improves greatly - will be
much less intense.


Adding Salt to a Fresh Wound


Even the bullish analysts who recommend the company's stock felt blindsided enough by
those dismal fourth-quarter results to express some measure of concern. Take a look at
their blunt commentary below.


SunTrust Robinson Humphrey said,


"We were worried about the Q4 release, but the news was still worse than we had
expected."


As per Felt & Company,
5/23/2018 Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge? - Sportsman's Warehouse Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:SPWH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2944246-sportsmans-warehouse-too-many-bullets-to-dodge 3/8


The company was promotional during the quarter, which helped it take market share,
but we think this impeded sales and margin… We think the company is in a much
more difficult competitive environment than it has faced over the last several years
and will need to continue to be aggressive on promotions to drive traffic and sales.


As per Stifel ,


While we noted a more promotional tone during the holidays, advertising expense
was much higher than expected… CAB took a more aggressive approach to
promotions, driving market share at the expense of merchandise margin… In
combination with the still-challenged comp, this signals ongoing traffic challenges.


Credit Suisse states,


These issues were known, but the magnitude was worse, and it is not clear if that
has and/or will continue in 2015, or if there was some pull-forward element.
[Management] commentary suggests a 'normalization of firearm and ammunition
sales.' However, much of that improvement was supported by investments in the
form of promotions and advertising, which is a concern… How much of the
improvement in firearm and ammo comps has been supported - and perhaps
inflated - by promotions? And will that really have to normalize at some point?


Misfiring When it Matters the Most


For its part, SPWH must have felt surprised to see CAB take such drastic measures in an
effort to salvage its all-important holiday season as well. After all, when SPWH hosted its
third-quarter conference call back in early December - with the Christmas shopping
season already in full swing - company executives insisted that they had yet to see any
signs of that sort of danger.


The CEO assured at the time,


We have seen nothing in terms of promotional cadence that would tell us there is
going to be any impact on margins. I have yet to see, at least on an anecdotal basis,
any national player really giving up a whole lot of margin. [Indeed], other than from
the Mom-and-Pops, we didn't see any real increase in promotional cadence at all.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2732415-sportsmans-warehouse-holdings-spwh-ceo-john-schaefer-on-q3-2014-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
5/23/2018 Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge? - Sportsman's Warehouse Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:SPWH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2944246-sportsmans-warehouse-too-many-bullets-to-dodge 4/8


To skeptical investors - including TheStreetSweeper itself - SPWH looked too optimistic for
its own good, even before CAB forced the company to open up its eyes. On the final day
of the holiday shopping season, in fact, TheStreetSweeper sounded a loud alarm about
SPWH, after uncovering all sorts of potential risks. Less than two weeks later, a fellow
critic took an even bolder stand by urging investors to sell SPWH short ahead of a likely
miss that could hammer the company's share price.


Let's revisit that bearish call, now that we know just how brutal the crucial holiday season
proved to be, and see if that warning sounds even more relevant today.


Dallas Salazar wrote in an article published by Seeking Alpha Pro more than a month ago,


Heading into Q4, I think that if SPWH doesn't have a fantastic holiday shopping
season that, based on Q3 results, the market will sell off shares hard on the
realization that an expanded inventory - comprising a whopping 87% (ex. PP&E) of
SPWH assets - will then need to be discounted for immediate sale to help fund
operations at the company. These inventories need to be turned into cash to prevent
complete reliance on further debt and to help meet borrowing covenants on the
company revolver that calculate borrowing base as a percentage of the inventories'
values.


Talk about a hairy situation. SPWH has already dug itself into such a deep hole that its
outstanding liabilities - at 8.03 times its projected EBITDA - look almost as daunting as
those incurred by a rival chain that's literally on the brink of default.


Recently hit with a three-notch downgrade that sent its credit rating deep into junk territory,
The Sports Authority has saddled itself with an onerous debt burden that (at 8.25 times its
earnings) closely resembles SPWH's own. Notably, when Moody's issued that downgrade
a few days ago, the firm specifically cited the company's high debt-to-income ratio as a
reason for concern.


Moody's noted in an article published by Bloomberg last Friday,


At these operating levels, Sports Authority's capital structure is unsustainable over the
longer term. And the risk of a default, including a distressed exchange, is high, given the
upcoming maturities.


Despite the onerous nature of its existing debt load, SPWH actually took deliberate steps
to raise its credit limit, so that it can borrow even more money than it already owes. Don't
rule out the possibility of a dilutive secondary offering, though. SPWH looks so highly



http://www.thestreetsweeper.org/undersurveillance/Sportsman_s_Warehouse__Aiming_Too_High_for_Its_Own_Good_

http://www.thestreetsweeper.org/ckfinder/userfiles/files/ShortReportOnSPWH%284%29.pdf

http://investors.sportsmanswarehouse.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=886242

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1132105/000119312514147052/d636947d424b4.htm#toc636947_11

http://www.thestreetsweeper.org/ckfinder/userfiles/files/EbitdaProjectionsForSPWH.png

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-02-20/sports-authority-facing-default-as-maturities-loom-moody-s-says

http://investors.sportsmanswarehouse.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=886251
5/23/2018 Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge? - Sportsman's Warehouse Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:SPWH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2944246-sportsmans-warehouse-too-many-bullets-to-dodge 5/8


leveraged at this point, in fact, that some investors simply assume that the company will
run out of other options pretty soon.


Granted, if SPWH falls short of Wall Street estimates for its most important quarter of the
year, its stock could easily tank before the company ever gets a chance to make that sort
of move. No wonder so many skeptical investors have decided to bet against SPWH,
ahead of that looming quarterly report.


Salazar explained last month,


I find that a short position in SPWH heading into Q4 earnings offers a near-term
catalyst for driving shares lower, as I feel comp sales will miss to the downside as a
result of several factors that weren't indicated as potential risks to operations by
management on its most recent investor call, prior to the Q4 holiday selling season.


Blowing up a Popular Myth


With investors understandably spooked by that report, SPWH began to steadily lose
ground - ultimately shedding 17.5% of its value in the two weeks that followed - before the
stock finally reversed course and rode a fresh wave of hope back to its previous levels. At
this point, however, that celebration looks a bit premature. Despite a favorable swing in
the data compiled by the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS),
investors cannot safely assume that the recent uptick in FBI background checks will
automatically translate into a rebound in gun sales, any time soon.


Even SPWH itself knows better than that.


The CEO reminded just a couple of months ago,


A very important concept to keep in mind is that NICS data is reported on a unit - not
a revenue - basis. This is important, since during the third quarter, the adjusted NICS
numbers grew by 3% for the states in which we have stores. On a unit basis, our
firearms increased by 3.1% from Q3 of last year. [However], we recognized an
overall decrease in net sales in firearms, because unit pricing decreased with many
vendors, as a result of increased promotional pricing.


With the big gun makers themselves reporting far more striking disparities between FBI
background checks and actual gun sales, some industry experts have started to question
whether NICS data even serves as a useful measuring tool anymore.



http://www.buckeyefirearms.org/january-2015-firearms-sales-checks-second-highest-january-record

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2620785-sturm-ruger-and-co-s-rgr-ceo-michael-fifer-on-q3-2014-results-earnings-call-transcript
5/23/2018 Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge? - Sportsman's Warehouse Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:SPWH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2944246-sportsmans-warehouse-too-many-bullets-to-dodge 6/8


KeyBanc noted in late January,


While much has been made of the recently positive inflection in NICS over the last
several months and its use as an indicator, we found it harder to reconcile this data
point with what our contacts were seeing from the respective industry viewpoints,
with many continuing to deemphasize NICS as a proxy and calling out an increasing
number of nuances, such as new vs. used sales mix, private-party transactions and -
most notably - the unit vs. price dynamic that has been driven by aggressive
promotions.


Firing a Round of Warning Shots


That Wall Street firm clearly sees little reason to hope for a near-term recovery, in the very
industry that SPWH happens to depend upon the absolute most. Indeed, after KeyBanc
analysts hosted meetings with a number of players involved in the gun industry - from
those responsible for manufacturing the weapons to those that (like SPWH itself) actually
sell those products to the public - KeyBanc loudly warned investors to brace themselves
for a lingering downturn, that could literally stretch into early next year.


KeyBanc cautioned,


We believe firearm inventories will continue to create industry headwinds for at least
another 6 to 12 months. We also see this dynamic creating a slippery slope for
pricing that could have longer-term ramifications, with the majority of our contacts
struggling to predict when pricing would ultimately bottom and begin to recover…


KeyBanc further declared,


An emerging and increasingly uncertain theme at the [trade] show was the pervasive
level of firearms discounting and its longer-term impact on structural pricing levels,
as the industry progresses towards a new normal, after several years of
exceptionally strong pricing power. To that end, we see this dynamic fostering a 'race
to the bottom' mentality over the coming months, as competition remains fierce and
consumers become accustomed to lower price points after several years of minimal
discounting, pressuring the expectation that we believe exists in the investment
community that pricing and margins will quickly recover to prior levels as inventory
normalizes.



http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/AMDA-2LSJQJ/3664121792x0x783115/A7DE17F4-C8E9-4C1D-B862-03249562D3BD/SPWH_Investor_Presentation_September_2014_FINAL.pdf
5/23/2018 Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge? - Sportsman's Warehouse Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:SPWH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2944246-sportsmans-warehouse-too-many-bullets-to-dodge 7/8


Feel free to dismiss that bearish commentary as an overreaction, if you wish. Just be sure
to pay attention to those who have actually chosen to hope for the best.


In the interest of fairness, we have decided to hand the microphone over to a more
optimistic analyst for closing arguments. Despite his outperform rating on SPWH, he
cannot seem to shake some rather troubling concerns.


Credit Suisse noted right after SPWH reported its latest quarterly results,


The key debate in the sector continues to be over where firearms eventually settle.
Interestingly, SPWH's unit sales have been improving (up 3.1% in Q3), consistent
with recent NICS data for their states, but it was the pricing pressure that sent sales
negative…


The company expects this pricing pressure to continue into Q1, as the Mom-and-
Pops clear through their inventory. There could be more downside to prices if the
national players compete more aggressively, which we are beginning to see
[already].


There is a major inventory issue in the long guns, causing that price pressure across
the industry. That may last another quarter or two and could also extend into
handguns.


The firm conceded,


In addition, we wonder how much of that recent stabilization in sales reflects the
discounting, which may have pulled some demand forward and potentially created
another headwind for next year. Further declines in firearms do not appear
embedded in estimates for next year, which is part of the risk.


Disclosure: The author is short SPWH.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: * Important Disclose: The owners of TheStreetSweeper
established a short position in SPWH prior to the publication of this report, and they stand
to profit on any future declines in the company's stock price. As a matter of policy,
however, TheStreetSweeper prohibits members of its editorial staff - including the reporter
5/23/2018 Sportsman's Warehouse: Too Many Bullets To Dodge? - Sportsman's Warehouse Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:SPWH) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2944246-sportsmans-warehouse-too-many-bullets-to-dodge 8/8


