Muddy Waters, LLC 
268 Bush Street 


#2931 
San Francisco, CA 94105 





Ms. Marie Ehrling 
Mr. Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo 
Mr. Mats Jansson 
Mr. Mikko Kosonen 
Ms. Nina Linander 
Mr. Martin Lorentzon 
Mr. Per-Arne Sandström 
Ms. Kersti Strandqvist 
Ms. Agneta Ahlström 
Mr. Stefan Carlsson 
Mr. Peter Wiklund 
Ms. Eva-Marie Penttilä 
c/o TeliaSonera AB 
Sureplan 8 
106 63 Stockholm 
Sweden 
 
To the Directors of TeliaSonera AB: 
 
We are short the securities of TeliaSonera because we believe information that is being 
withheld from investors, along with the current board and management’s (in)actions, will 
significantly impact the company’s shares and credit profile.1  While TeliaSonera has 
provided some transparency into its misdeeds in Uzbekistan, it has not made public the 
likelihood that the company’s other Eurasian and Nepal operations suffer from similar 
problems, and on a massive scale.  It appears that TeliaSonera made corrupt payments in 
Uzbekistan exceeding SEK 3.1 billion (US$380 million).2,3  Uzbekistan appears to be 
only the tip of the iceberg.  We estimate – perhaps conservatively – that TeliaSonera 
could have made corrupt payments throughout its Eurasia and Nepal operations that 
exceed SEK 17 billion (US$2.1 billion).  In addition, TeliaSonera is potentially obligated 
to make additional payment to a problematic partner in Azerbaijan of up to SEK 7.6 
billion (US$934.5 million).   
 
TeliaSonera’s inability, or failure, to disclose more information to investors has at least 
four major implications. 
 


• TeliaSonera’s financial statements are misleading, and likely contain material 
misstatements.  Knowingly (or with willful ignorance) continuing to make those 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 Readers should read in full our disclaimer on the last page of this letter. 
2 Converted from US$ to SEK at 8.11 
3 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/uzbekistan/gulnara_karimova/the-prodigal-daughter/table.php  


	
  


Page 1 of 37
material misstatements could be problematic for you and the present management.  
Telia’s continued application of certain accounting gimmicks can be interpreted 
as the company still having a culture where the rules do not apply. 


• The company is facing three significant cash flow issues that implicate both its 
ability to pay the dividend and its credit profile.  A) It is plausible that the 
disposal of the Eurasian and Nepal businesses could fetch well less than SEK 20 
billion (US$2.5 billion) in total – particularly given the dearth of credible buyers; 
existing contingent liabilities; issues with repatriating cash; and, the risk that host 
governments will either interfere with, or expropriate, these businesses (as has 
been done before in these countries, including to Telia’s benefit).  The more 
conservative analysts estimate that Telia will receive approximately SEK 20 
billion for these businesses, but they appear not understand how widespread the 
problems are, including in Nepal. B) Once Telia has disposed of these businesses, 
we estimate it will have lost 33% of its consolidated 2013 free cash flow.  C) If 
Telia were to take some of the write-downs we believe are mandated, the dividend 
would likely be curtailed. 


• TeliaSonera could have legal liability, including to the United States Department 
of Justice, in the tens of billions of SEK (quite possibly well in excess of US$1.0 
billion).  A newspaper in Sweden recently reported that Telia might pay several 
billion SEK to the DOJ, which we think could be low.  Regardless, Telia has 
made no provision for any settlements or penalties. 


• You and the new management do not appear to be capable of dealing with the 
significant challenges posed by TeliaSonera’s corruption issues.  On the contrary, 
the company’s actions and statements demonstrate indecision and contradictory 
goals by juxtaposing dealing with regulatory investigations against continuing 
problematic – quite possibly illegal – conduct.  Since you and the new 
management took office, Telia has alternately shown: that it’s aggressively trying 
to get out of potentially corrupt relationships by selling back Nepal Satellite at a 
significant loss; yet, Telia keeps paying significant dividends through Azertel to 
potentially corrupt partners in Azerbaijan.  Even more confusing, according to an 
email from a Telia spokesperson we have reviewed, Telia supposedly does not 
plan to honor the put option (of the same party to which it continues to pay 
dividends) for compliance reasons.  After divesting Nepal Satellite, Telia has been 
unable to repatriate profits from Nepal, which could be as interpreted as 
punishment for selling the stake back to Zhodar Investments.  And while in 2014 
Telia expressed confidence it could run the Eurasia and Nepal businesses 
compliantly, the same day an unflattering book on the company’s dealings there is 
announced, Telia seemingly in haste announced it is exiting those businesses.  
Throughout, Telia continues to present misstated and misleading financials.    


 
Telia has shown that it is a mediocre operator in its northern European business, where 
net sales have declined since 2009.  On this basis, we think the valuation of the stub (i.e, 
business remaining after the disposals) should be approximately 7.4x EV / EBITDA.  
Depending on how bad the aforementioned issues become, we can see the stock selling 
for SEK 27 to SEK 29.  (See our methodology in Appendix C.)  While it is impossible for 
anybody to predict these outcomes, you would due your investors a significant service by 


Page 2 of 37
being more forthcoming about Telia’s problems.  This way, they would have the benefit 
of being able to make more informed judgments. 
 
We therefore call upon you to: 
 


• release the full Norton Rose Fulbright report so that investors at least have a basis 
to determine whether the investigation was comprehensive enough, and hopefully 
have enough information to make good judgments about the risks and value of 
their Telia holdings, 


• true up the company’s financial statements in order to give investors a much 
clearer picture by a) immediately writing-down what appear to be billions of 
SEK in assets that disguise likely corrupt payments, b) adopting conservative 
accounting policies, and c) restating historical results to reflect these changes, 


• hold suspected wrongdoers accountable through cooperation with the authorities 
and civil litigation, 


• immediately cease paying dividends to parties whose UBOs are unknown, or 
otherwise suspect, in order to avoid antagonizing regulators and possibly 
increasing amounts needed to settle – note an article in which Swedish legal 
experts agree with this course of action,4  


• adopting a firm policy that the top priorities in unwinding the legacy problems 
are a) ceasing all questionable activities immediately and permanently, b) 
providing transparency to investors, the public, and regulators, and  


• encouraging wholeheartedly governments and human rights activists to campaign 
for the release of imprisoned Azeri investigative journalist Ms. Khadija 
Ismayilova, who seems to have been convicted on spurious charges as a result of 
exposing Telia’s corrupt acts in Azerbaijan. 


 
The bottom line is that the balancing act you are trying to perform is impossible, and this 
scenario is unwinnable.  The long-term is best served by dealing now with the inevitable 
before these problems grow even bigger. 
 
Background 
 
Despite TeliaSonera quite possibly holding the all-time record for corrupt payments by a 
western company, you and the new management have given no indication to investors 
that Uzbekistan was almost certainly the rule, rather than the exception, in TeliaSonera’s 
emerging market businesses.  We see TeliaSonera’s failure to provide substantially more 
detail to investors as a passive form of a cover up.5 
 
(We discuss several of Telia’s larger undisclosed issues in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, 
Cambodia, and Nepal in Appendices A and B.  Appendix A also includes a refresher on 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
4 https://www.occrp.org/en/daily/3988-teliasonera-warned-not-to-pay-further-dividends-to-azeri-partners 
5 Ms. Ehrling pledged during her speech at the 2015 AGM that “We must feel assured that we are 
sufficiently strong to continue to conduct these business operations sustainably and be able to handle the 
big risks that still exist in the operations. We take a stand, and when we have taken a stand, we must dare 
be transparent and talk about the difficult and complex challenges that we have.” 


Page 3 of 37
Uzbekistan, which has patterns that repeat in the other countries.  Appendix B lists 
potentially corrupt payments we have identified, which total SEK 17 billion (US$2.1 
billion), plus a contingent obligation to make a potentially corrupt additional payment of 
SEK 7.6 billion (US$934.5 million).  We provide a red flag matrix to help readers assess 
how problematic each transaction could be.  Readers of those sections should be able to 
decide for themselves how difficult it really is for Telia to draw conclusions about the 
legality of its business practices.) 
 
Ms. Ehrling, CEO Dennelind, and TeliaSonera corporate publications have greatly 
downplayed the extent of the company’s corruption issues, including the following:   


“Within TeliaSonera there has been a pattern of inadequately conducting 
transactions and dealings. Historically, it concerns; Substantial payments to 
advisers and intermediaries for, among other things, lobbying activities; lack of 
control of business partners; and inadequate handling of warning signs.”  


When asked directly whether TeliaSonera bribed Aliyev’s regime [in Azerbaijan], 
Dennelind told OCCRP, “We cannot prove it. But we cannot rule it out.”6 


“We have been as open as we believe is possible. There are many factors we need 
to take into account in order to act wisely and constructively,” said Ehrling. 
“Among other things, we should not obstruct the prosecutor's work, but it is also 
about how we deal with individuals inside and outside the company. We can’t go 
out and accuse various people of this and that without solid proof…There are 
several countries that we have investigated and presented in the report that is on 
our website, and that anyone can read. It says that there was a pattern in how the 
transactions were carried out, which we would not have [given support to] 
today.”7  
 


One possible reason why you have not been more realistic in your public assessments of 
TeliaSonera’s corrupt actions is that you understand that the scale of corruption is jaw-
dropping, but you have a misguided belief that the best course of action is to say as little 
as possible publicly (and possibly to regulators).  That might make sense when dealing 
with a problem, but it often backfires when dealing with a crisis.  Telia is in crisis.    
 
Lord Browne, the former CEO of British Petroleum, stated in an October 7th BBC 
podcast (on Volkswagen’s ability to manage its current crisis) that in a crisis situation 
such as BP’s Gulf of Mexico spill (or TeliaSonera’s corruption coming to light), 
company attorneys tend to counsel publicly disclosing as little as possible.  Lord Browne 
said companies should be clear and truthful in their communication and avoid corporate 
spin.  Those concerned with liability and mitigation can impede these efforts and 
oftentimes fail in their goal.  Lord Browne counsels passing judgment as a 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
6 https://www.occrp.org/en/announcements/3985-occrp-global-reporters-release-first-khadija-project-
stories 
7 https://www.occrp.org/en/daily/3987-teliasonera-dismisses-demands-for-greater-transparency-amid-
azerbaijan-bribe-storm 


Page 4 of 37
businessperson on legal advice, rather than becoming a division of the legal 
department.  You have hinted that you are following a willful non-disclosure strategy.  
Telia engaged Norton Rose Fulbright to investigate potential corruption outside of 
Uzbekistan.  The company pledged at the outset it “would be as transparent as possible 
regarding the outcome of the review”.8  Since the investigation wrapped up, you have 
rescinded that pledge, and now state that disclosure depends on counsel’s view of “how 
transparent we should and can be.”9  Although near silence might seem attractive now, it 
will likely destroy value over the long-term. 
 
In TeliaSonera’s case, Lord Browne’s advice seems particularly on-point.  Press and 
investors continue to ensure a good deal of the problems come to light.  Swedish 
journalist Patricia Hedelius (@PHedelius) is releasing a book tomorrow, October 16th, 
called “TELIA – Alliance of Government and Corruption”.  The book promises to further 
expose the company’s corrupt dealings.10  This book was announced on September 17th, 
the same day Telia abruptly announced it will reverse course by exiting the Eurasia and 
Nepal businesses.11  This date was about two years after you and the current management 
took office, and about one and a half years since you confidently stated that Telia would 
continue to do business in Eurasia.  (We cite this odd timing below as one example that 
you and the management are seemingly without a well-considered plan to deal with the 
company’s challenges.) 
 
Another possible reason for your public circumspection is willful ignorance of Telia’s 
conduct.  You’ve told investors that the NRF investigation was effectively unable to 
conclude anything meaningful.12  Perhaps one reason for the inconclusiveness is a lack of 
investment in the investigation.  Telia disclosed that it spent approximately SEK 60 
million on the investigation.13  In contrast, a mostly single country (China) fraud we 
exposed, Sino-Forest Corporation, spent in excess of SEK 406 million (US$50 million) 
on its subsequent internal investigation.14  (The investigation was almost universally 
discredited.)  Wal-Mart expects to spend in excess of SEK 5.3 billion (US$650 million) 
on FCPA-related investigations and compliance efforts after SEK 195 million (US$24 
million) in bribes in Mexico came to light in a New York Times article.15  Telia’s annual 
audit fee is SEK 38 million.  A comprehensive investigation into conduct occurring in 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
8 
http://www.teliasonera.com/Documents/AGM/Marie%20Ehrling's%20speech%20AGM%202014%20v2.p
df 
9 id. 
10 http://massolit.se/vaar-utgivning/boecker/telia-alliansregeringen-och-korruptionen/12936 
11 http://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2015/9/teliasonera-is-not-a-long-term-owner-in-
region-eurasia/ 
12 e.g. Ms. Ehrling’s  statement while summarizing the findings of the NRF investigation at the April 2, 
2014 AGM “It cannot even be ruled out that certain conduct has been in violation of the law”, which is 
analogous to saying “It cannot even be ruled out that certain of Israel’s weapons are nuclear”. 
13 
http://www.teliasonera.com/Documents/AGM/Marie%20Ehrling's%20speech%20AGM%202014%20v2.p
df 
14 http://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-investor/sino-forest-files-for-bankruptcy-
protection/article4097039/  
15 http://www.fcpablog.com/blog/2015/8/19/walmart-fcpa-spending-just-topped-650-million.html 


Page 5 of 37
five countries that are each less developed than China or Mexico probably could have 
cost a good deal more than SEK 60 million (US$7.4 million).  
 
Regardless of the reason, Telia’s failure to accurately describe the scale of its likely 
involvement in corrupt activities, points to blithe hypocrisy of the company.  While Ms. 
Ehrling has talked about Telia’s ability to operate in accordance with “Nordic heritage 
and culture”, the company has, as far as we can tell, completely failed to try to make any 
past employees, advisors, or counterparties accountable for actions – actions that we 
believe have done far more damage to TeliaSonera than investors appreciate.  There are 
various transactions totaling in the multiple billions of SEK in which one or more people 
associated with Telia appear to have had roles on both sides.  Such facts suggest the 
possibility that enormous sums of money have been embezzled from the company, yet 
you seem determined not to take action.  As a result, you might be allowing certain 
individuals to get away with having unduly enriched themselves. 
 
Yet at the same time, Ms. Khadija Ismayilova, an Azeri investigative journalist, has been 
rotting in a prison in Azerbaijan.  Ms. Ismayilova reported that TeliaSonera’s joint 
venture partner in Azerbaijan is closely linked to the ruling family, and that TeliaSonera 
knowingly assisted them in corruptly transferring one of the state’s most valuable assets – 
its holding in Azercell – to themselves.16 17  She was arrested in December 2014, and was 
sentenced to seven and one-half years, which she firmly believes is because she exposed 
these dealings with TeliaSonera.18  Ms. Ismayilova repeatedly asked TeliaSonera whether 
the joint venture partner is connected to Azerbaijan’s president, but the company refused 
to answer.19  If TeliaSonera does not break its near-silence on Azerbaijan and Ms. 
Ismayilova, it is hard to see there being a strong effort by foreign governments to push 
for her release.  We are unsure how Ms. Ismayilova’s status as the only person to be 
prosecuted for TeliaSonera’s troubled involvement in Eurasia and Nepal embodies 
Nordic values.    
 
Accounting Issues 
 
TeliaSonera continues to file financial statements with material misstatements.  In 
Appendix B, we list approximately SEK 25 billion (US$3 billion) of suspicious 
transactions that could be corrupt payments, along with brief explanations as to why they 
are questionable.20  Approximately 80% of the questionable, and therefore potentially 
corrupt, payments were booked as assets.  If these were in fact corrupt payments, they 
should have been expensed as incurred.  However, booking corrupt payments – if that’s 
what they were –as assets likely made it easier to get away with such massive corruption 
because it avoided dragging down profit margins, and giving rise to questions from 
investors.  Instead of seeing sagging profit margins, investors saw an expanding balance 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
16 http://www.rferl.org/content/teliasonera-azerbaijan-aliyev-corruption-investigation-occrp/25457907.html 
17 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/azerbaijan/azerbaijan-telecom/offshores-close-to-president-paid-
nothing-for-share-of-state-telecom.php  
18 https://www.hrw.org/news/2014/12/05/azerbaijan-investigative-journalist-arrested 
19 http://www.rferl.org/content/backgrounderfullpage/25457824.html 
20 This includes the goodwill associated with the Azerbaijan put option. 


Page 6 of 37
sheet, which they might have interpreted as a sign of strength.  Truing up Telia’s 
financial statements could involve write-downs of as much as SEK 20 billion (US$2.5 
billion).   
 
Rather than rinsing the company’s financials clean of its past problematic accounting, the 
company appears to be gradually trying to let the air out of the inflated balance sheet 
through incremental impairments.  Because management and the board have been opaque 
about the Company's investigation of the numerous suspicious transactions discussed 
below, draping its investigation in privilege, it is difficult to know whether management 
and the board have culpable knowledge of these transactions. Unless you have done a 
comprehensive investigation of these transactions and have a sound basis to believe that 
these transactions are not corrupt, you are, at a minimum, acting recklessly in publishing 
these financial statements.  It seems unlikely that any comprehensive investigation could 
be done given the relatively trivial amounts you have expended, as discussed above.  
Further, it seems unlikely that if the results of your investigation were comforting, you 
would be draping it in privilege. 
 
We have issues with TeliaSonera’s continuation of two previous accounting gimmicks 
that in 2013 and 2014 (the two years for which this board is responsible for the 
financials) respectively inflated reported EPS by SEK0.19 per share and SEK0.12 per 
share, or 5.9% and 3.8%.  These amounts are small compared to the magnitude of 
possible write-downs from corrupt payments, but they show a continuing indifference to 
rules and transparency.   
 
The first gimmick TeliaSonera uses to inflate reported EPS is to unjustifiably reduce non-
controlling interests’ shares of income, thereby increasing its own share of the profits.  
This boosted reported EPS in 2013 and 2014, respectively, by 3.7% and 4.3%.  When 
calculating its shares of income from Azerbaijan and Nepal, TeliaSonera assumed that it 
owned shares that still belong to its business partners.  The (highly questionable) minority 
shareholders of Azertel have an option to put 42.2% of the company to TeliaSonera’s 
consolidated subsidiary, Fintur.  Despite the partners receiving dividends on those shares 
through 2013 (the most recent year for which Fintur’s annual report is available), Telia 
continues to count those shares as its own when calculating net income to its 
shareholders.21  Telia’s (also questionable) partner in Nepal pledged 20% of Ncell to the 
company as collateral on a US$230 million loan TeliaSonera extended him to finance the 
purchase of said shares.  According to the 2012 and 2013 financials of TeliaSonera UTA 
Holding B.V., the loan is still on the books, and interest is accruing.  By consolidating its 
partners’ interests when reporting net income, TeliaSonera seems to be (once again) 
saying the rules don’t apply to it.   
 
The second gimmick is TeliaSonera’s ignorance of an accounting standard to keep a large 
expense off its income statement.  TeliaSonera accounts for Fintur’s contingent 
obligation to purchase its Azertel partners’ stake (should the partners exercise the put 
option) as a liability.  As of December 31, 2014, that option represented a US$879 
	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
21 According to the Turkish Gazette, Fintur declared 2014 dividends to the put option holder of SEK 
US$43.7 million (SEK 354 million).   


Page 7 of 37
million liability.  This put option is a contingent obligation to make a massive, very 
possibly corrupt, payment.  When TeliaSonera originally granted the put in 2008, it 
valued it at US$740 million and recorded it as a liability.  In part due to the suspicious 
nature of this arrangement, we believe that the proper treatment to balance out the 
liability in 2008 was to also expense the same amount on the income statement.  In 2009, 
however, growth hungry TeliaSonera evidently did not want to reduce its reported net 
income by approximately US$632 million, or 23%, so instead it balanced the liability by 
booking a corresponding amount of goodwill.  Each year, TeliaSonera fair values the put, 
and most years it increases in value – i.e., the contingent liability gets larger.  Under 
applicable accounting standards (IFRS 3/IAS 39), TeliaSonera should expense the change 
in fair value of the liability.  Instead, TeliaSonera – even under the new board and 
management – continues to ignore this requirement.   
 
This ignorance is particularly egregious because Fintur, which was also audited by 
Telia’s then-current auditor, PwC, adheres to the standard.  TeliaSonera chose to 
completely ignore Fintur’s expensing policy – except for 2008.  In 2008, the fair value of 
the put went down because of the financial crisis.  When a financial liability decreases, it 
provides a gain to net income.  In that one year alone, TeliaSonera adhered to IAS 39, 
and Fintur booked a US$22.5 million gain.  In a note describing the accounting for the 
put in TeliaSonera’s 2008 annual report, the company wrote “Any future changes in the 
estimated redemption amount will be recognized in the income statement…”.22   
 
However, TeliaSonera declared a self-serving and specious accounting change the next 
year.  Disappointingly, the “new” TeliaSonera continues this misleading policy, which in 
2013, kept US$144 million out of expenses.  (Note that the accounting policy was a slight 
detriment in 2014, as TeliaSonera did not recognize a US$36 million gain from a slight 
decrease in the value of the liability.)  TeliaSonera’s incorrect accounting policy has 
prevented it from recognizing US$270 million in expenses since 2009.  Again, the rules 
apparently continue not to apply to TeliaSonera. 
 
You have stated a belief that the pursuit of growth and profits does not justify prior the 
board and management’s conduct.  Does the pursuit of reporting more robust profits, and 
salvaging the dividend and credit profile justify yours’?   
 
Cash Flow Issues 
 
TeliaSonera investors seem not to know about three coming cash flow issues that must be 
apparent to you.  We say this because the current share price otherwise greatly overvalues 
the northern Europe stub business, where net sales and ARPU have declined, and return 
on assets has been mediocre.   
 


• TeliaSonera seems unlikely to receive more than SEK 20 billion (US$2.5 billion) 
EBITDA for its Eurasia and Nepal businesses.  Our base case assumes Telia 
receives net consideration of SEK 18.4 billion (US$2.3 billion).  There is 
substantial downside risk to that number, including host governments 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
22 TeliaSonera 2008 AR, p. 87. 


Page 8 of 37
expropriating or significantly degrading the businesses.  TeliaSonera likely made 
its chances of receiving only fire sale valuations greater by announcing its 
intention to dispose of the businesses at such an early stage.  (See Appendix C for 
our valuation calculations and scenarios.) 
 
Now that Telia is at least partly coming into compliance, the threat of host 
governments expropriating or interfering with the businesses is real.  Prior to 
Telia’s entrance into Uzbekistan, other telecom companies were already 
experiencing trouble with government obstruction, harassment, with the intent to 
extort payments or interests in the corporations. 
 
In late 2004, Skytel, a joint venture between NCI International, a US company, 
and state-owned Uzbektelecom, was reportedly directly approached by Karimova 
(the president’s daughter) with a demand for a 50 percent stake in the company.23  
Shortly after NCI ignored the request, it found that Skytel’s frequency was 
jammed by an Uzbek government agency.  Skytel’s local partner moreover was 
either unable or unwilling to assist, and didn’t even return the company’s calls. 
When finally able to set up a meeting with Uzbek officials, Skytel was facing the 
prospects of a US$17 million loss.  The senior official with whom the company 
met offered two options: the official “could personally guarantee that Skytel 
would be able to use the frequency without interference” for $30 million or the 
government could buy NCI’s shares at a “significantly reduced rate”.24  NCI 
declined and after failing to find another buyer, shut down. 
 
Subsequently, MCT, another US telecom operating in Uzbekistan began having 
problems with the authorities in 2006.  In 2007, the US ambassador concluded 
that MCT “continues to survive only at the pleasure of the Uzbek government. It 
is likely that authorities are preserving the firm until its assets may be sold to a 
pre-selected bidder”.25   The US ambassador leaves no doubt as to the source of 
MCT’s governmental problems, mentioning Karimova’s personal interest in 
MCT’s local company, COSCOM.  Karimova had told an officer of the embassy 
“during an impromptu meeting that she wanted COSCOM to be sold to MTS, 
though she said a Scandinavian buyer would also be acceptable.”26  The eventual 
buyer turned out to be TeliaSonera.  It would be ironic if Telia suffered a similar 
fate. 





	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
23 Cables no. 284 and 572, Purnell to State Dept., January 28, 2005 and 24 February 2005 respectively,  
http://www.wikileaks.org/plusd/cables/05TASHKENT284_a.html  
and http://www.wikileaks.org/plusd/cables/05TASHKENT572_a.html.  
24 Cables no. 284 and 572, Purnell to State Dept., January 28, 2005 and 24 February 2005 respectively,  
http://www.wikileaks.org/plusd/cables/05TASHKENT284_a.html  
and http://www.wikileaks.org/plusd/cables/05TASHKENT572_a.html.  
25 Cable no. 265, Purnell to State Dept., 16 February 2007,  
http://www.wikileaks.org/plusd/cables/07TASHKENT265_a.html. 
26 Ambassador Purnell’s primary source regarding Fintur’s activities seems to have been the General 
Manager of Coscom. Cable no. 769, Purnell to State Dept., 13 April 2007,  
https://wikileaks.org/cable/2007/04/07TASHKENT769.html.  


Page 9 of 37
• Based on 2013 financials, TeliaSonera would be losing 33% of its reported 
consolidated free cash flow.27  These losses make sustaining a per share dividend 
anywhere near SEK 3 highly unlikely without negatively impacting the credit 
profile, and will likely negatively impact TeliaSonera’s credit profile by requiring 
more borrowing.  On a recent call, the company was equivocal about whether it 
could maintain the dividend.  A more forthright explanation would indicate that it 
is clearly at risk. 
 


• Per TeliaSonera’s disclosures, its ability to pay dividends would likely be 
negatively impacted if it made some of the balance sheet adjustments we believe 
are necessary.  


 
Potential FCPA Liability 
 
Resolving TeliaSonera’s legal issues with governments could cost it in the tens of billions 
of Swedish Krona.  The governments of Sweden, the Netherlands, and the United States 
are currently investigating whether the company’s conduct violated anti-corruption 
laws.28 29 Swedish media recently reported that TeliaSonera’s settlement with the United 
States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) that could be several billion Swedish Krona.30  We 
think that number could turn out to have been optimistic.  The U.S.’s Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (“FCPA”) requires disgorgement of profit that resulted from corruption.  
We estimate TeliaSonera’s net income from Eurasia and Nepal during the three years 
alone of 2011 through 2014 was SEK 20 billion (US$2.5 billion).31  Although we are not 
experts in the FCPA, we believe three factors will bear negatively for TeliaSonera on any 
settlement proposal the DOJ accepts. 
 


• TeliaSonera appears to be continuing to engage in conduct that violates the FCPA 
– including by helping to cause the distribution of dividends to possibly 
problematic joint venture partners.  We believe that TeliaSonera’s inability to 
establish ultimate beneficial ownership of these partners is irrelevant.  We expect 
the DOJ to take the position that similar to a financial institution, the company has 
anti-money laundering duties to know the identities of UBOs of entities to which 
it causes payments to be made.  An email TeliaSonera purportedly circulated in 
May 2015 illustrates both the company’s cognitive dissonance and its apparent 
agreement with this analysis.  
 
The email, purportedly written by Peter Borsos (TeliaSonera’s SVP and Head of 
Group Communications), subject “Update regarding media on TeliaSonera and 
Azerbadjan [sic]”, explains that TeliaSonera does not know who the UBO of its 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
27 Defined as cash flow from operations (“CFFO”) minus capital expenditures. 
28 http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/846663e0-5d19-11e5-97e9-7f0bf5e7177b.html#axzz3oZm0jybh 
29 http://www.dutchnews.nl/news/archives/2015/04/dutch-officials-probe-uzbekistan-telecom-bribery-
focus-on-teliasonera-vimpelcom/ 
30 http://www.svd.se/usa-hotar-telia-med-skadestand-pa-miljarder/om/mutmisstankarna-mot-telia 
31 Operating income was approximately SEK 25 billion, which we reduced by 20% to account for interest 
and income taxes. 


Page 10 of 37
minority shareholder in Azerbaijan is, but that it will continue paying dividends to 
said unknown party in order to avoid the “…risk of lawsuits from a number of 
parties in a number of geographies”.  However, the email also states that 
TeliaSonera will not honor this minority shareholder’s put option, which is shown 
as a SEK 8.4 billion liability as of December 31, 2014, because “…we today 
never make transactions with parties unknown to us”.  We have not confirmed the 
authenticity of this email, so we invite you to comment on whether it is authentic, 
and whether our quotations are accurate in substance. 
 


• The size of TeliaSonera’s corrupt payments could be staggering, which might 
have bearing on the size of an accepted settlement proposal.  We believe the 
amount of transactions and dividends that might be seen as corrupt payments SEK 
17 billion (US$2.1 billion).  In addition, TeliaSonera is potentially obligated to 
make additional payment to a problematic partner in Azerbaijan of up to SEK 7.6 
billion (US$934.5 million).  We would not be surprised if the DOJ sought some 
minimum proportion as a penalty.  Note that Siemens’ settlement of at least 
US$1.6 billion was a multiple of its corrupt payments of US$1.36 billion.  The 
fines would have been much higher if company leadership had not been so 
forthright about its misdoings during the investigation. 32  (We note Telia’s 
contrasting defiant behavior of continuing to pay dividends to its minority partner 
in Azertel.)  Alstom’s settlement of US$772 million was a 10x multiple of its 
corrupt payments.   
 


• TeliaSonera’s circumspection with investors about its past conduct includes such 
statements as: 


“We have had a thorough discussion within the Board and Management and 
of course with our legal advisors regarding how transparent we should and can 
be.” 


“It’s not the Board’s role to assess whether what has happened is illegal. That 
is to be done by the courts. The Board can as of today, not exclude that some 
actions have been criminal.”  


If the company has been nearly this circumspect with the DOJ, we do not think 
their attorneys working on the matter will be amused.   
 


Telia’s Board and Management do not seem up to the Challenges 
 
We do not see that TeliaSonera’s board and management are up to the challenge of 
addressing the company’s corruption-related issues.  While many of Ms. Ehrling and Mr. 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
32 Siemens paid the U.S. Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission $900 million. Per 
the New York Times, “it was far below the estimated $2.7 billion that might have been levied under Justice 
Department guidelines. Federal authorities said in court papers that they were impressed by the company’s 
efforts to identify wrongdoing and prevent new occurrences through an internal monitor and other 
measures.” http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/16/business/worldbusiness/16siemens.html?_r=0 


Page 11 of 37
Dennelind’s statements portray a calm demeanor, we interpret certain actions as meaning 
the board and management are indecisive and struggling to steer the company through its 
problems.   
 


• When TeliaSonera sold back Nepal Satellite to Zhodar Investment (at a loss of 
SEK 389 million) in September 2013, it might have seemed to be an auspicious 
start to Mr. Dennelind’s tenure as CEO, and a sign that the new board and 
management are capable of dealing with corruption issues.  However, we wonder 
whether TeliaSonera’s subsequent inability to repatriate cash from Nepal is a 
consequence of this transaction.  Ironically, Norton Rose Fulbright advised 
TeliaSonera on this sale.33  Did any of the people involved on the TeliaSonera 
side perhaps suffer from hubris? 


• You seem repeatedly surprised by adverse events, and are exhibiting knee jerk 
reactions.  The timing of Telia’s announcement it is reversing course and exiting 
Eurasia and Nepal gives the appearance that you were prodded to act by the 
upcoming book.   Our impression from the conference call is that at the time of 
the announcement, the company still did not understand fully the accounting 
implications of the disposals.  


• You seem unable to decide on whether your priority is to be compliant and think 
long-term, or maximize short-term financial performance.   





	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
33 http://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2013/9/teliasonera-exits-nepal-satellite-focuses-
on-ncell-in-nepal/ 


Page 12 of 37
Appendix A 
Discussion of TeliaSonera’s Widespread Problems 


 
Uzbekistan 
 
Gulnara Karimova, the daughter of Uzbek President Islam Karimova, was at the center of 
the bribery and corruption scandal in Uzbekistan’s telecommunications sector that 
triggered investigations into bribery, corruption, extortion, corporate raiding, theft of state 
assets, expropriation of foreign assets, involving TeliaSonera, as well as other Nordic and 
Russian telecoms and their local partners across Eurasia. 1   The total quantifiable 
payments (not including Karimova’s expansive list of “consulting” services and 
“charitable” causes) made by Telia to Karimova fronts appears to exceed US $380 
million,34 plus her 6% stake in TeliaSonera’s Uzbek subsidiary which as of September 
2015 remains held by Takilant Limited, and for which TeliaSonera .35 


Uzbekistan has by far the greatest amount of information in the public domain about 
Telia’s corrupt activities.  Accusations emerged after a Swedish investigative report 
broke the story on TeliaSonera’s bribes and payoffs to Karimova through a web of front 
companies and Swiss authorities detained Karimova’s associates.36 The story has been 
widely reported in Western media. By 2014, having embarrassed her father and his 
Uzbek nation, she lost his protection and support, and was put under house arrest.37 
 
In brief, Telia acquired the vast majority of its Uzbek telecom assets through its dealings 
with Gulnara Karimova.  Most of these assets were “raided” from other investors or the 
Uzbek government with Karimova’s assistance.38  In addition to acquiring “raided” 
assets, Telia and its competitors seemingly could not conduct any transactions with the 
Uzbek government without first paying Karimova.  Karimova required ongoing payments 
for “services”, “investments”, and “consulting” in exchange for “managing” relationships 
with various organs of the Uzbek government.  The Mannheimer Swartling report on 
Telia in Uzbekistan found that some of the foreign-owned telecom companies operating 
there could not convert earnings into foreign currency and could not repatriate these 
profits without Karimova’s assistance.39  
 
Most of the transactions TeliaSonera conducted with Uzbekistan utilized the facilitation 
services of Gibraltar-based company Takilant Limited.  Cursory due diligence on 
Takilant would have have thrown up red flags.  The company had no offices, operational 
history, or telecommunication assets.40 Takilant's director and sole shareholder was a 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
34 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/uzbekistan/gulnara_karimova/the-prodigal-daughter/table.php  
35 http://www.teliasonera.com/en/investors/ownership-structure-in-eurasia/, per September 2015 update 
36 http://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-seeks-to-seize-1-billion-in-telecom-probe-1439497898  
37 http://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-seeks-to-seize-1-billion-in-telecom-probe-1439497898 
38 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/uzbekistan/gulnara_karimova/the-prodigal-daughter/how-the-
presidents-daughter-controlled-the-telecom-industry.php  
39 http://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-seeks-to-seize-1-billion-in-telecom-probe-1439497898 
40 https://www.occrp.org/en/investigations/1765-swedish-telecom-took-shortcut-in-central-asia  


Page 13 of 37
young woman, Gayane Avakyan, who was known to be close to Karimova.41 42  There is 
substantial evidence that Takilant was a front for Karimova. 
 
In June 2007, TeliaSonera announced its purchase of MCT, creating TeliaSonera Uzbek 
Telecom Holding B.V. TeliaSonera controlled 96% of the Uzbek subsidiary, with the 
remaining 6% being held by Takilant Limited.  


In back-to-back deals completed in December 2007, TeliaSonera “bought” 3G 
frequencies from someone acting as a representative for Karimova’s Takilant Limited for 
US $80 million.43  


In December of 2007, TeliaSonera sold Takilant a 26 percent interest in TeliaSonera 
Uzbek Telecom Holding B.V. for US $50 million including a put option that would be 
exercised just over two years later.  Karimova is believed to have netted $30 million for 
selling government licenses.44  
 
In September 2008, TeliaSonera bought “numbering blocks” and a network code (i.e., 
blocks of phone numbers) from Takilant for $9.2m.45   


In February 2010, Takilant sold 20 percent out its 26 percent stake in TeliaSonera Uzbek 
Telecom Holding back to TeliaSonera for $220m. 46 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
41 http://www.automatedtrader.net/real-time-dow-jones/114180/prosecutor-demands-freeze-on-
teliasonera039s-uzbek-partner039s-assets 
42 Karimova and Avakyan were also seen together at various fashion shows in Paris and elsewhere.  
http://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-seeks-to-seize-1-billion-in-telecom-probe-1439497898 
43 As noted by Swedish prosecutor Berndt Berger:  
On 4 July 2007 an agreement on cooperation was entered into between TeliaSonera's subsidiary Sonera 
Hungary Holding B.V. and Bekhzod Akhmedov (case appendix 32, page 7). In this agreement of 
cooperation, the guidelines for the deal regarding the 3G license were outlined. In September and October 
2007 there were further negotiations between TeliaSonera and the group in Uzbekistan. During the same 
time period TeliaSonera realized that Bekhzod Akhmedov represented Takilant Ltd and that the 3G license 
with its associated frequencies was placed in the Uzbekistan company Teleson Mobile. As early as Spring 
2007 Bekhzod Akhmedov was able to promise a 3G license, despite the fact that the license with its 
associated frequencies was not owned by Teleson Mobile until 27 September 2007. Thus, prior to this point 
in time, the 3G license was not owned by the group. It can be seen from an excerpt of the register of 
companies in Uzbekistan (translated into Swedish on page 13 of case appendix 32) that Teleson Mobile 
was first registered as a company on 10 September 2007. It can be seen from the license documents for the 
3G license (case appendix 32, page 14) that the license was issued to Teleson Mobile on 27 September 
2007, i.e. just over two weeks after the company had been registered. Stockholms TR B 14304-12 aktbil 47  
44 This can be found in Swedish court documents: Stockholms TR B 14304-12 aktbil 32, pp. 7–12. Also, 
Mannheimer Swartling report, pp. 36–8. 
45 For a copy of the 2008 number block agreement and subsequent waiver letter to UzACI, see Stockholms 
TR B 14304-12 aktbil 32, pp. 114–37. See also Mannheimer Swartling report, pp. 59–63 [130131]. Berger 
points out the similarities between deals in Stockholms TR B 14304-12 aktbil 47, p. 6. 
46 From the Mannheimer Swartling report, pp. 63–4: 
Swedish: “När priset fastställdes till USD 220 miljoner innebar detta dock ett högre pris än vad som skulle 
gällt enbart enligt prismodellen i Aktieägaravtalet. Enligt uppgift uppfattades prismodellen mer som en 
referenspunkt när transaktionen förhandlades … Den framtida värdeutvecklingen på Coscom bedömdes 
också vara mycket positiv. Det högre priset jämfört med en tillämpning av prismodellen i Aktieägaravtalet 
motiverades också av att Takilant inte var tvingat att sälja aktierna samtidigt som TeliaSonera, mot 


Page 14 of 37
In November 2010, TeliaSonera paid Takilant $55m for a 4G license and “assistance” for 
acquiring a lease of fiber optic lines from the Uzbek government.47 


In July 2012, TeliaSonera apparently agreed to pay Takilant $5m for “customer 
expansion” at the same time it was in negotiations with her for ongoing “consulting” 
services that were to be paid on a quarterly basis.48 


 
Numerous Red Flags: TeliaSonera’s Dealings in Kazakhstan, Nepal, and Cambodia 
 
TeliaSonera’s dealings in Kazakhstan, Nepal and Cambodia are bereft with potentially 
problematic transactions, raising red flags. The total value of these transactions may 
exceed SEK 8.11 billion ($1 billion)49. The transactions in question are: 
 


• Over SEK 219 million ($27 million) in 2007 and 2008 for two Kazakh private 
companies holding WiMax frequencies with unknown beneficial owners. Both 
companies were categorized as dormant.50 That TeliaSonera would purchase 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
bakgrund av en övergripande strategi att öka sina innehav i partnerbolag där så var möjligt, önskade öka 
sin ägarandel ... Vidare motiverades det högre priset av betydelsen av att ha en fortsatt god relation till den 
lokala partnern. Enligt Återköpsavtalet ska Takilant även tillhandahålla vissa tjänster, bl.a. att assistera i 
valutaväxling – något som hade visat sig vara ett praktiskt problem – och att förnya licenser. Av 
Återköpsavtalet och styrelseunderlaget framgår att detta då skulle ske utan ytterligare kostnad.” 
Translation: “When the price was set at U.S. $220 million this meant, however, a higher price than would 
be applied under the pricing model in the shareholders’ agreement. The pricing model was reportedly 
perceived more as a reference point when the transaction was negotiated …  The future value of Coscom 
was deemed to be very positive. The higher price compared to an application of the pricing model in the 
shareholders’ agreement was motivated by the fact that Takilant were not forced to sell the shares while 
TeliaSonera, given a comprehensive strategy to increase their holdings in partner companies where 
possible, desired increase its interest …  Furthermore, the higher price was motivated by the importance of 
having a continued good relationship with the local partner. According to the repurchase agreement, 
Takilant was also provide certain services, including to assist in currency exchange—something that had 
proven to be a practical problem”. 
47 A copy of the agreement is at Stockholms TR B 14304-12 aktbil 32, pp. 138–51 [121207]. 
 
48 For background to the leak, see transcript of Swedish program at  
http://blogg.svt.se/kommungranskarna/files/2013/05/FINAL_20130522_TeliaSonera-and-the-courier-from-
Moscow_ENG_draft.pdf  The timing and content of this leak in early 2013, referencing events in July and 
August 2012, and the fact that it apparently came via a Russian courier suggests that MTS and 
Yevtushenkov may have been behind it. 
http://www.rferl.org/content/sweden-teliasonera-uzbekistan-karimova/24993135.html.  
For Russian speculation along these lines, see http://johnhelmer.net/?p=9087. 
49 We use an exchange rate of SEK 8.11 per USD 1 throughout this document. 
50 In June 2007 and August 2008 TeliaSonera purchased two companies, AR-Telecom and KT-Telecom, 
both described as dormant, which held WiMAX licenses.   Total consideration paid was approximately 
$27.5m.  See page 18 (for consideration in Kazakh tenge).   
http://www.kase.kz/files/emitters/KCEL/kcelf9_2012_eng.pdf 
“Information on long-term investments in the capital of other organizations, on composition of securities 
portfolio including date of acquisition, other investments:  
AR-Telecom – KZT 677 778 thousand, 100%, acquired in 2007.  
KТ-Telecom – KZT 2 640 000 thousand, 100%, acquired in 2008.” 
Re AR-Telecom’s dormancy, see Fintur 2007 Financial Statements, page 11: “On 20 June 2007, Kcell 
entered into an agreement to acquire 100% in a company in Kazakhstan, AR-Telecom LLP ("AR-


Page 15 of 37
frequencies from private companies classified as dormant, rather than from the 
Kazakh government, appears highly unusual. 


• In August 2008, TeliaSonera advanced to an undisclosed party SEK 215 million 
($26.5 million) in connection with a letter agreement, defined as a “Frequency 
Letter”.51 A search of associated corporate documents later revealed that the loan 
was made to Visor Group.52 Structuring the acquisition of new frequencies or 
spectrum as a loan as opposed to an outright purchase and opting to leave their 
counterparty undisclosed is unusual and appears suspect. 


• In September 2008, TeliaSonera purchased from Visor Group a 100% stake in 
Cambodian telecommunications firm Applifone and a controlling stake in Spice 
Nepal (now NCell) for a total cash consideration of approximately SEK 3.925 
billion ($484 million).53   


• TeliaSonera fully divested Applifone in December 2010 and took a 25% stake in 
another Cambodian operator, Latelz.54 Then in 2012, TeliaSonera fully divested 
Latelz for an undisclosed amount to an undisclosed third party. These events lead 
one to wonder what due diligence was ever conducted or whether TeliaSonera 
ever intended to compete in the Cambodian market. 


• In 2011, TeliaSonera, through its subsidiary holding company TeliaSonera 
Finland Oyj, provided an undisclosed SEK 405.5 million ($50 million) loan to a 
Seychelles shell company controlled by potentially problematic parties.55 While 
this loan appears to have been non-performing56, it was repaid in full in April 
2012 when TeliaSonera executed another large undisclosed deal where 
TeliaSonera took an increased stake in NCell.57 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
Telecom"), which had been dormant since establishment in 2003. The purpose of the acquisition was to get 
a WiMAX license held by AR-Telecom that provides a right to organise wireless radio-access networks 
over 3.5 MHz spectrum (Note 10). 
AR-Telecom consideration in dollars, see page 42: As disclosed in Note I, in 2007 Kcell acquired AR-
Telecom holding WiMAX and other related telecom licenses. The acquisition of AR-Telecom was 
accounted for as an acquisition of group of assets (licenses) rather than a business. The acquired licenses 
are included in category "other" within intangible assets. Total consideration paid for the licenses amounted 
to USD 5,587. The acquired licenses will enable Kcell to offer broadband services (WiMAX) in 
Kazakhstan. WiMAX is a wireless technology to provide residential and corporate customers with high 
speed Internet access. 
For KT-Telecom dormancy, see Fintur 2009 Financial Statements, page 8: 
“KCell acquired KT-Telecom LLP ('KT-Telecom') in 2008, which was dormant at acquisition date.” 
51 TeliaSonera UTA Equitable Charge. 
52 TeliaSonera UTA Holding B.V. 2008 Annual Report, page 3 and BVI Records for Portofino Associates.  
Equitable charge dated 2 September 2008. 
53 26 September 2008.  TeliaSonera enters new high growth emerging markets. 
 https://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2008/9/teliasonera-enters-new-high-growth-
emerging-markets/ 
54 TeliaSonera 2010 Annual Report.  Page 18. 
http://www.teliasonera.com/Global/Reports/2010/financial/AnnualReport_en.pdf 
55 TeliaSonera Finland Oyj 2011 Annual Report.  Page 1. 
TeliaSonera Finland Oyj myönsi tammikuussa 2011 Allstar Holding Limited nimiselle 
TeliaSonerakonsernin ulkopuoliselle yhtiölle 50 MUSD lainan kolmen vuoden laina-ajalla. 
56 Although the loan was made in January 2011, as of 31 December 2011, Allstar still owed $50m in 
principal, suggesting that the loan was not made on customary commercial terms.  TeliaSonera Finland Oyj 
2011 AR.  Page 24.  
57 TeliaSonera Finland Oyj 2012 Annual Report, page 26 of pdf. 


Page 16 of 37
• Also in 2011, TeliaSonera paid $30 million for Nepal Satellite, a small telecom 
company with less than one percent market share. 585960 In 2012, TeliaSonera 
increased its stake in Nepal Satellite to 75% with SEK 365 million ($45 million) 
cash upfront and another SEK 684.8 million ($80 million) due in 2013.61 The 
company booked SEK 1.27 billion ($157 million) in goodwill.62 One of CEO 
Dennelind’s first actions was to dispose of Nepal Satellite to Zhodar Investments 
at a loss of SEK 389 million ($48 million)63, with the assistance of Norton Rose 
Fulbright.64 Dennelind apparently recognized the lack of commercial rationale for 
this acquisition in the first place, but we wonder if this hasty divestiture is related 
to the company’s difficulties repatriating cash from Nepal. Furthermore, the 
ultimate beneficial ownership of Zhodar Investments was never disclosed. 


• In December 2011, TeliaSonera appears to have overpaid for Kazakhtelecom’s 
49% interest in mobile services provider Kcell at SEK 9.3419 billion ($1.1519 
billion). 65 The purchase price represented a 50% premium to Kcell’s IPO of SEK 
4.258 billion ($525 million) price months later. 


• In 2012, TeliaSonera UTA provided a SEK 1.865 billion ($230 million) loan to 
Nepali businessman Niraj Govinda Shrestha66 to purchase his 20% stake in 
NCell.67 68 As of 2013, Shrestha’s loan was non-performing, judging from 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
Stating that the Allstar loan was repaid on 4 April 2012.  On 5 April 2012 TeliaSonera announced various 
deals in Nepal and Cambodia.  TeliaSonera makes further restructuring in Business Area Eurasia. 5 April 
2012. 
https://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2012/4/teliasonera-makes-further-restructuring-
in-business-area-eurasia/ 
58 The date of the purchase can be established by TeliaSonera’s entry in the Airbell Services Limited share 
register. 
59 TeliaSonera Asia Holding 2011 Annual Report, page 3. 
60 Report of Nepal Telecommunications Authority.  July 2011.  Page 2 http://new.nta.gov.np/en/2012-06-
01-11-33-01/mis-archives/mis-reports/nta-mis-52/download 
61 TeliaSonera only disclosed the consideration paid in Swedish kronor.  Although the Eurasian subsidiaries 
use the US dollar as their functional currency, TeliaSonera does not disclose what exchange rate is used in 
its reporting.  Looking at page 14 of the annual report of TeliaSonera Norway Nepal Holdings AS (the 
subsidiary that ended up owning the 75% indirect stake in Nepal Satellite), at end-2012, it owed 
TeliaSonera UTA Holdings $46.5m at end-2012 related to the purchase of the additional stake in Airbell. 
According to pages 3 and 19 of TeliaSonera Norway Nepal Holdings 2013 Annual Report, contingent 
consideration due in respect of Nepal Satellite was $80m. 
62 TeliaSonera Annual Report 2012, p. 102. 
63 TeliaSonera Annual Report 2013, p. 27. 
64 http://annualreports.teliasonera.com/en/2013/annual-report/board-of-directors-report/acquisitions-and-
divestitures/ 
65TeliaSonera increases its ownership in Kcell and prepares for IPO.  22 December 2011. 
 http://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2011/12/teliasonera-increases-its-ownership-in-
kcell-and-prepares-for-ipo/ 
66 TeliaSonera UTA Holding B.V. Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2013, p. 10. 
67 http://www.dn.se/ekonomi/affarsman-i-nepal-fick-miljardlan/  
68 Evidence of the loan may be found in TeliaSonera UTA Holding B.V. 2012 and 2013 Annual Reports 
(pages 9 and 10, respectively). The purpose of the loan was confirmed by TeliaSonera in a December 2013 
Swedish press report.  Affärsman i Nepal fick miljardlån.  Dagens Nyheter.  9 December 2013. 
http://www.dn.se/ekonomi/affarsman-i-nepal-fick-miljardlan/ 
 Vi har finansierat hans köp av de 20 procenten. 
Translation:  We have financed his [Shrestha’s] purchase of 20 percent. 


Page 17 of 37
TeliaSonera UTA’s 2013 Annual Report.69 Shresta’s collateral for the loan was 
his ownership stake in NCell, which TeliaSonera cannot own according to 
Nepalese law. 


• TeliaSonera acquired several Kazakh WiMAX service providers in 2012 and 
2013 from potentially problematic parties for over SEK 1.703 billion ($210 
million).7071 By late 2013 TeliaSonera’s new management had written off most of 
the “WiMAX operation in Kazakhstan” ostensibly “based on the view that it will 
take longer than expected to achieve full use of the acquired frequencies due to 
the current lack of a 4G license.”72 TeliaSonera completed the second part of an 
incremental impairment by writing off the business entirely in 2014.73         


• Also in 2012, TeliaSonera teamed with Visor Group to acquire KazTransCom, a 
Kazakh fiber optic network operator also owned by potentially problematic 
partners.74 TeliaSonera funded Visor’s purchase with a SEK 182.5 ($22.5 million) 
loan75, which was undisclosed in press releases and other corporate filings. It was, 
however, referenced in Kcell’s prospectus and could be confirmed through the 
annual reports of a Visor Group affiliate. The loan appears to be non-
performing76, a disturbingly frequent occurrence among TeliaSonera’s 
counterparties in Eurasia and Nepal. 


 
 
Azerbaijan 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
69 TeliaSonera UTA Holding B.V. Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2013, p. 10. 
70 Kcell Prospectus, page 58. 
https://static.kcell.kz/files/investors/Kcell_JSC_Prospectus_en.pdf 
“As a condition precedent to Sonera’s purchase of the participatory interests in KazNet, KazNet will 
acquire two limited liability partnerships in Kazakhstan, namely Aksoran LLP (‘‘Aksoran’’) and 
Instaphone LLP (‘‘Instaphone’’). Aksoran and Instaphone each holds certain radio frequency permits that 
are capable of being deployed for the operation of a WIMAX business in Kazakhstan. Once formed, the 
KazNet group will own and operate a WIMAX business in Kazakhstan…” 
71 TeliaSonera prepares for mobile data growth in Kazakhstan.  14 August 2012. 
http://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2012/10993/teliasonera-prepares-for-mobile-data-
growth-in-kazakhstan/ 
Regarding KazTransCom’s fiber optic network, see pages 29 and F-72 of the Kcell Prospectus. 
https://static.kcell.kz/files/investors/Kcell_JSC_Prospectus_en.pdf 
72 TeliaSonera 2013 Annual Report, page 79. 
http://feed.ne.cision.com/wpyfs/00/00/00/00/00/24/7E/FA/wkr0006.pdf 
73 TeliaSonera 2014 Annual Report, page 117. 
http://feed.ne.cision.com/wpyfs/00/00/00/00/00/2C/00/91/wkr0006.pdf 
74 Kcell Prospectus.  Page 57. 
https://static.kcell.kz/files/investors/Kcell_JSC_Prospectus_en.pdf 
75 TeliaSonera omitted the existence of this transaction from all of its press releases and other disclosures.  
It, was, however, referenced in Kcell’s prospectus and can also be confirmed through the annual reports of 
Lovou B.V.  Kcell Prospectus, page 57.  
https://static.kcell.kz/files/investors/Kcell_JSC_Prospectus_en.pdf 
 
76 Lovou B.V. 2014 Annual Report (filed 2 September 2015).  Page 6. 
 


Page 18 of 37
Azerbaijan is one of TeliaSonera’s top performing Eurasian assets.  In FY 2014 it 
produced SEK1.916 billion in EBITDA with an EBITDA margin of 50.7%.77  In 
Azerbaijan, as with Uzbekistan and other Eurasian markets, the Company appears to have 
been content to feign ignorance of corruption in its business dealings with its local 
business partners until scandal broke and forced its hand.  In May of 2015, OCCRP 
journalists published a detailed report alleging Telia was a knowing participant in a series 
of transactions that included misappropriation of state assets, massive kick-backs, and 
illicit payments to a network of companies and proxies whose ultimate beneficial owners 
appear to be the daughters of President Aliyev’s family as well as other advisors and 
front men.78  Our tally of payments Telia made to suspect counterparties in Azerbaijan in 
often commercially questionable transactions is SEK 9.1 billion (US$1.1 billion). 
 
Both the scandals in Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan were trigged by investigative journalism. 
However, the Azerbaijan scandal came to light nearly two years after Uzbekistan, and 
exemplifies the degree to which the Company has yet to publicly come to terms with the 
depth and breadth of problems in its Eurasia businesses.  As of September 17th of this 
year, the Company maintains that it “still does not know the UBO”, the ultimate 
beneficial owner of its local partners in both Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan.79 
 
Azeri investigative reporter, Khadija Ismayilova, reported that the ultimate beneficial 
owners of Telia’s “Local Partner” in Azerbaijan are likely President Aliyev’s daughters 
Arzu and Leyla Aliyev.80  In July 2014 Ismayilova published evidence that convincingly 
links Telia; its new “local partners” in Azertel, a Turkish company called Cenay 
IIetishim; and Panamanian holding companies likely belonging to the Aliyevs.  
Accompanying her report was a separate site listing and linking key source material made 
available for public review.81  
 
TeliaSonera was not ignorant of her efforts.  As can be seen in the copies of her emails 
and letters posted in her “reports notes,”82 Ismayilova made multiple attempts to contact 
the Company and its partners.  Between April 11 and April 15 of 2014 she was engaged 
with correspondence with Salom Bekele, TeliaSonera’s Head of External 
Communication, regarding questions about the Azercell privatization and Cenay 
Illetism’s connection to President Aliyev’s family.  Mr. Bekele responded by referring 
her back to Telia’s Eurasia Factbook and the Chairman Ehrling’s speech at the 2014 
AGM.83  She also specifically queried about Oliver Mestelan, who could be a proxy for 
the first family, in his capacity as both a board member of Azertel and corporate secretary 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
77 TeliaSonera Financial Operational data 2014 Q4 
78 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/azerbaijan/azerbaijan-telecom/offshores-close-to-president-paid-
nothing-for-share-of-state-telecom.php  
79 TeliaSonera Special Conference Call, Sept. 17, 2015  
80  TeliaSonera’s Behind-The-Scenes Connection To Azerbaijani President's Daughters.  Radio Free 
Europe/Radio Liberty. 15 July 2014. 
 http://www.rferl.org/content/teliasonera-azerbaijan-aliyev-corruption-investigation-occrp/25457907.html 
81 Reporter's Notes To 'TeliaSonera's Behind-The-Scenes Connection To Azerbaijani President's 
82 Reporter's Notes To 'TeliaSonera's Behind-The-Scenes Connection To Azerbaijani President's 
Daughters'http://www.rferl.org/content/backgrounderfullpage/25457824.html  
83 http://docs.rferl.org/az-AZ-Latn/2014/07/13/b038943b-bf58-4817-b527-6137364b7caf.pdf  


Page 19 of 37
for several Aliyev family owned Panamanian companies including those holding Cenay 
Illetism about:84,85 
 


• the ownership behind the companies owning Cenay Illetism, namely Dilsan 
Investments and Colville Group, and whether these were Aliyev family owned 


• the apparent low valuation of the privatization price 
• possible price fixing and collusion between Azercell and Azerfon, (both of 


which appeared to her to be Aliyev invested or controlled companies). 
 
In December of 2014, Azerbaijani authorities were no longer willing to tolerate her 
inquiries, reports, and allegations into and took her into custody.86  She was convicted for 
embezzlement and tax evasion and sentenced to seven and one half year sentence.87 88 
 
Despite her publication of information relating to the Aliyevs’ alleged corrupt 
privatizations of state assets such as Azercell and the illegal licensing of restricted 3G 
telecom spectrum to their own company, Azerfon, it was not until the release of the 
subsequent May 27 2015, OCCRP report based on her research and the efforts of other 
activists that finally pushed TeliaSonera to begin to respond to the problem of the 
Azerbaijan and its local partners in Azercell. 89 90 91 92   
 
TeliaSonera’s Transactional History in Azerbaijan 
 
Beginning in 2004, the Azerbaijani government embarked on the privatization of its 
interest in Azercel.  As detailed below, this was unusually structured and could have been 
devised to enable the theft of state assets, facilitate illegal and highly suspect payments to 
entities owned or controlled by the Aliyev family, and provide for an ongoing corrupt 
revenue source in the form dividends and a put option.  The summary below highlights 
key aspects of this arrangement.  The bullet points that follow provide greater details and 
citations for reference.  The Ismayilova publications and the OCCRP report cited above 
also provide additional detail. 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
84 http://docs.rferl.org/az-AZ-Latn/2014/07/13/b038943b-bf58-4817-b527-6137364b7caf.pdf  
85 
http://www.rferl.org/content/azerbaijan_president_aliyev_daughters_tied_to_telecoms_firm/24248340.html  
86 http://freekhadija.org/#about 
US-backed Radio Liberty was also shut down shortly thereafter. 
 http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2014/12/us-funded-radio-azadliq-raided-and-shut-down-in-azerbaijan/ 
87 A letter from an Azerbaijani prison.  Washington Post.  18 February 2015. 
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/letter-from-an-azerbaijani-prison/2015/02/17/2a2d6cb0-b3d3-
11e4-886b-c22184f27c35_story.html 
88 http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-34116812  
89 Aliyev's Azerbaijani Empire Grows, As Daughter Joins The Game 
http://www.rferl.org/articleprintview/2127137.html 
90 http://www.balcanicaucaso.org/eng/Regions-and-countries/Azerbaijan/Corruption-and-oil-in-Azerbaijan-
109421 
91 “Azerbaijani President’s Daughters Tied to Fast-Rising Telecoms Firm”, 
http://www.rferl.org/content/azerbaijan_president_aliyev_daughters_tied_to_telecoms_firm/24248340.html  
92 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/azerbaijan/azerbaijan-telecom/offshores-close-to-president-paid-
nothing-for-share-of-state-telecom.php  


Page 20 of 37
Privatization Aliyev Style: Headlocks, Deadlocks, Vouchers, and Dividends 
 
According to research by Ismayilova and detailed in the OCCRP report,93 TeliaSonera’s 
CEO Durukan was informed by the Azerbaijan Minister of Economic Development of a 
plan to privatize the states shares in Azercell in 2004.  TeliaSonera entered negotiations 
with the government, but apparently soon after learned the Azerbaijan government sought 
additional terms and conditions, namely that only Cenay Insaat and a new government 
selected “local partner” would acquire the governments shares, including board 
representation, and would do so without any “out of pocket” investment via a USD $100 
million loan from one of the Company’s subsidiaries to be repaid through the future 
dividends of Azercell. The upside to TeliaSonera apparently would be the ability of the 
new “local partner” to fast track regulatory approvals and secure licenses.  TeliaSonera 
and the Azerbaijan government did not come to terms and Azercell found itself coming 
under increased scrutiny by authorities and the subject of an in depth tax audit. In short, it 
appears that Azercell found itself in a regulatory headlock, where the government could 
apply additional pressure at will to make Azercell’s foreign owners more receptive to the 
proposed terms.94 
 
This tactic appears to have been effective, as the final deal-structure includes these as 
well as other atypical terms. Not only the extortion-like tactics employed preceding the 
privatization, but also the highly unusual deal structure should have been significant red 
flags for TeliaSonera’s board at the time, and for the current board’s investigations 
subsequent to the corruption allegations that emerged from Uzbekistan.  Major red flags 
indicating a very high probability of corrupt dealings requiring government approvals at 
the highest levels include: a very low valuation; unwillingness to put any capital into the 
purchase; requirement of partial payment to a group of “unrelated” investors; the 
emergence of a new partner, a Panamanian holding company managed by someone with 
connections to the Aliyev family; and ultimately a put option theoretically intended to 
resolve board deadlock, which would enable the minority shareholders to force a buyout 
at almost any time they might see fit. 
 
Valuation: USD $180 million 
 


• According to Fintur’s own discounted cash flow model, as of April 2008 the 
government’s 35.7 percent stake in Azercell sold to Azertel was worth USD 
$2.2 billion,95 thereby valuing the state’s interest, as derived from Fintur’s 
own figures at $782.6m, not the $180m paid by Azertel.96   


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
93 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/azerbaijan/azerbaijan-telecom/offshores-close-to-president-paid-
nothing-for-share-of-state-telecom.php 
94 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/azerbaijan/azerbaijan-telecom/offshores-close-to-president-paid-
nothing-for-share-of-state-telecom.php 
95 The more precise value of Azercell as of April 2008 inferred from the detailed option accounting on page 
45 of Fintur’s 2008 financial statements is $2,192,146,919.  
96 35.7% of $2,192,146,919 is $782,596,450.   


Page 21 of 37
• TeliaSonera defended its valuation stating it had “conducted a completely 
correct business deal at fair market value” adding that “The price was 
determined by the state of Azerbaijan as part of the privatization process and a 
fairness opinion was obtained from an independent international accountancy 
firm.”97 


 
Financed Payments and Payments Through Vouchers 
 


• None of this $180 million due to the government was payable upfront. 
Fintur’s 2008 financial statements discloses short-term and long-term payable 
to the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan for the sale of 35.7% shares 
in Azercell scheduled in equal installments over three years beginning in 
2009.98  


• An undisclosed portion of the USD $180 million was to go to unidentified 
voucher holders.99 Telia has also still not yet identified who the holders of the 
coupons were, claiming only that they are parties with whom they have not 
had past business relations.100 101 


 
Note:  The use of the vouchers should have constituted another major red flag.  
Azerbaijan state privatization vouchers have a sordid history.  Originally 
issued by the Government in 1995 for the purpose of distributing the states 
assets to its citizens, they were at the center of a prominent bribery scandal 
involving foreign investors; the former President of Azerbaijan, Heydar 
Aliyev (father to the current President); and an attempt to privatize SOCAR, 
the state oil company. The scandal ultimately resulted in a conviction under 
FCPA for the foreign investor, wherein it was concluded that the guilt was 
“predicated not on any payment of bribes by him, but on his knowing 
investment in a corrupt scheme in Azerbaijan.”102 


 
Emergence of a New Partner 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
97 Statement regarding Azercell privatization. 25 October 2012.  
http://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/news/2012/statement-regarding-azercell-privatisation/ 
98 With regard to scheduled payments, Fintur’s 2008 financial statements (page 45) read: “Long-term 
payable to the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan for the sale of 35.7% shares in Azercell in the 
amount of USD 124 million has been accounted under other non-current liabilities; whereas amount due 
within the next 12 months, amounting to USD 62 million, has been accounted under other current liabilities 
(Note 14). The payable is due in three equal installments in 3 years.”   Fintur’s 2010 financial statements 
show that this debt, while not technically due until 2011, was paid in full in 2010 
99 Statement regarding Azercell privatization. 25 October 2012.  
http://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/news/2012/statement-regarding-azercell-privatisation/ 
100 TeliaSonera Uses Post-Soviet Coupons in Azeri Deal.  Bloomberg News. 17 November 2009. 
http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=newsarchive&sid=aKkpRdkEvUUs 
101 Statement regarding Azercell privatization. 25 October 2012.  
http://www.teliasonera.com/en/newsroom/news/2012/statement-regarding-azercell-privatisation/ 
102 http://www.internationallawoffice.com/Newsletters/White-Collar-Crime/U...le-Conviction-Should-
Bolster-Foreign-Corrupt-Practices-Act-Enforcement 


Page 22 of 37
• A new local “partner” Cenay Iletism, was created by Cenay Insaat to appear to 
be an affiliate of the Cenay Group.103  In 2005, the Cenay Group sold its 
interest in Cenay Iletisim to Dilsan Investment and Colville Group, two 
Panamanian shell companies linked to Oliver Mestelan, the registered 
corporate sectary of the offshore entities, and board member of state owned 
Azertel.104105 


• In 2008, when the minority partners Cenay Illetism and Cenay Insaat 
increased their effective ownership of Azercell from 13% to 48.7%;106 
however, only one shareholder, Cenay Iletisim, saw its interest in Azercell 
change.  


• Cenay Iletisim indirect interest in Azercell came to equal to the stake sold by 
the government.   


 
Azercell - Effective Ownership Interests:  Before and After Privatization 
 


Shareholder Before After Difference 
Fintur 51.3% 51.3% 0.0% 
Cenay 
Iletisim 6.5% 42.2% 35.7% 
Cenay 
Insaat 6.5% 6.5% 0.0% 
Government 35.7% 0.0% -35.7% 


 
Self-dilution  
 


• To effect this transaction, TeliaSonera’s subsidiary Fintur would have to forgo 
its rights to participate in the capital increase on a pro rata basis, willingly 
diluting its Azertel holding from 79.8% to 51.3%, and allow Cenay Iletisim’s 
shareholding to increase from 10.1 percent to 42.2 percent.107  


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
103 https://www.occrp.org/corruptistan/azerbaijan/azerbaijan-telecom/offshores-close-to-president-paid-
nothing-for-share-of-state-telecom.php 
104  See extracts of the Panamanian commercial register for Dilsan and Colville.  
The Panamanian records may be accessed by establishing an account through this website:  
https://www.registro-publico.gob.pa/index.php/es/ (Click on Ingresar and then, Crear una cuenta). Note 
that as of 27 March 2015 the “new” register still does not seem to be functioning, but one can still access 
the records through the old register (antiguas consultas registrales hasta Octubre 2014) which contains 
data as of October 2014. 
105 Turkish Gazette, Volume 6454, Page 365, Volume 8360, Page 1266 
106 TeliaSonera 2008 Annual Report, page 36. 
 https://www.teliasonera.com/Documents/Reports/2008/AnnualReports/TeliaSonera-Annual-Report-2008-
EN.pdf?epslanguage=en 
107  
Also, beyond the language contained in the Azertel articles, both Fintur and TeliaSonera’s financial 
statements show that Cenay Iletisim had to eventually make payments to Fintur for the sale of certain 
preemption rights.  As the wording is so vague, it is not clear if Fintur sold its rights to participate in the 
Azertel capital increase or Azertel, in an undisclosed back-to-back deal, sold to Cenay Iletisim Azertel’s 
preemptive rights to buy the state’s interest in Azercell.  Regardless, the amount eventually received from 


Page 23 of 37
Deadlocks & Puts 
 


• TeliaSonera’s 2008 annual report disclosed that the “largest minority 
shareholder was also granted a put option, giving the shareholder the right to 
sell its 42 percent stake to TeliaSonera at fair value in certain deadlock 
situations”108 giving the minority shareholder (allegedly the Aliyev family) 
the right to force TeliaSonera to buy back its interest at an market value 
simply by creating a deadlock (or perhaps a new headlock). 


• Per the TeliaSonera 2014 annual report, the year-end closing balance for 
Azertel’s 2008 Azercell put option was recorded as SEK 6,814 million or 
approximately USD $879 million.109 





	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
Cenay Iletisim (after it had already gained the shares and consequently significant dividend payments) 
pales in comparison to the put option liability incurred by Fintur.   
 
According to TeliaSonera’s annual reports (no consideration was reported for 2008): 
 
•       2009 Annual Report, page 63:  "Sales consideration for other divestitures in 2009 included SEK 724 
million for certain pre-emptive rights sold in connection with the privatization of Azercell Telekom B.M. in 
Azerbaijan."  The average dollar/krona exchange rate for 2009 was approximately 7.75, making SEK 724m 
worth approximately $93.4m. 
•       2010 Annual Report, page 78:  "Sales consideration for other divestitures included SEK 152 million in 
2010 and SEK 724 million in 2009 for certain pre-emptive rights sold in connection with the privatization 
of Azercell Telekom B.M. " The average dollar/krona exchange rate for 2010 was approximately 7.2, 
making SEK 152m worth approximately $21.1m. 
•       2011 Annual Report, page 87:  "In 2011 and 2010, sales consideration for other divestitures included 
SEK 87 million and SEK 152 million, respectively, for certain pre-emptive rights sold in connection with 
the privatization of Azercell Telekom B.M. " The average dollar/krona exchange rate for 2011 was 
approximately 6.5, making SEK 87m worth approximately $13.4m. 
This suggests that approximately $127.9m was paid by Cenay Iletisim for the sale of the preemptive rights, 
which again pales in comparison to both Fintur’s put option liability (last calculated at $934m) and its 
forgone dividend payments. 
 
The amounts payable by Cenay Iletisim according to Fintur’s financial statements appear to be a bit lower: 
   
•       2008 Financial Statements, page 33: "At 31 December 2008, due from Cenay Iletisim is composed of 
USD 42,612 for the sale of preemptive rights of Azertel to succeed in 49% shareholding of minority 
interest in Azertel (Note 10) and USD 39,238 for capital commitment to Azertel." 
•       2009 Financial Statements, page 35: "At 31 December 2009, due from Cenay Iletisim is composed of 
USD 21,283 (31 December 2008: USD 99,400) for the sale of pre-emptive rights of Azertel to succeed in 
the 42.2% shareholding of the minority interest in Azertel and USD 20,686 (31 December 2008: USD 
51,804) for the capital commitment to Azertel."  (Note that the underlined numbers are both different from 
and significantly higher than those disclosed in the same company's 2008 financial statements, and no 
explanation for this significant difference was provided.) 
•       2010 Financial Statements, page 42:  "No receivable from Cenay Iletisim is due as of 31 December 
2010. "(Note that TeliaSonera’s 2011 Annual Report reflects sales consideration received in 2011 although 
according to the Fintur statements, no debt was owed as of 31 December 2010.) 
108 Id. 
109 TeliaSonera 2014 annual report, p. 132 


Page 24 of 37
Despite the exceptional value proposition TeliaSonera and Fintur might have seen in the 
low $180 million sale price, the additional conditions and deal structure, the requirement 
to finance the deal, the expensive put option, associated risk with making payments on 
vouchers formerly associated with official corruption, and the extortion like events 
preceding the event, it is difficult to believe that Telia’s current board is so equivocal 
about whether Telia engaged in large scale corruption in Azerbaijan. 
 
 
 
 


Page 25 of 37
Appendix B 
Questionable and Potentially Corrupt Transactions and Payments 


 
Country Transaction  US$ Amount   SEK (at 8.11)  Red flags 
Uzbekistan Sale of shares to in TS Uzbek Holding 


allegedly to problematic party 
$(50,000,000) -405,500,000 kr  Possibly not a bona fide purchase and sale, but rather a means to 


transfer interest to problematic party who might be said to have no 
financial risk (purchase price offset by simultaneous purchase of 3G 
frequencies; business funded solely by TeliaSonera) 


 Purchase of 3G Frequencies  $80,000,000   648,800,000 kr  Possibly entered into an agreement with problematic party for a 3G 
license which it did not at the time own, but then procured from the 
Uzbek government 


 Purchase of number blocks  $9,200,000   74,612,000 kr  Purchase of government property possibly not from government, but 
from problematic party. 


 Purchase of shares allegedly from 
problematic party 


 $220,000,000   1,784,200,000 
kr  


Possibly not a bona fide option, but rather purposely structured to 
transfer $220m to problematic party who might be said to have never 
taken financial risk. 


 "Consulting" re 4G license, lease  $55,000,000   446,050,000 kr  Rather than buy licenses from problematic party, TeliaSonera likely 
structured it as a substance-less "consulting contract" 


 2012 "customer expansion"  $5,000,000   40,550,000 kr  Internal problematic party documents suggest that TeliaSonera paid it 
$5m for "customer expansion" in advance of its shutting down 
competitor's business resulting in their customers flocking to 
TeliaSonera. 


Azerbaijan Potentially Problematic Party 
"Purchase" of Cenay Iletisim 


 $(6,433,065) -52,172,157 kr  Interest in joint venture was "sold" to a company owned by a 
problematic party; purchase price appears to be significantly 
undervalued; purchase occurred right before the government issued a 
telecom license. 


 2006 Dividends  $3,522,181   28,564,888 kr  See https://www.occrp.org/en/daily/3988-teliasonera-warned-not-to-
pay-further-dividends-to-azeri-partners 


 Azertel Capital Increase $(77,977,928) -632,400,996 kr  This "capital increase" seems more to be a cover that allowed the 
companies tied the problematic party to obtain the government's interest 
in the joint venture at a massive discount. 


Page 26 of 37
Purchase of Preemptive Rights from 
Fintur 


$(99,400,000) -806,134,000 kr  This "purchase of preemptive rights" seems more to be a cover that 
allowed the companies tied the problematic party to obtain the 
government's interest in the joint venture at a massive discount. 


 2008 Dividends to Potentially 
Problematic Party 


 $94,790,000   768,746,900 kr  See above-linked article.  Notably, based on the Turkish Gazettes, it 
appears that TeliaSonera has stopped paying the dividends.  That is, 
despite their claim that they were going to distribute the dividends, there 
has been no company resolution authorizing their distribution. 


 2009 Dividends to Potentially 
Problematic Party 


 $52,468,000   425,515,480 kr  See above. 


 2010 Dividends to Potentially 
Problematic Party 


 $48,295,000   391,672,450 kr  See above. 


 2011 Capital Increase $(10,950,000) -88,804,500 kr  Unclear purpose of this capital increase.  It is mainly included so that 
the amount of dividends paid to the problematic party is not overstated. 


 2011 Dividends to Potentially  
Problematic Party 


 $30,877,000   250,412,470 kr  See above explanations for 2006 and 2008 dividends. 


 2012 Capital Decrease  $23,808,000   193,082,880 kr  See above explanations for 2006 and 2008 dividends. 
 2012 Dividends to Potentially 


Problematic Party 
 $41,500,000   336,565,000 kr  See above explanations for 2006 and 2008 dividends. 


 2013 Dividends to Potentially 
Problematic Party 


 $49,316,000   399,952,760 kr  See above explanations for 2006 and 2008 dividends. 


 2013 Market Value of Potentially 
Problematic Party's Interest (taken from 
TS's put option liability) 


 $934,501,000   7,578,803,110 
kr  


Under the put option, TeliaSonera has the obligation to purchase the 
state's former interest in Azercell at market value. This stake appears to 
have been misappropriated with TeliaSonera's assistance.  There is 
evidence TeliaSonera has claimed that they will not honor this option 
(despite continuing to pay dividends to the problematic party). 
Regardless, the value of this property might not have been obtained by 
the problematic party without TeliaSonera's assistance.  


 2014 Dividends to Potentially 
Problematic Party (based on Turkish 
Gazette) 


 $43,732,699   354,672,185 kr  See above explanations for 2006 and 2008 dividends. 


 Payments to Beneficial Owners of 
Vouchers 


 Undisclosed   N/A  According to US criminal proceedings, privatization vouchers were last 
seen in the hands of shell companies owned by government officials. 


Page 27 of 37
Kazakhstan
/Nepal/ 
Cambodia 


2007 Payment for AR-Telecom  $5,587,000   45,310,570 kr  Instead of acquiring frequencies from the government, TeliaSonera 
again bought a private company that appears to be a shell holding 
frequencies.  The company had been categorized as dormant.  Although 
the beneficial owner is unknown, it is similar to the pattern in 
Uzbekistan. 


 2008 Payment for KT-Telecom  $21,939,666   177,930,691 kr  See above. 
 2008 letter agreement re "frequencies" 


with potentially problematic parties 
 $26,500,000   214,915,000 kr  A slight variation of the above.  TeliaSonera entered into an undisclosed 


letter agreement defined as the "Frequency Letter" with a problematic 
counterparty.  A party to that Frequency Letter was defined as the 
"acquiror", strongly suggesting in that context that acquiror was to 
acquire frequencies.   


 September 2008 Payment to Kazakh 
potentially problematic parties for 
Nepal Assets 


 $376,603,211   3,054,252,039 
kr  


Counterparty was problematic; the evidence suggests that TeliaSonera 
massively overpaid for the asset; valuation was apparently based on 
management's projections; weeks after the deal closed, people 
associated with the counterparty took over key governmental positions 
relevant to Telia's investment in Kazakhstan. 


 September 2008 Payment to Kazakh 
potentially problematic parties for 
Cambodia Assets 


 $108,018,000   876,025,980 kr  See above. 


 2010 Payment to Kazakh potentially 
problematic parties for 
Nepal/Cambodia Assets 


 $160,000,000   1,297,600,000 
kr  


See above.  Purchase also came right before Telia's Kcell was issued a 
permanent 3G license in Kazakhstan. 


 2010 "Dilution"/"sale" of Cambodian 
asset to potentially problematic parties 


 $90,000,000   729,900,000 kr  Re the dilution, it seems that Telia had the more valuable part of the 
business (better license, more subscribers) but significantly diluted itself 
when it "merged", the counterparties could be problematic parties 
associated with Telia in Nepal (undisclosed); furthermore, Telia appears 
to have kept funding the counterparty with an undisclosed loan.  Later, 
when Telia "sold" its  interest in the merged company, it did not record 
receiving any consideration. 


 2011 "loan" to potentially problematic 
parties 


 $50,000,000   405,500,000 kr  See above. 


Page 28 of 37
2011 purchase of 25% interest in Nepal 
Satellite 


 $30,000,000   243,300,000 kr  Nepal Satellite was an insignificant company  )- less than one percent of 
the market, had outdated technology, operated mainly in rural parts of 
Nepal.  TeliaSonera had 40% of the market.  There seems to be little 
commercial reason to buy the company, let alone a minority stake.  The 
majority owner could be a problematic party. Telia's new management 
quickly unwound the deal.  


 2012 Overpayment for 
Kazakhtelecom's interest in Kcell - 
Purchase price versus IPO price 


 $129,752,000   1,052,288,720 
kr  


Kazakhtelecom had politically connected shareholders, and whether one 
looks at Kazakhtelecom's market cap or the IPO price, it appears that 
Telia overpaid.  The entire market cap of Kcell is worth less than what 
Telia paid for Kazakhtelecom's stake. 


 2012 financing of "buyout" of Nepal 
partners (net of $50m loan) 


 $180,000,000   1,459,800,000 
kr  


This was not accurately disclosed by Telia - possibly material 
omissions.  Telia made an undisclosed $230m to an individual.  The 
individual then bought interests of the existing local partners (who were 
also involved in some of the Cambodian transactions above).  This 
individual could be a close associate of one of the existing local 
partners, calling into question whether this was a bona fide transaction.  
Furthermore, the loan is non-performing.  Telia's only collateral are the 
individual's shares in Ncell, which, Telia cannot own under Nepali law.   


 2012 purchase of 50% of Nepal 
Satellite 


 $45,000,000   364,950,000 kr  See above description of acquisition of first part of Nepal Satellite. 


 2012 "loan" to Visor  $22,500,000   182,475,000 kr  Unusual structure that suggests (among other possibilities) Telia could 
have had  internal problems directly buying more than a certain percent 
or there might have been a Kazakh regulatory issue.  Regardless, Telia 
loaned $22.5m to Visor to buy the shares.  Telia's collateral is the 
shares.  According to Visor's financials, three years later, $24.5m is due 
to Telia, strongly suggesting that the loan is non-performing, and Telia 
has not foreclosed on the collateral, suggesting that the deal might not 
have been entered into on normal commercial terms and that the 
beneficiary, incidentally, could have been a problematic party. 


 2013 purchase of shares in 
KazTransCom from potentially 
problematic party 


 $22,000,000   178,420,000 kr  See above, but Telia directly purchased this stake.  Seems strange for 
Telia to purchase interest in a very minor Kazakh company.  The UBO 
might be a problematic party. 


 2013 KazTransCom "option payment" 
to potentially problematic party 


 $15,000,000   121,650,000 kr  Company is of questionable value, option is of very questionable value 
and the seller might be a problematic party. 


Page 29 of 37
2013 Purchase of KazNet Media from 
potentially problematic party 


 $170,000,000   1,378,700,000 
kr  


According to Telia's new management, which completely wrote off this 
acquisition between 2013 and 2014, the assets were worthless.  


Georgia 2008 Buyout of "local partners"  $33,000,000   267,630,000 kr  Telia  might have purchased an asset misappropriated from the 
government. 


Russia Purchase of interest in First National 
Holding S.A. from potentially 
problematic party 


 $80,000,000   648,800,000 kr  An arbitration award states this asset was bought from a problematic 
party. 


 Total $3,013,148,763    
 





Page 30 of 37
TeliaSonera Eurasian Transactions:  
Red Flag Matrix 





Countr
y 


Transaction Amount Telia’s 
counter 
party 
possibly 
problem 
atic 


Apparent 
over 
payment 
for assets 
or 
services 


Purchase 
of state 
licensed 
resources 
(such as 
frequenci
es or 
numberin
g blocks) 
from 
private 
parties 


Possible 
false 
commerci
al cover 
(e.g., 
“loan”, 
“option”, 
“consultin
g 
agreemen
t”, 
“dilution”
) that 
could 
misrepres
ent the 
nature of 
the 
transactio
n 


Possible 
misappro
priation 
of state 
owned 
assets or 
assets 
possibly 
misappro
priated 
from 
private 
parties by 
Telia’s 
counter 
party  


Apparent 
lack of 
services 
or lack of 
financial 
contributi
on or risk 
taken by 
counterpa
rty 
(carried 
interest or 
seemingly  
otherwise 
funded by 
TeliaSone
ra) 


Omissions 
or  
misreprese
ntations in 
Telia’s 
public 
disclosures 


Possible 
undisclose
d related-
party 
transactio
n 


Questions 
about 
whether 
counterpa
rty is 
arms 
length 
from 
TeliaSone
ra 


Transacti
on that 
resulted 
in Telia 
losing 
money to 
its 
counter 
party. 


Uzbekis
tan 


Sale of shares to in TS Uzbek 
Holding allegedly to 
problematic party; Purchase of 
3G Frequencies  


$30,000,000 X  X X X X X    


 Purchase of number blocks $9,200,000 X X X  X X X    
 Purchase of shares allegedly 


from problematic party 
$220,000,000 X X  X  X X    


 "Consulting" re 4G license, 
lease 


$55,000,000 X X  X  X     


 2012 "customer expansion" $5,000,000 X   X X X X    
Azerbai
jan 


Various transactions with 
potentially problematic parties 
in Azerbaijan through which 
counterparties obtained 1) 
interests in TeliaSonera's joint 
venture company Azertel and 2) 
possibly misappropriated the 
government's 35.7% interest in 
the local joint venture 
company, Azercell, with 
TeliaSonera's assistance 


$1,128,048,887 X   X X X X   x 


Page 31 of 37
Payments to Beneficial Owners 
of Vouchers 


Undisclosed X   X X  X    


Kazakh
stan 


2007 Payment for "dormant" 
AR-Telecom 


$5,587,000  X X   X X   X 


 2008 Payment for KT-Telecom $21,939,666  X X   X X    
 2008 letter agreement re 


"frequencies" with potentially 
problematic parties 


$26,500,000 X  X X   X    


 September 2008 Payment to 
Kazakh potentially problematic 
parties for Nepal Assets 


$376,603,211 X X   X X X X   


 September 2008 Payment to 
Kazakh potentially problematic 
parties for Cambodia Assets 


$108,018,000 X X    X X X  X 


 2010 Payment to Kazakh 
potentially problematic parties 
for Nepal/Cambodia Assets 


$160,000,000 X X    X X X   


 2012 Apparent overpayment for 
Kazakhtelecom's interest in 
Kcell - Purchase price versus 
IPO price (26.48% 
corresponding ownership 
interest held by a possibly 
problematic party) 


$129,752,000 X X   X  X    


 2012 "loan" to Kazakh possibly 
problematic party 


$22,500,000 X X  X X  X X  X 


 2013 purchase of shares in 
KazTransCom from Kazakh 
possibly problematic party 


$22,000,000 X X   X  X X  X 


 2013 KazTransCom "option 
payment" to Kazakh possibly 
problematic party 


$15,000,000 X X  X X  X X  X 


 2013 Purchase of KazNet 
Media from Kazakh possibly 
problematic party 


$170,000,000 X X    X X X  X 


Nepal 
and 
Cambo
dia 


2010 "Dilution"/"sale" of 
Cambodian asset to Nepal 
partners 


$90,000,000 X   X  X X X X X 


 2011 and 2012 purchases of 
75% interest in Nepal Satellite 
from possibly problematic party 


$75,000,000 X X     X X X X 


 2011 - "loan" to and 2012 
financing of "buyout" of Nepal 


$230,000,000 X   X  X X X X X 


Page 32 of 37
partners 


Georgia 2008 Buyout of "local partners" $33,000,000 X X   X  X    
Russia Purchase of interest in First 


National Holding S.A. from 
possibly problematic party 


$80,000,000 X    X  X    


 Total $3,013,148,763           


Page 33 of 37
Appendix C 
Valuation Methodology 


 
Our base case values TeliaSonera at 29.2 SEK per share, and our downside case (which 
assumes that disposals are significantly more problematic) values TeliaSonera at 27.4 
SEK. 
 


 
 
Our base case assumes pro forma net debt of SEK 55.7 billion. We have netted off 
current cash balance of SEK19.6 billion, equity stakes in Turkcell, and Megafon valued 
at SEK 41 billion and assumed cash proceeds of SEK18.4 billion from the sale of the 
Eurasia businesses.  
 
We assume that TeliaSonera pay fines and penalties of SEK12.5 billion, which would be 
comparable to Siemens, which seemed to have less extensive FCPA violations and was 
more contrite.  
 
Our base case assumes that each of the Eurasia and Nepal assets is sold at an EV multiple 
of 3.5x 2015E EBITDA.  We use a distressed sale multiple for Nepal, which was closely 
linked to the Kazakhstan business and seems to have significant issues (including a 
suspicious US$230 million undisclosed loan to “buyout” local partners at Ncell).  Our 
downside case is based on the assumption that TeliaSonera may be unable to sell some of 
the Eurasia assets (most likely Uzbekistan), and would have to walk away completely 
from the business.  Although impossible to accurately forecast, we believe it is plausible 
that TeliaSonera is forced to walk away from one or more of the Eurasian assets and the 
trapped cash. 


Page 34 of 37
We use a 3.5x 2015E EV/EBITDA multiple because there are limited bidders (possibly 
only one) for the Eurasia and Nepal assets and TeliaSonera has signaled it is a willing 
seller. Even if a public company that operates telecom assets in the “Stans” were to join 
the bidding, they too trade at distressed multiples and are unlikely to make acquisitions 
that are non-accretive. By signaling their intention to leave Eurasia, TeliaSonera may also 
encounter an increasingly harsh operating environment. This could further depress 
earnings if the sale process becomes drawn out.   
 
We use a 7.4x 2015e EV/EBITDA multiple to value the stub business because the closest 
comp, Tele2 AB trades at that valuation. Tele2 AB derives a significant portion of its 
revenue from mobile and has a similar geographic coverage to TeliaSonera. Telenor also 
operates in both Sweden and Norway however we feel it deserves to trade at a premium 
as it has consistently demonstrated higher revenue growth and ROA than TeliaSonera’s 
stub business. Telenor is also recording stronger EBITDA growth. Both TeliaSonera and 
Tele2 AB have experienced flat to negative EBITDA growth for over four years.  
 


Page 35 of 37
Page 36 of 37
Terms of Service: By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following 
Terms of Service. You agree that use of Muddy Waters LLC’s research, including this letter, is at your own 
risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters, LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect 
trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due 
diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. You represent to 
Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 
analysis and opinion on this site. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this 
report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you 
download or receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your 
principal to these same Terms of Service. You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports 
and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, 
employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors 
has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and 
bonds (and/or derivatives related to them) covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains 
in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers 
covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, or neutral at 
any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of 
an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from any person 
through this site or reports on this site. Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in 
any jurisdiction. If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and 
materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity 
falling within Article 49 of the FPO. Our research, reports, and letters express our opinions, which we have 
based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due 
diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and 
who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any 
fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” 
without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no representation, 
express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard 
to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report or letter on this site contains a very large 
measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and 
Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 
analysis and opinion contained in them. You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and 
you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / 
reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any 
manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link 
and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your use of this 
report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and 
independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located 
within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that 
Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce 
any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If 
any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the 
parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected 
in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, 
in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or 
law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the 
material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 
barred 


Page 37 of 37
