“It is easier to fool people than to convince them that they have been fooled.” 


- Mark Twain 
 


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES ONLY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research 


opinions at your own risk. This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such.  You should do your own research 


and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the securities covered herein. We have a short interest 


in Ozner and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of Ozner’s stock declines.  Please refer to our 


full disclaimer on the final page of this report. 























On February 16, 2015, we published a detailed investment opinion (the “Report”) on Ozner Water 


International (HK: 2014) (the “Company” or “Ozner”).  In our Report, we presented extensive publicly 


available evidence, including SAIC filings, government tax records and independent brand rankings, 


which in our opinion, indicate that Ozner has made false and misleading representations and disclosures 


to the market regarding its financial and operational performance.
1
  On March 25, 2015, Ozner responded 


with a Clarification Announcement (the "Clarification"). 





Ozner took 39 days to respond to basic questions about its business.  Given the length of time, we 


expected better.  The Clarification is first notable because, buried on page twelve, Ozner admitted that 


its prospectus contained a statement that was “not entirely accurate.”
2
  Which is another way of saying 


that the statement was false.  Ozner complains that the false statement was immaterial, even though the 


statement was regarding its relationship with an entity which it mentioned 26 times in the prospectus.  


The bar has apparently been lowered.  Now, apparently, investors should only care if statements that are 


“not entirely accurate” pertain to items that the Company deems material.     





Ozner’s Clarification, in other numerous instances, contains evasions and excuses which are directly 


contradicted by Ozner’s prior statements in its prospectus or in its statutory filings in the PRC.  For 


example, Ozner’s claim that its manufacturing subsidiary is simply an OEM is directly refuted by its 


prospectus, which states that the manufacturer takes title to the water purifiers.  





Ultimately, investors should think critically about our Report, our rebuttal and Ozner’s Clarification.  


They must decide for themselves the true value of Ozner shares.  In our opinion, after being confronted 


with damning evidence that the Company mislead investors regarding its profitability, Ozner has simply 


changed its story to suit its current needs. Our conviction level remains unchanged.  





                                                 
1
 Our Report is available for download at our website: https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-


content/uploads/downloads/2015/02/GlaucusResearch-Ozner_Water-HK_2014-Strong_Sell_Feb_16_2015.pdf.  
2
 Ozner Clarification, p. 12. 


COMPANY:    Ozner Water International Holding Limited │ HK: 2014 


INDUSTRY:    Water Purification  
 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/02/GlaucusResearch-Ozner_Water-HK_2014-Strong_Sell_Feb_16_2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/02/GlaucusResearch-Ozner_Water-HK_2014-Strong_Sell_Feb_16_2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/02/GlaucusResearch-Ozner_Water-HK_2014-Strong_Sell_Feb_16_2015.pdf
2 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


I. SAIC Filings Indicate Material Exaggeration of Sales, Production and Profit.   
 


a. Profitability and Revenues from Leasing Purifiers Much Less than Reported   


In our Report, we noted that according SAIC filings, annual rental fees from leasing water purifiers to end 


users were 54% less than reported in Ozner’s prospectus for 2012 and 2011, respectively.  More 


importantly, we noted SAIC filings show that rather than generate RMB 18 million in operating profit in 


2011 and RMB 98 million in 2012 as Ozner claims, the leasing subsidiaries were in fact unprofitable in 


2011 (losing RMB 3 million) and only generated RMB 18 million in operating profit in 2012 (81% 


less than reported). 


Ozner responded that the discrepancy is “primarily attributable to the timing difference in revenue 


recognition for accounting and tax reporting purposes.”
3
  Ozner stated that “the Group recognizes rental 


income from water purification services on a monthly basis over the one-year lease term under IFRS, 


whereas rental income reported to the local tax bureau in SAIC filings was recognized when relevant 


invoices were issued to principal distributors.”
4
   


In essence, Ozner claims that in its consolidated financials filed in Hong Kong, revenue is recognized on 


a straight-line basis over the term of the lease (per IFRS) and that in financials for subsidiaries filed with 


SAIC offices in the PRC, revenue was recognized not on a straight-line basis but when the Company 


invoiced distributors. 


But this explanation is directly and explicitly contradicted by the very SAIC filings upon which Ozner 


relies to exonerate itself.    


In the notes to the financial statements of the SAIC filings of Ozner’s primary rental subsidiary, Shaanxi 


Haoze, it states explicitly that rental income and related costs generated by operating leases (a category 


which include rented water purifying machines) is recognized “on a straight line basis during the 


operating term.” 





                                                 
3
 Ozner Clarification, p. 5. 


4
 http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2015/0325/LTN20150325544.pdf p5 



http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2015/0325/LTN20150325544.pdf
3 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 





Source: 2012 Shaanxi Haoze SAIC Filings – Note to Financial Statement 4.22 





The SAIC filings of Ozner’s primary leasing subsidiary directly contradict the response in Ozner’s 


Clarification.  Rather than recognizing revenue and costs whenever a distributor is invoiced, SAIC filings 


state the revenue and costs are recognized on a straight-line basis during the lease term, the same method 


by which the Company recognizes revenue and costs in its consolidated statements contained in its 


prospectus.   





The impact is significant, because it undermines Ozner’s purported explanation of the vast difference in 


the profitability of renting water machines between its SAIC filings and its prospectus.   





We continue to firmly believe that the discrepancy in profitability between SAIC filings and Hong Kong 


financials is because Ozner exaggerated the profitability of its business to Hong Kong investors.  SAIC 


filings show that rather than generate significant profits as Ozner claims, the leasing subsidiaries were in 


fact unprofitable in 2011 (losing RMB 3 million) and only generated RMB 18 million in operating 


profit in 2012 (81% less than reported). 





In our opinion, such evidence continues to be a damning indictment of the purported profitability of 


Ozner’s business as reported to Hong Kong investors.   





Leasing out asset by operating lease method 


Rental income and related costs generated by operating lease 


method is recognized on a straight-line basis during the operating 


term
4 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 





b. SAIC Filings Indicate Real Production Figures are 90% Less than Reported.   


In our report, we presented the SAIC filings of Shangyu Haorun Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. 


(“Shangyu Manufacturing”), which showed that Shangyu Manufacturing’s production costs were only 


RMB 7.5 million and RMB 12 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, over 90% less than the costs of 


raw materials and components reported in Ozner’s prospectus. In our opinion, this indicates that 


Ozner materially exaggerated the scale of its production and business in its prospectus.  





Ozner does not dispute the authenticity of the SAIC filings presented in our Report.  Rather, Ozner claims 


that Shangyu Manufacturing is only responsible for assembling machines with materials and components 


procured by other subsidiaries.
5
  According to the Company, Shangyu Manufacturing “charges service 


income to intra-group companies” and the COGS incurred by the subsidiary “mainly consists of staff 


costs and production overhead for assembly-related operations.”
6
 In essence, Ozner is claiming that 


Shangyu Manufacturing is an OEM for other subsidiaries, and thus did not incur the procurement or 


production costs of manufacturing the machines.     





This blatantly contradicts Ozner’s prospectus, in which Ozner stated, without qualification, that 


Shangyu Manufacturing owned the title to the water purifying machines it manufactured. 





 
Source: Ozner's Prospectus p224 


If Shangyu Manufacturing transfers title to other subsidiaries, the manufacturer must first hold title to the 


machines and thus title to the raw materials and components which it must purchase to assemble such 


machines.    





This means, under PRC tax code, that Shangyu Manufacturing is not and cannot be considered an OEM 


and that Shangyu Manufacturing’s statutory SAIC filings should show the production and procurement 


costs incurred to make the machine, even if such materials and components were purchased from another 


Ozner subsidiary.      





                                                 
5
 Ozner Clarification, p. 2. 


6
 Ozner Clarification, p. 2.
5 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 





Source: http://www.docin.com/p-398213665.html 











Ozner would like to claim that Shanyu Manufacturing is simply an OEM, meaning that title to the raw 


materials and components (as well as the finished machines) would rest with other subsidiaries.  After all, 


this evasion distracts from the fact that SAIC filings show that Ozner’s sole manufacturing subsidiary 


incurred costs of only RMB 7 million and RMB 11 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively.   





But Ozner stated unequivocally in its prospectus that Shangyu Manufacturing held title to the machines, 


meaning that by definition, it must also, at some point in the manufacturing process, hold title to the raw 


materials and components required for assembling its machines.   





Put simply, as Ozner’s sole manufacturing subsidiary (which by the Company’s admission held title to 


the machines), Shangyu Manufacturing should have incurred at least RMB 175 million and RMB 135 


million in costs in 2012 and 2011, respectively, as this was the reported cost of raw materials and 


components purchased to produce water purifiers.  SAIC filings show that it did not.  





But even if you accept Ozner’s premise, which we do not, the numbers still do not appear to add up.  If 


Ozner’s Clarification is to be believed, Shangyu Manufacturing only incurred “staff costs and production 


(1) Sales of products. Sales 


of products means the 


exchange of titles of goods 


for a compensation 


OEM means being 


consigned to process the 


goods, while the raw 


materials and key 


components is supplied by 


the consigner; and 


consignee follows the 


requirement set by 


consigner to produce the 


goods and collect OEM fee. 


Both the titles of raw 


materials and produced 


products belong to the 


consigner 



http://www.docin.com/p-398213665.html
6 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


overhead for assembly-related operations.”
7
  In Ozner’s prospectus, the Company stated that procurement 


costs accounted for 70% of total production costs, meaning that roughly the other ~30% of production 


costs should have been incurred on labor and overhead for assembly-related operations. 








Source: Ozner Prospectus, p. 27. 


Even if Ozner is to be believed, and Shangyu Manufacturing only incurred costs for labor and assembly, 


then we estimate that the manufacturing subsidiary should have incurred RMB 75 million and RMB 58 


million in labor and assembly-related costs in 2012 and 2011, respectively.   





But SAIC filings show that Shangyu Manufacturing true COGS were only a fraction of those figures:  











                                                 
7
 Ozner Clarification, p. 2. 


Shangyu Manufacturing COGS Calculation


RMB in million 2011 2012


Raw materials & Components Cost
1 =


A 135.7      175.1      


Raw Material as % of Production Cost
2 


=B 70% 70%


Total Production Cost = C=A/B 193.9      250.1      


Labor Cost & Manufacturing Overheard as % of Production Cost = D =1 - B 30% 30%


Labor Cost & Manufacturing Overheard E=C*D 58.2        75.0        


Shangyu Haorun's SAIC COGS
3


11.9        7.5          


Difference in RMBmm 46.24     67.51     


Difference % -80% -90%


Source:


1. Ozner Clarification Announcement on Mar. 25 2015, p. 3


2. Ozner Prospectus p27


3. Shangyu Haorun's SAIC Filings
7 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


 
Source: 2012 Shangyu Manufacturing SAIC Filings – Income Statement 





Even if Ozner’s latest explanation, which directly contradicts its previous statements in its prospectus, is 


taken at face value, we believe that SAIC filings show that the Company’s sole manufacturer did not 


incur sufficient costs to justify the levels of production claimed by Ozner in its prospectus. 





II. Same Business, Different Result? 


In our Report, we noted that prior to Ozner’s IPO, evidence suggests that Chaoyue Group Limited 


(“CGL”) (HK: 0147), a Hong Kong listed company, ran a very similar business, leasing Ozner-branded 


water purifying machines to end users, from 2009 through 2012.  Despite leasing 63,000 water purifiers
8
 


(including many of the same or similar models as Ozner leases today), CGL’s water purification 


machine leasing business was an unprofitable failure.  CGL eventually sold the business to Ozner for 


HKD 78.5 mm in September 2012, after losses forced CGL to write off most of its value.   


How can an almost an identical business could go from small and unprofitable failure in 2012 (under 


CGL) to a thriving and profitable operation with a market capitalization of HKD 6.2 billion under Ozner? 


In Ozner’s clarification, the Company accused Glaucus of leaving out “key reasons behind the different 


results achieved by CGL and the Group in respect of a similar business.”
9
 


But such supposed “key reasons” are nothing but weak excuses, and obfuscate the obvious similarities 


between the businesses.  Below we present Ozner’s “key reasons” from its Clarification along with our 


comments.   


                                                 
8
 Ozner Prospectus, p. 2. 


9
 Ozner Clarification, p. 10. 


 



http://wenku.baidu.com/view/8888f1d028ea81c758f57814.html

http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2012/0727/LTN20120727636.pdf
8 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 





CGL Ozner Glaucus Comment


Business focus


CGL operated a wide range of 


other unrelated businesses, 


including garment manufacturing 


and trading, gold mining and 


corporate services.


Water purification business is the focus of 


the Group’s operations and accounts for the 


majority and an increasing portion of the 


Group’s revenue.


As a matter of fact, CGL rented Ozner-branded 


water purifying machines to end users in the PRC.  


That it also had other businesses does not change 


that the leasing of Ozner-branded machines was an 


unprofitable failure.


Investment


Performance of the water 


purification business under CGL’s 


ownership was not satisfactory due 


to a combination of factors mainly 


related to the lack of funding as a 


result of the lingering effects of the 


global financial crisis.


Between January 2011 and September 


2012, the Group had invested approximately 


RMB300 million in the water purification 


business. The Company made significant 


investment in the water purification business 


utilizing funds from three rounds of pre-IPO 


capital raising.


First, CGL also invested heavily.  CGL originally 


purchased the water purifying business for HKD 383 


million, an amount which was adjusted downward 


when the businesses drastically failed to meet profit 


targets.  CGL also experienced heavy losses: it 


reported HKD 213.6 million in losses in FY 2011 as 


a result of the Park Wealth business. Second, 


dumping more money into a business does not 


necessarily produce a different outcome.  CGL sold 


many of the same (or similar) models as Ozner.  It 


sold machines under the same brand.  CGL even had 


the same R&D team as Ozner.  Ozner's CEO was 


even a director for CGL's leasing subsidiary.  CGL 


sold machines using the same technology as Ozner.  


Expansion of 


geographic reach


CGL operated in 10 cities in China 


from November 2010 to 


September 2012, without 


expanding into any new city.


The Group expanded its distribution network 


to 125 cities as of December 31, 2013.


This excuse is absurd.  CGL got its choice of 


10 cities in which to market and rent Ozner 


branded purifiers.  If CGL could not make the 


business work in the top ten cities of its choice, 


why would Ozner be able to make the same 


business so incredibly profitable in secondary 


markets?


Expansion of 


distributor network


CGL had nine distribution agents in 


2009 and 2010 and a sole agent 


since 2011.


The number of distributors of the Group was 


714 as of December 31, 2011 and further 


increased significantly from 871 as of 


December 31, 2012 to 1,702 as of 


December 31, 2013.


The Group also implemented a combination 


of management measures for its distributor 


network, including distributor database, the 


two-card system, and inspections and 


trainings.


Why would simply adding more distributors make a 


business more profitable? We would expect that 


more distributors would simply make the business 


more expensive to operate, increasing the complexity 


of operations and the costs of coordinating between, 


collecting from, and directing a much larger network 


of third parties.  If anything, increasing the number 


of distributors from nine to 714 would add cost and 


complexity, not increase profitability.  


Water purifying 


machines


installed


CGL installed approximately 


64,000 water purifying machines as 


of March 31, 2009, and did not 


install any additional water 


purifying machines after 


November 2010


The Group installed approximately 215,000 


water purifying machines between January 


2011 and September 2012.


The number of water purifying machines 


further increased from approximately 


309,000 as of December 31, 2012 to 


approximately 463,000 as of December 31, 


2013.


The economies of scale in the water purifying 


machine business may contribute to a marginal 


increase in profitability as the business grows, but 


does a tripling of the active machines really explain 


how the same business can go from RMB 190.6 


million in losses from FY 2010 - 2012 under CGL to 


profitable business under Ozner (with 38% net 


margins) just a short time later?


Board and 


management


expertise


Senior management of Shanghai 


Ozner Comfort Environment & 


Service Co., Ltd. (‘‘Shanghai 


Comfort’’) was not on the CGL 


board.


Executive directors with extensive 


experience in operating the water 


purification business; institutional investors 


and board members also provided strategic 


advice and business guidance.


Ozner's founder, CEO and Chairman, worked for 


CGL as director of the operating subsidiary 


responsible for leasing water purifying machines.  


His knowledge, experience and expertise did not 


seem to make CGL's business profitable, why would  


he be able to do so, and so quickly, with the same 


business under Ozner?
9 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


Nor does Ozner’s response directly address the core of our skepticism.  CGL sold many of the same (or 


similar) models as Ozner.  It sold machines under the same brand.  Ozner's founder and CEO was the 


director of CGL's subsidiary responsible for leasing water purifying.  CGL sold machines using the same 


technology as Ozner.  CGL even had the same R&D team as Ozner. 


In August 2012, CGL sold this business to Ozner for a consideration of HKD 78.5 million, an amount 


which is 1.5% of Ozner current market capitalization.
10


  CGL made clear that water and air 


purification business (including the leasing of water purifying machines) had been responsible for HKD 


213.6 million in losses in FY 2011 and HKD 0.1 million in losses from operation in FY 2012.  The 


water and air purification business also carried net liabilities as of March 31, 2012, of HKD 205.7 million. 


The core question is not what purported changes Ozner made to the business around the margins.  The 


core question is how a business which was such an unprofitable failure under CGL suddenly became 


extremely profitable (net income margins of 35% and 38% in 2012 and 2013) when it was repackaged in 


preparation for the 2014 IPO.   


We continue to firmly believe that the most likely explanation, and one that is corroborated by the 


additional evidence referenced in our Report, is that Ozner has mislead investors regarding the 


profitability of its business.   


III. Undisclosed Related Party Transactions 


In our Report, we identified a significant undisclosed related party transaction.  In the prospectus, Ozner 


unequivocally stated in its prospectus that Shanghai Haoyang Environmental Technology (“Shanghai 


Haoyang”) was an “independent third party” and went so far to say, in no uncertain terms, that “none 


of Shanghai Haoyang or its directors or shareholders had any past or present relationship, 


including without limitation, employment or financing relationship with [Ozner] or our … 


shareholders during the Track Record Period.”   


This turns out to have been blatantly false.  SAIC filings show that Xiao Jianping, an Ozner shareholder 


and director of one of its operating subsidiaries was in fact the controlling shareholder of Shanghai 


Haoyang since 2010.  To us, it seems clear that the Shanghai Haoyang Sub-Contract Agreement was a 


material undisclosed related party transaction.   


In its Clarification, Ozner sheepishly admitted that “the statement in the prospectus referring to the 


independent third party status of Shanghai Haoyang was not entirely accurate.”
11


  That is a polite way of 


saying that the statement was false! 


Ozner complains that the false statement was immaterial and that it was not really obligated to disclose 


the transaction with Shanghai Haoyang to begin with.  Ozner is apparently under the misapprehension 


that investors only care if a company issues false statements as to items it deems material.   


In reality, Shanghai Haoyang was so material that Ozner mentions the entity 26 times in its prospectus!  


Now, it dismisses transactions with Shanghai Haoyang as simply irrelevant.  If that is the case, why was it 


included to begin with? Why was it discussed so many times, if it was simply immaterial?  


The Company also claims that it was under no obligation to disclose any transactions with Shanghai 


Haoyang because Xiao Jianping does not play a key managerial role in or have significant decision 


making power over the Company’s overall business.  It dismisses its relationship with Shanghai Haoyang 


as minimal and irrelevant.  


                                                 
10


 Ozner Prospectus, p. 107. 
11


 Ozner Clarification, p. 12. 



http://english.ozner.net/upload/2014060508453901.pdf
10 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


But a closer look at the SAIC filings reveal even closer ties between Ozner subsidiary Shanghai Haorun 


Environmental Works (“Shanghai Haorun”) and Shanghai Haoyang, the supposed independent third 


party.   


The following are excerpts of SAIC files showing that the supposed independent third party, Shanghai 


Haoyang, shares three total individuals, one auditor and one registered office in common with Ozner 


subsidiary Shanghai Haorun:  


Shanghai Haorun Environmental Works 


(Ozner Subsidiary) 


Shanghai Haoyang Environmental Technology 


(Supposed Independent Third Party) 





Xiao Jianping (肖建平)
11 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


Shanghai Haorun Environmental Works 


(Ozner Subsidiary) 


Shanghai Haoyang Environmental Technology 


(Supposed Independent Third Party) 





Chen Jie (陈洁) 





Song Jihua （宋继花）
12 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 





Shanghai Haorun Environmental Works 


(Ozner Subsidiary) 


Shanghai Haoyang Environmental Technology 


(Supposed Independent Third Party) 





Shanghai XINJIE Accounting Firm （上海信捷会计事务所） 


*Note: this is the accounting firm which issued the contribution verification report for both entities. 








Registered Offices
13 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


Ozner stated unequivocally in its prospectus that “none of Shanghai Haoyang or its directors or 


shareholders had any past or present relationship, including without limitation, employment or 


financing relationship with [the Company] or our … shareholders during the Track Record 


Period.”
12





But SAIC filings belie Ozner’s professed independence from Shanghai Haoyang.   





That both entities share a common auditor, a common registered building address, and involve, in some 


capacity, Xiao Jiangping, Chen Jie, Song Jihua indicates that Shanghai Haoyang is not, as the Company 


claims, an independent third party – but rather it is a related party.  


IV. Why Doesn’t Ozner Pay Taxes (Part I) 


In our Report, we opined that annual tax rankings, available to any investor online from the city of 


Shangyu (Zheijiang) province, show that Ozner’s sole manufacturing subsidiary paid 74% less in taxes 


than should be the case if Ozner’s prospectus was accurate.   


Ozner claimed in response that Shangyu Manufacturing was not the principle revenue generating entity of 


the Company.
13


  This is irrelevant.  As we discussed above, Ozner admits in prospectus that Shangyu 


Manufacturing took title to the machines it produced, meaning that it would have to pay VAT when it 


transfers the title to Ozner’s rental subsidiaries.  We believe, that the Shangyu city tax rankings should 


reflect such VAT payments.  They do not.  


V. Why Doesn’t Ozner Pay Taxes (Part II) 


Despite reporting an aggregate of RMB 795 million in revenue and RMB 277 million in net income 


from 2011 through 2013 (and accruing RMB 64 million in income tax payables by FYE 2013), 


Ozner paid less than RMB 3 million in total income taxes during the pre-IPO track-record period.  


What other business is excused from paying taxes that it owes?  


Ozner complains that this discrepancy was “primarily attributable to the difference in rental income 


recognized by the IFRS and under statutory financial statements for SAIC reporting purposes due to the 


timing of invoices issuance…”
14





                                                 
12


 Ozner Prospectus, p. 107. 
13


 Ozner Clarification, p. 14. 
14


 Ozner Clarification, p. 14. 


Name Shanghai Haorun Environmental Works
Shanghai Haoyang Environmental 


Technology


Reported Relationship Ozner Subsidiary Supposed Independent Third Party


Xian Jianping （肖建平） Legal Representative Controlling Shareholder


Independent Director (監事)


Named receiver on approval notice of 


registration of establishment


Song Jihua （宋继花）
Signed receiver on approval notice of 


registration of establishment


Signed receiver on approval notice of 


registration amendment


Shanghai XINJIE accounting 


firm


（上海信捷会计师事务所）


Issued capital contribution verification 


report


Issued capital contribution verification 


report


Registered Office
Room 208, Building 3, No. 60, Guiqiao Rd, 


Pudong New District


Room 203, Building 3, No. 60, Guiqiao Rd, 


Pudong New District


Named receiver on approval notice of 


registration of establishment
Chen Jie （陈洁）



http://www.shangyuribao.cn/images/2014-01/20/syrb2014012000004v01n.pdf
14 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


But as we discussed above, SAIC filings for Ozner’s primary rental subsidiary, Shaanxi Haoze, state that 


for the purposes of its statutory financial statements filed in the PRC, rental income and related costs 


generated by leasing machines is recognized on a straight-line basis during the lease term.   


Even if the Company’s explanation is to be believed, it does not make sense.  As we discussed in our 


Report, Ozner paid less than RMB 3 million on total income taxes from FY 2011-2013, despite 


recording RMB 277 million in net revenue.  At FYE 2013, its liability for income tax payable had 


ballooned to RMB 64 million.  That means that in three years, only paid 4.5% of the taxes it supposedly 


accrued.  


Are investors to believe that in three years Ozner only invoiced its distributors for 4.5% of 


outstanding payments? How did Ozner record RMB 68 million, RMB 150 million and RMB 306 


million in cash flow from operations in FY 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, if it only invoiced 


distributors for such a small amount of the revenues it recognized?  


We believe that Ozner did not pay meaningful income taxes because it was barely profitable, and that its 


explanation of an invoice-based tax exemption is not credible and further evidence that it has been 


exaggerating its reported profitability.   


VI. Questionable Market Share 


In our Report, we presented six different, independent rankings of top water purifying brands conducted 


by six different organizations in 2013 and 2014, which did not list Ozner in the top 10, let alone the top 


three, of brands of water purifying machines in China.  Each list includes Ozner’s purported competitors, 


Midea and Qinyuan, in the top 10.  These consumer surveys undermine the Company’s claims regarding 


its market share, sales and brand awareness.  


In its Clarification, Ozner complained that all six surveys were misleading and unreliable because they 


did not disclose their ranking criteria, methodology and were published by “uncertified” sources from the 


internet.
15





This misses the point.  We cited the surveys because they were of “brand” rankings, not sales or rentals, 


and because they were from independent sources (i.e., neither WE nor OZNER paid them to conduct their 


survey).    


In comparison, Ozner relies on the Frost & Sullivan market survey featured in its prospectus as supposed 


validation for its claimed market share. We believe that this is deliberately misleading because, in our 


experience, the Company provides the data upon which the Frost & Sullivan report is built.   


In its Clarification, Ozner mentions a number of other sources by which Frost & Sullivan supposedly 


corroborated the Company’s market share, including trade interviews.  But if the starting point for the 


Frost & Sullivan inquiry is data provided by the Company, and subsequent checks are merely 


confirmatory, then the Frost & Sullivan report is not an independent source corroborating the Company’s 


claims.  It is an agent of the Company, preparing a report paid for by the Company, using data 


provided to it by the Company.  


Ozner makes the further excuse that the market is highly fragmented and thus should not expect to appear 


on every brand rankings.  Perhaps.  But of the six rankings we found, the Company appears on none of 


them.  Its competitors (#1 and #2 in the market), Midea and Qinyuan, appear on every list.   


                                                 
15


 Ozner Clarification, p. 22.
15 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


If Ozner was truly the number #3 water purification company by market share, wouldn’t we expect it to 


appear on at least one or two of the surveys?  


Indeed, can Ozner point to a single market share survey or brand ranking that it did not pay for or 


sponsor which validates its claimed market share?  


VII. Conclusion 


Ultimately, investors should think critically about our Report, our rebuttal and Ozner’s Clarification.  


They must decide for themselves the true value of Ozner shares.   





We do not trust, nor do we believe a Company that acknowledges, under scrutiny, that its prospectus 


contained material that “was not entirely accurate.”  Nor do we trust a Company whose excuses and 


evasions directly contradicted its previous statements to the markets.   





Based on the preponderance of the available evidence, we continue to believe that the most plausible 


interpretation of the facts and documentation available in the public domain is that Ozner’s business is not 


as profitable as the Company claims to Hong Kong investors.
16 
 


Ozner Water International Holding Ltd | HK: 2014 www.glaucusresearch.com 


DISCLAIMER 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is Ozner. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If 


you are invested (either long or short) in Ozner, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, 


like everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the 


publication of our opinions and the underlying basis for such opinions is in the public interest. 


You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Ozner stock declines. This report 


and all statements contained herein are solely the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of 


fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available facts and evidence collected and 


analyzed, which we set out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public 


information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any 


piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own 


homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law. 


As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) 


(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 


investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands 


to realize significant gains in the event that the price of Ozner’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s 


research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with 


respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be 


construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind. 


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, 


short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to 


buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be 


unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 


accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not 


insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality 


to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to 


ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to 


support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented “as is,” 


without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, 


LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high 


value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international 


organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO. 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 


completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or 


supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and 


independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by 


the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive 


jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or 


applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in 


California; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 


use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 


barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer 


shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent 


jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as 


reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 


this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
