Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 1 of 15 
 


 
March 9, 2015 


AXDX: a Near-Billion Valuation 
Whose Big Lie was Just Exposed by the SEC 





Citron's Target:  $1.00 per share within Eighteen Months 
 


Part 1 of 2 
 


Citron has no interest in repeating a story that has already been told.  The principal points 
made in this report are new, and have not been published on this stock previously.  We present 
in the company's own words, why their stock is worthless.   
 
Three weeks ago a detailed report was published on Seeking Alpha that asked the right 
questions.  But it was published without knowing that the answers would be posted only a 
week later when AXDX filed its SEC 10-K. 
 


http://seekingalpha.com/article/2926786-accelerate-diagnostics-a-misleading-story-ripe-for-
decline 
 


What the writer of that article failed to note is that while they were busy trying to prove that 
Accelerate had no "accelerated" diagnostics … the SEC was already forcing the company to 
admit as much.  
 


It is well known that Accelerate Diagnostics (NASDAQ:AXDX) is a controversial stock.  Here are 
the main reasons: 
 


 11 years of unfulfilled promises about the same product 


 No viable commercial product on the immediate horizon  


 Scant R&D 


 Rejected by two major pharma companies who each had exclusive rights to AXDX's 
platform and core technology for months -- and then walked away 


 Not a single independent scientific publication on its technology -- despite over 30 
papers authored by employees, and individuals compensated by the company 


 A competitive landscape increasingly crowded with high-credibility and well funded 
competitors, each aggressively bringing new technologies to market -- many already 
FDA approved and/or Europe CE approval 


 



http://seekingalpha.com/article/2926786-accelerate-diagnostics-a-misleading-story-ripe-for-decline

http://seekingalpha.com/article/2926786-accelerate-diagnostics-a-misleading-story-ripe-for-decline
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 2 of 15 
 


But now, we'll step you through the sequence by which the SEC at its finest, forces the 
company to fess up and abandon its 10+ year misleading overreach of a story about rapid 
diagnostics using direct from patient blood samples. 
 


 Kudos to the Securities and Exchange Commission   
 


In its 12+ years of publishing stock research and commentary on highly promoted and 
misunderstood stocks, Citron has never observed such acute and decisive subject-matter 
expertise from regulators as the SEC has demonstrated in AXDX.  It is obvious that after 10 
years of empty promises, the SEC stepped in to ask the $1 billion dollar question.  
 


“Is your Diagnostic Test actually Accelerated?” 
 
 We see this SEC inquiry into the company's disclosures take shape in correspondence from the 
fall of 2014. 


 
SEC Correspondence: Sept 9, 2014  ( link ) 
and the key follow-up: October 24, 2014  ( link )  
 
Observe in the excerpts below exactly how this exchange between the company and the 
regulators forces the company to come clean.  Moreover, the SEC's challenges expose the 
company’s utter disregard for truthful disclosure to its own shareholders. 


 
The SEC publicly takes note that since 2004,AXDX  has claimed to its investors that their ID/AST 
technology diagnoses blood pathogens and identifies antibiotic sensitivities without requiring a 
positive blood culture.  Such capability, if true, would be a tremendous clinical improvement on 
existing methodologies, delivering "accelerated" diagnostic and antibiotic sensitivity results in 
hours, rather than days in the case of serious and life threatening blood-borne infections. 


 
If after all these years, the ID/AST platform still needs a prerequisite positive blood culture 
before running diagnostic testing on its platform, it is Citron's opinion that the company's 
technology is worthless in the 2015 diagnostic landscape.  As in bagel, zero, nada, zilch.  


 
Citron recommends investors read the above-referenced correspondence links in entirety, but 
highlights the most relevant sections below.  One insightful challenge is raised in Comment #3 
of the 9/9/2014 filing.  Referring directly to a scientific publication on the AXDX website written 
by a 14-year employee, the SEC writes: 


 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000114420414055090/filename1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000114420414062690/0001144204-14-062690-index.htm

http://www.twst.com/interview/18833
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 3 of 15 
 





http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000114420414055090/filename1.htm 
 
In response, AXDX management provides an obtuse and confusing response. Their lack of 
clarity is just one example of their fast and loose play with industry jargon; but clearly they are 
forced to acknowledge their system does require a "positive blood culture."  
 





( Note:  Well-established tests are already available for respiratory swabs and other 
direct specimen types; the compelling market opportunity for the diagnostic laboratory 
technology industry is direct diagnosis from blood samples.  This is where rapid 
diagnostic tools can makes a pivotal difference in the prognosis for critically ill patients 
suffering from sepsis, toxic shock, staph or hospital induced superbug infections.) 





Then the company launches a rambling characterization of conventional laboratory processing 
of blood, with no reference to the current competitive landscape (as though there isn't one ... 
Citron will comment ...) and when they finally get to answering the question, the company says:  
 





    At the end of their answer, they make this extraordinary and chilling 
statement.  Citron advises the following would an immediate red flag for all 
investors in any filing of any company, at any time, under any and all 


circumstances:         
 





We do not believe that the level of detail requested by the Staff is 
material to our investors, so the Company respectfully requests to 
not include such disclosure in its future filings. 
 


Instead, we plan for the operator to introduce a patient positive 
blood culture, respiratory, or other sample directly into our system. 
  





When we state that the ID/AST System uses a “culture-free process,” we are 
referring to our system’s ability to directly process a positive blood culture, 
respiratory, or other specimen without first undergoing a manual culture 
and isolation process. 


We also note that your system uses a “culture-free process.” Please tell us 


and in future filings disclose how you achieve cell growth without a culture. 


We note in this regard that your study indicates that certain of the bacteria 


being studied were subcultured on sheep’s blood agar. 


 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000114420414055090/filename1.htm
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 4 of 15 
 


     This is as scary as anything we've ever seen a publicly traded company 


state in response to an SEC question! Yet, in addition to the quote above, AXDX 


invokes it no less than three other distinct times in its responses!   


From the ferocity of their follow-up, it appears the SEC was "not amused".  


In its October 24 follow-on reply, the SEC pressed its issue: 
 





Finally, the company concedes the point to the SEC, while forcing investors to 
wait for future filings: 
 





This company's name is "Accelerate Diagnostics" (NASDAQ:AXDX).  But investors 
would have to read with a microscope the company's recently filed BS-loaded 10-


K -- to notice that the claims of "accelerated diagnostics" using the 
company's technology, have all been removed.     
 


 On February 26th, AXDX Filed its 10-K  and look what 
has been cut out 
 


In years of previous 10-K and 10-Q filings, the company has widely used the 
following paragraph to describe their core business.  But now they've cut it!  
 





This paragraph is now gone, along with ANY mention of "culture-free" or "direct 
from sample" in the entire 10-K! 


The Company's BACcel TM platform utilizes a proprietary 


culture-free process with both genomic and phenotypic 


detection technologies that decrease time to result while 


maintaining high sensitivity and specificity 


We confirm that in future filings, as appropriate, we will provide explanatory 
disclosure with respect to our use of the term “culture-free process.” 
 





it "appears necessary for an investor to understand your use of the term 


'culture-free process'" 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000100009615000020/accelerateddia12312014.htm
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 5 of 15 
 


How significant has that paragraph "Culture-Free 
Process" been to AXDX?  
 


The phrase "Culture-Free Process" appears in: 


 The company's profile description text on 
o  Google Finance ( link ) 
o The New York Times stock listings ( link ) 
o NASDAQ.com  ( link ) 
o Marketwatch.com ( link ) 
o MSN.com  Money  ( link ) 


 The company's announcement of appearance at the J.P Morgan Healthcare conference 
1/7/2015  ( link ) 


 A company PR on PR Newswire dated 2/20/2015 announcing a $5 million grant from 
NIH in Morningstar  ( link ) 


 Pharmaceutical Business Review  ( link ) 


 AXDX 10-Q from 11/4/2014, 8/4/2014, 5/4/2014  ( link )  ( link )  ( link ) 


 AXDX 10-K's from 2013, and 2012.  ( link )   ( link ) 


 The company's own website:  http://ir.axdx.com/  (Investor Relations home page)  
 
( NOTE:  Synonymous language for "culture-free process" is "direct from sample", a phrase 
which also appears all over AXDX's websites.  http://acceleratediagnostics.com/our-
science/asm2014/ ) 


 
Today's high ground in medical diagnostics is built upon high tech approaches to diagnosis and 
treatment of blood infections that specifically bypass the old-tech lab procedure of culturing 
blood.  Blood culturing is extremely time-consuming, with no definite endpoint.  50% or more 
the results come back "failure to culture", and thus 8 hours can become 24 hours ... or days ...  
useless when a patient's life hangs is in the balance.   
 
In contrast, "Direct from sample" technologies that offer diagnostic and treatment directives 
without these long delays is extremely valuable to healthcare providers.  (See Appendix 1 for 
further explanation of this topic.)  
 


The carefully crafted company perception that Accelerate's BACcel technology (now called 
Accelerate ID/AST) can process direct patient blood samples, and thereby avoid the time delays 
of positive blood cultures for their own most likely use case, IS the foremost investment thesis 
for AXDX investors today.    
  



https://www.google.com/finance?q=NASDAQ%3AAXDX&ei=cV_3VMHGJ4yNigLR2YGwDQ

http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/accelr8-technology-corporation/index.html

http://www.nasdaq.com/symbol/axdx/stock-report

http://www.marketwatch.com/investing/stock/axdx/profile

http://www.msn.com/en-us/money/stockdetails/fi-126.1.AXDX.NAS

http://www.nasdaq.com/press-release/accelerate-diagnostics-to-present-at-the-33rd-annual-jp-morgan-healthcare-conference-20150107-00102

http://news.morningstar.com/all/pr-news-wire/20150220LA37454/denver-health-medical-center-and-accelerate-diagnostics-awarded-5-million-grant-to-study-antibiotic-resistant-super-bug.aspx

http://www.pharmaceutical-business-review.com/companies/accelr8_technology_corporation

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000100009614000121/accelerate9302014.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000100009614000093/accelerate6302014.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000100009614000056/accelerate3312014.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000100009614000025/accelerate10k12312013.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000100009612000149/accelr810kbody.htm

http://ir.axdx.com/

http://acceleratediagnostics.com/our-science/asm2014/

http://acceleratediagnostics.com/our-science/asm2014/
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 6 of 15 
 


 Lack of Analyst Coverage  


It's no secret that we are in the middle of the biggest biotech / medtech boom that the markets 
have ever seen.  Every Wall Street analyst is looking to get their foot in the door with any 
company that might truly deliver the latest “new new”.  Theranos has become the most sought 
after private company in the world. 
 
Yet, AXDX, despite its often-repeated promises of a “better mousetrap”, has 0 analyst coverage. 
Look at T2 Biosystems (TTOO).  With 1/3rd the market cap, T2 has coverage from at least four 
firms, Goldman and Morgan included.  In Citron's 12 year history of publishing on suspect 
public companies, we have NEVER seen a billion dollar market cap company with zero analyst 
coverage, especially one in such a highly discussed field.   
 
We all know Wall Street loves a good story, but when it comes to AXDX, the line has to be 
drawn between story and fantasy. 





    What About Those Pilot Clinical Studies? 
 


This SEC exchange didn't stop with the "culture" or "no culture" probe -- they 
pressed further, demanding clarity on the company's claims about its "pilot 
clinical studies".   
From the 9/9/2014 SEC Correspondence: 











       Because pilot study data is not typically a part of an FDA 
submission and we do not intend to include such information in our FDA 
submission, we respectfully request to not disclose in our future filings 


how any pilot studies advance the FDA approval process.        
 


These pilot clinical studies are limited in size and scope and are intended 
to provide useful insights into device efficacy. They are not intended to 
specifically advance our FDA approval process ...  
 





Your disclosure in this section refers to pilot clinical studies. Please tell us 


and disclose in future filings how these pilot clinical studies advance your 


FDA approval process. 



https://www.theranos.com/
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 7 of 15 
 


The SEC then inquires into the independence of the published data points on the technology: 
 








In its October 24 reply, the SEC didn't seem amused : 
 








In addition to these questions and the ones about the phrase "culture-free process", the 
company "respectfully" requested to not explain further in filings responses to questions about: 
 


 the system's ability to distinguish amongst different types of bacteria colonies  


 the steps necessary prior to introducing bacterial samples into the systems' microarrays, 
and the time and automation of those steps  


 what the system might add in the way of useful information where the identity of the 
pathogen is not known 
 


In each case the company states that it does not believe the level of detail requested in the 


question is material to investors.                               


We confirm that, to the extent we discuss pilot clinical studies in future 
filings, we will clarify the nature and purpose of those studies. 
 


To the extent that you discuss pilot clinical trials in your future filings, the 


nature and purpose of those studies should be clear to investors. 


Accordingly, please confirm that you will disclose your response to prior 


comment 10 to the extent that you include disclosure concerning pilot 


clinical studies. 


These studies were collaborative, not independent, and were performed 
as part of the proof of concept testing referred to on page 6 of the Form 
10-K, and not on the pre-clinical instruments. 
 


Your disclosure on page 7 indicates that three studies were conducted 


using the BACcel system. Please tell us who conducted these studies and 


whether these “joint” studies were independent. Please also tell us 


whether the referenced studies involved the pre-clinical instruments or the 


“proof of concept testing” that you reference...
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 8 of 15 
 


  So What About FDA Approval?   
AXDX's Responses to the SEC are Starting to Read Like 
the Work of a Pathological Liar ... in the 5


th
 Grade. 





So now the company has clearly ditched its claim for a "culture-free" technology, but now 
states it will seek accelerated "de novo" FDA approval for its technology platform plus a test 
that depends on the prerequisite of positive blood culture.  (See Appendix 2 for the exact 
quote.)  But can even this vastly inferior outcome be regarded as credible ?   The SEC asks:  
 











But when AXDX filed their 10-K, they had advanced their claimed approval date 
to 2015.  Responding to the demand for milestones, the company issued a plan 
so severely messed up we had to reprint it (see below).   
 


"The exact regulatory path for the AST portion of our system 


and positive blood culture test kit is still being evaluated by the 
Company and is the subject of ongoing discussion with the FDA. 
 


... The FDA approval process for our ID/AST System and positive blood 
culture test kit will require a clinical study that supports statistical 
equivalency with established clinical standards for both identification and 
susceptibility. 
 


...    We anticipate initiating clinical trials for the ID/AST System and 
positive blood culture test kit in the first half of 2015, CE mark 
registration in early 2015 and FDA approval in early 2016." 


We note ... you anticipate initiating clinical trials for BACcel in the first half of 2015, CE 


mark registration in early 2015 and United States FDA approval in early 2016.  Please 


tell us and revise your future filings to disclose the basis for your belief that you will 


achieve those milestones as of the currently disclosed dates. Please include in your 


response and disclose in future filings what steps you have taken to date to achieve 


those milestones and what steps remain to be taken in order to achieve those 


milestones including whether you will seek FDA registration and approval of your 


proposed clinical trials.
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 9 of 15 
 


Oh, and just one more thing:  Not one single penny spent on clinical trials in 
2014!  We are not making this up, either.  From the just-filed 2014 10-K (link): 
 





Let's get this straight:  The company acknowledges that :  


 A formal clinical trial of ID/AST will be required 


 The clinical trial plan has not yet been filed  


 Not one penny was spent on clinical trials in 2014 


 Their own pilot clinical studies provide no independent basis for required clinical trials 


Regardless, the company asserts that it will gain FDA approval in 2015. Really ??? 
 








Although we currently do not have any products on the market, we 


anticipate that the ID/AST System will receive FDA approval in calendar 


year 2015. 


Clinical Trial Agreements 
The Company has entered into master agreements with clinical trial sites in 


which we typically pay a set amount for start-up costs and then pay for 


work performed. No amounts have been incurred for these arrangements 


through December 31, 2014. 
 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000100009615000020/accelerateddia12312014.htm
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 10 of 15 
 


  Proposed AXDX Milestones for 2015 FDA Approval  
(Editor's Note: Citron has copied and pasted this set of milestones verbatim from AXDX's just-filed 10-K -
- highlighted yellow is our commentary) 





From the AXDX 10-K for 2014 Page 9 ( link ) 
Reality Check:    Sounds like a plan!  Except .. how can this plan possibly be accomplished in less 
than 2.5 or 3 years ?  
 


Two major competitors, T2 and Abbott IRIDICA provide useful timeline comparisons.  T2 began 
clinical trials in 2012, and received FDA approval in September and December 2014. Abbott's 
IRIDICA, which is currently approved for use in Europe, has begun US clinical trials, with 
approval anticipated in 2017.   
 


It is impossible to ignore that this entire FDA approval plan puts the company on a course to 
receive approval for a product, which to the extent it depends upon cultured blood as a 
starting point for its analysis, the diagnostics market neither needs nor wants.  It is Citron's 
opinion that this plan is intended to defend the stock price by misleading investors, rather than 
bring a legitimate product to the medical diagnostics market.   
 


All of the company's bullshit, which is obvious to the SEC, and investors are left to puzzle out, 
was figured out by past potential industry partners.  We could have read between the lines: 


As of December 31, 2014 we have completed the following steps toward our goal of 
obtaining regulatory approvals for E.U. and U.S. launches of the ID/AST System and 
positive blood culture test kit: 
·        design of the final ID/AST System and positive blood culture test kit; 
·        meeting with the FDA to discuss the regulatory approval path for the ID/AST 
System and positive blood culture test kit; 
·        design of the U.S. clinical study; 
·        selection of clinical trial sites; 
·        obtain ISO13485 certification based on the establishment and audit of a product 
quality system; and 
·        building good manufacturing practice (GMP) manufacturing and test facilities. 
 


Key remaining steps toward obtaining a CE-mark for commercialization in the E.U., 
anticipated for the first half of 2015, and  upon obtaining FDA approval commercializing 
the product in the U.S., include: 
 


·        completing product technical files and providing a self-declaration of conformity to 
our E.U. authorized representative after which CE mark will be obtained; 
·        the execution of the U.S. clinical trials;  <--- Approval of FDA first, then clinical  
trials? 
·        preparation of the FDA submission following the clinical trials; and  <---    Ditto: 
So first they obtain "FDA approval commercializing the product", and THEN they 
execute the clinical trials ?   
·        obtaining a positive review of this submission from the FDA. <--- Ditto, but Citron 
observes the FDA will probably want do the review this  before issuing clearance...  
 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/727207/000100009615000020/accelerateddia12312014.htm
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 11 of 15 
 





  Becton Dickinson and Novartis Both Previously Studied 
BACcel ... and Both Walked Away. 
 


September 2009: Despite the impressive sounding results of studies published in 2008, more 
than a year after the its publication, and after spending nine months evaluating the BACcel 
platform, Becton Dickinson (BDX) (market cap 28 billion) passed on the opportunity to license 
AXDX's technology.  
 


12/14/2007  Becton Dickinson May Collaborate with Acceler8 
https://www.genomeweb.com/becton-dickinson-may-collaborate-accelr8-rapid-dx-
platform 
 
9/25/2009  Becton Dickinson walks away: 
http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20090925005538/en/Accelr8-Becton-Dickinson-


Conclude-Technical-Development-Project#.VPd7nfnF98F 


September 2011:  Four months after yet another published study on BACcel, Novartis (NOV) 
(market cap 22 billion) passed on the opportunity to license BACcel, after spending 16 months 
evaluating it.  
 


7/25/2011 Novartis expands collaboration:   
http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20110725005577/en/Accelr8-Announces-
Continuation-Expansion-BACcel%E2%84%A2-Development-Collaboration#.VPW-0fnF98E 
 


10/13/2011 Novartis walks away:  
https://www.genomeweb.com/mdx/novartis-deal-evaluate-accelr8s-baccel-platform-expires-


without-further-extensio 


 



https://www.genomeweb.com/becton-dickinson-may-collaborate-accelr8-rapid-dx-platform

https://www.genomeweb.com/becton-dickinson-may-collaborate-accelr8-rapid-dx-platform

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20090925005538/en/Accelr8-Becton-Dickinson-Conclude-Technical-Development-Project#.VPd7nfnF98F

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20090925005538/en/Accelr8-Becton-Dickinson-Conclude-Technical-Development-Project#.VPd7nfnF98F

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20110725005577/en/Accelr8-Announces-Continuation-Expansion-BACcel%E2%84%A2-Development-Collaboration#.VPW-0fnF98E

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20110725005577/en/Accelr8-Announces-Continuation-Expansion-BACcel%E2%84%A2-Development-Collaboration#.VPW-0fnF98E

https://www.genomeweb.com/mdx/novartis-deal-evaluate-accelr8s-baccel-platform-expires-without-further-extensio

https://www.genomeweb.com/mdx/novartis-deal-evaluate-accelr8s-baccel-platform-expires-without-further-extensio
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 12 of 15 
 





  AXDX's R&D Expense 


Meanwhile, here's the total R&D expense as filed in AXDX's 10-K's for in the last seven years.  Is 
this really the commitment of a supremely qualified innovator to dominate this space?  
 


2008 1,001,000 


2009 746,000 


2010 502,000 


2011 455,000 


2012 432,000 


2013 10,673,000 


2014 8,125,000 





Editors Note:  It is important for all who trade in the stock of Accelerate Diagnostics that Citron 
warns and understands about its trading dynamics.  AXDX is a heavily shorted, and a relatively 
tightly held name that purports to be developing breakthrough technology in a hot industry, so 
short term movement in the stock may be somewhat distorted.  But, unless this company can 
find a way to change 10 years of misleading messages to the investing public into a better 
mousetrap built from scratch, against formidable competition, while fighting off the inevitable 
class action lawsuits, this stock is going to $1.00 in eighteen months.  If the stock were more 
widely held, with analyst coverage and increased liquidity, our target would be $1.00 in three 
months.  
 


Because of the extreme disclosure deficiencies documented below, it is Citron's opinion that 
this company remains extremely vulnerable to regulatory intervention from the SEC at any 
time.    
 








   Conclusion 
 


Looks to us like the above-referenced pointed inquiries from the SEC demonstrate they've 
figured out exactly what the game is here.  Their job however, isn't to prevent smoke-and-
mirrors from being sold to the public. They can only make sure that companies peddling this 
shit disclose exactly what they are doing, in black and white. 
 


This company's current track to FDA approval isn't intended to create a saleable product; any 
diagnostic like their current proposal, that depends upon prerequisite blood culture, is DOA in 
the marketplace.  So they're going to make a major investment in a set of clinical trials suitable 
for an FDA approval process, purely to continue the smokescreen that the stock is hot buy?
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 13 of 15 
 


This approval process has taken credible and comparable competitors 3 years, but AXDX claims 
it will complete it in 2015, despite not having started the clinical trial yet.  Good luck with that! 
 


If approved, this product, which requires pre-cultured blood, will have zero market traction. 
Will AXDX will be obliged to hire a sales force to try to sell it, all of which will be sunk cost, 
just to keep up the charade?  By  the time this company might legitimately earn approval for a 
culture-free diagnostic for important infections, it will be swarmed under by competition.  
 


Kudos to the SEC, and cautious Investing to All 





   Stay tuned for part 2, in which we dissect the new 
set of lies from AXDX in their dishonest portrayal of the 
competitive landscape, and how they mischaracterize product 
they allegedly will bring to market some day in the future.  
 


(supplementary appendix material below)
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 14 of 15 
 


    Appendix 1:  


"Positive Blood Culture" vs "Direct Patient Blood Sample" 
 


What Investors Need to Know:   
The technical issue investors need to focus on is really quite straightforward...except when you 
read the company's bafflegab.   


When a seriously ill patient seeks medical care for an systemic infection -- via the ER, a doctor's 
office or clinic -- the ideal scenario would be a rapid diagnostic test which identifies the 
pathogen as well as the most effective antibiotic to treat the infection.  For example, in recent 
years a rapid antigen test direct from a throat swab resolves most uncertainty about whether 
common severe throat infections are "strep".  


But for several types of serious blood infections, (including for example, toxic shock, sepsis, 
staph and other hospital-induced infections) no decisive rapid clinical alternative has been 
available.  The standard of care has been to culture blood from a blood draw in a clinical lab -- 
attempting to grow the pathogen causing the patient's illness, first to identify it, then further 
testing the cultured growth for antibiotic susceptibility or resistance.   
 


The problem is that this process runs a long and indeterminate course.  A disturbingly high 
percentage of cultures, approaching 50% for some infections, fail to culture decisively; the 
blood pathogen fails to grow in an incubator. This point is critical because failure-to-culture 
results (e.g. false negatives) extend the time needed to positively identify the pathogen for an 
uncertain span of hours or days. Waiting out this interval -- hour by hour -- day by day -- doesn't 
ever give assurance that a decisive pathogen ID or treatment plan will emerge.  
 


Meanwhile, the physician treating a critically ill infected patient often doesn't have time to wait 
to initiate treatment.  For medical practitioners dealing with critically ill patients, the risks of 
waiting to begin treatment often outweigh the concerns about prescribing the optimal drug.  
Without a clear treatment indicator, the clinician will be forced by the urgency of the illness to 
prescribe a broad spectrum antibiotic, which might not be the best option to treat the specific 
pathogen, and might not improve the patient's condition at all. So in addition to sub-optimal 
clinical outcomes, the overuse of broad-spectrum antibiotics is creating increasing dangers of 
spawning superbugs.   
 


So AXDX describes current clinical practice as taking "hours or days", but when it suits their 
purposes, they minimize the obstacles of needing positive blood cultures: 
 





Blood culture is a routine laboratory process which determines negative 
from positive samples through incubation and takes on average 8 hours to 
complete.
Citron Research on AXDX March 9, 2015 Page 15 of 15 
 


They present no data to support this claim; no statements proving that their technology makes 
their culturing of blood any faster or more accurate than current clinical practice as explained 
above.  (And of course, they ignore all the competitive "Direct from Sample" platforms.)  
 


But the above-described clinical drawbacks -- culturing blood on an uncertain timeline -- 
remains  the primary driver for the market for advanced diagnostics technology.  
 


To claim they have a 13-hour solution (they state that is what they are applying to FDA for de 
novo clearance for), the company has to try to bend language to sweep under the rug the 
massive problem abundantly obvious in clinical practice already:  the failure to culture -- false 
negatives, which set the process of diagnosis and treatment back hours or even days..... 
 


Thus after 10 years' sound and fury, the product and test kit they are now proposing to submit 
to FDA, requires cultured blood, with all its clinical uncertainties.  After all this time, this is 
simply not a viable competitor any more.   
 


     Appendix 2:  A More Complete Excerpt from AXDX Answers 
to SEC on the Topic of "Blood Culture"  
For the purposes of clarity and continuity of our story, we excerpted direct statements for 
relevance to the sequence of topics discussed.  But AXDX's full explanation of the critical 
question -- are they applying for clearance for a "proprietary culture-free process" -- speaks 
volumes, although it is written in a convoluted style that conflates numerous points. 
 


So if you've read this far, here is the key passage, straight from Page 8 of their just-filed 10-K: 


Accelerate ID/AST System & Positive Blood Culture Test Kit 


 The ID/AST System features walk-away automation and consists of a fixed instrument and proprietary 
single-use test kit. The instrument consists of module(s) connected to a single analysis computer, which 
allows hospitals to acquire various numbers of modules to address their particular test volume. In order to 
run a patient sample on the Accelerate ID/AST System the technician would pipette the patient sample 
into our system, insert the test kit, and initiate the run. In the case of our initial test a positive blood culture 
sample is introduced to the system through pipetting directly from the blood culture bottle into our test kit. 
Blood culture is a routine laboratory process which determines negative from positive samples through 
incubation and takes on average 8 hours to complete. After approximately one hour from sample 
introduction, an ID result would be available, and after an additional four hours the AST would also be 
complete. 


So that's 13 hours, not 5, and if -- (and that's a big if -- to be proved through clinical trials which 
are yet to begin) and only if -- after 8 hours -- a positive blood culture has been successfully 
achieved  -- and in fact it's the correct positive blood culture populated with the patient's 
pathogen(s).  Otherwise, the process stretches longer, just like the "routine laboratory process" 
they state it is.  The obligation is on AXDX to prove this in its yet-to-begin clinical trials.   
 


The company has left the entire topic of failure-to-culture out of the discussion.  Investors 
might overlook this, but no clinician can or will, nor will the FDA.  Approval for a process 
dependent on blood culture will not give AXDX any ability to sell this platform for "Direct from 
Sample" -- that protocol and any accessories, would require their own separate clinical trials.
