Citron Follow Up on Questcor Admission  February 28, 2014 Page 1 of 3 
 


 
February 28, 2014 





Questcor has Responded to Citron’s Report on the 
Independent Laboratory Studies of Acthar 
 


Citron says: “Astonishing” 
 


With regard to Questcor (NASDAQ:QCOR) Citron has obviously often been skeptical, we’ve 
certainly been inquisitive, and we’ve even been righteously indignant at times.  
 


But now we’re utterly astonished. Just read what the company said in response to our report 
yesterday. 
 


In what Citron expects will likely unfold as one of the biggest pharmaceutical stories of 2014, a 
statement from Steve Cartt to Bloomberg confirms the laboratory findings Citron reported 
yesterday:   
 


February 27, 2014  (Bloomberg) -- Questcor Pharmaceuticals COO Steve Cartt email quoted by  
Bloomberg First Word:  
 





Notice what he did not say:  “Highly Purified ACTH IS the main ingredient in Acthar Gel.” 
 


So not only is pure ACTH not the active ingredient in Acthar, but it might not even be present 
in the drug at all.  
 


While the company stands by the premise “This is the way we’ve always done it…”, that does 
not protect them from either the civil or criminal consequences of a mislabeled drug.  
 


They’re banking their entire company on the statement: “each batch meets FDA-mandated 
specifications”.  But at the same time, they explicitly admit to not knowing what’s in it. So how 
do those purported manufacturing specifications protect the public with regard to efficacy, or 
correct dosing?   
 


“Each Acthar lot meets FDA-mandated specifications which have not 
changed over several decades.” He continues, Acthar is “naturally derived, 
complex peptide formulation that is not yet fully understood”. He states 
Questcor’s research program is “working to develop a more 
comprehensive understanding of the individual components in Acthar”.
Citron Follow Up on Questcor Admission  February 28, 2014 Page 2 of 3 
 


If the primary active ingredient in Acthar Gel is indeed deamidated ACTH, as detected in the 
tests presented to the FDA, where are the clinical studies of deamidated ACTH proving efficacy 
of that substance?   There is no such science.   
 


How can they make any justifiable label statement about the dosing of deamidated ACTH?  
 


Meanwhile, Questcor has sold the drug for 9 years, with a billion dollar run rate, marketed 


directly to very ill patients. Where have they made the investment to determine 
what’s actually in the vials?   
 


Submitted to an independent lab, a great deal was learned in just a few weeks. Has it occurred 
to anybody that maybe Questcor has never wanted to know?  That knowing the composition 
of Acthar would threaten their entire business model?   
 
Questcor has not completed a single modern clinical trial proving efficacy for any condition on 
its label. In fact, even for the orphan drug designation they obtained for infantile spasms, there 
are only the smallest of trials, with conflicting results in current published research.  
 


Meanwhile, insiders have sold hundreds of million dollars in stock, the amount of which dwarfs 
Questcor’s total cumulative R&D expenditures by multiples. In fact, the company has spent 
more money marketing the product at Olive Gardens and Red Lobsters around the country than 
they’ve spent on research to understand it.  
 


And to what standard is this quote held to in regard to corporate accountability for 
pharmaceutical companies?   


“Coca-Cola is not going to tell you what Coke contains, either,” Mr. Bailey says. 


Mr. Bailey, Coca Cola knows what their formula is. While you insist you don’t know what is in 
Acthar, yet each batch is purportedly produced to FDA specifications.  
 


The risks to Questcor of these revelations are breathtaking. What standards is Acthar actually 
being produced to?  By what rationale can a physician ever prescribe it for a patient?   
 


Realistically, what are the chances the FDA looks at this statement and concludes: 
 


“OK, no harm no foul. Business as usual. Just keep expanding the number of sales 
people, indications, and informational dinners. No problem….”   


 
Will the insurance companies (let alone Medicare and Tricare) passively continue to reimburse 
for a $30,000 drug that is improperly labeled, as admitted by the company? 
 


Lest we not forget, the study that Questcor used for medical justification of its expansion into 
nephrology (now approaching 40% of revenues), actually was done with Synacthen … This 
study was posted on Questcor’s own website until they pulled it down. Then there’s the 
looming competitive reality of inexpensive synthetic ACTH, which, given these findings, cannot 
be kept off the market for long, regardless of Questcor’s untenable Synacthen rights 
acquisition.  



http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/QCOR1203-update-final.pdf
Citron Follow Up on Questcor Admission  February 28, 2014 Page 3 of 3 
 


 
If Questcor cannot stand by the Acthar label, which states unequivocally that the sole active 
ingredient in Acthar is pure ACTH, then this story is a lot bigger than the stock market. The 
focus must be on the real needs of the patients, the ability of physicians to prescribe, confident 
in their knowledge of what medicine the patient is being treated with, and of course a system 
that provides affordable health care.  
 


Meanwhile, everyone familiar with Questcor knows that long-time officer David 
Medeiros was the brains behind the drug manufacturing process at Questcor. 
Finally we can confidently state that his recent abrupt transfer out of his roles, 
without a succession plan, is not just smoke in the story; now it’s fire.  
 


For too long Questcor has been able to tell one story to the medical community and the FDA, 
while spinning a completely different story to Wall Street. Citron will now step aside and let the 
FDA join with the SEC, and other Federal regulators in the long-overdue process of correcting 
Questcor’s abuses of both the medical community and the investment community.  
 


Cautious Investing to All
