Citron updates Questcor  November 25, 2013 Page 1 of 4 





 
November 25, 2013  





FTC Investigates Questcor: 
Serious Jeopardy for Synacthen Deal 


 
Analysts Comments tell you Everything You (and FTC investigators) 
Need to Know 
 
On June 11, Questcor (NASDAQ:QCOR) surprised the investment community with news that it had 
acquired rights to Synacthen for the United States and up to 40 countries from Novartis.  Within weeks 
the stock had doubled on that news, adding 1.75 billion in market cap.  Why? 
 
Simple.  Synacthen is a synthetic version of ACTH, the sole labeled active ingredient in Acthar, which is 
Questcor’s only source of revenue.  Synacthen has been prescribed in Europe for well over a decade for 
the same general spectrum of indications that Acthar is labeled for in the US – but at 1/1000


th
 the price.   


 
So when Questcor, which previously had no drug pipeline, no serious investigational efforts, and no 
significant double-blind studies proving efficacy of Acthar vs Synacthen, acquired these rights, the 
analyst community  went all giddy –  fawning all over how this move protected Questcor’s barrier to 
competition with regard to the pricing of Acthar.  Questcor postured the deal as if they bought 
Synacthen just because they wanted to acquire a new drug, but anyone with half a brain knew that was 
bullshit.    
 
And thank God the FTC has more than half a brain … sorry, Questcor. 
 
Here’s how the New York Times called it:  
 





http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/15/business/questcor-pays-135-million-for-rights-to-competitors-drug.html 





Enter the FTC  
Regulatory newsletter The Capital Forum [http://www.thecapitolforum.com/antitrust.html ] has been following 
the potential for antitrust investigations regarding Questcor and Synacthen.  Friday they reported from 
several sources that the FTC has launched a non-public investigation into Questcor’s acquisition of US 
rights to Synacthen.  It opines that this investigation will likely move on an accelerated timeline.   FTC’s 
Mergers I team is leading the investigation.  


“The most obvious threat to Questcor’s business was the possibility of someone bringing 
Synacthen to the United States. Synacthen is a synthetic fragment of the hormone in Acthar.” 



http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/15/business/questcor-pays-135-million-for-rights-to-competitors-drug.html

http://www.thecapitolforum.com/antitrust.html
Citron updates Questcor  November 25, 2013 Page 2 of 4 





 
In particular, the report states the investigation was requested by Senator Amy Klobuchar, who already 
understands Questcor’s pricing gambit well; she is head of the Senate’s Anti-Trust Subcommittee.  The 
Capitol Forum Report deems her “the most influential member of Congress on anti-trust issues”, which 
is why the probe may well earn accelerated action.  Recently appointed FTC’s Bureau of Competition 
chairperson, Deborah Feinstein has significant experience in pharmaceutical mergers and acquisitions.  
http://www.mondaq.com/unitedstates/x/275640/Antitrust+Competition/PayForDelay+To+Stay+FTCs+Top+Priority 


 
While we have a copy of the Capitol Forum report, we will respect its copyright, and just recommend all 
interested investors subscribe to the Capitol Forum for the full piece. 
 
This acquisition has different dynamics because the deal with Novartis was purposely structured to fall 
below the FTC’s “reportable” threshold – however, that does not exempt it from being scrutinized as 
anti-competitive.  The report calls the antitrust effects of the acquisition “compelling”, and deems the 
economic benefits Questcor receives from Acthar as “monopoly profits”.   
 
Note that the FTC’s mission is specifically stated to thwart anti-competitive and monopolistic actions of 
corporations, and to enforce the Sherman and Clayton acts.  And Citron notes the FTC states it 
frequently works together with the Department of Justice to support their competitive analyses.  
http://www.ftc.gov/bc/antitrust/factsheets/antitrustlawsguide.pdf  
 
Under these market conditions, it is obvious that it is in Questcor’s economic interests to thwart 
Synacthen’s availability in the US for as long as possible; to send its approval process down every 
conceivable blind alley of non-relevant indications; to work to prevent importation of Synacthen from 
European sources (currently allowed under FDA’s “compassionate-use” program, although there is no 
documented clinical benefit for Acthar over Synacthen other than an extreme cost differential.)  
 
What is most amazing is that the analyst community couldn’t give two shits about the law or about the 
sustainability of the U.S. healthcare system -- they were so tone-deaf they actually cheered Questcor for 
eliminating all potential generic competition.   
 


   The Truth – In the Analysts’ Own Words  
 
Sorry Questcor, your true motives for acquiring Synacthen were beyond transparent.  While your 
statements characterized Synacthen as a “severely neglected” drug, the reality is that at least one other 
company had gone through the entire negotiation process with Novartis, and had offered up a 
significant sum for licensing before you swooped in with more cash.  Your only incentive was to protect 
the pricing for Acthar.  Your analysts’ coverage bragged about your abuse of the market to Wall Street, 
offering it up as the reason why investors should buy your stock. 
 
Now those same words become the engraved invitation for the FTC’s investigation:  
  



http://www.mondaq.com/unitedstates/x/275640/Antitrust+Competition/PayForDelay+To+Stay+FTCs+Top+Priority

http://www.ftc.gov/bc/antitrust/factsheets/antitrustlawsguide.pdf
Citron updates Questcor  November 25, 2013 Page 3 of 4 

















• Elimination of potential competitor. With Acthar’s success in the last few years, 


the introduction of Synacthen and Synacthen Depoto the US market has been on 


the minds of investors as a potential threat given the overlap in indications, 


especially in QCOR’s growth driver of rheumatology. Though not an immediate 


threat, in our opinion as certain safety and efficacy trials would have to be 


completed, it would have laid a timeline out for QCOR and Acthar. With this 


acquisition, that potential threat has been absorbed and eliminated. 


• What is Synacthen and Synacthen Depo: Synacthen (tetracosactide) and 


Synacthen Depo are a 100% synthetic 24 amino acid analogue of natural ACTH 


which acts as a melnaocortin receptor agonist similar to QCOR’s naturally derived 


Acthar gel. Currently, Synacthen and Synacthen Depo are approved in 40+ 


countries for certain autoimmune and inflammatory indications such as rheumatoid 


arthritis, ulcerative colitis, chronic skin conditions responsive to corticosteroids, 


nephritic syndrome and acute flare-ups in MS patients and retrobulbar neuritis. 


Though there is obvious overlap in indications between Acthar and Synacthen, 


QCOR management did not clarify which indications it plans to develop. 
 


The recently announced deal to acquire Synacthen rights from Novartis removes 


a significant overhang, in our view. There had been fears that another company 


could attempt to bring Synacthen to the US (it is currently approved in Europe) 


and compete with Acthar. With Questcor now in the process of obtaining 


Synacthen rights, this important overhang appears to be resolved… 
 


QCOR Acquires Rights to Synacthen and Removes Overhang Of Potential 


Competitor 





“Synacthen/ Synacthen Depot have been a key concern among investors as a 


potential competitive threat to Acthar in the U.S. in indications that are revenue 


drivers for QCOR (MS, IS, NS, and rheumatology). We have always maintained 


that Synacthen / Synacthen Depot would likely need to demonstrate 


efficacy/safety in clinical trials in the U.S. for those indications, and therefore 


viewed the likelihood of it being a competitive threat as unlikely. Now that 


Synacthen's rights are held by QCOR, a key overhang is removed.” 
 


From Jefferies: 


From Janney: 


From Oppenheimer:
Citron updates Questcor  November 25, 2013 Page 4 of 4 





So What’s the Threat to Questcor Worth? 
  
It must be understood that the United States is the only country in the world that has sales of HP Acthar 
Gel.  That is because we have the only healthcare system so broken that it makes insurers reimburse 
$28,000 for a 65-year old drug when there is a well-known synthetic/generic equivalency already 
available in the market.  
 
The FTC can be assured that if Questcor owns acquires the rights to Synacthen, the one study the 
medical community really needs will be the very one Questcor will NEVER produce: a straight double-
armed blinded clinical trial putting Synacthen up against Acthar for the major indications currently 
generating Acthar sales volumes – as of now, MS exascerbations, and some rheumatology and 
nephrology conditions for patients untreatable with corticosteroid therapies.   
 
Upon any realistic timeline for Synacthen entering the market, a terminating date has to be placed on 
the revenue stream Questcor derives from Acthar.  Whether you think it’s two years, four years, or even 
six years, the end of the corporate gravy train becomes a certainty, and only the date would remain in 
question.   Whatever date investors pick, a double digit EPS is suicidal –a single digit multiple is all the 
stock is worth -- the net present value until its market is decimated by inexpensive competition. 
 


In a complete other story to follow within weeks, we will explain why we believe the U.S. 
Attorney’s Office of the Southern District of New York is involved, and why we believe 
Questcor management will be doing “perp walks” – yes criminal.  In our next report, we will 
describe a network of illegal insider trading amongst Questcor insiders, as well as the fraud 
behind the now infamous Chronic Disease Fund. 
 
Please stay tuned. Citron will take great pleasure in detailing the fraud and abuses of the system 
fostered by Questcor and its management … while they continue to disgorge insider sales in massive 
quantities. 
 


   Cautious Investing To All.
