1
This research presentation report expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon interpretation of certain facts and observations, all of 


which are based upon publicly available information, and all of which are set out in this research presentation report.  Any investment involves 


substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations 


of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, pro forma 


analyses, estimates, and projections.  You should assume these types of statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections may 


turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s control.  This is not investment or accounting advice nor 


should it be construed as such. Use of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s research is at your own risk.  You should do your own research and 


due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.


You should assume that as of the publication date of any presentation, report or letter, Spruce Point Capital Management LLC (possibly along with 


or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our subscribers has a short position in all stocks (and/or are 


long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without limitation NCR Corporation (“NCR”), and therefore stand to realize 


significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any presentation, report or letter, we intend to continue 


transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in 


which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  Spruce Point Capital Management LLC is not registered as an 


investment advisor, broker/dealer, or accounting firm. 


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state 


material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe to be 


accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or 


duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Spruce Point Capital 


Management LLC.  However, Spruce Point Capital Management LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the possession of 


NCR Corporation or other insiders of NCR Corporation that has not been publicly disclosed by NCR Corporation. Therefore, such information 


contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Spruce Point Capital Management LLC makes no 


other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 


obtained from its use. All rights reserved. This document may not be reproduced or disseminated in whole or in part without the prior written 


consent of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC.


2
Additional Details on NCR’s Bad Capital Allocation Emerge (NYSE: NCR)  
 
 
Last week we profiled our short thesis on NCR Corp, a company we believe has limited strategic 
alternatives as it struggles to execute a levered acquisition transformation strategy, a history of bad 
capital allocation, aggressive accounting, and a management team with a questionable legacy at Symbol 
Technologies. In our follow-up report, we will profile a blatant example of poor judgment and capital 
allocation to support our opinion that NCR’s shareholders should demand immediate change at the 
executive level. But first, let’s review NCR’s recent quarter and further dispel any notion that value 
enhancing alternatives are imminent and that NCR had a stellar quarter where it “Beat” street estimates 
 
Executive Summary: 
 


 NCR disappointed on top line revenue this quarter, but engineered a 4c Non-GAAP EPS "beat," a 
closer look reveals questionable acct'g adjustments are the culprit 


 NCR’s reported operating cash flow appears overstated. Balance sheet changes in deferred 
revenue don’t tie to the cash flow statement 


 Investors hoping for an imminent catalyst to unlock value had their hopes dashed as the 
company suggested this would be "value destructive" 


 Questionable business relationship with Empower Software analyzed and hiring of a Global VP 
of Business Development with a checkered past are revealed 


 Shareholders should demand swift executive changes to restore confidence at NCR 
 
 
Dissecting NCR’s Lackluster Q1 2015 Results: 
 
First off, contrary to a hasty and “recycled” news story by the Wall St Journal last week that NCR was 
seeking strategic alternatives, the company sent a somber message to overly optimistic investors that 
nothing imminent is brewing. As Spruce Point suggested earlier, NCR has few (if any alternatives) and 
that the mostly like path forward will be a slow decline of its business. NCR outlined its view of the 
situation with the following quote: 
 
“There would be, if you pull the business apart significant dyssynergy for example, all of my divisions 
here of a common services delivery infrastructure around the world, I don't have a separate services 
business for retail and financial and hospitality. All of them share a common supply chain infrastructure; 
plants, distribution centers, and of course we get lots of value from that scale. And they all share a 
common G&A infrastructure and it will also – it'd be very difficult if not value destructive to rather pull it 
apart.” 
 
To support our view that NCR’s business is declining, consider that it reported $1.47 billion and $0.23c 
GAAP / $0.43c Non-GAAP for Q1. Street analysts were calling for $1.49 billion and $0.39c Non-GAAP.  So 
NCR missed revenues by ~1% but on the surface beat bottom line estimates by $0.04c. We will dissect 
this $0.04c Non-GAAP earnings beat further, but first we must point out the following.  
 



http://www.wsj.com/articles/ncr-corp-exploring-strategic-options-amid-shareholder-pressure-1429741688
Consider that all of NCR GAAP financial results produced significant YoY declines:  
1. Gross margin contracted from 27.4% to 26.4% (100bps) 
2. Segment Operating Income declined from $155m to $146m ( 5.8% decline / margin contracted 


30bps from 10.2% to 9.9%) 
3. Income from operations declined from $108m to $95m (12% decline / 70bp margin contraction) 
4. GAAP Diluted EPS declined from $0.31c to $0.23 (26%) 


 
NCR can try to blame all its problems on currency movements, but digging beneath the surface shows 
there’s much more to the story. Getting back to NCR’s magical $0.04c earnings beat, let’s take a closer 
look at its bridge between GAAP / Non-GAAP results. 
 
Consider that this quarter NCR took a $16m restructuring charge, and says that $0.07c should be added 
back to get to Non-GAAP EPS. 


 
 
Now in just the prior quarter, Q4'14 NCR took a $33m restructuring charge, and it added back $0.10c to 
get to Non-GAAP EPS
So if investors and analysts are to believe that a $33m charge is equal to a $0.10c add back in Q4’14, 
why should they believe that n Q1’15 a $16m charge (approximately 50%) should be equal to a $0.07c 
add back? The diluted share count barely budged between quarters from 171.3 to 171.6m this quarter. 
The only other variable would be the effective tax rate, which Spruce Point believe should be normalized 
and applied consistently. Therefore, we estimate the real add-back should be approximately $0.05c and 
not $0.07c. In other words, NCR appears to have picked up a $0.02c benefit from a fuzzy and opaque 
calculation.  
 
NCR Still Appears to Be Overstating Operating Cash Flows 
 
On the conference call, NCR’s CFO made the following comment:  
 
“The AR facility - that was really a better way to finance then our revolver. So we’re using our AR base to 
effectively borrow and that’s treated similar to the revolver as part of the financing cash flows. So that’s 
part of financing.” 
 
However, it is quite clear that something seems fishy at first glance of NCR’s financials. Consider that in 
2014, it reported that Payments on revolving credit facilities were ($1,050)m while “Borrowings on 
revolving credit facilities” were +$1,146m. Therefore, the net inflow from revolving credit borrowings 
was $96m
Curiously, this $96m borrowing amount is stated in the notes as having been drawn on the A/R 
securitization facility of its financials, not its revolving credit facility. NCR lists its ending revolving facility 
balance at zero for both 2013 and 2014. 


 
 
 
If investors and analysts are confused by this, they certainly aren’t alone. Either NCR has clearly made an 
error in its financial reporting, or it is attempting to obfuscate results. 
 
It’s also worth taking a closer look at NCR’s 8-K filing on the establishment of the A/R facility on 
November 21, 2014. NCR makes the following disclosure:  
 
“The Company is independently liable for its own customary representations, warranties, covenants and 
indemnities as the originator and as the servicer of the receivables, and to the extent additional originators become 
party to the A/R Facility, will be obligated to guaranty the performance of the obligations of such originators. The 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/70866/000007086614000083/november20148-k.htm
Company will include NCR Receivables’ assets, liabilities and results of operations in its consolidated financial 
statements” 
 
So here we have a statement that says NCR is running the results of NCR Receivables through its results 
of operations in its consolidated financial statements. Could it be any clearer now that NCR’s operating 
cash flow is indeed benefiting from the A/R facility? 
 
Cloud Sales Growth of 20% Matched With Zero Growth in Deferred Revenue…Seriously: 
 
NCR continues to tout that is “Cloud” (formerly software-as-a-service) revenue grew from $113m to 
$134m year-over-year, or 20% on a constant currency basis. When analyzing cloud companies, it’s 
important to look at deferred revenue as a key measure for the health of the business. In this case, NCR 
reported Q1’2015 “deferred revenue and customer deposit” of $588m. Curiously, in Q1’2014 NCR 
reported “deferred revenue and customer deposit” balance sheet account was listed as $587m. In other 
words, NCR’s cloud revenue growth of 20% was match with virtually zero growth in deferred revenue. 
We challenge investors to find another SaaS/Cloud company with this sort of financial profile 
 







http://investor.ncr.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=83840&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1923719
Be Careful Leverage is Rising and Intangible Amortization is Most of the Non-GAAP Adjustment: 
 
NCR’s Adjusted EBITDA declined in Q1’15, and while its debt declined, so did its excess cash. The net 
result is that NCR’s leverage ratio ticked higher QoQ from 3.1x to 3.2x. We still argue this leverage is 
understated due to its unfunded pension liability, capital leases, etc.
A majority of NCR's Non-GAAP EPS "beat" came from a $0.12c add-back due to acquisition-related 
amortization of intangibles. These are real costs related to NCR's recent acquisition spree, but have been 
capitalized on the balance. We argued before that we believe they have made terrible recent 
acquisitions. What we find unusual is that NCR splits these costs among three income statement 
categories: Cost of products, services, and SG&A. 
 
 
 


 
 
Pattern of Bad Capital Allocation and Leadership: 
 
As disciplined investors, we take every precaution to understand the executive team in charge of guiding 
the strategic decisions of the company, and make sure they are diligent, and focused on creating long-
term value. We avoid investing in companies that are excessively promotional with “Celebrity CEOs.” 
There is ample evidence to suggest that companies with Celebrity CEOS are bad for companies (here). A 
research reported entitled “Understanding and managing CEO celebrity” (here) offers both pros and 
cons, and suggested a matrix with four types of CEOs based upon degree of Fame and Reputation. In our 
initial report, we provided evidence to suggest that NCR’s CEO had among the worst reputations (here). 
NCR may not be a household brand name, and it receives a low score on Ranking The Brands (here); 



http://www.huffingtonpost.com/adam-grant/playing-golf-and-other-mi_b_5536379.html

http://milesazachary.com/MGT%204380%20Sp%202012/Ketchen,%20Adams,%20&%20Shook%202008%20BH.pdf

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/nine-ceos-worst-reputations-191237027.html

http://www.rankingthebrands.com/Brand-detail.aspx?brandID=2348
therefore, we believe its CEOs fame score is low. According to the matrix, and in our opinion, NCR’s CEO 
is best classified among the “Silent Killers.” 
 





 
 
 
One way in which we believe NCR’s CEO has been a Silent Killer is by engaging promotional deals and 
wasteful capital allocation decisions with his “buddies” that don’t appear to benefit NCR’s shareholders.  
 
For example, in 2011 NCR announced (with no financial details) that “NCR and Empower Software 
Solutions sign referral agreement.” Empower is described as having a Workforce Management software 
designed to provide customers, particularly in the retail industry, with a strategic resource to help them 
deploy staff more effectively.  
 
Commenting on the announcement, EVP John Bruno said “Empower’s technology can create new value 
for customers, especially when combined with our assisted- and self-service solutions, and is highly 
aligned with our hardware-enabled, software-driven business model.” 
 
Now if you’re confused as to why a workforce management product has any synergy with NCR’s retail 
point-of-sale checkout devices, you’re not alone! 
 
Commenting on the deal from Empower’s side, its CEO Seth Bernstein said “We are pleased to create a 
dynamic new sales channel for Empower while providing NCR’s customers with an opportunity to 
leverage their technology investments.” 
 
Who is Seth Bernstein and What Do People Think of Him? 
 
Seth Bernstein is currently listed as both a Director of Outerwall (Nasdaq: OUTR), a $1.3 billion market 
cap company known for its Redbox kiosks, as well as a Director of Lighting Science Group (OTCBB: LSCG), 



http://www.ncr.com/news/news-releases/retail/empower-referral-agreement
a penny stock that has burned $165m in the past three years and has an accumulated shareholder 
deficit of $487m as of its last Annual Report on March 30, 2015.  
 
There are various public biographies available for Mr. Bernstein. According to LSCG’s proxy statement 
filed August 1, 2014 Mr. Bernstein is 38 years old and: 
 
“Seth Bernstein serves as Global Vice-President for Business Development and Strategy for NCR 
Corporation, a global technology company. He is also a Senior Advisor to Craig Cogut and Pegasus 
Capital and Pegasus Capital and Mr. Bernstein have entered into a general consulting agreement 
pursuant to which Mr. Bernstein provides consulting services to Pegasus Capital. Prior to joining NCR, 
from 2007 to 2011, Mr. Bernstein was owner and chief executive officer of Empower Software Solutions, 
a leading national provider of innovative and state-of-the-art human resources solutions. Mr. Bernstein 
is also a member of the Board of Advisors of KPMG LLP, a director of Forstmann Little and Company, a 
member of the University of Central Florida’s Board and Athletic Board, and the Board of the American 
Spectator. He and his wife founded the Kids House organization where he currently serves as a board 
member. He is also the Chairman of the Compound Foundation. Mr. Bernstein is a graduate of the 
University of Connecticut. Pegasus Capital intends to elect Mr. Bernstein to serve as a director pursuant 
to certain rights set forth in the Series I Certificate of Designation and described elsewhere in this Proxy 
Statement.” 
 
According to Outerwall, Mr Bernstein was elected to its Board on December 4, 2014 (8-K Filing) and sits 
on its Compensation Committee (here). 
 
“Seth Bernstein was named as a director of Outerwall in December 2014. He has served as the president 
of Pegasus Advisory Group (a private equity firm) since October 2014. Mr. Bernstein served as global 
vice president for business development and strategy for NCR Corporation (a global technology 
company) from 2012 to 2014. Prior to joining NCR, he was owner and chief executive officer of Empower 
Software Solutions (a national provider of human resources solutions) from 2007 to 2011. Mr. Bernstein 
is also a director of Lighting Science Group Corporation (a provider of light emitting diode lighting 
technology), and serves on the board of directors of Spirit Music Group (a music publishing company), Six 
Senses Hotels Resorts Spas (a hospitality management company) and several other private companies.” 
 
There are various other public references that detail Mr. Bernstein’s past, such as the Orlando Business 
Journal where he says he attended University of Connecticut (here), an article about Stromberg where 
he was appointed CEO in Jan. 2003, and prior to that was described as “one of the pioneers” of Zurich 
Payroll. There are also internet articles (here) and (here) that suggest Mr. Bernstein is a billionaire, part-
time sports agent/advisor (here), and a fixture on the Hamptons social scene (here). 
 
However, most interesting is that Mr. Bernstein appears to be a close social friend of NCR’s CEO Bill 
Nuti. In the picture at Pinterest (here), Bernstein (second from left) can be seen with Nuti. There are 
other public photographs (here) and (here) showing Mr. Nuti and Mr. Bernstein attending various social 
events with athletes and entertainers. Mr. Bernstein appears to have a history of associating himself 
with professional athletes such as former Celtic Dee Brown, who he hired as COO of Stromberg in 2003, 
but appears to have “left the firm just a few weeks later,” according to a Bernstein quote.   
 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/866970/000143774915006484/lscg20141231_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/866970/000119312514291650/d670646ddef14a.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/941604/000119312514436333/d836079d8k.htm

http://ir.outerwall.com/investors/corporate-governance/board-committees/default.aspx

http://www.bizjournals.com/orlando/stories/2003/05/05/smallb1.html?page=all

http://www.stromberg.com/news/press_releases/03_01_06.html

http://www.hamptons.com/Out-And-About/Chatterbox/18656/Vice-President-Joe-Biden-Spotted-At-Hamptons.html#.VT_OtSFViko

http://www.danspapers.com/2013/07/where-they-dine-hamptons-celebrities-eat-out/

http://www.ibtimes.com/ny-giants-rumors-plaxico-burress-billionaires-private-jet-new-york-837057

http://www.danspapers.com/2013/07/where-they-dine-hamptons-celebrities-eat-out/

https://www.pinterest.com/pin/271412315014162403/

http://www.wireimage.com/celebrity-pictures/Bill-Nuti-and-Seth-Bernstein-attend-the-2012-Compound-Foundation/148366010

http://www.wireimage.com/celebrity-pictures/Bill-Nuti-Ne-Yo-and-Seth-Bernstein-attend-the-2012-Compound-Foundation/148365982

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20030602005754/en/Dee-Brown-Set-Pump-Stromberg-1991-NBA#.VT_M6yFViko

http://articles.orlandosentinel.com/2004-04-14/news/0404140325_1_stromberg-resources-bernstein
Having later sold Stromberg in April 2004 to Paychex, a multibillion dollar company, it would appear to 
be a deal to lend credibility to Mr. Stromburg’s career. Paychex reported in its Annual Report, that it 
paid $13.6m for the business, while the press release indicated Stromburg had sales exceeding $20m. A 
sales multiple of just 0.7x revenues may indicate that Stromburg was struggling at the time of the sale, 
or a very low margin business. One review of Stromburg on Glassdoor.com indicates that, “The salary 
was decent and good benefits…until the house of cards crashed. Seth Bernstein pointed it towards a 
volcano and lept off before anyone was able to look out the window.”  
 
Mr. Bernstein would next get involved with a company called Empagio, the predecessor of Empower 
Software via a name change, and stay there through June 29, 2012 when a new CEO was appointed, and 
Mr. Bernstein was given the title of “Founder and Chairman Emeritus.”  During this period, it appears 
that Mr. Bernstein created a loyal following of detractors. In fact, a blog was created called “Seth 
Bernstein – Bad Capitalism.” A selection of quotes are provided below: 
 


Date and Poster Quote 


“The Shocker” – April 25, 2008 I was looking at Empagio web site again recently and noticed Seth's 
bogus claim to have been president of paychex is no longer there. 
Looks like the paychex lawyers got wise to it and forced it's removal. 
I am sure he will still claim this in person though. In addition, his 
bogus story of purchasing Stromberg and growing by a grossly 
inflated amount and selling it to paychex has also been removed. 
When will this boy realize he cant continue to spread these types of 
lies and get away with it. The past will always catch up with you. 


“Interested Observer” – May 15, 2008 Seth does watch the internet and thinks he can cover his tracks and 
keep people from finding out other people's opinions of him. And 
yes, he continues to try to "clean up his image" in written form - like 
removing his bold-face lies from his bio on the Empagio website (I 
hear he was legally forced to remove the "fabrications"). 


“Dana” – May 26, 2008 What’s even more frightening is this new company he’s took over, 
Empagio (located in downtown Orlando, FL) is related to Human 
resources outsourcing for HR executives. Seth Bernstein and Human 
Resources… uggg. Kinda makes me feel like the last guy… with spit-
up in my mouth. You should see the massive number of lies he 
wrote about himself on the Empagio, Company -> Management 
Team -> webpage. Seth Bernstein is obviously delusional… and now 
the truth comes out. Freedom of Speech rocks! I guess you forgot 
about those simple little constitutional rights, huh Seth? 


“Interested” – January 27, 2009 At the root level, I think he's the definition of psychopath: 
completely self-absorbed with no regard for others. However, they 
say 70% of psychopaths active in society are in business as 
salespeople. He lives in a world where morals are fuzzy, and he's 
been taken advantage of by lawyers and bankers as often as he's 
tried to take advantage of others. 


 
 
Our background checks on Mr. Bernstein suggest the following:  


1. His description that he was a “pioneer” of Zurich, a small payroll services company, is 
embellishment, and that his role was as a salesman, not the CEO, founder, or business strategist 
that would lead one to believe he was the pioneer  


2. The media’s characterization of him as a “billionaire” may be exaggerated. He has never 
appeared on any of the Forbes billionaire lists we can find (here). Also, does it stand to reason 
that a billionaire would need to take the job of Vice President of Business Development role for 
NCR? 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/723531/000095015204005452/l08538ae10vk.htm

http://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Stromberg-Reviews-E16413.htm

http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20090324005325/en/Empower-Software-Solutions-Market-Leader-Human-Resources-Management#.VT_XkiFViko

http://www.empowersoftware.com/blog/empower-software-solutions-appoints-jim-hoefflin-as-president-and-ceo/

http://sethbernsteinbadcapitalism.blogspot.com/2008/03/seth-bernstein-good-or-bad-capitalism.html

http://www.forbes.com/fdc/welcome_mjx.shtml
3. His description as to having served as a member of the Board of Advisors of KPMG may not be 
accurate. We cannot find any indication that KPMG even has a Board on its website (here) 


4. His description as first being a Senior Advisor to Pegasus Capital and then later President of 
Pegasus Advisory Group offer conflicting descriptions of his role 


5. His description of being approximately 38 or 39 years old may not be accurate. His work history 
dates back to at least prior to 1997 when he was with Zurich, and further states that he won 
awards with ADP for two consecutive years. This suggests he would have been in the work force 
by at least 1995 at the young age of 19 or 20, an age range where most kids are completing their 
early college years. Our background check indicates Mr. Bernstein may be closer in age to 47 or 
48 years old 


6. Our attempt to verify that Mr. Bernstein graduated from the University of Connecticut came 
back with the following comment: “Applied, Never Attended” 





 
Source: UCONN degree and enrollment verification (here) and National Student Clearinghouse (here) 
 
 
 
 
Now we pose the million dollar questions to NCR’s management:  
 


1. Why was Mr. Bernstein hired as Global Vice-President for Business Development and Strategy 
for NCR Corporation – a very senior role within the organization  –  in the face of publicly 
available evidence that suggests Mr. Bernstein past business experiences were problematic 


2. Why didn’t NCR issue a press release announcing the hiring of Mr. Bernstein or the creation of a 
very senior role 


3. What role did Andrea Ledford, NCR’s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, have in 
approving the hire of Mr. Bernstein? Andrea’s career has followed Mr. Nuti’s career very closely. 
According to her biography, before joining NCR in February 2006, Ms. Ledford was EMEA 



http://www.kpmg.com/US/en/Pages/default.aspx

http://registrar.uconn.edu/degree-and-enrollment-verification/

http://www.studentclearinghouse.org/vs_portal.php?show=2

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/70866/000007086615000009/ncr-20141231x10k.htm
Leader, Human Resources, at Symbol Technologies, Inc. from 2002 to February 2006 and held a 
variety of leadership roles at Cisco Systems, Inc. in EMEA, Asia/Pacific and Latin America 


4. Why has NCR never disclosed any tangible business resulting from the Empower Software / NCR 
“referral alliance” 


5. Mr. Bernstein recently left to become a Director at another public company called Outerwall. Is 
there a connection or coincidence with the fact the NCR has done business with Outerwall in the 
past, and sold its money-losing entertainment division to it in 2012 (here) 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Spruce Point Capital Management, LLC 
 
Spruce Point Capital Management, LLC is a New York based investment manager founded in 2009. The 
firm focuses on short-selling, special situations, and value investment opportunities. The firm conducts 
in depth forensic fundamental research and takes an activist approach to investing. Our research 
challenges conventional thinking with deep fundamental analysis, analytical rigor, conclusions rooted in 
objective facts, and a passion for investing. For more information visit us at 
http://www.sprucepointcap.com and follow us on Twitter @Sprucepointcap 
 
 
 
Disclaimer 
 
This research presentation report expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon interpretation of certain facts and observations, 
all of which are based upon publicly available information, and all of which are set out in this research presentation report.  Any investment 
involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be 
taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in this report may include forward looking statements, 
expectations, pro forma analyses, estimates, and projections.  You should assume these types of statements, expectations, pro forma analyses, 
estimates, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s control.  This is not 
investment or accounting advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s research is at your own risk.  
You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. 
You should assume that as of the publication date of any presentation, report or letter, Spruce Point Capital Management LLC (possibly along 
with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our subscribers has a short position in all stocks 
(and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without limitation NCR Corporation (“NCR”) and Outerwall 
(“OUTR”), and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any 



http://newsroom.outerwall.com/2012-06-25-Coinstar-Inc-Announces-Closing-of-Redbox-Transaction-to-Purchase-Assets-of-NCRs-Entertainment-Line-of-Business

http://www.sprucepointcap.com/

https://twitter.com/sprucepointcap
presentation, report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any 
time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 
jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  Spruce Point Capital Management LLC is not 
registered as an investment advisor, broker/dealer, or accounting firm.  
 
To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state 
material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe 
to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any 
fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to 
Spruce Point Capital Management LLC.  However, Spruce Point Capital Management LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in 
the possession of NCR Corporation or Outerwall or other insiders of NCR Corporation that has not been publicly disclosed by NCR Corporation 
or Outerwall. Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. 
Spruce Point Capital Management LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 
any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All rights reserved. This document may not be reproduced or 
disseminated in whole or in part without the prior written consent of Spruce Point Capital Management LLC. 
 
Management LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information 
or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.
Executive Summary
NCR’s Stock Price Rise Defies 
Numerous Red Flags


0.0


5.0


10.0


15.0


20.0


25.0


$0.00


$5.00


$10.00


$15.00


$20.00


$25.00


$30.00


$35.00


$40.00


$45.00


3-Jan-11 3-Oct-11 3-Jul-12 3-Apr-13 3-Jan-14 3-Oct-14


Implements a Trade 
A/R facility and 


draws down $96m 


Acquires Radiant 
Systems for $1.2bn


Announces Retalix 
Acquisition for 


$650m


Announces Acquisition 
of Digital Insight and 


Alaric Systems for 
$1.7bn


Israel Times Reports 
Mass Layoffs at 


Retalix


8-K Filed, Chief Legal 
Officer Resigns


John Bruno, EVP 
Industry and Field 
Operations Resigns


Pete Dorsman, 
EVP Services 


Retires


Sells Entertainment 
Business to Redox for 


$100m, subject to 
Redbox purchasing 


buying hardware and 
services over 5yrs to yield 
$25m of margin to NCR  


Oracle 
acquires 
Micros


Target Confirms Data 
Breach


NCR Announces 
Preliminary Third 


Quarter 2014 Results 
and Lowers Full-Year 


2014 Guidance


Changes Pension 
Accounting to 


Mark-to-Market; 
Starts Reporting 


Pension 
Contributions as 
“Discretionary”


Announces 
“Next Phase” 
In Pension 
Strategy; 


expects 100% 
Fixed Income 
by Year End


Prices 
$600m, 5% 
Senior Notes 


to Fund 
Pension, 
Shifts to 


100% Fixed 
Income 


Investments


NCR + Scopus 
/ Banco 


Bradesco Sign 
Brazilian 


Agreement 


Peter Leav, EVP 
Industry and Field 
Operations Resigns


Adds “Settlements” to definition of 
“Discretionary” Free Cash Flow


5
Spruce Point Sees 45 - 70% Downside in 
NCR Corp (NCR) For the Following Reasons:


5


NCR is Facing Secular Headwinds; Levered Transformation Likely to Fail w/Limited Strategic Alternatives: 


Insider Selling and Valuation Disconnect: 


History Lesson: Many NCR Executives Came From Symbol Technologies, a Former Accounting Fraud:


Numerous Signs of Aggressive Accounting: Adj Free Cash Flow, EBITDA, EPS Appear 30-70% Overstated:3


NCR’s Pension Transformation Folly:


• NCR is selling investors on its ability to transform from a hardware to software provider while market fundamentals move rapidly against it; 


alternative and digital payment platforms (Square, Venmo, Apple Pay, Google Wallet) are eroding demand for its core ATM hardware, while its 


“banking transformation” opportunity is a melting ice cube. Plenty of examples of failed hardware/software transformations (e.g. IBM and HP)


• NCR has paid an avg. enterprise value to sales and EBITDA of 4x and 23x, respectively, for the acquisitions of Retalix, Radiant, and Digital 


Insight. In the process, it has bloated its balance sheet with goodwill and intangibles of $3.7bn and has adjusted leverage >5x


• We will present evidence to suggest NCR has botched its acquisitions, has almost no organic growth, and has limited strategic options to 


recover value by selling assets. German Wincor-Nixdorf recently pre-warned (its stock plunged 18%), and is also exploring alternatives. The 


two companies are unlikely to create value together or buy one another. NCR has no ability to buyback stock or pay a dividend


• NCR’s CEO Bill Nuti joined Symbol in 2002 during an accounting scandal and was elevated to its CEO. His record suggests he 


overpromised and undelivered a turnaround, while not having a clear handle on unresolved accounting problems


• Nuti recruited many former Symbol employees, including his lieutenant and Symbol’s Chief Information Officer John Bruno, who Nuti hailed 


as a “visionary.” Bruno recently resigned from NCR along with at least a dozen senior NCR executives according to our research


• We observe many striking similarities between what unfolded during Nuti’s tenure at Symbol and NCR’s current predicament


• NCR’s sold investors on its ability to deal with its large unfunded US pension. It raised debt at 5% only to shift its entire US pension to fixed 


income in 2012, and miss the greatest stock market rally in history. This supports our criticism of NCR’s capital allocation follies


• NCR’s pension strategy also had the goals of 1) reducing the GAAP/Non-GAAP differential of its financial results, and 2) reducing on-going 


pension contributions. Evidence suggests that NCR has failed on both counts and has struggled with its int’l pension, which it claims is 


overfunded, yet continues to make regular contributions labelled as “discretionary” but may be covered up as “settlements”


• NCR appears to be playing multiple accounting tricks to embellish its financials, and paint a picture of improving results. Our alternative view 


suggests otherwise. The most egregious case is mgmt.’s portrayal that its “Adjusted Free Cash Flow” should be adjusted for its “Discretionary” 


pension contribution “and settlements” on a “pre-tax” basis. NCR has also made changes to its pension acct’g, distorted its EBIT with various 


non-operating gains, under-reserved for doubtful accounts, and presented securitized receivables as operating cash flows


• Our cash-based analysis suggests NCR’s Adj. EBITDA, EPS and FCF are overstated by approximately 30, 40%, and 70%, respectively


• The CEO and CFO own a pitiful 0.40% of the stock; CEO Nuti started increasing share sales in 2013. The Street thinks NCR’s shares are 


fairly valued, but have missed the accounting gimmicks, and are basing its valuation on meaningless adjusted figures. The bulls also see a 


team of activists capable of saving a sinking ship, and “alternatives” to increase its share price, but we see little value at NCR using various 


valuation methods, including a sales-based sum-of-the parts approach, we reach a price range of $9 - $16/sh (45–70% downside) 


1


2


4


5
NCR’s “Adjusted Free Cash Flow” is 
Flawed, Overstated by at Least 70%


6


Source: NCR FY 2014 Earning Release (here)
Note: NCR has not disclosed any settlement amounts for 2013 and 2014 
in its SEC filings


NCR’s Original Adjusted FCF Definition in 2012Spruce Point Correctly Adjusts NCR’s Free Cash Flow


NCR’s “Adjusted Free Cash Flow Presentation” is worthless as an indicator of its financial health: NCR has focused investors exclusively on its US 


pension issue, but its Int’l pension also appears plagued with problems. NCR appears to be including contributions to its overfunded international 


pension plan as discretionary and may be covering this up by changing its discretionary definition to include “settlements!” NCR asks investors to 


evaluate its cash flow excluding “discretionary” pension contribution on a pre-tax basis, when we believe it should be evaluated on an after-tax basis for an 


apples-to-apples comparison with operating cash flow. To support our case, we have identified numerous multinationals that show discretionary pensions on an 


after-tax basis (see Appendix). Yet, even these may be inappropriate ways of viewing pension payments, as we believe the distinction between “discretionary” 


and “non-discretionary” is semantics that distracts from its core problems. The credit rating agencies such as Moody’s and S&P view pension contributions as 


forms of debt repayment, and not operating cash flows (See Appendix). NCR has taken its approach to the extreme, and even changed its bonus plan to reward 


its management team for a blatantly distorted calculation, and appears to have misled investors about the change to its definition (See Appendix). 


NCR Later Adds “Settlements” To Definition


$ in millions


Source: NCR and Spruce Point estimates


2012 2013 2014


GAAP Operating Cash Flow ($180.0) $281.0 $524.0


Capex and additions to software ($160.0) ($226.0) ($258.0)


Net Cash Used in Discontinued Ops ($114.0) ($52.0) ($1.0)


Traditional Free Cash Flow ($454.0) $3.0 $265.0


Add:  NCR's "Discretionary" Pension Contribution and Settlements $600.0 $204.0 $48.0


NCR's Adjusted Free Cash Flow $146.0 $207.0 $313.0


Less: Estimated Settlement Charge and/or Int'l Contribution (1) -- ($17.0) ($30.0)


Less: Tax adjustment on Discretionary Pension Contribution (2) ($210.0) ($65.5) ($6.3)


Less: Reclassification of Acct's Receivable Securitization (3) -- -- ($96.0)


Spruce Point Adjusted Free Cash Flow ($64.0) $124.6 $180.7


Difference in Free Cash Flow $210.0 $82.5 $132.3


  % Overstated 328.1% 66.2% 73.2%


(1)


Disclosure in Footnotes of U.S. Pension Contribution Amount $651.0 $187.0 $18.0


Discretionary Contribution Reported by NCR $600.0 $204.0 $48.0


Estimated Settlement Charges or Int'l Pension Plan Contrib. -- $17.0 $30.0


(2)


Disclosure in Footnotes of Pension Contribution Amount $600.0 $187.0 $18.0


Adjusted at 35% tax rate $390.0 $121.6 $11.7


Tax Adjustment $210.0 $65.5 $6.3


(3) NCR classifies its A/R facility as short-term debt, but doesn't include the $96m as a financing cash flow.


We adjust operating cash by deducting $96m as a reclassification (See Accounting section for more detail)



http://investor.ncr.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=83840&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=2015400
Spruce Point Believes All of NCR’s 
GAAP/Non-GAAP Financials Are Overstated


7


We view NCR’s “Net 


Pension Operating Income 


(NPOI),” “Adjusted EBITDA” 


and “Adjusted EPS” as 


unreliable indicators of the 


company’s performance


Our analysis attempts to 


adjust NCR’s results for the 


numerous accounting 


distortions plaguing its 


financials. We believe the 


two biggest issues are 


1) pension accounting and 


2) its tax expense


We believe the best way 


to evaluate NCR’s major 


accounting distortions is 


on a cash basis, not an 


accrual basis. 


Fortunately, buried deep in 


its footnotes, NCR discloses 


cash contributions to 


various pension and benefit 


programs, cash taxes paid, 


and cash interest expense. 


Our analysis suggests that 


NCR’s key financial metrics 


are significantly overstated


$ in millions


Source: NCR and Spruce Point estimates


