Muddy Waters Capital LLC 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 


Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 
	


These Terms of Service govern current reports and supersede any prior Terms of Service for older reports of Muddy Waters, 
LLC, and Muddy Waters Capital, LLC, which you may download from the Muddy Waters Research website. 


 
By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Service. You agree that use of the research 
on this website is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“MWC”), Muddy Waters LLC, or any affiliated 
party, including officers, directors, employees and agents of those companies, liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any 
information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect 
to securities covered herein. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis 
and opinion on this site. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any 
other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you download or receive the contents of reports or 
other materials on this site as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, MWC, (possibly along with or through our members, 
partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) and our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors, have a short 
position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stand to 
realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of our subject companies decline. We intend to 
continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, 
or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial position and views as stated in our research.  We will not update any report or 
information on our website to reflect changes in our positions. 
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall MWC offer, sell or buy any security to or from any 
person through this site or reports on this site. MWC is an investment advisor only in the United States, but it does not render investment 
advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing.  You understand and agree 
that MWC does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or fiduciary duties to you.  Giving investment advice requires 
knowledge of your financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and MWC has no such knowledge about you. 
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) 
high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. MWC makes no representation, 
express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from 
its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to 
change without notice, and MWC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion 
contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the 
downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained MWC’s research in any manner other than by download from that 
link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute 
between you and MWC and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the 
material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly 
and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, 
California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that MWC is based in San Francisco, California. The 
failure of MWC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or 
provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless 
agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of 
these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that 
regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to this website or the material on this 
website must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. 
 


Page 1 of 17
Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters”) announced in a presentation on June 7, 2017 that 
we are short Man Wah Holdings Ltd. (“MWH”, 1999 HK).  MWH promptly halted the stock and 
on June 9th issued a clarification announcement in response.  MWH’s response accurately quotes 
the presentation slides, although it does not present the complete deck.  We address MWH’s 
response.   
 
Our opinion remains that MWH is likely committing fraud.  We presented six arguments in the 
presentation:1   
 


• MWH’s profitability is an outlier, 
• Macau profits – a red flag, 
• Panjiva data casts doubt on export sales, 
• Fieldwork casts doubt on the China growth story, 
• MWH has inconsistencies in taxes, a strong indicator of fraud, 
• MWH has undisclosed debt 


 
In our view, MWH has only attempted to substantively address two of these points: The New 
High Technology Enterprise income tax preference it reported for its Huizhou entity, Man Wah 
Furniture Manufacturing (Huizhou) Co. Ltd.; and, our argument that the company has 
undisclosed debt of HK$1.55 billion.  This report will first cover the four arguments we view as 
having been left without substantive response, and then will provide our thoughts on the NHTE 
and debt responses.  This report is limited to the material in the presentation and MWH’s 
responses, and is not a complete discussion of our research on MWH. 
 
Too Good to be True 
 
Our presentation began with a riddle: 
 


Q: What’s made out of wood, glue and foam, and is purportedly more profitable than an 
iPhone? 
 
A: a couch 





																																																								
1 Including the introduction, which laid out a “too good to be true” argument. 


Page 2 of 17
We then showed three graphs: 
 








Page 3 of 17
It is noteworthy that AAPL has been attacked for engineering its tax rate lower through transfer 
pricing arrangements, and yet MWH, which generates approximately 85% of its revenue in the 
U.S. and China, has a much lower reported tax rate. 
 
We showed two pictures of a MWH sofa purchased in the U.S. that we had gutted.   
 


Page 4 of 17
Page 5 of 17
We used the above pictures to illustrate that “There’s no pixie dust in MWH sofas”.  The 
interiors of the sofas are almost entirely wood (plywood, pine, and fiberboard) and foam.  There 
is only a small amount of metal outside of the electric reclining mechanism, which in the case of 
our sofa, had been largely (likely wholly) produced by a third-party vendor.  We therefore 
struggle to understand how a company making such a low technology product could manage to 
be so profitable.   
 
Macau Profits – a Red Flag 
 
We estimate that MWH’s Macau entity is responsible for over 50% of its reported net income.2  
MWH claims a Macau preference that gives it a 0% tax rate; however, it is difficult to see how 
MWH could carry out unnoticed a transfer pricing scheme that has booked estimated profits in 
Macau greater than 10x those booked in the Huizhou factory, which is located in an export 
processing zone and appears to a) effectively only produce for exports, and b) serve as the 
production center for substantially all of Man Wah’s exports.  In contrast, the Macau entity 
appears to lack substance.   
 


																																																								
2 The Macau entity is Man Wah (Macao Commercial Offshore) Ltd. 


Page 6 of 17
We wrote “At best, this is likely tax evasion; at worst, similar to China Metal Recycling, the 
Macau entity is used to overstate profit”. The company’s response in our view was non-
substantive.   
 
We presented the below table to show how we estimate the proportion of MWH’s net income 
generated by Macau, and we pointed out that Panjiva U.S. import data shows Macau is the 
consignor for virtually all shipments to the U.S. (the U.S. is 77% of reported revenue for exports 
from China): 
 


 
 
The company did not dispute these calculations, nor the assessment that Macau has booked 
profits over 10x those of the Huizhou factory.  The company’s written response was limited to a 
statement that MWH sells to “the United States, Canada, PRC (including Hong Kong and 
Macau), Europe and other countries. The Group is respectful of laws and regulations of the 
jurisdictions in which it operates and would respond to any such tax concerns raised by a 
regulatory authority.”  The foregoing clearly is not a denial of the importance of Macau to 
reported profits. 
 
In the presentation, we also explained that the Macau subsidiary appears to lack substance.  PRC 
customs data shows that the Huizhou entity produces and ships MWH’s exports.  However, U.S. 
customs data almost always show Macau as the consignor.  Our investigators spoke with a MWH 
employee who had the Macau office listed on his business card.  He stated that the Macau office 
has no showroom, and “Macau is more focused on accounting”.3  A different MWH employee 
(non-Macau) told our investigators that Macau is for “financial settlement and tax avoidance”.4   
 
We listened to a June 9th call between management and investors.  On this call, an analyst asked 
MWH to “briefly walk us through some of your transfer pricing policies and how you ensure 
your Macau profits stay in check and not to inflate it?”  In our view, the CFO’s response was 
completely evasive – particularly because he was unwilling to admit the extent to which MWH 
does business through Macau (emphasis added): 


 
“Ok, firstly I just mentioned that we are doing business globally we are selling products 
to different countries and we need to make sure we comply with tax laws regulations in 
all countries including China, Macau, other countries including US, UK.  A lot of 
countries globally and if some of our transactions are conducted through Macau and 
we do make sure these transfer pricings are not in breach of any regulation of any 
countries, not just Macau.  And we from time to time will arrange tax health checks 


																																																								
3	“澳门那个可能偏财务多一点”	
4	MW:	“好象公司有一个澳门公司，对于公司的运作会不会有很大帮助呢?” A: “它主要是用来财务结算方
面的.” MW: “好象税收也比较优惠.” A: “财务结算和避税”	


Page 7 of 17
health checks by this some big four auditor and we already since our [inaudible] already 
this very careful study on this arrangement so we recorded that we already proper 
arrangement and no liability for this under provision or tax liability.” 


 
Another analyst asked two questions about Macau that each time elicited nervous laughs from 
the CFO: 
 


Q: “In terms of the Macau entities can you help us to name what other listed companies 
may have used a similar type of structure so more investors are aware how this is being 
done?” 
 
A: “As far as that we cannot comment on the tax arrangement of other companies even 
we know there should be haha but we cannot.” 
  
Q: “Let me put it the other way, can I safely say that there are other listed Hong Kong 
companies that has a similar arrangement?  
 
A: “Hahaha …We believe so, yes.”  


 
We reason that some portion of the profit booked in Macau is fraudulent because we think it is 
unlikely that MWH a) is permitted to use transfer pricing to book such an outsize percentage of 
its profits in Macau, and b) could get away with doing so on such a large scale, given that i) 
under tax laws and regulations, transactions with affiliates aggregating RMB 200 million or more 
per year are reported to the PRC Tax Bureau along with supporting documentation, and ii) there 
is a tax agreement between Macau and the PRC that facilitates information sharing.5  We also 
theorized that frauds, such as China Metal Recycling, find Macau attractive for booking 
fraudulent profits because of the SAR’s low tax rates and opacity.6   
 
The bottom line on Macau is that management left our concerns unaddressed. 
 
Panjiva Data Casts Doubt on Export Sales 
 
We pointed out that there is a significant discrepancy between what MWH reports in export 
revenue, and what customs data (through Panjiva) shows.  Further, this delta has been growing 
over the years – in FY 2014 it was 31%, and in FY 2017 the delta was 48%.  The Panjiva data is 
declared export shipment values for all MWH entities, and is provided by a licensed provider of 
PRC customs data.7  We compared the PRC customs data to calendar year SAIC financials for 
Huizhou.  The deltas between Huizhou and Panjiva are far less significant (particularly 
considering that the timing is different by one quarter), so in our view, the SAIC data ratifies the 


																																																								
5 Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Issuing the Measures for the Implementation of Special Tax 
Adjustments (for Trial Implementation) No. 2 [2009] of the State Administration of Taxation	《特别纳税调整实施


办法（试行）》国税发〔2009〕2号	(Some sections of this Notice have been superseded by a May 2017 Notice) 
6 http://legalref.judiciary.hk/lrs/common/ju/ju_frame.jsp?DIS=97425&currpage=T  
7 https://support.panjiva.com/customer/en/portal/articles/1896541-china-trade-data  


Page 8 of 17
Panjiva data.  It therefore seems almost certain that revenue booked in Macau constitutes the 
difference, and as we have written, we believe the Macau contributions are highly suspect.   
 


 
 
Even though MWH could have responded with the export sales it has booked by entity, it failed 
to do so.  Instead, the Clarification Announcement reads “The Company will not comment on the 
veracity of the information relating to Panjiva.  However, the Company believes that it is 
inappropriate to compare Panjiva’s data in respect of imports into the United States to the 
Group’s sales worldwide (other than the PRC) which approximate the figures under the column 
headed ‘HK filings’ in the above table.”  On the call, the CFO stated, “They use the sales to U.S. 
from the Panjiva data to compare our total sales to the whole world.”   
 
It should be an additional red flag that the company is dodging a discussion of the discrepancies 
in its export revenue – particularly on the back of a nonsensical excuse related U.S. import data.  
The slide on which the above title was shown reads “The table below compares Panjiva data for 
China export to reported overseas sales”.   
 
We strongly suspect that some portion of MWH’s reported export sales is overstated, and it 
seems highly likely to relate to Macau.  The bottom line is that investors should demand a full 
explanation of Macau operations, financials, and the export discrepancies.  
 
Fieldwork Casts Doubt on the China Growth Story 
 
In FY 2017, MWH reported China sales grew 37%.8  While anecdotal, our fieldwork calls the 
blowout reported growth into question.  We categorize China sales in two ways: sales through 
company-owned stores, and sales to distributors.  Distributor stores greatly outnumber company-
owned stores, but company-owned stores reportedly generate far more revenue per average store 
than do distributor stores.   
 
One interesting point is that SAIC filings shows MWH’s store closures have been concentrated 
in Tier 1 cities: 
 


																																																								
8 FY2017 AR, p.103 (note: the growth in China comes from calculation of segment info). 


Page 9 of 17
Company-owned stores reportedly generated HK$5.6 million in revenue per average store in FY 
2017, which has grown at a CAGR of 15.6% since FY 2014: 
 


 
 
Fieldwork turned up scant evidence of stores performing at this level.  The SAIC financials for 
company-owned stores support the reported revenue; however, because we are aware that 
companies committing fraud frequently try to match their SAIC financials to reported revenue, 
we undertook fieldwork to try to verify the revenue.  Our investigators visited 57 out of 99 
company-owned stores – including what we believe to be all stores in Shanghai and Shenzhen.9   
 
In Shenzhen, our investigators received sales color from employees at nine stores.  At two stores, 
employees claimed the store is the best performing in the area at approximately HK$7 million in 
annual revenue.  At the other seven stores, employees stated sales were approximately HK$4 
million each.  We therefore believe Shenzhen average store sales are approximately HK$4 
million, which would be a decent bit short of HK$5.6 million. 
 
In Shanghai, our investigators visited 34 store locations.  12 of the locations had closed down.  
Our investigators got little sales color from employees in the stores, so our impression that 
Shanghai has likely failed to meet the reported average is largely drawn from the inordinately 
high number of store closures, and comparisons to KUKA stores.  Our investigators visited four 
KUKA stores in Shanghai, which appeared to have similar stores sizes, traffic levels, and 
merchandise, save for motion furniture only accounting for about 10% of revenue.10  Looking at 
KUKA’s SAIC files for its 33 Shanghai stores, we see CY 2016 revenue per store of HK$4.2 
million.   
 
We acknowledge that the above fieldwork is not a complete indictment of MWH’s company-
owned store sales, but it does appear that MWH has had a problem in Tier 1 cities.  In the 
presentation, we asked how MWH could be doing so poorly in Tier 1 while supposedly doing 
well in the rest of China.  The company’s response was evasive – instead it questioned when we 
obtained the SAIC files and visited the stores.  
 
																																																								
9	Store count as of FY 2017.	
10 KUKA 2016 Prospectus, p.321. 


Page 10 of 17
Distributor stores reportedly bought on average HK$1.5 million of merchandise from MWH in 
FY 2017.  We identified a large distributor with stores in Beijing: Beijing Classic Living Co. 
Ltd.  Beijing Classics was highlighted in a 2014 Forbes article about MWH and Chairman 
Wong.11  Beijing Classics has approximately 40 stores selling MWH product.  However, its 
stores also sell other products.  Its CY 2016 SAIC financials show COGS / store barely greater 
than HK$1 million.  This leaves us wondering: If a large, prominent distributor in one of China’s 
wealthiest cities missed the mark by at least approximately ~1/3, then how do franchisees in 
smaller markets do so much better? 
 


 
 
We also noted the online CV of a former MWH employee who claims to have been responsible 
for selling to distributors in a northeastern province.  His CV claimed sales per average store 
were approximately HK$960,000 in CY 2015 (In FY 2016, MWH reported average sales to 
distributor stores of HK$1.2 million).  If VAT was included in that figure, then sales per average 
store would only have been HK$820,000.  We find that in Mainland, online CVs for salespeople 
if anything tend to embellish, rather than understate. 
 
The bottom line from our fieldwork was that we found no evidence to contradict our view that 
MWH’s reported China sales are highly questionable.  We instead found evidence that, while far 
from being a smoking gun, calls into question the company’s reported tremendous strength in 
China sales. 
 
MWH Has Inconsistencies in its Taxes, a Strong Indicator of Fraud 
 
We found four inconsistencies with how MWH has applied a tax preference to its Huizhou 
entity.  We consider these inconsistencies to be an accounting red flag.  Issues and 
inconsistencies in taxes are often red flags regarding fraud – especially in China.  Taxes are 
highly complex, even when the books are accurate.  In our experience, book cookers are most 
likely to leave traces of their work in the tax accounts because of the ease of making mistakes 
due to the complexity.  We have long suspected that it was our tax issue analysis that led to Rino 
International Corp.’s auditor to resign in 2010; and, improbable tax treatment was a dead 
giveaway to us that Sino-Forest was a fraud. 
 
Our presentation contained a slide that stated the following: 
 


• MWH has disclosed the preference became effective as of July 2012, but we have not 
previously observed stub-year NHTE preferences in the PRC – particularly true in this 
case because the preliminary approval is effective as of January 1, 2012 


• SAIC financials show the preference becoming effective on 1-Jan 2013, with a CY2012 
tax rate of 25%.  This is inconsistent with MWH’s HK filings, and likely the result of 


																																																								
11 https://www.forbes.com/sites/russellflannery/2014/01/08/rising-furniture-billionaire-wong-man-li-shakes-up-u-s-
market-widens-aim-at-chinas/#639b784c334f 


Page 11 of 17
sloppy book cooking in that MWH forgot to post-facto match its SAICs with what it was 
saying in the HK filings 


• Disclosure timing is suspicious – the preference wasn’t disclosed until the H1 2014 filing, 
despite highly likely having been approved at time of filing CY 2012 taxes (which would 
have been before the FY 2013 financials were filed) 


• Huizhou should not have qualified for NHTE because it does not spend at least 3% of 
gross revenue on R&D (MWH consolidated R&D is only ~1% of Huizhou gross 
revenue)  


• Failure to renew the qualification is odd because renewals are apparently fairly routine 
 
The company’s response fails to explain a) why it only claimed the preference for a stub year, 
when the approval was for a full year, b) discrepancies in the application of the preference 
between the Hong Kong and SAIC filings, c) how it could have utilized the NHTE preference in 
any tax year, given that it did not meet one of the key criteria, and d) why, if the Huizhou entity 
really had been granted the preference, MWH did not renew it after 2014.  We therefore feel that 
the tax inconsistency issues remain as a red flag.   
 


A. Timing Issue 
 
We first noted that Man Wah Furniture Manufacturing (Huizhou) received preliminary approval 
for the NHTE preference in Jan 2013, retroactively effective to January 1, 2012: 
 


 
 
 
The company responded as follows regarding the timing of its preference: 
 


“By the time the Company published its results for the financial year ended 31 March 
2013 (“FY2013”), endorsement by the tax bureau was not received. The Company, for 
the sake of prudence, made tax provision for the relevant PRC subsidiary on the basis of 
a tax rate of 25%. During the financial year ended 31 March 2014 (“FY2014”), the PRC 


Page 12 of 17
tax authorities’ assessment for the eligibility of 15% for the financial year ended 31 
March 201[3] was made available. The relevant PRC subsidiary then reflected the 
corresponding overprovision for FY2013 in FY2014.  
 


While MWH’s response gives the impression that the tax preference applies for the three-year 
period running from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2015, the 2017 AR shows that MWH only 
accounted for a half-year of the preference in CY 2012 / FY 2013 – the AR states (emphasis 
added): 
 


“During the year ended 31 March 2014, a PRC subsidiary obtained the qualification of 
being a high technology enterprise for a consecutive three years from year 2012 to 2014. 
With such qualification, the subsidiary is approved to enjoy the preferential tax rate of 
15% (subject to annual review by PRC tax authority) for its profits earned from July 
2012 to December 2014, resulting in an overprovision of income tax expense amounted 
to HK$13,899,000, credited to the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2016.” 12 


 
The purported stub year application of the preference is inconsistent with the NHTE approval 
MWH received, our understanding of standard practice, and the governing regulations.  The 
official document above clearly states that the three years began as of January 2012.  The full 
year treatment in the approval document accords with our understanding that this tax preference 
is generally applied to an entire calendar year, rather than to a stub year.  The tax regulations 
provide a clear explanation of how to effectuate the HNTE preference: Submit a copy of the 
qualification (shown above) to the local tax bureau, along with supporting documents that show 
the HNTE criteria were met for the prior calendar year.  There generally are no additional steps 
needed.13   
 
The company has offered no credible explanation why the preference is not applied to profits 
earned during the period from January 2012 to July 2012.  The company claims the reason for 
overprovision for FY 2013 is approval was not received until after the FY 2013 filings were 
published.  We find this dubious because the final FY 2013 annual report was uploaded to the 
exchange on June 10, 2013 while CY 2012 taxes were most likely completed by May 31, 2013 at 
latest.14  
 
The company does not address the overprovisions in later years.  The 2016 Interim report 
confirms our understanding that the preference is granted retroactively for each calendar year 
generally by May at the latest (emphasis added): 
 


“During the year ended 31 March 2014, a PRC subsidiary of the Group has obtained the 
qualification of being a high technology enterprise for a consecutive three years from 
year 2012 to 2014.  With such qualification, the subsidiary is then approved to enjoy the 
preferential tax rate of 15% for its profits earned from July 2012 to December 2014, 


																																																								
12 MWH 2017 AR, p. 105. 
13 See Circular of the State Administration of Taxation on the Issues Concerning Implementation of the Preferential 
Income Tax for Hi-Tech Enterprises. 
14 See Article 54, Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC. 


Page 13 of 17
resulting in an overprovision of income tax expense amounted to HK$14,147,000 and 
HK$8,740,000, credited to the condensed consolidated statement of profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income for the period ended 30 September 2015 and 2014.  The 
preferential tax rate of 15% for the year 2014 was approved by the PRC tax 
authority in May 2015.” 


 
If the company received approval in May 2015, why does the FY 2015 final annual report, filed 
on June 2, 2015, include an overestimate of taxes that subsequently resulted in a credit of 
HK$13.9 million in FY 2016?   
 
Given that the company has provided no credible explanations for these timing inconsistencies, 
they remain, in our view, a red flag. 
 


B. HK / SAIC Discrepancy 
 
MWH also failed to address the discrepancies we found in the application of the NHTE Tax 
Preference between its SAIC and consolidated Hong Kong financials.  The company has neither 
restated its CY 2012 SAIC filing, nor applied the reported overprovision to the CY 2013 filing.  
 
Before 2012, PRC companies committing fraud frequently had significant discrepancies between 
their SAIC and exchange filings across substantially all their accounts, with the SAIC filings 
often showing the much closer to true accounts.  Fraudsters wised up, and now largely match up 
their SAIC and exchange filings; however, in our view taxes remain the area most likely to find a 
discrepancy due to book cooking.  Thus, the discrepancies between Man Wah’s SAIC and 
consolidated financials are a red flag.  
 
MWH claims that Huizhou’s HNTE preference retroactively kicked in on July 1, 2012, and that 
the company received a credit for CY 2013 taxes due to overprovisioning for CY 2012.  
However, the below SAIC financials for the Huizhou entity neither show that it received a stub 
year HNTE preference in CY 2012, nor that it received a credit in CY 2013 for overprovisioning 
in 2012:  
 
RMB 000 CY2012 CY2013 CY2014 CY2015  
Pre-tax income 38,066 67,684 114,119  87,639  a 
Income tax 9,511 10,175  17,361   22,548  b 
Net income 28,555 57,509 96,758  65,091  c 
Effective income tax rate 25% 15% 15% 26% d=b/a 





Page 14 of 17
The following is our calculation of the pro-forma SAIC filing if the overprovision had been 
applied in a manner consistent with how the CFO described MWH’s application of the 
preference on the call:15  
 
RMB 000 2012 2013 2014 2015  
Pre-tax income as per SAIC 38,066 67,684 114,119 87,639  a 
Income tax at 25% 9,517   16,921   28,530   21,910  m=a*25% 
Overprovision of previous 
years -     (3,807) (6,768) (11,412) 


n (y1)=a 
(y0)*10% 


Pro Forma Income Tax* 9,517  13,114   21,761   10,498  o=m+n 
      
Income tax as per SAIC 9,511   12,339   17,361   22,548   


 
*Estimate based on the CFO’s comments and the fact that the HK filings show credits for 
overprovisioning every year from FY 2014 through FY 2016. 
 


C. Failure to Meet HNTE R&D Requirement 
 
MWH did not even attempt to deny that its R&D expenditure was below the 3% of gross revenue 
threshold required for the NHTE preference.  The rule for the minimum expenditure can be 
found in Administrative Measures for Certification of High and New Technology Enterprises 
Circular (“Circular 32”).16  This was the extent of the company’s response to that point: 
 


The Company does not presume to speak for any regulatory authority in charge of vetting 
and approving tax filings and applications. The Company can confirm it had made proper 
applications and obtained approvals for tax treatments it has received.” 


 
The bottom line on the tax inconsistencies is that in our view, the company failed to explain 
them.  Therefore, we see these issues as a red flag. 
 
MWH Has Undisclosed Debt 
 
We made two arguments here – the current PBOC credit report for the Huizhou entity shows 
48% more debt than the consolidated balance sheet (US$200 million in trade finance borrowings 
as follows: US$150 million for export bill purchases, and US$50 million for import bill 
advances), and debt taken on by consolidated subsidiary Remaco in 2015 appears not to have 


																																																								
15	“Another allegation in relation to the inconsistency in taxes they are referred to some tax treatment under this New 
High Technology tax preference.  One company in China, we got approval from the government for the approval for 
the high-tech preference for three year from 2012 to 2014. But we cannot claim 15% tax rate unless it is approved or 
filed by this tax authorities and this approval by the tax approval there’s some delay.  For example, for calendar year 
2012, we only got the final approval from the tax authorities in calendar year of 2013 or the fiscal year 2014.  So to 
be prudent, we did provide 25% tax rate before we got the final approval which is reflected in fiscal year 2013.  In 
fiscal year 2014 we finally got approval for this tax treatment so we reversed the 10% over provision for the income 
tax.  This is how it works. It looks a little complicated but it is just normal tax treatment because of some delay in 
approval cause a little bit confusion but nothing related to some type of tax liability.”	
16 https://www.dlapiper.com/en/us/insights/publications/2016/02/china-updates-high-and-new-technology/  


Page 15 of 17
been disclosed.  The company’s response focused on the Huizhou debt by stating the debt was 
disclosed in Note 38 to the FY 2017 financials.  Note 38 states that MWH has US$200 million of 
borrowings that are not on the balance sheet because they are offset against deposits against 
which the lender has the right to foreclose.   
 
The first set of questions we have are: 
 


• Does this pertain to the same debt in the PBOC credit reports? 
• If “yes”, are the cash deposits real? 
• If again “yes”, does the lender have the right to offset them? 


 
Ordinarily a company with audited financial statements would be given the benefit of all doubt 
with respect to the above questions.  Given our view that the five other red flags we discussed 
are each still valid, and our overall belief that MWH is committing fraud, we believe it is 
premature to take the company’s word on this issue.  Further, the scant description MWH has 
provided of the loan / deposit / hedging transactions does not seem to accord with the PBOC 
credit report’s descriptions of the types of financing provided (export bill purchases / import bill 
advances).17 
 
Adding to the argument that the company should not be taken at face value is the inconsistency 
between MWH’s Note 38 and its responses.  Note 38 reads: 
 


“Financial assets and financial liabilities subject to offsetting 
 


During the year, the Group entered into several agreements with a bank in the PRC to set 
off all its rights and obligations towards bank deposits amounted to RMB202,000,000 
and USD169,588,000, bank borrowings amounted to USD200,000,000 and a forward 
exchange contract.” 


 
Apparently, the company borrowed US$200 million, and offset it against deposits that were 
84.8% U.S. dollars and 15.2% RMB.  However, on the call, the CFO described the transaction in 
the following manner: 
 


“Actually, [the offset loan] is part of the treasury management of the company.  We had 
some arrangement with a major commercial bank in china.  The bank provide a loan 200 
million USD.  At the same time, the money will be transferred into RMB and deposited 
totally in the bank.  And also, we enter into a forward contract to convert RMB into USD 
as of the maturity date of the loan so this means there is no risk and we are guaranteed a 
fixed return from this arrangement.” 


 
Perhaps Mr. Wang is just not versed in the transaction, or perhaps the inconsistency is a sign of a 
deeper problem with the accounting for the loan.   
 


																																																								
17 See http://www.abchina.com/en/corporate-banking/financing-and-credit-facility/international-trade-finance/ebp/ 
and http://www.boc.cn/en/cbservice/cb3/cb35/200806/t20080627_1324126.html  


Page 16 of 17
Regardless, taking the company at its word leads to a very large question though.  What was the 
purpose of these transactions?  Why would the company borrow USD onshore against 
completely encumbered deposits, approximately 85% of which was supposedly in USD?  There 
are so many corollary questions to this main question.  Investors should demand far greater 
explanation of this series of transactions. 
 
Beyond the core questions of whether the loans and deposits are as the company says they are, 
there are two other high level questions to answer: 
 


• Are these loans properly kept off the balance sheet (and the cash flow statement)? 
• If “yes”, are these transactions adequately disclosed? 


 
We pointed out that in 2015, consolidated subsidiary Remaco borrowed RMB 45 million 
(HK$56.8 million) per the PBOC credit report.  Man Wah only disclosed one fixed-rate loan, 
which was for HK$12.5 million from a related party.  We therefore concluded that the loan to 
Remaco was variable rate.  MWH disclosed that all its variable rate borrowings were fixed to 
offshore rates, which implied that Remaco’s debt was not consolidated.   
 
MWH’s response is that RMB 35 million of the RMB 45 million loan was provided by a MWH 
entity through a PRC bank as an entrustment loan, and the debt was therefore accurately 
reflected.  We lack the information to test this claim, other than to point out that at the time, 
MWH only owned 55% of Remaco.  MWH is claiming that, in contrast, MWH provided 77.8% 
of the loan.   


Page 17 of 17
