5/18/2018 Chinese RTOs: What Can Investors Buy When Even 'Big Four' Auditors Fail? | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/261096-chinese-rtos-what-can-investors-buy-when-even-big-four-auditors-fail 1/17


Chinese RTOs: What Can Investors Buy When Even 'Big Four'
Auditors Fail?
Mar. 31, 2011 6:54 AM ET60 comments
by: Alfred Little


On March 29  China MediaExpress Holdings (NASDAQ: CCME) filed an 8-K (here) that
included a detailed list of reasons why its auditor, Deloitte, resigned.


Deloitte’s concerns included:


Authenticity of bank statements
Suspicious circumstances surrounding bank balance confirmation procedures
Validity of certain advertising agents/customers and bus operators
Possible undisclosed bank accounts and bank loans
Subsidiaries shown in SAIC filings are inconsistent with management’s
representations
Validity of a sampling of tax invoices from certain large transactions
Subsidiary tax payments to the SAT could not be verified
Cash salaries to certain employee bank accounts could not be verified
Production process of advertising programs could not be verified
Potential double counting of a certain number of buses


Most of Deloitte’s Concerns Share a Common Thread: “Paper”


Bank statements, confirmation letters and contracts of all types, government filings,
ownership certificates and tax invoices are all paper documents easily forged by dishonest
management with the help of a few dishonest bank and government officials. The
consequences of getting “caught” are nil, since Chinese law offers no protections for
foreign investors in legally unenforceable variable interest entity (VIE) management
contracts used by companies such as CCME and OTCPK:CBEH. Dishonest management
can keep turning paper into gold until investors decide the “paper” evidence of profits and
growth are contradicted by the reality of the business.


Foreign investors are clearly in a very poor position to perform on-the-ground analysis of
business fundamentals. Even China-based investors have to be willing to spend
considerable time and resources to verify whether a business is real. For example, the
due diligence report (summary here) on CBEH prepared by the International Financial
Research & Analysis Group (IFRA) took a team of analysts six months to create and cost
hundreds of thousands of dollars. IFRA investigators went to the source to obtain


th



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CCME

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1399067/000114420411017875/v215688_8ka.htm

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CBEH

http://bit.ly/h8ebQq
5/18/2018 Chinese RTOs: What Can Investors Buy When Even 'Big Four' Auditors Fail? | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/261096-chinese-rtos-what-can-investors-buy-when-even-big-four-auditors-fail 2/17


independent audit and tax reports. Field agents spent months observing and
photographing CBEH’s biodiesel factories. Videographers created time-lapse films
showing the lack of any production. Technical experts evaluated the production process. A
team of analysts called and met with CBEH’s suppliers, competitors and technical
partners. Certainly CBEH’s auditor, KPMG, did none of this type of tangible due diligence
(other than the year-end physical inventory count) before they signed off on CBEH’s 2010
financials.


As shown in this astonishing surveillance video, even a group of Rodman & Renshaw
investors who took the time and expense to visit CBEH’s factory were easily fooled by
management that simply staged production activity that day. Dozens of additional
surveillance videos (see the same link) showed that prior to the Rodman investor visit the
factory was not producing any biodiesel at all, despite management repeatedly publicly
claiming the factory was operating at 100% of capacity.


What Can Investors Buy When Even "Big Four" Auditors Fail?


Assuming then that the audit opinion, even from a “Big Four” cannot be relied upon, what
can investors do? First of all, absolutely avoid buying companies exhibiting more than one
or two of the following 12 warning signs:


1. Reverse mergers with high short interest
2. Management misappropriation of funds to related parties
3. Unnecessary dilutive share issuances when the company has excess cash or


production capacity
4. Amazing revenue and earnings growth relative to peers
5. Drastic divergence between financials filed with the U.S. SEC and Chinese regulators
6. Weak balance sheet with large receivables relative to sales and unwillingness to


disclose customer, distributor or supplier details
7. Large growth by acquisitions that appear unusually accretive
8. Weak governance indicated by high CFO and auditor turnover and lack of involvement


of truly independent directors
9. Past involvement of unscrupulous stock promoters


10. Huge cash and shares fees paid to investment banks and other middlemen
11. Wildly promotional press releases or frequent press releases
12. Company provides very detailed financial guidance and always meets it



http://vimeo.com/channels/cbeh
5/18/2018 Chinese RTOs: What Can Investors Buy When Even 'Big Four' Auditors Fail? | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/261096-chinese-rtos-what-can-investors-buy-when-even-big-four-auditors-fail 3/17


