Full Legal Disclaimer 





Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital. Any forecasts or estimates are for 
illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any 
information contained in this report may include forward-looking statements, expectations, and projections. You 
should assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect. Use of 
Spruce Point Capital Management LLC’s (“Spruce Point”) research is at your own risk. You should do your own 
research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. 


You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Spruce Point (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors 
has a short position in all stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including 
without limitation China Integrated Energy and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the 
price of stock declines. Following publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the 
securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial 
recommendation. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to 
any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. 
Spruce Point is not registered as an investment advisor. 


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been 
obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected 
persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the 
issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Spruce Point. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Spruce 
Point makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 


All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Spruce Point does not undertake to update or 
supplement this report or any of the information contained herein.
China Integrated Energy’s Biodiesel Business: Cause for Concern 
December 2010 





Introduction 


All around the world, biodiesel is a challenging business with high capital costs, cyclical gross margins and 
returns on capital. There are limited barriers to entry as production processes to make biodiesel are well 
understood and can be accomplished by specialty chemical plants of all sizes. 


Feedstocks - which can either be food crops, oils from non-edible crops, vegetable oil waste or even used 
cooking oil - are subject to cost inflation and potential uses in alternative specialty chemical production. For 
all these reasons, to the best of our knowledge, there are essentially no successful publicly traded biodiesel 
producers capable of growing sustained equity value. 


However, there appears to be a magical place called Shaanxi Province in China where the economics of the 
biodiesel business are different from everywhere else in the world. In Shaanxi, one biodiesel producer has 
reportedly been able to produce biodiesel at ever-increasing volumes with eerily consistent 30% gross 
margins irrespective of market-driven diesel and feedstock prices. This can apparently also be accomplished 
at extremely low levels of capital investment. 


Or so the story goes with China Integrated Energy (Nasdaq: CBEH), a U.S.-traded Chinese company that 
came public through a reverse merger in 2007. CBEH was featured in a recent Barron’s article about the 
questionable nature of many Chinese reverse mergers. In our opinion, a close examination of CBEH’s 
business claims and both SEC and China’s State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC) financial 
statements leads to significant doubts about whether the company is being accurately represented to U.S. 
investors. CBEH claims to be a wholesale fuel distributor and gasoline retailer that started an extremely 
lucrative biodiesel business. 


However, CBEH’s purported biodiesel gross margin and capital expenditure efficiency is so vastly superior 
to any other reported biodiesel provider we’ve analyzed, including those in China, as to merit closer 
examination. CBEH’s financial statements are also audited by a Company based over 8,000 miles away in 
Boca Raton, FL and cause us to have further concerns about the reliability of their financial reporting. 





Why are CBEH’s Biodiesel Gross Margins Stable In a Cyclical Industry? 


Biodiesel gross margins are largely the function of two variables: biodiesel prices (output price, tied closely 
to diesel prices) and feedstock costs (input costs). While there is always some plant overhead in fully loaded 
biodiesel cost of goods sold (COGS), feedstock costs typically account for around 90% of biodiesel COGS. 


Thus, when biodiesel prices are high and feedstock prices are low, an acceptable margin can be earned. 
However, since the production processes for biodiesel are well known and there are alternative uses for 
biodiesel feedstocks, competition has generally kept biodiesel margins at single digits everywhere in the 
world, whether the feedstock is pure vegetable oil or the cooking oil thrown out by local fast food 
restaurants. In the United States, the biodiesel producers that have avoided bankruptcy are marginally
profitable and dependent on government tax subsidies and mandated usage levels, no matter which 
feedstock they use. 


Examining the three other publicly traded Chinese biodiesel producers indicates that the biodiesel business 
isn’t much different in China. Gushan Environmental Energy (NYSE: GU) is listed on the NYSE and claims to 
be China’s largest biodiesel producer, operating biodiesel plants in several provinces. In the first half of 
2008 when oil prices were significantly higher, GU was able to earn gross margins in excess of 40%. 


However, these gross margins began to rapidly decline as biodiesel prices dropped during the financial 
crisis, reaching 10% in the first quarter of 2009 and remaining deeply negative since then. The recent 
negative gross margins are largely the result of unutilized plants shut down due to a tax dispute, but overall 
cost inflation in China has also pushed up biodiesel feedstock costs. In its SEC filings, GU discloses its selling 
price per ton of biodiesel and its cost per ton for feedstock. 


Even with fully loaded capacity during the quarter ended 6/30/2010, GU’s gross margin would be no 
greater than 10%. The experience of other Chinese biodiesel producers is similar: China Clean Energy (OTC: 
CCGY) reported 12% biodiesel gross margins for Q2 2010, as compared to 4% for Q2 of 2009. China 
Biodiesel International (CBI), which was traded on London’s AIM until it was bought out for a pittance this 
year, reported 3% gross margins in 2008 and 2% gross margins in 2009 before accounting for government 
subsidies. All of this is easily verifiable in GU, CCGY and CBI’s financial statements. GU’s most recent 6-K 
quarterly report is particularly enlightening on the subject of feedstock cost inflation. 


In contrast, CBEH’s gross margins are both unusually high and amazingly consistent, no matter where 
biodiesel prices are or how far Chinese inflation has pushed up feedstock prices. CBEH consistently reports 
quarterly biodiesel gross margins within two percentage points of 30%, with the exception of the first 
quarter of 2009 when the company reported gross margins of a mere 21.6%. This includes the last three 
quarters of 2009, when competitors GU, CCGY and CBI were reporting single digit gross margins at best. 
Exhibit 1 shows the remarkable level and consistency of CBEH’s gross margins as compared to its peers.  


We believe this vividly demonstrates the difference between legitimate commodity-producing companies 
subject to market forces and one of questionable quality such as CBEH. 





Source: SEC and AIM filings. 


 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1419723/000119312510269763/d6k.htm
CBEH claims its large gross margins are the product of two things: its status as a licensed fuel distributor 
that does not need to use middlemen to distribute its biodiesel and its proprietary processes including 
usage of the non-edible Chinese prickly ash plant seeds as a feedstock. However, neither of these claims 
stand up to basic scrutiny or common sense. According to CBEH, very little of its biodiesel is blended into 
petro diesel and sold at retail; rather, the company primarily sells its biodiesel directly to industrial users. In 
this link, we can see that CBEH reports that “Eighty percent of the biodiesel we produced was sold to the 
Tongchuan Huaneng Power Plant and Weihe Power Plant.” 


Yet, our research shows that neither plant uses biodiesel as a power source, but instead still depends on 
traditional coal sources (see here). The financial filings of GU and CCGY indicate that they also sell their 
biodiesel directly to industrial users, and are not forced to sacrifice their gross margin by selling to a 
distributor. 


CBEH reports no spending on research and development so it is difficult to believe that it has invented any 
advantage in a production process as well understood and widely researched as biodiesel. CBEH touts its 
abundant and adequate supply of Chinese prickly ash, yet we would simply observe that no other biodiesel 
producer in the world seems to be utilizing the advantages of this free and apparently abundant feedstock. 
In fact, prickly ash appears to be available here in North America, yet we find no evidence that U.S. 
biodiesel producers are making use of this supposedly superior feedstock over traditional sources such as 
corn (see here). 


Seed oils such as rapeseed (canola) are also cultivated for biodiesel, but due to the cost of cultivation, 
harvesting and extraction, the margins from rapeseed biodiesel are no better and often worse than using 
used cooking oil or vegetable oil residue. Besides, the company’s most recent presentation indicates that 
non-edible seed oil only accounted for a minority of its biodiesel production feedstocks. CBEH primarily 
relies on waste cooking oil and vegetable oil residue, once again just like GU and CCGY. 


In fact, in the first two quarters of 2010, CBEH’s gross margin advantage appears to be primarily the result 
of higher claimed prices per ton of commodity biodiesel sold, $822 per ton in the most recent quarter vs. 
$655 for GU and $675 for CCGY. 


Given the foregoing discussion, what could possibly explain CBEH’s remarkably consistent reported gross 
margins? One scenario would be that both biodiesel prices and feedstock prices are positively correlated, 
such that when prices of biodiesel moved in one direction, feedstock costs moved in the same direction and 
by the same magnitude; this would result in a largely unchanged margin. Another scenario could be CBEH’s 
ability to hedge its risk to movements in either biodiesel or feedstock costs with a financial derivative or 
other tactic. Let’s examine these scenarios in greater detail. 


There’s every indication that prices of biodiesel in China are subject to market forces linked to the price of 
oil and diesel in the global economy. By CBEH’s own admission, 


“Our results of operations and financial condition are affected by the selling prices of petroleum and 
biodiesel fuel products. Prices are subject to and determined by market forces and actions by the PRC 
government over which we have no control.” 


 



http://www.hort.purdue.edu/newcrop/herbhunters/pricklyash.html
In China, the prices for petroleum products are primarily influenced by the guidance prices set by the 
National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC. In recent years due to the volatility of world 
oil prices, the NDRC has acted more regularly to adjust prices. To illustrate, from 2006 to 2008, there were 
only two oil price adjustments in each year. However, there were eight oil price adjustments in 2009, and 
two adjustments so far in 2010 (see here). 


We think this clearly illustrates that biodiesel prices should have been more variable in recent years, rather 
than stable and predictable as CBEH’s results would lead one to believe. On the other hand, feedstock 
prices are also subject to market forces outside of CBEH’s control, including the general inflation level in 
China. 


In fact, in just one sentence buried on page 23 of CBEH’s 10-K, they plainly say that, “The spread between 
biodiesel prices and feedstock prices has narrowed significantly since September 2008.” They go on to say 
that, 


“Prices for vegetable oil residue, waste cooking oil and non-edible oil seeds, which have historically been our 
principal feedstocks and comprised approximately 88.3% of total cost of goods sold of our production and 
sale of biodiesel segment during the year ended December 31, 2009, do not necessarily have a direct price 
relationship to the price of biodiesel in a particular period.” 


If all of these points are true, then how is their biodiesel margin reported for the full year in 2008 nearly 
identical to the margin reported in the last quarter ended 9/29/10? 


The only other explanation would be that CBEH uses financial derivatives to mitigate its market risk or has 
fixed-price, off-market contracts for both biodiesel output prices and feedstock price of long-term duration. 
However, we have reviewed all of CBEH’s financial filings, and can find no mention of any active hedging 
program by the company, nor do they report having fixed-price, long-term contracts with either customers 
or suppliers. Taken as a whole, these findings support our conclusion that CBEH’s biodiesel margins could 
be overstated. 


Another more subtle indication that CBEH’s biodiesel operations are not exactly what the company claims is 
the lack of any disclosure regarding the sale of biodiesel by-products. By-products are a natural result of the 
biodiesel refining process using any feedstock, and a biodiesel refiner is typically left with a substantial 
amount of residual material after production. For example, Gushan separately discloses its biodiesel by-
product sales volume and pricing; the volume ranges from approximately 12-15% of any quarter’s volume 
of biodiesel production and the pricing is considerably lower per ton of output. 


Similarly, in CCGY’s disclosures, the company describes how it uses its biodiesel “co-products” as feedstocks 
for other specialty chemical production. In CBEH’s filings, unlike Gushan or CCGY, no mention is made of the 
customers, sales volume or prices for biodiesel by-products. Companies engaged in the messy business of 
actually producing biodiesel have to deal with fluctuating margins and the disposal of the less attractive 
remnants of the biodiesel production process. These issues apparently don’t affect CBEH in the slightest. 





Why are CBEH’s Plant Capital Expenditures Unusually Low? 


Gross margin is not the only area where CBEH’s claimed results are questionable. Let’s start by looking at 
CBEH’s original 100,000 tons per year capacity biodiesel plant. According to CBEH’s 2009 and 2010 segment
reporting section of their annual report (Exhibit 2), the company only spent $7.7M in capital expenditures 
relating to their biodiesel processing segment. CBEH also reports not spending even one single dollar on 
capital expenditures in 2009. It would be highly unusual for a biodiesel facility to operate for a full year 
without a single dollar spent on maintenance capital expenditures. Also noteworthy, is the unusual decline 
in segment assets from $29m in 2008 to $16m in 2009. 
 





At a conversion factor of 307 gallons of biodiesel per ton, CBEH’s original 100,000 ton plant equates to 
$0.25 in capital costs per yearly gallon of capacity. Much like CBEH’s gross margin, this is remarkably better 
than anyone else we have been able to find in the biodiesel industry. In a survey of other global biodiesel 
projects, capital costs per gallon of capacity ranged from $0.65 per gallon on the low end (for a proposed 
plant in Argentina never actually built) to over $2.00 per gallon for GU’s original biodiesel plants in China. 
Exhibit 3 details the reported capital costs of CBEH’s original plant against its Chinese competitors: 
 





Source: SEC and AIM filings. 





To keep this in perspective, CBEH claimed to earn around $15M in biodiesel gross profits in both 2008 and 
2009 from an investment that supposedly cost less than $8M. The purported IRR on this project is 
astronomical, while for every other biodiesel industry participant in the world the payback period for a 
biodiesel plant is measured in years, not months. 


Moreover, CBEH is reporting that their existing plant is located at “Space within the Northwest Fire-
resistant Materials Factory” in Exhibit 4. We can’t help but wonder how a 100,000 ton /yr biodiesel 
operation is housed within another factory and what the relationship between biodiesel production and
fire-resistant materials is? This raises substantial doubt in our minds about the form of its actual existence. 
We will revisit this question shortly. 








Interestingly enough, the cost of the supposed 50,000 ton capacity expansion that CBEH is working on is 
actually in line with the capital costs of other biodiesel projects. The company has never explained why it is 
spending almost twice as much for half the additional capacity. 


In October 2010, CBEH announced they would also acquire a 50,000 ton biodiesel production facility in 
Chongqing City from Chongqing Tianrun Energy Development Co. for $16.5M. 


Furthermore CBEH states that the Chongqing plant’s gross margins of 30% are in-line with its own gross 
margins, and that the asset would produce $32M/yr in revenue and $8m/yr in pre-tax income. This 
purchase price seems unusually low by our judgment. This asset alone would generate $16M in just two 
years on a standalone basis, so why would their owners sell to CBEH at such a low multiple of 2x pre-tax 
income? Unfortunately, CBEH’s press release lacks adequate disclosure to understand fully the exact 
business rationale for this transaction. 


There is no discussion in the press release about any transaction synergies, or commentary from the sellers 
as to why they executed this transaction with CBEH. By doing our own investigative work, we find a possible 
explanation. As it turns out, CBEH’s competitor Gushan also has a biodiesel plant in the Chongqing region, 
but shuttered production in April 2009 due to a consumption tax issue with local authorities, and to date 
has still not resumed the project because it is uneconomic to do so. 


Yet, CBEH claims to be able to immediately ramp up production and achieve superior financial goals where 
others have been unsuccessful. Given these two contradictory facts, we are left to assume that CBEH has 
not accurately portrayed this plant acquisition to investors. 





Gushan Chongqing Plant Discussion is here. 





Why is CBEH’s Auditing Firm in Florida? 


CBEH is audited by Sherb & Co. of Boca Raton, Florida. Sherb & Co. seems to specialize in auditing penny 
stocks and Chinese reverse mergers similar to CBEH. Of 58 current and former Sherb clients we examined in 
a recent screen, 49 were OTC stocks and only 5 had market capitalizations over $100M. Median market 
capitalization was a mere $10M. CBEH was the largest Sherb client in terms of market capitalization, and 
indeed almost all of Sherb’s clients traded on major exchanges were Chinese reverse merger stocks. 



http://ir.stockpr.com/chinaintegratedenergyinc/press-releases/detail/463/china-integrated-energy-completes-acquisition-of-a-50000-ton-biodiesel-production-facility-in-chongqing-city-china

http://ir.chinagushan.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=201174&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1356728&highlight=
While Sherb lists an office in Beijing, all seven of the partners listed on its website reside in Florida or New 
York. All of CBEH’s audit letters contained in their annual reported have been signed from Boca Raton. It is 
no wonder that the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board recently issued a cautionary practice alert 
regarding the lax standards that many small accounting firms employ when auditing Chinese reverse 
merger stocks. 


It’s also noteworthy that Sherb & Co. is the same auditor of China Education Alliance Inc. (NYSE: CEU), yet 
another Chinese company allegedly misrepresenting its business operations and financials to investors 
(see here). 





Why Do SAIC Financials Differ From SEC Financials? 


The SEC financial statements of CBEH do not come close to matching the SAIC of its local Chinese operating 
subsidiary, Xi’an Baorun Industrial Group. For background on SAIC filings, see this article. Here is a link to 
the original Chinese financial statements and here is an English translation. I show a comparison of the 
most relevant income statement and balance sheet items in Exhibit 5. 


Exhibit 5 





Source: SEC filings, Inter-Credit International. 2007 and 2008 figures converted at 7.60 and 6.95 RMB/USD, 
respectively 





Notice that the overstatement in 2008 revenue is $68M, roughly consistent with the supposed $50M in 
2008 biodiesel revenue. Notice also that the company only lists $1.3M in original value of fixed assets 
before construction in progress vs. $10.3M in the SEC financial statements- where is the cost of the 
biodiesel plant PP&E that was supposedly fully operational in 2008? When combined with CBEH’s biodiesel 
segment results, this raises the question of whether much or even any biodiesel is being produced at all. 



http://pcaobus.org/News/Releases/Pages/07122010_SAPA.aspx

http://www.zerohedge.com/article/more-chinese-fraud-kerrisdale-claims-china-education-alliance-nyseceu-mostly-hoax-stock-monk

http://seekingalpha.com/article/223068-china-biotics-vs-spreadtrum-communications-why-aic-filings-matter

http://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/12/2/cbeh_chinese_saic_document.pdf

http://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/12/2/cbeh_saic_english_translation.pdf
Biodiesel aside, the gross profits are nowhere near as large as they should be from fuel distribution and 
retail alone: Baorun disclosed $1.1M in 2008 gross profits in their SAIC filings while CBEH claimed $16.1M in 
gross profit from distribution and retail combined. In 2008 about $53M of current assets are unaccounted 
for as well- recall that the large buildup in current assets is where most of the supposed profits went. 
Putting it together, we believe CBEH has a fuel distribution and retail business that is nowhere near as 
profitable as they claim, and a much smaller or possibly non-existent biodiesel business. 





Association with Stock Promoters and Common Director with Orient Paper Inc. (ONP) 


Like many other Chinese reverse mergers, CBEH has been associated with questionable stock promoters. As 
documented in the previously posted Barron’s article, CBEH was taken public with the help of one Meiyi 
Mary Xia, who started Asia Pacific Securities with convicted Chinese stock fraudster Du Qingsong. After the 
Barron’s article appeared, CBEH released a press release to distance itself from certain individuals, but 
admitted they had been instrumental in bringing the company through its reverse merger. 


CBEH also shares a director with one of the most notorious alleged Chinese reverse merger frauds, (AMEX: 
ONP) (see here). While it has been expunged from CBEH’s most recent investor presentation (pdf), 
Wenbing Christopher Wang has been an ONP director since October 2009. We do not gain further 
confidence in CBEH given this fact pattern. 





Conclusion 


We believe that CBEH has much in common with two other alleged Chinese reverse merger frauds, 
Universal Travel Group (NYSE: UTA) (see here) and China-Biotics Inc. (Nasdaq: CHBT) (see here). Like UTA, 
CBEH has taken an existing business and bolted on an exciting venture that is supposedly generating 
enormous growth and profits. UTA really does run Chinese package tours, but the online travel booking 
service driving their stock valuation and supposed profitability appears to be fictitious. From what we can 
tell CBEH really does distribute fuel and run retail gas stations, albeit not nearly as profitably as they report, 
but the biodiesel business either does not exist or is materially smaller than they represent. 





Similar to CHBT, we believe that CBEH may have misrepresented its existing business in order to raise the 
money to actually enter the biodiesel business on a grander scale. CHBT took a portion of the money it 
raised on false pretenses and built a real probiotics plant, which it can now show investors to demonstrate 
its legitimacy. This month, CBEH hosted investors at its new biodiesel plant expansion. Since unlike its 
original plant the claimed expenditures on the plant expansion appear reasonable, CBEH will likely be able 
to show investors a real biodiesel plant. 


However, having a real plant doesn’t guarantee that CBEH will be able to start earning the kinds of biodiesel 
profits it claims. The examples of Gushan, China Clean Energy and China Biodiesel International all illustrate 
the challenges CBEH will face. For all these reasons, we remain cautious on CBEH’s business prospects and 
will continue to closely scrutinize the company’s future developments. 



http://ir.stockpr.com/chinaintegratedenergyinc/press-releases/detail/433/china-integrated-energy-provides-shareholder-update-on-corporate-governance

http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/orient-paper-inc/initiating-coverage-onp/

http://brontecapital.blogspot.com/2010/09/travelling-through-china-with-universal.html

http://www.citronresearch.com/2010/08/30/it-doesnt-take-a-microscope-to-see-whats-wrong-with-china-biotics-nasdaqchbt/
Perhaps, our final thoughts are best summarized by the company itself in their own risk disclosure 
statement to investors: 





“Our limited operating history as a producer and distributor of biodiesel makes it difficult for prospective 
investors to evaluate our business. Therefore, our operations are subject to all of the risks, challenges, 
complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the operation of any new business, as 
well as those risks that are specific to the biodiesel industry. Investors should evaluate us in light of the 
problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new 
products, services, and technologies. Despite best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to 
financial success.”
