5/19/2018 CONN Job? Substantial Downside Likely - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4039736-conn-job-substantial-downside-likely 1/9


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


CONN Job?
Substantial
Downside Likely
May 27, 2015 11:50 AM ET7 comments | Includes: Conn's, …


Today, we shared our opinion and research on Conn's. Below are the topics
covered in our full report as well as the most important credit portfolio
perspective that the retail sector bulls do not seem to understand. The full
report can be found here:


www.scribd.com/doc/266798982/CONN-Job-Su...


Conn's is a subprime finance company with deteriorating credit that is
masquerading as a retailer. The thesis that Conn's will successfully unload its
credit risk to an unsuspecting buyer, while retaining underwriting authority
and servicing, appears deeply flawed. We believe no buyer is dumb enough to
buy Conn's portfolio and cede underwriting & servicing back to Conn's.
Without autonomy over credit creation, Conn's retail model is likely broken.


Fair Value ~ $15.00 per share; 60% downside



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CONN

http://www.scribd.com/doc/266798982/CONN-Job-Substantial-Downside-Likely
5/19/2018 CONN Job? Substantial Downside Likely - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4039736-conn-job-substantial-downside-likely 2/9


-------------


IMPORTANT Disclaimer - Please read this Disclaimer in its entirety before
continuing to read our research opinion. You should do your own research and
due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities
covered herein. We strive to present information accurately and cite the
sources and analysis that help form our opinion. As of the date this opinion is
posted, the author of this report has a short position in the company covered
herein and stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock
declines. The author does not provide any advanced warning of future reports
to others. Following publication of this report, the author may transact in the
securities of the company, and may be long, short, or neutral at any time
hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. To the best of our ability and belief,
all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been
obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable. However,
such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind - whether
express or implied. The author of this report makes no representations,
express or implied, as to the timeliness or completeness of any such
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice and the author
does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the
5/19/2018 CONN Job? Substantial Downside Likely - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4039736-conn-job-substantial-downside-likely 3/9


information contained herein. This is not an offer to buy any security, nor shall
any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such
offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.


----------------


At first blush, the bull/bear debate on Conn's (NASDAQ:CONN) would appear
well understood by all involved. Conn's is a battleground stock, with thoughtful
investors holding extremely disparate views on the company's future. After
spending an inordinate amount of time analyzing the credit side of Conn's, we
believe substantial downside exists for reasons outside of the typical bull/bear
debate.


Today, the most important variable in the Conn's story is whether the company
can successfully monetize the credit portfolio and negotiate a flow agreement.
The word "and" is paramount in this discussion because a sale of the credit
portfolio, without a flow agreement that allows Conn's to continue underwriting
loose credit, destroys Conn's retail economics. Conn's stock has been
aggressively bought by retail sector investors who foolishly believe the retail
business would have greater stand-alone value independent from the credit
side of the house. This new investor base, as well as the majority of retail sell-
side analysts, does not appear to understand Conn's credit portfolio metrics, or
the retail segment's reliance on in-house credit. The two businesses operate
symbiotically and are heavily dependent on one another.


The recent 35% run in Conn's stock began when management stated there
were multiple parties interested in its credit portfolio. Amazingly, investors
have equated the existence of interested parties with a favorable outcome.
The fact multitude lenders want to diligence Conn's credit portfolio should not
be surprising. The incentive to access Conn's data room for information is no
different than public investors who look at an array of deals despite having
minimal intent to buy. In today's easy money environment, where the thirst
for yield often supersedes risk considerations, we concede that a dumb buyer
may emerge. However, we believe any sale would come with highly restrictive
terms on future underwriting. Should a sale be accompanied with restrictions
on Conn's underwriting and servicing autonomy, any stock pop will be short
lived. Without carte blanche discretion on aggressive financing, which we



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CONN
5/19/2018 CONN Job? Substantial Downside Likely - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4039736-conn-job-substantial-downside-likely 4/9


believe has resulted in a material overstatement of Conn's retail economics
(an imbedded cost of financing allows Conn's to generate a 40.5% retail gross
margin), Conn's retail model will break.


Based on our analysis, we believe Conn's has disingenuously "window dressed"
its credit portfolio, while subtly removing important disclosures from investor
presentations. Despite wide ranging sell-side analysis of Conn's, the most
important picture - cumulative loss curves - has somehow managed to escape
scrutiny. Our analysis herein unequivocally illustrates why the consensus view
of improving credit is false. We also detail nuances within Conn's credit
portfolio and underwriting practices that have been neglected by investors, but
will unlikely be overlooked by potential buyers. The market's assumption that
a portfolio sale and flow agreement is a fait accompli has created significant
downside risk for CONN investors should neither materialize. As such, we
believe Conn's stock will retest the early 2015 lows around $15 per
share, representing 60% near-term downside. In this report, we analyze
the following issues:


· Significant uncertainty persists on where credit losses and ultimate
cumulative losses on recent vintages will normalize. The slope of the
cumulative loss curves on the 2014 vintage is still steepening - meaning losses
continue to accelerate. Based on a series of inaccurate forecasts and atrocious
communication, it appears Conn's management has no idea where losses
ultimately shake out. When Conn's reports its 1Q'16 report on 6/2/15, we
expect the 2014 loss curves will already approach management's revised loss
rate, which will make it clear that another increase in cumulative loss guidance
is coming.


· In 2013, Conn's claimed to make significant underwriting changes. The 2014
vintage should have partially benefitted from the underwriting changes, while
the 2015 vintage should be reaping the full benefit of the changes. However,
2015 losses to-date are currently running higher than the disastrous 2014
vintage. Our presentation of cumulative loss curves is in direct conflict with the
widely held view by retail sector investors and sell-side analysts that
management's underwriting changes are driving credit improvements. When
viewed through a credit portfolio lens, it is clear that the exact opposite is
happening - losses are accelerating.
5/19/2018 CONN Job? Substantial Downside Likely - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4039736-conn-job-substantial-downside-likely 5/9


· The optical improvement in Conn's delinquency rate is a function of normal
seasonality, as well as financial sleight of hand. Historical delinquency rates at
other subprime lenders trough around tax refund season and these same
seasonal patterns have helped Conn's. In addition to seasonality, Conn's
delinquency rate has been artificially suppressed by: a) the October 2014
decision to begin retaining no-interest, high FICO loans on balance sheet, b)
management aggressively increasing the percentage of re-aged account
balances, and c) significant charge-off growth. In the most recent quarter, re-
aged accounts grew by 52% year-over-year, compared to 28% overall portfolio
growth.[i] The quality of the re-aged accounts has also deteriorated
significantly, with 93% growth in balances that have been re-aged at least six
months and 98% growth in balances that have been re-aged between 3 - 6
months. Serving as a significant red flag to investors and potential buyers,
Conn's changed its re-aging policy last year to increase the frequency that
accounts can be re-aged by 33%.


· A class action lawsuit makes salacious accusations against Conn's current
management, including allegations that they knowingly misled investors.
Former employees provide numerous examples illustrating Conn's renegade
approach to its credit operations. Employees claimed Conn's would: extend up
to $10,000 of credit to consumers with no credit scores; approve credit during
the initial four to five months a new store was opened - even for customers
with no income and FICO scores as low as 400; direct customers who had not
been approved for credit at established Conn's location to newly opened stores
since they would automatically be approved for credit; and "call [customers
with declined credit] when a new store opened in their area and were told to
apply for credit there." If true, the litany of inflammatory accusations would
constitute violations of multiple U.S. laws, including: the CARD Act, Truth-in-
Lending Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the Credit Card Accountability,
Responsibility & Disclosure ACT of 2009. A New York Times exposé
corroborated many of the claims in the class action lawsuit. If Conn's
management was this irresponsible with underwriting while
receivables were on-balance sheet, we can only imagine how
aggressive they might be in a flow agreement where a 3rd party
assumed the ultimate credit risk.
5/19/2018 CONN Job? Substantial Downside Likely - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4039736-conn-job-substantial-downside-likely 6/9


· A litany of regulatory issues (both present and future) would seem to present
a material deterrent to prospective portfolio buyers. Just last week, the CFPB
moved to regulate installment lenders, which will likely subject Conn's to much
earlier than expected CFPB regulation. This follows on the heels of its March
2015 introduction of draconian regulation targeting the lending & collection
practices of the payday loan industry. The CFPB has also asked for public
comments on 12 "areas of concern" in the credit card market. Two significant
financial drivers for Conn's, deferred interest and add-on products, appear to
be under the CFPB's microscope. Deferred interest products comprise 33% of
Conn's loan portfolio, while add-on products represent $50 million of high
margin revenue in the credit card segment. Any credit portfolio buyer
would presumably not only need to get comfortable with these
looming regulatory risks, but also quantify the material economic risk
on Conn's. Finally, the SEC's ongoing inquiry into Conn's has the potential to
create even more uncertainty for a potential buyer. The class action lawsuit
alleges that Conn's top two executives "possessed the motive to commit fraud
[when they] reaped more than $4.5 million in insider trading proceeds." If
true, the SEC will have obvious grounds to pursue enforcement actions.


· We believe Conn's management and large investors have encouraged sell-
side analysts to use Bluestem Brands as a proxy for a deal structure. This
comparison appears misplaced. Bluestem originates and services loans
retained by Santander Consumer USA (NYSE:SC). However, according to its
amended 10K, only 30% of Bluestem's sales were financed through SC last
year.[ii] This compares with approximately 89% of Conn's sales that rely on
financing. Further, SC is not required to take all of Bluestem's loans, but
instead has the "option to purchase certain loans."[iii] Conn' already has this
type of third party relationship with Synchrony Financial (NYSE:SYF), who
chose to finance just 10.8% of Conn's loans last year. Bluestem also appears
to be far more attractive as a financing partner given a) less reliance on issues
currently under the microscope of regulators, and b) strict ongoing regulation
by the FDIC (their cards are issued through an FDIC insured bank). If an
ultimate portfolio/flow agreement looks like Bluestem, we believe Conn's
partner would only accept a minority of loans, while refusing to cede universal
underwriting authority.


[i] www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1223389/...



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SC

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SYF

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1223389/000122338915000013/conn0131201510-k.htm
5/19/2018 CONN Job? Substantial Downside Likely - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4039736-conn-job-substantial-downside-likely 7/9


