Citron Comments on Ambarella  June 19, 2015 Page 1 of 4 
 





June 19, 2015 
 


Citron Research Comments on the 
Ridiculousness of Ambarella 





Targets:  12 month price -$60 / 18 month - $40 
 
It seems like yesterday that Wall Street was frothing at the mouth over 3D printing 
stocks.  These high flyers were not valued based on their financials but rather as a 
beneficiary of being anointed as “the new new”.  Citron Research was critical of the 
space and published pieces on 3 of these bubble-levitated 3D printing stocks.  It is 18 
months later and most of them languish 80% off their highs. 
 
So Wall Street has gone searching for another “new new” in the technology sector and 
has found one in Ambarella (NASDAQ:AMBA), whose parabolic frenzy has now launched 
it into a realm that can’t possibly be supported by reality.  To illustrate how crazy the 
valuation of Ambarella has become think about this. 
 
Since their IPO, their revenue has doubled -- up 100% from $121 million in 2012 to $248 
for the last twelve months.  Meanwhile their enterprise value has gone up 6000% as the 
stock has gone from $6 to $126. 
 


How about this for Ridiculous? 
Uber is now held up as the valuation wunderkind of the sharing economy.  Its disruptive 
technology and business model is changing the face of transportation worldwide.  It 
could be argued to be the best growth story of the 21


st
 century. Yet despite the 


unprecedented rapid adoption and market dominance, Uber’s valuation in fact 
expanded slower than this little known chipmaker operating in a niche market over a 
similar period.  
 
At the time when Ambarella went public in October 2012, the Company was forced to 
price shares at 40% discount to its marketed range. Upon completion of its IPO, 
Ambarella's enterprise value was $60 million. In a mere 32 months since, its valuation 
has expanded to over $3.7 billion, a growth of over 60 times.  
 
Compare this to Uber. Uber raised money in December of 2011 at $300 million valuation 
and August of 2013 at $3.5 billion valuation. A simple bootstrapping gives Uber roughly 
$1 billion valuation in October of 2012. The most recent funding round put Uber at $40
Citron Comments on Ambarella  June 19, 2015 Page 2 of 4 
 


billion valuation -- or 40-fold growth, a substantially less impressive valuation expansion 
when compared to Ambarella's stratospheric rise over the same period. 
 
You can just forget about Tesla and Netflix -- The Ambarella bubble has just left them in 
the dust. 
 
Normally this type of price movement is reserved for companies that are either wildly 


disruptive or enjoy an open blue sky competitive landscape -- Ambarella is 
neither. 
 


What is Ambarella? 
Ambarella is a fabless developer of system-on-chip(SoC) products for high-definition 
video-capture market. Its products offer video/image processing on a single chip which 
addresses a few markets: 


 Action cameras – best known due to the success of GoPro 


 Security / surveillance  


 Automotive market 


 Broadcast / infrastructure  


 Police cams 


 Drone cams 
 
The problem is aside from security, these are all niche plays.  Even the company doesn’t 
see police cams adding more than 10% to revenues.  And drone cam sales were merely 
$1m last quarter, a niche where it is unlikely to ever be a controlling player.  (See Parrot)  
 
Of course, Ambarella is best known to the average retail investor as the maker of the 
chipset in GoPro cameras.  Yet, the recent stock rise in Ambarella has made it that it 
trades at double the 2018 forward EBITDA multiple of even GoPro. 
 
All of this despite the fact its product offerings in the low end are facing increasing 
commoditization and pricing pressure, while innovation on the high end stalls and 
product adoption in the high end is slowing.   
 
Specifically, AMBA has adroitly laddered new chip designs from 720p to 1080p to 4K 
video formats with increasing frame rates, smaller chip sizes and lower power 
consumption.  This isn’t any great technology breakthrough; it is simply Moore’s law in 
effect.   AMBA’s market position affords it only a 6 to 9-month lead in the climb up the 
power curve.   
 
But how many customers are actually going to dump 1080p for 4K devices has become 
a serious question.   They have not in televisions, and there is every indication that 4K 
adds even less to the market niches listed above.
Citron Comments on Ambarella  June 19, 2015 Page 3 of 4 
 


 
The influx of inexpensive Asian-made, low-cost cameras continues to put huge pressure 
on suppliers.  While AMBA still has pricing power in the 4K platform, the 1080p market 
has become commoditized at every level. 
 


4K video format at 60 frames per second is the “latest and greatest” format standard in 
the video recording industry. However, its widespread adoption in Ambarella’s biggest 
market (security  / surveillance) is unlikely. The obvious truth is, in a security setting, 
1080p solutions are more than sufficient. 4K adds nothing of value, and clogs the 
storage-heavy security application with higher bandwidth and larger storage cost 
burdens, with no offsetting benefit.  A multitude of other issues tech challenges emerge 
when 4K technology is implemented.  According to a recent Wired article, 4K live feeds 
are simply too burdensome for broadband connections.  Nor would the incremental 
difference between 4K and 1080p bring additional benefits in this particular segment of 
the market, or the other above niches either, for that matter.  
 
http://www.wired.com/2015/02/live-4k-broadcasts/ 
 
Similarly, bulls in Ambarella have made the erroneous assumption that growth in the 
action camera space will be coming primarily from high-end units.  Go Pro’s own 
product offerings clearly reflect management’s belief that substantial market exists in 
the lower-end, which does not require the 4K chipsets in which Ambarella has its 9-
month pricing and technological edge.  Even if you believe that the continued growth 
rates in the action camera space are realistic, likely a disproportionate percentage of 
that growth will come from the lower end, powered by a cheaper chipset from 
Ambarella or its competitors. Moreover, given the commoditization in the low end, 
Ambarella investors should not overlook the eventuality that GoPro will inevitably 
decide to include an additional chipset manufacturer for its lower end offerings. 
 


   Competitive Landscape is Serious Business 
 


In addition to commoditization risks from its own lower end offerings, Ambarella’s 
technological edge is hitting a wall. Its last innovation was its 4K60 chip at 14nm 
unveiled in Oct 2014; they will likely be in products in later 2016.  However, as discussed 
previously, such competitive edge – which endures for about 9 months -- offers 
increasingly diminishing return as less unit growth results from ultra-high end devices. 
While the 4K60 chip at 14nm provides a power advantage over competition, the real 
market for these chips is only in the high-end action camera market priced at $400 plus. 
As its innovation edge increasingly concentrates in the ultra high end of the niche 
market products, the rest of Ambarella’s product portfolio become increasingly 
commoditized. In other words, not all 9-month technological edges are created equal.  
 
Ambarella’s competition includes: Hisilicon, Dahua, Novatek, Axis and Sony to name a 
few. As its innovation increasingly gravitates towards ultra high-end products and its 



http://www.wired.com/2015/02/live-4k-broadcasts/
Citron Comments on Ambarella  June 19, 2015 Page 4 of 4 
 


lead time experiences diminishing value due to the limited market size, the rest of 
Ambarella’s product portfolio faces price competition from other Asian cost-based 
competitors that will eventually drive down its economic profit.  


 
So How Did We Get Here? 
 


Ambarella, a video processing chip designer, came public in October of 2012, yet 
investors did not start bobbling the shares up for real until the GPRO IPO in 2014.   
 
The IPO was initially marketed at a price range between $9 to $11 a share; despite 
having Morgan Stanley and Deutsch Bank as its lead underwriter, the Company 
eventually went public at just $6 a share, a whopping 40% discount to the midpoint of 
the marketed range. Ambarella’s decision to proceed with the IPO, in the face of such a 
drastic pricing disappointment, was incredibly puzzling for a number of reasons.  
 


We can’t fault management for competent execution into the 
action camera channel, but this nice 2x growth is where the 
story stops.   
 
This chip designer isn’t disrupting an industry or defining a new marketplace.  Wall 
Street’s love affair with Ambarella unjustifiably started with the IPO of GoPro.  Citron 
has seen this movie too many times, and when the shine comes off investors will be 
looking at a chip company that will trade at the same valuation multiple of its peers -- 
which in this case put the stock at $30.  
 


  Cautious Investing To All
