5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 1/21


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


Avid Technology,
Inc. (AVID): Ugly
Financials With
Loads Of
Deception
Jun. 24, 2015 10:45 AM ET11 comments | Includes: Avid Te…


Today, we shared our opinion and research on AVID. Below is a synopsis of the
topics covered in our full report, which can be found here:


www.scribd.com/doc/269575300/Avid-Techno...


Our AVID Opinion: A turnaround stock promote that is really a money-losing
melting ice cube masked by misleading revenue amortization and
disingenuous communication. Transient factors have further contributed to a
stock price completely detached from deteriorating underlying fundamentals.


Fair Value: $5.53 per share, 69% downside


-------------


IMPORTANT Disclaimer - Please read this Disclaimer in its entirety before
continuing to read our research opinion. You should do your own research and
due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities
covered herein. We strive to present information accurately and cite the
sources and analysis that help form our opinion. As of the date this opinion is
posted, the author of this report has a short position in the company covered
herein and stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock
declines. The author does not provide any advanced warning of future reports
to others. Following publication of this report, the author may transact in the
securities of the company, and may be long, short, or neutral at any time
hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. To the best of our ability and belief,
all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been
obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable. However,



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AVID

http://www.scribd.com/doc/269575300/Avid-Technology-Inc-AVID-Ugly-Financials-with-Loads-of-Deception
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 2/21


such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind - whether
express or implied. The author of this report makes no representations,
express or implied, as to the timeliness or completeness of any such
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice and the author
does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the
information contained herein. This is not an offer to buy any security, nor shall
any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such
offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.


----------------


Wall Street loves turnaround stories. Unfortunately, for every seemingly
broken business that miraculously recovers, there are many more failed
turnarounds that result in significant investor losses. We believe after a
lengthy period of delinquent financials, Avid Technology (NASDAQ:AVID) has
re-emerged as a disingenuously promoted turnaround. The promotional story,
combined with an unusual Russell 2000 anomaly that has required net
indexers to buy approximately 3.4 million shares over the last few months,[i]
has resulted in a parabolic stock advance.


Digging into the AVID details reveals a highly misleading story, replete with
promotional investor videos and presentations, pro-forma financials that fail to
reflect the actual economics of the business - while in several cases failing to
reconcile with SEC filings, and what we believe to be foreign exchange
speculation that has added materially to financial results, yet has not been
shared by management in earnings releases or conference calls. AVID's
"adjusted results" are inaccurate representations of its actual underlying
economic profile, distorted by management's inclusion of non-cash remnants
of its accounting restatement. We believe substantial evidence exists that
AVID has violated the spirit, if not the letter, of SEC Regulation G with regard
to its seemingly abusive adjusted financial reporting. Further, our work
suggests AVID's current turnaround team may not have had the successful
exit from their previous company, Open Solutions, as many believe. We are
also troubled that AVID's perceived turnaround specialist was previously sued
by former employees who accused him of withholding financial information and
violating his duties to care for shareholders.[ii]



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AVID
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 3/21


For nearly a decade, AVID has struggled to generate growth, while producing
minimal economic profitability. Years ago, AVID dominated the market for
converting video from tape to digital. However, AVID's relevance faded in the
editing market, which is now populated by industry heavyweights such as
Adobe, Apple, and Sony. It is no surprise that AVID's market share has shrunk
to just 7% - 8%,[iii] rendering its business subscale as evidenced by economic
EPS losses of ($1.03) and ($0.28) in 2014 and 1Q'15, respectively (excluding
amortization of pre-2011 deferred revenue). Nonetheless, the AVID melting ice
cube has resurfaced, thanks ironically to a massive accounting restatement
that optically changed AVID's GAAP reporting.


The juice in the AVID story has emanated from the perception that financial
results have been "improving." The reality is AVID's results have been
artificially overstated by the recognition of $888 million of deferred revenue
"created" retrospectively to the actual 2010 ending balance. The massive
accounting restatement has allowed AVID to flow 100% margin revenue
through its income statement, resulting in an egregious overstatement of
revenue, EBITDA, and EPS. We believe management's illogical inclusion of this
misleading accounting artifact in its adjusted financial results has led to a
severe misrepresentation of its underlying business. We believe these
accounting details are indiscernible for quant buyers and/or unsuspecting retail
investors that rely on investment screens. Institutional investors and sell-side
analysts are presumably aware of the nominal restatement benefits; however
we are convinced the actual nuances of the revenue amortization are not
understood. Herein, we meticulously detail why the actual economics of AVID's
transactions should mean that effectively zero of the pre-2011 revenue would
still exist today under current accounting rules. As we carefully illustrate, the
restatement impacted only a single-digit percentage of AVID's pre-2011
transaction value, yet many multiples of the affected revenue have essentially
been double booked at a 100% margin based on nuanced accounting changes.
The thesis that the water coming into the bathtub (new deferred revenue) will
eventually offset the water that has been leaving the bathtub (pre-2011
deferred revenue amortization) is simply wrong.


We believe investors and analysts have not only been fooled into assigning a
hefty multiple, and hence value, to the pre-2011 deferred revenue
amortization, but have also been hoodwinked by material non-recurring
benefits not appropriately disclosed by management. We believe management
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 4/21


took credit for recurring cost initiatives that appear to have been the result of
FX hedging transactions and/or gains. AVID has inexplicably chosen to AVOID
accounting for its hedges under hedge accounting, which has resulted in
substantial FX transaction gains quietly flowing through the sales and
marketing line. Further, we believe ample evidence exists that reported
metrics have been "massaged" to fit the bullish turnaround rhetoric. We find
these tactics to be in gross violation of investor trust and possibly of SEC
regulations. Considering insiders were transacting in the stock less than 3
business days prior to the public announcement of a convertible debt offering,
we would not expect the Board to act on behalf of shareholders with a proper
investigation. Nonetheless, we believe the recent convert offering speaks
volumes about how AVID's management views its equity valuation, while
rendering a sale unlikely. This report provides detailed analysis examining the
following concerns:


I. Background & Accounting Restatement:


· AVID has been a melting ice cube for nearly a decade. Prior to the overnight
creation of $888 million of accounting-related deferred revenues, AVID had
multiple failed growth attempts, including two entries and divestitures into the
consumer space. We calculate AVID's organic revenue contracted by 3.9%
annually from 2006 - 2010, which now looks like the glory days of growth.


· In 2013, AVID was required to restate financials going back to 2005 because
it had failed to identify and account for post-transaction deliverables, such as
updates and bug fixes on a large number of transactions. Accounting rules
required some portion of the transaction value to be deferred to account for
such future deliverables. This had a particularly big impact on pre-2011 years
when AVID had not yet adopted the FASB Accounting Standards Update No.
2009-13 and 2009-14 and was unable to estimate the value of such post-
transaction deliverables. In the absence of an objective estimate of that small
portion of the transaction, accounting rules required the entire transaction
value to be deferred and recognized ratably over multiple years.[iv] As a
result, $888 million of deferred revenue was retrospectively added to AVID's
2010 balance sheet, which was to be amortized from 2011 to 2018. The
recognition of this non-economic, non-cash accounting artifact has distorted
AVID's financials because management has inexplicable refused to exclude it
from adjusted results.
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 5/21


II. A Framework Explaining Why Pre-2011 Revenue Amortization
MUST be Excluded from Financials


· A careful deconstruction of AVID's bookings model implies 96% of its pre-
2011 deferred revenue would have been recognized by 2015. As such, the
unscrupulous inclusion of this 100% margin accounting artifact is overstating
AVID's adjusted revenue and EBITDA by approximately $91.5 million (2014)
and $58.7 million (2015). We provide three illustrative models that clearly
explain why pre-2011 revenue amortization is misleading and would not exist
had AVID conformed to today's accounting standards.


III. Management's Misleading Financial Metrics & More Potential SEC
Reg G. Violations


· We believe AVID management is misrepresenting the financial performance
of its business by highlighting metrics that vastly overstate underlying
fundamentals. AVID's presentation of its adjusted financials and key
performance indicators appears to violate SEC regulations that prohibit the
exclusion of recurring charges or adjusted financials that mislead investors.


· Management's liberal definition of "Adjusted EBITDA" includes the
amortization of deferred revenue from pre-2011 years, which is layered in at
100% margin. Because of this pro-forma shenanigan, the loss-making
fundamentals of AVID are hidden. In 2014, AVID reported Adjusted EBITDA of
$72.3 million. Excluding the $91.5 million of GAAP revenue that was booked
prior to 2011, AVID would have reported negative recurring Adjusted EBITDA
of $19.2 million. AVID appears to also be severely misrepresenting its
recurring economic per share earnings. In 2014, AVID claimed to have made
$1.30 per share; however, we calculate the adjusted EPS was actually a loss of
($1.03). Prospective debt investors appear to be calculating EBITDA in a
similar manner as us, considering the effective interest rate on AVID's recent
$100 million term loan commitment was 7.5%. Contrary to the 1.3x leverage
implied by AVID's 2015 Adjusted EBITDA, we surmise the lenders (correctly)
viewed AVID as 6.1x levered when stripping out the non-cash pre-2011
revenue amortization.


· In what appears to be a violation of the spirit of SEC Regulation G, AVID
reports "Free Cash Flow" that is actually "Adjusted Free Cash Flow."
Management illogically continues to add back costs for restructurings initiated
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 6/21


in 2012 and 2013, as well as restatement expenses even though AVID has
been current on its filings since November 2014. In 2014, AVID reported a
conventional free cash flow loss of $23.2 million (OCF - capex). However, AVID
then added back $35.9 million of adjustments to report $12.7 million of free
cash flow under its own definition. Since 4Q'13, AVID has added back $38.5
million of restatement-related expenses to FCF, more than twice what they had
told investors ($15 - $20 million). In 1Q'15, nearly half of AVID's adjusted free
cash flow was the result of add-backs from restatement/restructuring charges
despite no ongoing restatement. AVID's FCF has also benefited from an
unsustainable jump in deferred revenues. In 2014, post-2010 deferred
revenues increased by 14%, which contributed $39.5 million to cash flow from
operations (changes in pre-2011 deferred revenues do not impact cash flow).
Changes in deferred revenue should ultimately track changes in bookings, with
the latter declining year-over-year by 0.8% and 11.2% in 2014 and 1Q'15,
respectively. Based on our analysis, we believe sustainable growth in deferred
revenues should only contribute $8 - $10 million annually to cash flow from
operations.


· Management appears to be taking an extremely liberal approach to its
definition of "Bookings." AVID includes "Backlog" additions in the bookings
metric shared with investors as a KPI. Based on our analysis, we believe 15%
of AVID's 2014 bookings were neither shipped nor invoiced. Further, we
calculate that the actual conversion of 2014 "Backlog" into revenue was
approximately 50% lower than the estimate management provided as late as
September 2014. It appears that $37 million of the $74 million of expected
backlog conversion management had filed in SEC documents was either "de-
booked" or failed to convert. As such, we believe management has
misrepresented its business momentum by imprudently characterizing pipeline
as backlog, thereby artificially boosting reported bookings. Nondescript
disclosures suggest AVID can recognize "bookings" despite no invoice. We
believe management's spurious approach to reporting backlog resulted in a
$30 million discrepancy between the backlog disclosed on the 3Q'14 earnings
call and the same 3Q'14 backlog subsequently published in the 4Q'14 earnings
release.


IV. Repeated Failure to Disclose Material Non-Recurring Gains within
Reported Non-GAAP Financials
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 7/21


· In AVID's SEC filings, cash flow from operations shows $6.2 and $6.7 million
of "Unrealized foreign currency transaction gains" in 4Q'14 and 1Q'15,
respectively (emphasis added). We believe AVID has utilized an accounting
treatment that misrepresents its financial profile by flowing FX transaction
gains through the sales and marketing lines (as opposed to hedge accounting).
Prior to the abnormal currency transaction gains in 4Q'14 and 1Q'15, AVID had
not experienced more than a $1 million impact in the prior eleven quarters
from its FX hedging transactions. Amazingly, AVID's Non-GAAP Operating
Income, Net Income, and Adjusted EBITDA appear to include non-recurring FX
gains without a single disclosure in the press release or earnings call.
Assuming the abnormal FX transaction gains flowed through the income
statement, AVID's reported Adjusted EBITDA would have been 44% (4Q'14)
and 57% (1Q'15) lower, which we believe would have collapsed the stock
price.


· AVID appears to be recognizing abnormally large FX transaction gains "above
the line," in the sales and marketing line. AVID's CFO publicly stated that
1Q'15 cost saving were attributed to "strategic initiative to drive to a leaner,
more directed cost structure." Based on opaque disclosures in its 10Q, we
believe AVID may have misrepresented the nature of its opex declines. In
1Q'15, AVID recognized a $2.2 million year-over-year benefit in its sales and
marketing line from "Foreign exchange gains." As such, nearly half of the $4.6
million YoY improvement in opex appears to be non-operating in nature, which
would directly contradict management's explanation.


· After maintaining notional foreign exchange contracts (spot and forward)
between $23.3 million and $39.5 million, AVID mysteriously discontinued its
historical FX hedging practice and took the notional value to just $100,000 one
month before 1Q'15 ended. Considering its foreign exchange exposures were
unchanged, specifically the approximately 40% of revenue that comes from
EMEA, we believe the sudden disappearance of hedging after large gains that
were not disclosed in earnings calls and releases, warrants an explanation.


· AVID used the terms "hedge" or "hedging" 33 times in its 10K while also
explicitly stating foreign currency contracts are used "as a hedge against
foreign exchange exposure." Nevertheless, AVID does not account for its
hedges with hedge accounting. Instead, AVID records changes in the fair value
of forward contracts in marketing and selling expenses, effectively booking
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 8/21


gains in foreign currency contracts in its operating income and EBITDA.
Despite appearing to be non-operating, non-recurring in nature, management
does not appear to exclude these gains from its adjusted financials.


V. More Financial Reporting Incongruities & Confusing Guidance


· AVID's total deferred revenue balance published in its 3Q'14 earnings release
of "$419,329" appears to have inexplicably been changed to "$417,337" in the
subsequently published third quarter 10Q.


· In its 4Q'14 earnings release, AVID guided free cash flow to "growth of $18
to $30 million." This exact same language was used in its 1Q'15 earnings
release. AVID also guided free cash flow to a "42% to 136% year-on-year
improvement" in 2015. Considering AVID reported $12.7 million of (heavily
adjusted) free cash flow in 2014, its 42% to 136% growth guidance does not
reconcile with "growth of $18 to $30 million." If this was a mistake, we would
opine that frequent "slip-ups" are often a by-product of pervasive shenanigans
in adjusted financial.


VI. Was Management's Prior Sale of Open Solutions a Success or
Absolute Disaster?


· Analysts, investors, and AVID's very own management have highlighted that
the CEO and CFO sold their last company for $1 billion in 2013. What investors
are likely missing is that the $1 billion ($1.015 billion to be exact) was the
value of the enterprise, which meant the equity was only worth $55 million
when considering the associated $960 million of assumed debt. This would
represent an equity value decline of 88% from the equity value just six years
earlier (2007) if we hold the debt constant. The enterprise value appears to
have experienced a 28% decline over six years leading up to the $1 billion
"sale," while we estimate the revenue run-rate declined by approximately 29%
from 2007 - 2013.


· Two former executives (COO and Head of Marketing) at Open Solutions sued
then CEO Louis Hernandez, as well as other officers, for withholding financial
information and violating their duty of care and loyalty to shareholders. While
we are always skeptical of litigation brought by former shareholders or
employees, in the context of all of our other concerns, we do not believe it's
imprudent to wonder if these allegations reflect a pattern.
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 9/21


VII. Deteriorating Fundamentals & 2H-Loaded 2015 Guidance


· Shenanigans aside, AVID's core business appears to be deteriorating and
trending at a rate that is completely inconsistent with several "Non-GAAP"
KPIs.


· In the two quarters since being relisted, AVID has missed expectations for
bookings, free cash flow, and revenues. AVID provided a highly misleading
slide in its investor deck that shows a chart with revenue up and to the right.
Yet, this chart contains no numbers or percentages on the y-axis, while also
seemingly misrepresenting the factual story of bookings that declined 0.8% in
2014, compared to guidance for 3% growth. Our analysis suggests AVID
missed its 4Q'14 implied bookings guidance by 10%. Further, 1Q'15 bookings
declined by 11% YoY, which was significantly worse than AVID's full year
guidance of (1%) to +3%.


· AVID's management explained the horrid 1Q'15 results by suggesting several
meaningful deals were pushed into 2Q'15 and had in fact already closed. As
such, we can calculate that 2Q'15 revenue should be at least $138.5 million by
adding the 1Q'15 shortfall to the pre-existing 2Q'15 sell-side estimate. Buy-
side estimates for 2Q'15 will likely move even higher should AVID close its
Orad acquisition before June 30, 2015. We believe management's faltering
credibility will be impacted by its ability to hit buy-side estimates of $138.5
million for 2Q'15, NOT by the nonsensical consensus estimates that actually
declined after 1Q'15 results pushed large deals into 2Q'15. [NOTE - It is well
understood that 2015 estimates have yet to include the contribution from
Orad. As such, AVID will need to revise its annual guidance when they report
2Q'15 by at least the $41 million revenue and $10M EBITDA post-synergy run-
rates to which management alluded on the May, 7, 2015 update call].


VIII. Fair Value is $5.53, Representing 69% Downside, Russell 2000
Buying Nearly Complete


· AVID's stock price has decoupled from its economic reality, which we believe
is due in part to a turnaround stock promotion, misleading financials, and
disingenuous key performance metrics. We also believe AVID's stock price has
benefitted from several months of unnatural buying related to the Russell 2000
rebalancing. Because AVID was removed from the Russell 2000 Index when it
was delisted, the company will be added on June 26, 2015, after regaining its
5/19/2018 Avid Technology, Inc. (AVID): Ugly Financials With Loads Of Deception - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/4122845-avid-technology-inc-avid-ugly-financials-with-loads-of-deception 10/21


