“May you live in interesting times.”  -  Robert Kennedy 























On July 14, 2015, we published a detailed investment opinion on China LNG Group Limited (“China LNG” or the 


“Company”).  In our Report, we presented an extensive analysis of the Company’s public filings and other publicly-


traded energy companies, arguing that despite its name (recently changed), China LNG is essentially a startup 


without any proprietary intellectual property, a meaningful operating business or a tangible competitive advantage in 


the industry.  It is our opinion that China LNG’s stock is wildly overvalued, and that its tiny underlying business in 


no way merits an HKD 16.7 billion market capitalization.  On July 16, 2015, China LNG released a clarification 


announcement (the “Response”), which despite a hostile and defensive tone, was logically deficient and served only 


to reinforce our underlying investment thesis.  


China LNG’s LNG business in China has only 58 employees, 869 square meters of office space, no proprietary 


intellectual property or operating rights and HKD 131,750 in total revenue so far.
1
   


No matter what any investor believes about China LNG’s future plans, potential relationships, or long-term chances, 


the simple fact remains that today, in its current form, the Company’s operating business is tiny and insignificant.   


Hong Kong and global energy comps trade at an average of 1.79x book value.  China LNG trades at 33.9x book 


value.  Even at its peak, Hanergy only traded at 17x book value, and all investors would agree at this point that at its 


peak, Hanergy was grossly overvalued.   


If China LNG wants to be considered an energy company, it should be valued at or close to book value, like other 


energy companies, which is why we believe that the Company should be valued at HKD 0.08 per share, 95% 


below China LNG’s last traded price.   














                                                             
1
 As of July 3, 2015.  The Company also discloses that it is in the process of adding 1,369 square meters in office space. 


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is not 


investment advice nor should it be construed as such.  You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the 


securities covered herein. We have a short interest in China LNG’s stock and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instruments 


declines.  Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


COMPANY:  China LNG Group Limited │ HK: 931 


INDUSTRY:  Energy 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/07/GlaucusResearch-China_LNG-HK_931-Strong_Sell_July_14_2015.pdf

http://chinalng.todayir.com/en/fileview.php?file=http://store.todayir.com/todayirattachment_hk/chinalng/attachment/2015071622170200002262739_en.pdf&lang=en&code=931

http://chinalng.todayir.com/en/fileview.php?file=http://store.todayir.com/todayirattachment_hk/chinalng/attachment/2015071622170200002262739_en.pdf&lang=en&code=931

http://chinalng.todayir.com/en/fileview.php?file=http://store.todayir.com/todayirattachment_hk/chinalng/attachment/2015071622170200002262739_en.pdf&lang=en&code=931
2 
 


China LNG Group Limited │ HK: 931                                  www.glaucusresearch.com 





VERY LITTLE NATURAL GAS, VERY LITTLE CHINA 





We highlighted in our Report that as of July 3, 2015, the Company’s LNG business has only generated HKD 


131,750 in total revenues. At last FYE, the Company did not own any meaningful assets related to the natural gas 


business.  Nor does China LNG possess any technology, patents, trademarks, copyrights or operating rights which 


would give the Company any competitive advantage in entering a crowded industry. 





1) Lease Financing Business 
 


In its Response, China LNG sought to make its primary business, lease financing for LNG equipped vehicles, sound 


substantial.  But substantial it is not.   





China LNG commenced leasing in May 2015 and thus far it has financed the leases of “1,030 heavy-duty LNG 


vehicles with an aggregate loan amount of approximately RMB 181,860,000… for a term ranging from six months 


to two years to six customers … which total interest earned thereform amounted to RMB 11,773,000.”
2
   





Admittedly, this “interest earned” amount is a bit confusing.  We think China LNG means that it will earn RMB 


11.8 million over the duration of the loans.  We do not think that the Company meant that since May 2015, it has 


already earned RMB 11.8 million in interest in just two months.  Given that the loan amount is only RMB 181.9 


million, earning such interest over two months (May-July) would mean that China LNG is charging 38.8% in annual 


interest, which seems unlikely.  
 


More importantly, China LNG’s circular from July 8, 2015, unequivocally stated that its revenues generated from 


financing the leases of LNG vehicles was only HKD 131,750 as of July 3, 2015. 





 
China LNG Circular July 8, 2015, p. 15. 


 
So the only reasonable conclusion from China LNG’s Response is that it expects to earn RMB 11.8 million in 


interest over the next two years on RMB 181.9 million that it has already lent out to customers.  For a startup, this 


might be impressive.  But this is simply insufficient for a Company with an HKD 16.7 billion market capitalization.  


Even if it earned RMB 11.8 million in one year, at its current stock price, the Company would be trading at 1,053x 


sales.    





Consider that China LNG has a tiny balance sheet.  Apart from RMB 181 million in loans, its PRC leasing 


subsidiary’s only major assets (without considering proceeds from a new capital raise) are RMB 140 million in 


receivables
3
 and RMB 146 million in cash.   








                                                             
2
 China LNG Response, p. 3.  


3
 We do not understand how a Company without a product, service or business other than leasing can report a receivable of RMB 


140,000,000.  Perhaps that is interest income it expects to receive, but given the small loan amount (RMB 181.9 million), that is 
unlikely.  Investors will just be forced to wait for the interim report.
3 





China LNG Group Limited │ HK: 931                                www.glaucusresearch.com 





China LNG Recurring Lease Revenues


  (RMB millions)


Existing Leases 181.9


Bank Balance 146.2


Expected Interest Income 


from Existing Loans 


(Annualized) 5.9


Expected Interest Income 


from Lending Available 


Cash Balance  (Annualized) 4.7


Expected Revenues 


(in HKD millions) 13.3


Price to Sales Multiple 1168


Source: China LNG Clarification 


Announcement  
 
At its current rate of return, if China LNG lent out all of the cash on the balance sheet of its lease financing 


subsidiary, we believe that it would only generate approximately HKD 13.3 million in annual revenues.  This is not 


sufficient for a Company with a market capitalization of HKD 16.7 billion.  At its current share price, China LNG 


would be trading at 1168x annualized sales.  At its peak price, Hanergy only traded at 27x annualized sales.   





2) Unproven and Flawed Business Plan 
 


In our Report, we pointed out that since March 2014, China LNG has announced 20 non-binding letters of intent or 


cooperation agreements with various companies, commissions and development groups.  Although such cooperation 


agreements give investors the impression that China LNG is making significant progress in the LNG business, we 


believe that such progress is illusory.  


In its Response, China LNG complained bitterly about this point.  The Company stated that it had only terminated 2 


of the 20 framework agreements, and that the other 18 were still in place.  But this misses the point.   


The framework agreements are not concrete, contractual relationships or investments.  They are merely non-binding 


declarations of future cooperation.   


Furthermore, China LNG’s promises under such announcements are not realistic. For example, from March 2014 


through June 2014, China LNG made five such announcements, promising to invest HKD 5 billion, which was 


obviously impossible given that the Company’s balance sheet recorded only HKD 549 million in total assets as of 


FYE 2014, (~11% of the promised investment amount).  In total, the Company’s non-binding agreements call on it 


to commit between HKD 14 billion and HKD 71 billion in investments into the LNG business, a farcical amount of 


capital considering the Company’s tiny balance sheet and limited operating history. 


As it is prone to do, China LNG’s Response went on to boldly declare its plan to enter the downstream LNG market 


in various forms: (i) to generate commissions from the trading of LNG vehicles and vessels, (ii) to perform repair 


and maintenance services on LNG vehicles, (iii) to operate an environmental vehicles club which installs IT systems 


in LNG equipped vehicles, and (iv) to invest in LNG refueling stations, refiling docks, LNG plants and the supply 


and distribution of LNG.   


There are reasons to be skeptical.  Such industries are already highly competitive and populated with incumbents 


who are better positioned, more experienced, and better financed than China LNG.   


But the larger point is that such bold declarations are merely declarations for tomorrow.  Perhaps, one day, they will 


impact the valuation of China LNG, but they should not do so today.
4 





China LNG Group Limited │ HK: 931                                www.glaucusresearch.com 





NON-RECURRING “TRADING” GAINS 


In an effort to somehow justify its absurd stock price and market capitalization, China LNG’s Response continues to 


plead with the market to consider one-time gains as a recurring source of revenues and profits.  Do not be fooled.  In 


no way are the Company’s reported 2014 profits recurring.  In our opinion, neither are 2015’s profits.  





1) Related Party Junk Bonds Return 375% in 6 Months 
 


In our Report, we noted that 99% of China LNG’s 2014 revenue was derived from a one-off related party deal with 


its Chairman. In January 2014, China LNG purchased from its Chairman HKD 80 million in convertible bonds 


issued by Warderly International (HK: 0607) (the “Warderly Bonds”), a Hong Kong listed company which was (at 


the time) also owned and controlled by China LNG’s Chairman. The Chairman sold China LNG the Warderly 
Bonds at well below their market value. In June 2014, China LNG agreed to sell the Warderly Bonds to Magnolia 


Wealth International Limited for HKD 380 million, a 375% profit in just six months. 





The only reason that China LNG made a 375% return on the Warderly Bonds was that its Chairman sold the bonds 


to the Company at well below the market price. The most charitable explanation is that this was a sweetheart deal 


from the Company’s Chairman which is non-recurring revenue and cannot be factored into the Company’s 


valuation. 





In its Response, China LNG could not help but contradict itself when discussing the Warderly Bonds.  On the one 


hand, China LNG said that we were “unfounded” in considering the profits from the Warderly Bonds non-recurring, 


because it was a part of its trading business.   
 


 
China LNG Response, p. 7. 





In a hilarious twist, China LNG’s then contradicts itself on the very same page of the Response:  





 
China LNG Response, p. 7. 





Apparently, any comments on the bond transaction are “irrelevant in assessing the Group’s financial performance 


and operations” because, in China LNG’s words, the bonds were disposed, the gains have been realized and the 
transaction is over.  Our thoughts exactly!   





It does not matter whether the profits from the Warderly Bonds were classified as a part of the Company’s trading 


business.  By their very nature, they were a one-off transaction and should not be factored into China LNG’s 


valuation going forward.  





The Response also stated that “when the gain from the disposal [of the bonds] is disregarded, the Group would still 


be able to maintain a net profit position for the year ended 31 December 2014 and record an increase of 


approximately 112% as compared” to the previous year.
4
  The previous year, China LNG reported a net profit of just 


HKD 22.4 million. 


 
This statement makes it seem as though China LNG had other profitable business other than simply gains from a 


one-off deal between its in Chairman and a related party.  But we are not so sure. 





In 2014, China LNG reported HKD 358 million in total revenue.  In its 2014 Annual Report, the Company admits 


that HKD 350 million of this revenue came from the disposal of the Warderly Bonds and related Warderly shares. 


                                                             
4
 China LNG Response, p. 7.
5 





China LNG Group Limited │ HK: 931                                www.glaucusresearch.com 





  
China LNG 2014 Annual Report, p. 3. 





If HKD 350 million of the Company’s reported HKD 357 million in total revenue came from shares and bonds 


issued by Warderly, then, by China LNG’s own admission, the Warderly transactions accounted for 98% of its 2014 


revenues.  This transaction is non-recurring by any definition and therefore should not be considered in the 


Company’s valuation going forward.  





2) Unaudited FY 2015 Profit and Loss 
 


In the conclusion of the Response, the Company boldly claimed that it was on course to record an “unaudited 


estimated profit of approximately HKD 509.8 million upon completion of the disposal of certain shares in one of the 


Group’s subsidiary in around August 2015.”
5
  China LNG claims, when such profits are taken into account, the 


Company trades at a reasonable-sounding price-to-earnings ratio of 32x.   





We find this blatantly misleading.  The “profit” to which China LNG supposedly refers, is in reality the proceeds 


expected upon the disposal of 48.92% of the equity of its trading subsidiary, Key Fit Group Limited. 





The Company established Key Fit Group Limited in 2007 as a subsidiary involved in the trading of computer 


components and networking equipment.
6
  The subsidiary was established in Hong Kong with an issued share capital 


of HKD 1.00.  The Company reported no material acquisitions in its 2007 Annual Report, and its cash flow 
statement that year shows no such activity, so it is safe to assume that the Company formed Key Fit Group Limited 


as a wholly owned subsidiary and it was not acquired from a third party.   





One thing is clear. This transaction is by definition non-recurring! The Company has already sold the equity in 


this subsidiary.  It cannot re-sell the same shares.  Whatever proceeds it receives from this transaction are by 


definition non-recurring and therefore should not be factored into China LNG’s valuation going forward.  





China LNG’s desperate attempt to characterize one-off transactions as recurring revenues and earnings only serves 


to highlight that its underlying business is simply tiny, insignificant and above all, undeserving of an HKD 16.7 


billion valuation.  





VALUATION 





China LNG’s Response is non-sensical, contradictory and logically deficient.  It was also accusatory, claiming that 


the purpose of our Report was “forcing the Share price down.”
7
  This is not so.   





We did not and cannot cause any investor to buy or sell shares of China LNG. We can only discuss our investment 


thesis and discuss the evidence upon which we base our conclusion. Investors must decide for themselves what they 


believe to be the true value of China LNG’s shares.  All of our analysis is based on the facts presented to the market 


by the Company in its filings, announcements, circulars and annual reports.  It is in the interests of both a transparent 


and efficient market for investors to discuss their good-faith beliefs about their investments – the fact that China 


LNG is so defensive about any examination of its business (or lack thereof) only highlights its own insecurity about 


the underlying value of its Company.   
 


In our opinion, China LNG is essentially a startup without any proprietary intellectual property, a meaningful 


operating business or a tangible competitive advantage in the industry. As such, we believe that it should be valued 


at 1.79x book value,
8
 which is the average of energy companies listed in Hong Kong and on other exchanges abroad.  


We continue to value the Company at HKD 0.08 per share, 95% below China LNG’s last traded price.   


                                                             
5
 China LNG Response, p. 8. 


6
 China LNG 2007 Annual Report, 49. 


7
 China LNG Response, p. 2. 


8
 Glaucus Report, p. 4.
6 





China LNG Group Limited │ HK: 931                                www.glaucusresearch.com 





DISCLAIMER 


 
We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is China LNG. So are the banks that raised money for the 
Company. If you are invested (either long or short) in China LNG, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we 
are wrong. We, like everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We 


believe that the publication of our opinions about the public companies we research is in the public interest. 
 
You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of China LNG stock declines. This 
report and all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements 
of fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we set out in our 
research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a manner that any 
person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report 
or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making any 


investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law. 
 
As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) 
(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 
investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands 
to realize significant gains in the event that the price of China LNG’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, 
LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision 
with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be 


construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind. 
 
Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, 
short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to 
buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be 
unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not 
insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality 


to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to 
ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to 
support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented “as is,” 
without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. 
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, 
LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high 
value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 
“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international 


organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO. 
 
Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 
completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 
subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or 
supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and 
independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive 


jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or 
applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in 
California; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 
use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 
barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer 
shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent 
jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as 
reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 


this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
