Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       1 


Cable Car Capital LLC 


1449 Washington Street #6 


San Francisco, California 94109 





October 24, 2014 


Mr. Glenn McGuirk 


Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 


7500 Security Boulevard 


Baltimore, Maryland 21244 





Re: Basis for and amount of payment for Code G0464 





Dear Mr. McGuirk: 





Cable Car Capital LLC (“Cable Car”) is a registered investment adviser based in San Francisco 


with a concentrated, hedged approach to value investing. Cable Car appreciates the opportunity to 


comment on the proposed payment for the G0464 (Colorectal cancer screening) code in the Preliminary 


Determination for the CY 2015 Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule published on October 9, 2014. As 


previously disclosed in its September 10 public comment
1
 supporting CMS coverage for Cologuard, 


Cable Car holds a short position on behalf of clients in the common stock of Exact Sciences. 





After careful review of the extensive cost-benefit literature on colorectal cancer (“CRC”) 


screening, Cable Car believes the preliminary payment amount for G0464 is too high. Based on 2014 


National Limitation Amounts, the proposed crosswalk to codes 81275, 81315, and 82274 would result in 


payment of $502.01 per screening test, 23x the payment for fecal immunochemical tests (“FIT”). At this 


level, stool-based DNA screening is dominated by all other screening modalities in terms of the cost of 


life-years gained. The payment amount proposed in the preliminary determination threatens to impose 


substantial additional costs on taxpayers. Cable Car strongly urges CMS to consider the available 


pharmacoeconomic evidence in its determination of an appropriate payment level for code G0464.  





Accordingly, Cable Car recommends CMS adopt gapfill pricing for code G0464. In recent years, 


CMS has consistently recommended that new molecular tests be gapfilled, including as part of the 


preliminary CY 2015 determinations at issue.
2
 Notwithstanding the introduction of a new G code for 


stool-based DNA screening, Cologuard is a new molecular test. Gapfill pricing would be consistent with 


past practice. If CMS determines to retain crosswalking as the basis for payment, the chosen crosswalk 


comparator assays should distinguish between tests intended for screening as opposed to diagnostics. In 


that event and as more fully set forth below, Cable Car recommends a crosswalk to code 82274 plus an 


appropriate Tier 2 methylation analysis code such as 81401. 


                                                      
1
 Ma-Weaver, J. September 10, 2014 public comment. Available at http://www1d.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-


database/staticpages/public-comment.aspx?commentID=28083&ReportType=nca 
2
 CLFS Preliminary Determinations for CY 2015 Codes. The rationale provided for gapfilling codes 81246, 81288, 


and 81313 given was: “As we have done with past molecular codes, we are recommending that this series of new 


Tier 1 molecular pathology codes be gapfilled for 2015. This will allow CMS and its contractors the opportunity to 


gather current information about the manner in which the tests are performed and the resources necessary to provide 


them, so that ultimately CMS can set an appropriate payment rate for these tests.” 



http://www1d.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/staticpages/public-comment.aspx?commentID=28083&ReportType=nca

http://www1d.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/staticpages/public-comment.aspx?commentID=28083&ReportType=nca
Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       2 


I. Stool-based DNA screening for CRC is not cost effective 





 The cost-effectiveness of stool-based DNA screening for CRC is well-studied. During the long 


development process for Cologuard, numerous studies have examined the potential costs and benefits of 


stool-based DNA tests in comparison to other recommended screening modalities such as colonoscopy 


and FIT. Academics worldwide have utilized diverse modeling approaches to examine both early and 


idealized versions of the test. Studies computed the discounted costs of life-years gained from screening 


in various healthcare systems, including the Medicare population in the United States. According to a 


2013 literature review, not a single study found fecal DNA screening to be cost-effective in comparison to 


existing alternatives.
3
 Authors generally found fecal DNA screening to be better than no screening at all, 


but even at prices significantly below the proposed reimbursement for code G0464, alternative modalities 


dominated fecal DNA screening.  





Notably, positive results on a DNA test or FIT lead to referral to colonoscopy, which remains the 


standard of care. This dynamic limits – or should limit – the potential payment for screening tests because 


of the high incremental cost of false positives. These effects may be particularly pronounced for 


Cologuard given the significantly lower specificity in the over-65 population reported by the sponsor.
4
  





Among the most thorough of the analyses in the literature review was a technology assessment
5
 


by the Cancer Intervention and Surveillance Modeling Network (“CISNET”) commissioned by CMS. 


Because it focused exclusively on the Medicare population, was created expressly for the purpose of 


informing decisions by CMS, and is both unbiased and comprehensive, the CISNET report is the best 


available resource for determining the true cost-effectiveness of stool-based DNA testing. CMS should 


make use of its insights in determining an appropriate level of reimbursement for code G0464. 





Although the underlying cost data used by CISNET may have changed since the study, the 


general trend has been towards higher costs for CRC treatment, increasing the value of all effective 


screening methodologies. In some cases, alternative screening costs have actually declined while the cost 


of colonoscopy has risen.
6
 While the CISNET analysis will hopefully be updated using the more recent 


inputs, the relative costs of different screening methodologies have not changed for the benefit of stool-


based DNA testing. For this reason, the report’s analysis of threshold costs at which stool-based DNA 


testing could be cost effective remains instructive. 








                                                      
3
 Skally M, Hanly P, Sharp L. Cost-Effectiveness of Fecal DNA Screening for CRC: A Systematic Review and 


Quality Appraisal of the Literature. Appl Health Econ Health Policy (2013) 11:181-192. 
4
 83.8% in the over-65 cohort versus 89.8% in the broader trial. As reported in CMS Decision Memo (CAG-


00440N). Available at http://www.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/details/nca-decision-


memo.aspx?NCAId=277&NcaName=Screening+for+Colorectal+Cancer+-+Stool+DNA+Testing 
5
 Zauber AG, Lansdorp-Vogelaar I, Wilschut J, Knudsen AB, van Ballegooijen M, Kuntz KM. Cost-Effectiveness of 


DNA Stool Testing to Screen for Colorectal Cancer. AHRQ Technology Assessment, December 2007. Available at 


http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Coverage/DeterminationProcess/downloads/id52TA.pdf. Later published in Annals 


of Internal Medicine as Lansdorp-Vogelaar I, et al. Stool DNA Testing to Screen for Colorectal Cancer in the 


Medicare Population: A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. Ann Intern Med. 2010; 153:368-377. 
6
 E.g. FIT (code 82774) reimbursement has declined from $22.22 at the time of the study to $21.70 in 2014.  



http://www.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/details/nca-decision-memo.aspx?NCAId=277&NcaName=Screening+for+Colorectal+Cancer+-+Stool+DNA+Testing

http://www.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/details/nca-decision-memo.aspx?NCAId=277&NcaName=Screening+for+Colorectal+Cancer+-+Stool+DNA+Testing

http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Coverage/DeterminationProcess/downloads/id52TA.pdf
Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       3 


The CISNET report examined a hypothetical version 2.0 of the DNA test, which actually 


assumed more favorable test characteristics from a cost perspective than Cologuard ultimately 


demonstrated. According to data from its sponsor, Cologuard achieved 92.6% sensitivity for CRC and 


44.6% sensitivity to advanced adenomas with 83.8% specificity in the Medicare-age population.
7
 The 


CISNET version 2.0 model assumed higher specificity (85%), which would result in fewer costly false 


positives, and higher sensitivity to advanced adenomas (55%), which would result in more cost-saving 


early interventions, only partially offset by slightly lower CRC sensitivity of 90%. Using these parameters, 


CISNET conducted a threshold analysis to determine the Medicare reimbursement rate under a range of 


assumptions. They computed threshold costs using two models and three approaches,
8
 which represent 


the cost at which the test would be the most cost-effective screening method (ICER), at least as good as 


one alternative (ACER), and the price at which it would be cost-neutral with no screening. While the 


CISNET report should be read in full, its threshold cost conclusions are summarized in Table 11, 


reproduced below. CISNET explicitly calculated the maximum CMS reimbursement rate, assuming a 3-


year screening interval, which would result in cost-effective screening. In order for stool-based DNA 


screening to be the best strategy (on the efficient frontier), reimbursement could be at most $80. 


Reimbursement above $191 would result in stool-based DNA screening being dominated by all other 


screening strategies. 








                                                      
7
 CMS Decision Memo (CAG-00440N) op cit. 


8
 Zauber, et al. op cit. explains: “While calculating ICERs for competing alternatives is the theoretically correct 


approach for optimizing the health of a population under constrained resources…we also determined threshold costs 


for the DNA stool test such that the test strategy has the same average cost-effectiveness ratio (ACER) as at least 


one other recommended CRC screening strategy. ACERs represent the incremental cost per life-year saved of each 


strategy relative to no screening. We calculated the per-test cost that would allow a DNA stool test strategy to have 


the same ACER as the non-DNA stool test strategy with the lowest and highest ACER values.”
Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       4 


The substantial body of evidence demonstrating lack of cost-effectiveness in stool-based DNA 


screening has already led some commercial payors not to cover stool-based DNA tests at all, e.g. Harvard 


Pilgrim in a decision reaffirmed in April 2014.
9
 CMS has already decided to cover stool-based DNA tests; 


it should now set a payment level for G0464 that would result in cost-effective screening.  





II. Pharmacoeconomic research should factor in the payment decision 





 On a May 1, 2014 conference call with financial analysts, Kevin Conroy, CEO of the test sponsor, 


suggested that the independent coverage and payment decisions could not both consider cost-


effectiveness data: 


“There are two groups within CMS. One is the coverage group, and the coverage group typically 


looks at cost-effectiveness as part of their coverage determination. We have provided very 


detailed, thorough cost-effectiveness data to CMS that they will use as part of the decision to 


cover Cologuard. That is very different than what is presented to the payment group. The 


payment group, as you know, it looks at new molecular tests. With the new approach that was 


first laid out in 2012 in collaboration with the AMA, there were codes issued for individual DNA 


markers, and payment levels have been ascribed to those markers through a robust process that 


included the AMA, CMS national and the regional MACs. That is a way to create a more 


standard approach to CMS paying for molecular tests. We are very pleased with that process and 


believe that we can get very good value out of it. That process does not include the cost-


effectiveness analysis that is provided to the coverage group. And that's an important distinction 


that has to be made when looking at this and sometimes people get confused about that.”
10





Conroy correctly observes that the NCD for Cologuard may have considered cost-effectiveness data.
11





Since there exists a price, i.e. $80, below which Cologuard would be the most cost-effective screening 


modality for CRC, the coverage decision is unsurprising. However, there is no basis for the payment 


group to ignore important cost-effectiveness information in determining an appropriate payment level. 





 There is nothing in Section 414 prohibiting the Secretary from considering pharmacoeconomic 


evidence in establishing payment for a new test. Indeed, if it is determined that there is no comparable 


existing test, as this letter suggests, the gapfill process allows CMS to consider “payment amounts 


determined by other payers” and “payment amounts…for other tests that may be comparable or otherwise 


relevant.”
12


 The CISNET analysis of other screening tests would be an important data point in any gapfill 


analysis. Even when crosswalking, CMS may determine that a new test is comparable to a single test or 


“a portion of an existing test code,”
13


 providing wide latitude in establishing payment levels. 


                                                      
9
 Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Medical Policy on Fecal DNA Testing for CRC. Available at 


https://www.harvardpilgrim.org/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PROVIDERS/MEDMGMT/STATEMENTS/FECAL_DNA_


TESTING_0414.PDF 
10


 Exact Sciences Q1 2014 earnings call. Response to a question from Brian Weinstein of William Blair & Co. 
11


 CMS Decision Memo (CAG-00440N) op cit. states, “As permitted by §1861(pp)(1)(D) of the Act, we may 


consider the appropriate frequency and payment level in determining whether to expand coverage for new CRC tests. 


CMS has commissioned such analyses in all past determinations (FIT, stool DNA, and computed tomography (CT) 


colonography) and will reanalyze using the test parameters of Cologuard.” 
12


 Section 414.508(b)(iii-iv). [71 FR 69786, Dec. 1, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 66401, Nov. 27, 2007] 
13


 Ibid. 



https://www.harvardpilgrim.org/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PROVIDERS/MEDMGMT/STATEMENTS/FECAL_DNA_TESTING_0414.PDF

https://www.harvardpilgrim.org/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PROVIDERS/MEDMGMT/STATEMENTS/FECAL_DNA_TESTING_0414.PDF
Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       5 


This letter cannot opine on any cost-benefit data provided by Exact Sciences to the coverage 


group, as that analysis has not yet been released to the public. However, any such analysis should also be 


included in the payment determination, with appropriate consideration of potential bias from its 


financially-interested sponsors. Such financial interests are significant. News of the unexpectedly high 


preliminary payment determination increased the market value of Exact Sciences by over $500 million on 


October 10.  





At a minimum, it is in the public interest for CMS to make use of its own commissioned research 


in order to avoid imposing unnecessary additional costs on taxpayers. Given the CISNET findings, any 


payment amount above the $80-191 range of potential cost-effectiveness should require a very 


compelling justification. 





 For the foregoing reasons, Cable Car believes a process which explicitly considers costs and 


benefits in the context of Medicare’s overall budget would be the optimal way to determine the basis for 


payment for code G0464. CMS should consider whether the gapfill process might best establish a 


payment level consistent with cost-effectiveness research. Alternatively, choosing more reasonably priced 


comparator assays could allow for a similar outcome through crosswalking. The remainder of this 


comment letter discusses potential shortcomings of the preliminary crosswalk determination and 


recommends alternative comparisons. 





III. Diagnostic tests are not directly comparable to screening tests despite similarities in function 





 The preliminary determination proposes to adopt a crosswalk to the sum of FIT and two 


expensive companion diagnostic tests, “based on similarities in function of these tests with the 


components of the new test.”
14


 Indisputably, Cologuard is not a single molecular test. Instead, it is 


composed of several component assays that generate a combined algorithmic result. As the test sponsor 


concedes, Cologuard includes two pre-existing component assays within its algorithm, FIT and KRAS, 


along with a proprietary DNA methylation analysis. Although the analogous function of FIT and KRAS 


as standalone tests and within Cologuard is self-evident, it is imperative to consider not only the function 


of these tests, but also their purpose. Crosswalking solely on the basis of functional similarities could give 


rise to many of the same potential abuses of code-stacking that CMS has sought to reduce since 2012. As 


a general principle, the performance of additional steps or assays should not necessarily result in a higher 


payment unless they contribute to the purpose of the test. In selecting a comparator assay, CMS should 


not consider only the “resources required to perform the test,” which is a gapfill criterion, but instead look 


to the test’s intended usage in a healthcare setting. By this criterion, both the KRAS code (81275) and the 


DNA methylation code (81315) are wholly inapposite. 





 In the case of code G0464, the purpose of the test is broad-based population health screening for 


CRC. This is a completely distinct purpose from KRAS testing. KRAS, in contrast to FIT and the 


proposed G0464 code, is indicated solely as a companion diagnostic to help determine treatment options 


for patients with pre-existing CRC or non-small-cell lung cancer diagnoses.
15


 Genetic tests such as KRAS 


are expressly prohibited from being reimbursed by Medicare for screening purposes, unless specifically 


                                                      
14


 CMS Preliminary Determinations, op cit. Rationale for code G0464. 
15


 Quest Diagnostics. http://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/testguide.action?dc=TS_KRAS 



http://www.questdiagnostics.com/testcenter/testguide.action?dc=TS_KRAS
Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       6 


authorized by statute.
16


 The NCD for stool-based DNA testing authorized reimbursement for a stool-


based DNA screening test, but it did not authorize the use of standalone KRAS testing as a screening 


methodology. Using KRAS as a crosswalk comparator implies otherwise, despite the fact that KRAS 


would not be reimbursed at all in a screening context. 





 Similarly, the proposed comparison to code 81315 is inappropriate for a test intended for 


screening, not diagnosis. Code 81315 is used for a confirmatory diagnostic test for acute promyelocytic 


leukemia (“APL”). APL affects only about 1000 patients annually and is one of the most treatable forms 


of leukemia.
17


 The rarity of the disease and the effectiveness of timely intervention are factors which 


would support a high reimbursement rate, yet have no bearing on stool-based DNA screening, even if the 


process of methylation analysis is similar. Just as it would be inappropriate to reimburse for APL 


screening in the general population using code 81315, it is not appropriate to include the full, substantial 


cost of this assay in the payment for an unrelated CRC screening test. 





 Moreover, Cologuard’s combination of multiple existing assays into a single, algorithmically 


determined test raises the question of whether it is in fact a Multianalyte Assay with Algorithmic 


Analyses (“MAAA”). Cable Car does not have a position on the ideal basis for payment for MAAA tests 


in general, but cautions that treatment of Cologuard should be consistent with past practice. An additional 


argument in favor of gapfill analysis is that, as with other MAAAs, it would be ideal to collect further 


data on cost-effectiveness and realized payment decisions by third party payors before establishing a 


payment level for a new MAAA code.  





One risk in basing a crosswalk analysis directly on the component assays in a multi-assay test is 


that it provides test developers with an undesirable incentive to add unnecessary procedures to a test. 


Logically, if Cologuard included an additional component assay that did not increase its efficacy, should 


that automatically result in higher reimbursement? It is not possible to determine the contribution of each 


component assay to the composite score from the binary test result, and there is no way to assess from the 


clinical trial data whether Cologuard would have performed equally well without any one of its 


component assays. Basic statistical reasoning supports the observed result that the combination of a 


proven diagnostic test (i.e. KRAS) with a proven screening test (i.e. FIT) should be at least as sensitive to 


CRC as the screening test alone. However, CMS does not currently reimburse for the combination of FIT 


and KRAS for screening because diagnostic tests are not reimbursed for screening purposes. If combining 


diagnostic tests with a screening test creates a new screening test, it is illogical to simply add up the costs 


of each component, which would not have qualified for separate reimbursement for the same purpose. 





 Only one of the three proposed crosswalk codes involves a test with a payment based on its 


intended screening purpose. It is no accident that the payment for FIT (code 82274) is much lower than 


the purely-diagnostic codes. FIT, like code G0464, is intended for a broad screening population. At high 


volumes, it would not be cost effective to reimburse FIT at a higher payment level.  





Because of its use in screening, code 82274 is an appropriate comparator for G0464. Payment for 


the methylation analysis (including both the proprietary DNA biomarkers and KRAS) component of 


                                                      
16


 Department of Health and Human Services. https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-07-11-00011.pdf 
17


 Medscape. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1495306-overview 



https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-07-11-00011.pdf

http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1495306-overview
Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       7 


Cologuard, on the other hand, should not be based on diagnostic tests. Even new diagnostic methylation 


analyses have historically been gapfilled, e.g. code 81287 which currently has a National Limitation 


Amount of zero. Instead, CMS should look to other screening tests where possible. Tier 2 codes may be 


appropriate for this purpose. For example, a competing CRC screening test in development is a blood-


based assay for Septin-9, a DNA biomarker that may be predictive of CRC. The FDA has not yet 


approved the Septin-9 test for use in CRC screening, and as a result the test is currently statutorily 


excluded from coverage. However, Palmetto currently pegs payment for code 81401 (SEPT9 methylation 


analysis) at $90.59 through the MolDX program.
18


 Codes tagged ‘methylation analysis’ in the MolDX 


program are currently paid amounts ranging from $73.22 (81331) to $112 (81401).
19








Cable Car respectfully submits that in the absence of gapfilling, the most appropriate crosswalk 


for code G0464 would be 82774 PLUS 81401 (SEPT9 methylation analysis).
20


 Based on the 2014 


National Limitation Amounts and Palmetto data, that would result in a payment of $112.29 for code 


G0464. At such a level, stool-based DNA screening would be among the most cost-effective screening 


strategies. Medical practitioners could safely encourage widespread adoption without burdening the 


healthcare system. 





 Thank you very much for your time and attention to this important public health discussion. 


Please do not hesitate to contact me if you should have any questions about this letter. 








Sincerely, 











Jacob Ma-Weaver, CFA 


                                                      
18


 “MoPath Claims Submission Guidelines”. Palmetto. Available at 


http://www.palmettogba.com/Palmetto/Providers.Nsf/files/MoPath_Claims_Submission_Guidelines.pdf/$File/MoPa


th_Claims_Submission_Guidelines.pdf 
19


 Ibid. 
20


 Prior to substituting the inapt 81315 code in its formal request, Exact Sciences investor materials indicated plans 


to request a crosswalk to 2 times code 81401. For the same cost-benefit reasons given previously, the presence of 


multiple biomarkers in the assay should not multiply the reimbursement amount. Additional biomarkers do not 


result in a one-for-one increase in test cost or a provably proportional increase in screening effectiveness. 



http://www.palmettogba.com/Palmetto/Providers.Nsf/files/MoPath_Claims_Submission_Guidelines.pdf/$File/MoPath_Claims_Submission_Guidelines.pdf

http://www.palmettogba.com/Palmetto/Providers.Nsf/files/MoPath_Claims_Submission_Guidelines.pdf/$File/MoPath_Claims_Submission_Guidelines.pdf
