Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       1 


Cable Car Capital LLC 


1449 Washington Street #6 


San Francisco, California 94109 





October 20, 2017 


Ms. Valerie Miller 


Director, Division of Ambulatory Services 


Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 


7500 Security Boulevard 


Baltimore, Maryland 21244 





Preliminary PAMA payment rate for 81528 





Dear Director Miller: 





 Two years ago today, I submitted the last in a series of comment letters discussing the proposed 


payment rate for a new colorectal cancer screening test, which was initially reimbursed under CPT code 


G0464 and later transitioned to 81528. The crosswalk methodology resulted in a payment amount that 


significantly exceeded the efficient frontier of cost-effectiveness, based on Medicare’s own analyses. 


Through the public meetings process, you determined that CMS lacked the statutory authority to consider 


factors such as test purpose and cost-effectiveness in determining payment rates for a new test. At the 


time, you also noted that the forthcoming PAMA process was intended to establish a market-based rate 


which would likely incorporate the cost-effectiveness concerns of payors. 





 Unfortunately, thanks to a loophole unintentionally created during the PAMA rulemaking process, 


it appears that this will not be the case for code 81528, along with any other tests that were still subject to 


negotiation with commercial payors during the initial data collection window. After comments from 


laboratory trade groups, the final PAMA rule incorporated revised data collection requirements that 


excluded tests that were completed, but not yet paid during the six-month collection window. The 


exclusion includes, but is not limited to, tests where the commercial payor’s payment determination was 


appealed, even if that appeal was ultimately unsuccessful. This provision in the rulemaking created an 


incentive for laboratories to appeal a large proportion of their test volume, knowing that even delaying 


payment for a few months could exclude an undesirably low payment from the PAMA data collection 


process. The incentive is particularly acute for sponsors of tests with unique procedure codes who operate 


their own labs, as they represent the sole reporting entity in the data collection process.  





Additionally, tests that recently transitioned from G codes may have had relevant data excluded 


from the collections process due to misclassification under the prior G code. Tests billed under the old 


code are easily associated with the new procedure code. In particular, miscategorized billings under code 


G0464 during the data collection window should be considered “applicable information” reportable for 


code 81528. To the extent they were not included in the data submission, additional information should 


be collected from the reporting laboratory.
Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       2 


 Importantly, it is not the case that a lab would necessarily have deliberately omitted information 


or appealed an unusually large number of tests in order to take advantage of PAMA. I am not suggesting 


any impropriety on the part of any company. The final adopting release for PAMA was in August 2016, 


after the data collection window. It is also entirely natural that a relatively new test would still be the 


subject of commercial negotiation between a laboratory and payors, which might result in delays in 


payment. Early in a test’s market acceptance, it is normal for the proportion of reimbursements subject to 


negotiation to be higher. However, the resolution of that negotiation process represents real commercial 


data and payment rates, the very market data PAMA was intended to capture. Ignoring this important 


information would tend to favor single-source laboratories at the expense of taxpayers. 





 Although the PAMA adopting release was clear in excluding appeals, there has not been any 


opportunity for the public to comment specifically on the exclusions, which were suggested by industry 


commenters and were not proposed in the draft rule. Indeed, until the first preliminary payment rates were 


proposed this year, it was not clear what impact the exclusions would have. I believe the data collection 


procedure for PAMA should be revised and the 2018 payment amounts recalculated including tests that 


were subsequently paid after resolution of appeals. The payment submission deadline fell nine months 


after the data collection window; there is no obvious practical reason to exclude delayed payments that 


were resolved during this timeframe. Laboratories should be required to include data on all tests 


completed during the collection window, for which payment was received prior to the submission 


deadline. 





 While I recognize that most public commentary since the preliminary rates were issued has 


focused on the negative impact to laboratories from reduced payment rates, it is also important to consider 


data collection limitations that may result in payment rates that are too high, circumventing the cost 


savings goals of PAMA. With total Medicare reimbursements of $61.2 million in 2016, code 81528 has 


the highest gross reimbursement of any single-source test. Under PAMA, its preliminary 2018-2020 


payment amount of $508.87 is nearly unchanged from the current NLA of $512.43.  





 This outcome is concerning in light of data that the test sponsor, Exact Sciences, reports in its 


public filings regarding average reimbursement levels. Exact reported in its 2016 10-K filing that for tests 


completed during the trailing twelve months ending June 30, 2016, its overall average reimbursement rate 


was approximately $405 per test. In its second quarter 2017 10-Q filing, Exact reported an average 


reimbursement of $423 for tests completed during the trailing twelve months ending December 31, 2016. 


From these two disclosures, it appears that the company’s average reimbursement during the data 


collection window was approximately $414, including Medicare volumes.  





For the full year 2016, Medicare (not including Medicare Advantage) represented 60% of Exact 


Sciences’ revenues. Medicare revenues were not explicitly disclosed for the first half of 2016 alone. 


However, assuming Medicare represented 60% of the company’s revenue in the first half of 2016, and 


that these tests were reimbursed at the NLA, approximately 48% of the 94,000 tests completed during the 


data collection window were paid by Medicare. This estimate is consistent with the company’s disclosure 


that Medicare covers 46% of patients in the screening population for the test. Mathematically, if 48% of 


tests were reimbursed at the NLA over $500, the remaining ~48,000 tests must have received an average 


reimbursement of about $321 per test in order for the overall average to be $414.
Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       3 


 CMS staff should consider the considerable discrepancy between the average non-Medicare 


reimbursement of $321 per test, which includes amounts under appeal, and the data which was reported to 


CMS and resulted in the weighted median and interquartile data released to the public. What proportion 


of the tests in the non-Medicare population were excluded from the data reported to CMS? It appears that 


the final PAMA rule inadvertently caused a great deal of commercially relevant data to be excluded for 


code 81528. Before finalizing the payment amount, you should ensure that the data you have is complete 


and correct, and that the collections process provides you with the necessary information to reflect the 


rates actually determined by commercial payors. 





Finally, please note that neither my firm nor any connected person have been compensated in any 


way for this letter. For more than two years, we have not held any investment, long or short, in Exact 


Sciences, the sole laboratory reporting under code 81528. I believe Exact Sciences deserves 


commendation for its significant investment in increasing compliance with colorectal cancer screening 


guidelines. However, for the reasons discussed in the 2015 comment process and further outlined in this 


letter, I believe that the proposed payment rate for code 81528 is too high. The company was provided 


with an opportunity to review this letter before submission. 





 Thank you once again for providing an opportunity to comment before rates are finalized. 





Sincerely, 








Jacob Ma-Weaver, CFA
