5/19/2018 EBIX: Not a Chinese Fraud, But a House of Cards Nonetheless - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/152143-ebix-not-a-chinese-fraud-but-a-house-of-cards-nonetheless 1/17


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


EBIX: Not a
Chinese Fraud,
But a House of
Cards Nonetheless
Mar. 22, 2011 10:43 AM ET31 comments | Includes: CRM, …


We have written a report on EBIX Inc. (NASDAQ:EBIX) that may be of interest
to shareholders, auditors, and most importantly - the IRS and SEC. 
 
The full report can be downloaded here: 
www.scribd.com/doc/51304576/EBIX-Not-a-C... 
 
Winston Churchill's famous quote, "a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an
enigma," might as well have been targeting Ebix Inc. (ticker EBIX). EBIX has
been an aggressive acquirer of a variety of companies over the years, many of
which focus on the insurance industry. The company's offering mix is a
confusing amalgamation of niche products that all have a "roll-up" stench.
Robin Raina, EBIX's CEO, has liberally described his business with the buzz
words du jour, such as "exchanges," "CRM," "The Cloud," and "SaaS." The
stock has performed well, fueled by retail investor interest, momentum
publications like Investors' Business Daily and minimal scrutiny from analysts.
We believe that EBIX is nothing more than a roll-up that has materially
misrepresented its business (relative to the CEO's buzz words) as well as its
organic growth. Its business model is predicated on two principals: tax
arbitrage and dramatic cost cuts (headcount reductions and offshoring),
neither of which is sustainable. Further, the company's tax arbitrage may be
more than "just" unsustainable, it may actually be illegal.  


EBIX's problems run deeper than unusual accounting. The EBIX story also
comes with multiple auditor resignations, governance abuses, misrepresented
organic growth, questionable cash flow and a contentious CEO. Below we
address these concerns in great detail. Given the gravity of these issues, we



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRM

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EBIX

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EBIX

http://www.scribd.com/doc/51304576/EBIX-Not-a-Chinese-Fraud-but-a-House-of-Cards-Nonetheless
5/19/2018 EBIX: Not a Chinese Fraud, But a House of Cards Nonetheless - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/152143-ebix-not-a-chinese-fraud-but-a-house-of-cards-nonetheless 2/17


have notified the IRS and the SEC of the material abuses at EBIX. We hope the
warranted scrutiny saves investors from significant losses as the true EBIX
story gets told. 


EBIX shares are worth no more than $9.00, a level that would represent a
65% decline from current prices. We arrive at our target by adjusting current
consensus estimates for a 35% tax rate (where it will likely go), and applying
a generous market multiple of 12x normalized earnings (consensus estimates
include assumptions that are unattainable and adjust for oddities such as
amortization, while failing to contemplate massive underinvestment in sales
and R&D). We estimate that the company has less than $0.75 of de novo
earnings power.





This report will detail:


1) The History of a Roll-up & Its "Slash & Burn" Strategy. The $970
million of "value creation" imbedded in EBIX's valuation is likely to collapse
given the myriad of issues the company currently faces.


2) EBIX's Atrocious Organic Growth and Manipulative Metrics. Investors
have a distorted view of the company's growth profile. We estimate organic
growth was negative in 2009 and was less than 4% in 2010. Management's
definition of organic growth is highly manipulative and demonstrates the
deceptive nature of the CEO.


3) Growth Crippled by Suspiciously Low Sales and R&D Expense. EBIX's
extremely low sales and marketing and product development expenses are not
consistent with a technology company. EBIX's company-wide sales and
marketing expense was $2 million less than the stand alone run-rate of a
recent acquisition. This acquired company that outspent EBIX was 1/20th of
EBIX's size. EBIX's margins are overstated and will be crippled by massive
reinvestment to avoid larger declines in organic growth. The only segment of
EBIX's business that has not benefited from a recent acquisition declined 27%
in the fourth quarter.


4) ADAM Assumptions are Incomprehensible and Will Drive
Disappointment in 2011. EBIX recently closed its largest acquisition to date.
EBIX must improve ADAM's margins by 2,500 basis points on day one, grow
5/19/2018 EBIX: Not a Chinese Fraud, But a House of Cards Nonetheless - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/152143-ebix-not-a-chinese-fraud-but-a-house-of-cards-nonetheless 3/17


faster than ADAM did in the previous 3 years, recognize no D&A expenses and
recognize a zero percent tax rate to generate the $0.15 of accretion that the
company has guided to. This overly aggressive guidance will result in negative
earnings revisions relative to analyst's elevated expectations.


5) Potentially Illegal Tax Strategy and Impact on Earnings and
Valuation. EBIX utilizes two strategies to reduce taxes to nearly zero. The
first strategy suggests a lack of oversight from auditors and earnings
manipulation. The second is more sinister and potentially illegal. Through a
series of superficial transactions that pose no business purpose other than to
avoid U.S. taxes; EBIX was able to turn each dollar of foreign revenue into
$1.40 of profits in 2010. This tax strategy is not sustainable in the near, or
intermediate, term. A higher tax rate in the future will dramatically change the
economics of EBIX's business, significantly impair its earnings expectations,
and could subject the company to significant fines, penalties and back taxes.


6) Free Cash Flow Myth. Many investors use free cash flow to justify EBIX's
valuation. We believe EBIX's free cash flow is a highly distorted metric given
limited cash R&D expense and its questionable tax strategy. In fact, if
investors simply adjust for a normalized tax rate, then EBIX trades at 37x free
cash flow.  Taken a step further and adjusting for R&D expense for acquired
technology costs (acquisitions in the cash flow from investing segment), then
EBIX trades at nearly 50x free cash. 


7) Significant Quality of Earnings Issues. EBIX appears to manage
earnings through accounting shenanigans, including accounts receivable and
its allowance for doubtful accounts. The very low level of acquisition price
allocated to non-indefinite intangibles is highly suspicious for a technology
company and points to a lack of auditor oversight and a desire to overstate
earnings through lower amortization. In 2010, EBIX generated almost $0.20 of
earnings that are unlikely to repeat in 2011, which could drive incremental
earnings disappointment.


8) History of Auditor Turnover, Shockingly Low Audit Fees and
Accounting Red Flags. Investors should view EBIX's stated financials with
extreme skepticism given the myriad of accounting and oversight issues. EBIX
has had four different auditors over the past seven years. Management's
explanation for the high auditor turnover does not reconcile with the
5/19/2018 EBIX: Not a Chinese Fraud, But a House of Cards Nonetheless - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/152143-ebix-not-a-chinese-fraud-but-a-house-of-cards-nonetheless 4/17


