Page 1 of 9	
  


Muddy Waters, LLC 
www.muddywatersresearch.com 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 





 
 
December 19, 2013 
 
Ms. Ying Han, director 
Mr. Tiewei Li, director 
Mr. Xiuming Tao, director 
Mr. Jun Zhang, director 
NQ Mobile, Inc. 
Building 4, 11 Heping Li East Street 
Dongcheng District, Beijing 100013 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Dear Ms. Han, Mr. Li, Mr. Tao, and Mr. Zhang: 
 
Part I: Our Offer to NQ’s Independent Committee 
 
Muddy Waters, LLC hereby offers to engage, at our own expense, an independent and 
qualified accounting firm to evaluate the independent committee’s investigation into 
whether NQ Mobile is a fraud. 
 
It is necessary and reasonable for the independent committee to have a qualified party 
evaluate the credibility of the investigation.  While NQ has pledged to be highly 
transparent, the independent committee’s retention of a law firm to oversee the 
investigation cloaks the entire investigation in attorney-client privilege.  The law is clear 
that directors who are not complicit in a fraud (i.e., they have themselves been defrauded 
by a company’s management) are not subject to liability.  Thus, there is no good faith 
reason to have this investigation shrouded by attorney-client privilege.   
 
The history of independent committee investigations into allegations of fraud against 
China issuers is a shameful one, and has cost investors billions of dollars in losses.  After 
many previous investigations concluded short-sellers’ claims of fraud were baseless, 
investors who took comfort in those conclusions went on to suffer near total losses when 
the stock and bond prices subsequently collapsed.   
 
We cite eight examples in Part II of this letter of independent committees’ apparent 
dysfunction and resulting flawed investigations of fraud allegations made against China 
companies.  Each of these independent committee reports exonerated the companies of 
wrongdoing, but were followed by substantial investor losses, and often regulatory 
action.  Those companies are: Sino-Forest, China Agritech, ChinaCast Education, China
Page 2 of 9	
  


Integrated Energy, China Medical Technologies, Duoyuan Global Water, Sino Clean 
Energy, and Silvercorp. 
 
Independent director committees are unable to investigate fraud allegations impartially.  
Even if the directors played no part in the fraud, confirming that a company is a fraud can 
be viewed as a professional embarrassment.  Further, independent directors often have 
longstanding personal relationships with management that taint their judgment.  In other 
cases – particularly when the directors are in China and have little connection to the 
United States – the directors could be co-conspirators in the fraud.   
 
One way that such investigations are often flawed is through limiting the scopes of work 
given to the outside investigating firms (in this case Deloitte FAS).  This work is often 
unduly limited by the independent committee, which only allows the investigator access 
to evidence that management can control through its efforts to cover up.  One such 
limitation an independent committee could place on an advisor is to limit its review to 
confirming the existence of cash balances.  China frauds have repeatedly been able to 
show cash balances to independent committees’ advisors – often by borrowing the funds.  
Without an independent party to evaluate the investigation, investors will never know 
whether the scope of work was appropriately broad enough to carry out a good faith 
investigation, and thus run significant risk of being blindsided by a collapse later on.     
 
Muddy Waters, LLC hereby offers to engage, at our own expense, Plante & Moran 
PLLC, which is one of the largest accounting and consulting firms in the United States, to 
evaluate the investigation.  Plante & Moran has substantial experience investigating 
allegations of fraud made against U.S.-listed China companies, and has an office in 
China.  Plante & Moran has also undertaken a substantial number of assignments to assist 
in the defense of auditors and board members of China companies accused fraud, and 
thus cannot be accused of being merely a “plaintiff’s firm”.  We summarize Plante & 
Moran and the engagement partner, Martin Terpstra’s, qualifications in Part III. 
 
Our offer is for Plante & Moran to do the following, with unimpeded and full access to 
information: 
 


• Write a report that evaluates whether the investigation adequately addresses the 
assertions in Muddy Waters’s reports. 


• As part of the evaluation process, Plante & Moran may evaluate the following 
items: 


o Whether the special committee, Deloitte FAS, and Shearman & Sterling 
have the sufficient level of independence and objectivity required to 
perform a legitimate investigation of our assertions and any other 
discrepancies that arise during their investigation 


o Whether the scope of work of the special committee and its advisors is 
relevant and broad enough to address our assertions and the concerns of 
other critics and potential investor plaintiffs,  


o Whether the roles and responsibilities assigned to each of the committee’s 
advisors is appropriate,
Page 3 of 9	
  


o Whether those planning and executing the advisors’ work, and those 
advisors, are competent and knowledgeable enough to carry out an 
investigation according to best practice corporate governance standards 
and generally accepted consulting standards for such work. 


• Receive all interim and final reports issued by Deloitte FAS, Shearman & 
Sterling, the independent committee, and all other advisors.  


• Receive all working papers of Deloitte FAS and any other advisors. 
• Receive, at Plante & Moran’s request, any primary sources of information (such 


as documents, interview transcripts, data and records, and locations) the 
committee and its advisors review, in order to ensure their relevance, accuracy, 
and assess whether the information could be manipulated or forged. 


• Speak directly and privately with the committee’s advisors to discuss their work, 
and with the advisors having instructions to discuss their work and findings with 
Plante & Moran without restriction. 


 
Muddy Waters intends to publish Plante & Moran’s evaluation report so that NQ’s 
investors will have transparency into the investigation.  (For the avoidance of doubt, 
“advisor” includes “sub-advisor” and any party directly or indirectly advising the 
committee on the investigation.)  This offer expires at 12:00 am EST on January 7th, 
2014.  Please accept it by emailing me before expiration at: 
carson.block@muddywatersresearch.com.    
 
If you would like us to provide an official Chinese translation of this offer to a committee 
member, please advise me by email.   
 
Should the independent committee accept our offer, investors will greatly benefit by 
having reasonable transparency into a process that is critical to protecting their interests.  
The committee’s findings will be given significant credence when evaluated favorably by 
Plante & Moran. 
 
We look forward to your reply. 
 
Part II: The Troubling History of China Companies’ Independent Committees 
 
Muddy Waters has first-hand experience with polluted independent committee processes.  
Sino-Forest spent approximately $50 million on its independent committee investigation, 
and ultimately concluded that “[Sino-Forest] can categorically say Sino-Forest is not the 
‘near total fraud’ and ‘Ponzi scheme’ as alleged by Muddy Waters…Far from being a 
‘near total fraud’ and ‘Ponzi scheme’ as alleged by Muddy Waters, Sino-Forest is a real 
company, with real assets and real revenue."  Unfortunately, investors who bought Sino-
Forest bonds following the committee report saw their prospects for recovery plunge 
when the company declared bankruptcy four months later, and the Ontario Securities 
Commission then charged Sino-Forest and six of its former executives with fraud.
Page 4 of 9	
  


There are numerous other examples of independent committee dysfunction – especially 
with China issuers – including the following instances: 


China Agritech, Inc.   


• On December 11, 2011, the independent committee’s investigation rejected fraud 
allegations from a short seller and to address concerns raised by the company’s 
former auditor, which it had dismissed.  The company’s press release announcing 
the results of the IC investigation read “With specific regard to the [short-seller] 
Report, the Committee concluded that the allegations were either factually 
incorrect or that there were reasonable explanations as to their non-materiality.”  
The independent committee determined that the company had terminated the 
former auditor due to independence issues, and not due to concerns it had raised. 


• Investors have lost approximately 95% of their equity investment since the 
announcement. 





 
ChinaCast Education Corp. 


• In November 2011, a short seller publicly accused the company of falsifying its 
financial statements.  On December 19, 2011, the company that its audit 
committee had engaged FTI Consulting, Inc. to conduct an independent review of 
the company’s cash balances.  The company stated “FTI independently obtained 
and reviewed documents which state that as of June 30, 2011, ChinaCast had 
cash, cash equivalents and term deposits totaling US$132.1 million (RMB 
845,674,247) held with 29 PRC financial institutions. This total represents 98.5% 
of the total cash, cash equivalents and term deposit balances reported in the 
Company's form 10-Q for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011. The remaining 
1.5% discrepancy is attributable to the termination of the Company's University 
of Petroleum e-learning joint venture.”  The company also reported “Daniel 
Tseung, Chairman of the Audit Committee, stated, "We believe the findings 
contained in the FTI report should provide some comfort to shareholders as to the 
integrity of the Company's financial reporting and should serve to distinguish the 
Company from other Chinese companies that have received adverse publicity 
after failing to provide adequate verifications with respect to their financial 
statements."
Page 5 of 9	
  


• Investors have lost 99.5% of their equity investment since the announcement. 





 
China Integrated Energy Inc. 


• On May 24, 2012, the company announced that its independent committee 
investigation into allegations of fraud made by short sellers found that the 
allegations were baseless.  The company wrote “Although the specific findings 
and conclusions of the Committee, as advised by its legal and forensic accounting 
professionals, remain privileged, the Company announced that the Committee has 
informed it that the Committee is satisfied that the vast majority of the short 
sellers' claims were baseless.”  Shearman & Sterling, which is the legal advisor to 
NQ’s independent committee, also advised China Integrated Energy’s 
independent committee.   


• Investors have lost over 80% since short-sellers first alleged fraud into the 
company.  Investors have lost “only” 8% since the announcement because the 
stock was already trading below reported net cash at that time. 





 
China Medical Technologies, Inc. 


• On July 30, 2009, the company announced that the independent committee 
formed to investigate fraud allegations in a letter sent to the company’s audit 
committee had concluded “The independent law firm and forensic accountants 
have substantially completed their investigative work and have reported to the 
audit committee that the investigation has not identified evidence to support the 
allegations made in the anonymous letter.”
Page 6 of 9	
  


• Nasdaq de-listed the company’s shares in March 2012, and pursuant to court 
order, the company has been in liquidation in since June 2012.  The stock is likely 
worth zero at this point, having fallen from over $20 per share on the date of the 
announcement. 





 
Duoyuan Global Water, Inc. 


• In response to an April 2011 Muddy Waters report concluding the company was a 
fraud, in June 2011 the independent committee confirmed that the cash in the 
company’s bank accounts matched the prior two periods’ reported numbers.   


• The stock had been halted at the time of the announcement at a price of $3.88.  
Investors have lost almost 95% since then. 





 
Sino Clean Energy, Inc. 


• In response to an April 2011 short seller report, the company’s audit committee 
engaged an outside advisor to investigate the allegations.  On March 1, 2012, the 
company announced that the independent advisor had successfully reconciled the 
company’s SEC financial statements to its PRC filings, had concluded the 
company’s asset values are not overstated, and had verified that the reported cash 
balances were accurate.
Page 7 of 9	
  


• Nasdaq notified the company on August 7, 2012 that it was de-listing its shares.  
Investors have lost close to 93% of their equity investment since the 
announcement. 





 
Silvercorp, Inc. 


• Silvercorp is home listed in Canada, with a dual listing on the NYSE.  In 
September 2011, short sellers raised doubts about the accuracy of its financial 
reporting.  The company formed a special committee, which engaged KPMG 
Forensic, Inc. to investigate the allegations.  On October 24, 2011, the company 
announced that KPMG confirmed the reported cash balances, and found no 
support for the revenue overstatement allegations. 


• On September 8, 2012, Canada’s largest newspaper, the Globe and Mail, ran an 
investigative report strongly suggesting that Silvercorp had taken retribution 
against one of the short sellers by bribing Chinese police to arrest one of the 
firm’s analysts.  The analyst, a Canadian citizen named Dino (Kun) Huang, 
remains in prison in China.  If the bribery allegations were true, the company’s 
conduct would have broken Chinese and international laws. 


• While no regulatory body has de-listed or taken legal action against the company 
for fraud, bribery, or potentially related charges, investors in the stock have lost 
over 75% of their equity investment since the announcement.
Page 8 of 9	
  


Part III: Plante & Moran’s Credentials 
 
Founded in 1924, Plante & Moran is among the nation’s largest certified public 
accounting and business advisory firms, providing clients with tax, audit, risk 
management, financial, technology, consulting, and wealth management services.  Plante 
& Moran has a staff of more than 2,000 professionals in 22 offices throughout Illinois, 
Michigan, and Ohio, with international offices in Shanghai, China; Monterrey, Mexico; 
and Mumbai, India.  The firm has over 2,000 staff members including 268 partners and 
entity members and more than 500 CPAs.  
 
Plante & Moran’s International Team is staffed with more than 100 international 
specialists with expertise in audit, accounting, tax, engineering, and global business.  
Team members have helped hundreds of companies develop, assess and implement their 
global strategies. 
 
Plante & Moran opened its office in Shanghai more than 15 years ago and has 
accountants and management consultants who are experienced in helping western 
companies make deals in China. They understand the culture and the complexities of 
doing business in a country with a unique business etiquette, intense competition and 
corruption.   
 
FORENSIC AND VALUATION SERVICES 
 
Plante & Moran’s Forensic and Valuation Services (FVS) team members possess 
accounting, auditing, economic, financial, investigative, and litigation experience to help 
uncover fraud and accurately measure and quantify the amount of economic loss.  The 
FVS team looks beyond the numbers and deals with the business reality of transactions.  
They analyze the available financial, market, and economic data and effectively 
communicate their findings and conclusions in simple, clear, and concise language to fact 
finders, be they judges, juries, or arbitrators.  The FVS team has extensive experience 
testifying in depositions, state and federal courts, and at arbitration hearings.  
 
Members of Plante & Moran’s FVS team have the following certifications and licenses: 
Certified Public Accountant (CPA); Juris Doctor (JD); Certified Internal Auditor (CIA); 
Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE); Certified in Financial Forensics (CFF); Certified 
Management Accountant (CMA); Accredited Senior Appraiser (ASA); and Accredited in 
Business Valuation (ABV).  They have been retained in connection with thousands of 
disputes involving multinational corporations, regional corporations, closely held 
companies, partnerships, and individuals participating in a broad range of industries.  
 
Examples of their work include: 
  
• Investigations of accounting malpractice and bankruptcy claims.  Plante & Moran 


was appointed accountant to the Examiner of Enron Corporation.
Page 9 of 9	
  


• Securities industry damages calculations and evaluations related to fraud, corporate 
raiding, class action shareholder suits, account churning, investment 
misrepresentation, and complex derivatives trading, among others.  


 
MARTIN W. TERPSTRA, CPA, CFF, CFE (THE ENGAGEMENT PARTNER) 
 
A partner in Plante & Moran’s forensic and valuation services practice, Marty has 
directed hundreds of forensic investigations and provided expert testimony in numerous 
trials, arbitrations, and mediations.  He helps achieve successful resolution of disputes 
and claims by: 
 
• Consulting and providing expert witness services on professional liability claims, 


which involve the application and interpretation of accounting principles and auditing 
standards.  


• Directing special investigations for boards of directors of publicly traded companies, 
including representation before the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  


• Performing economic damages calculations and rebutting opposing experts in 
complex insurance claims, including wrongful termination and business interruption 
claims.  


• Investigating failures of financial institutions, including performing loan portfolio 
analysis and evaluating the roles of professional service providers, and directors and 
officers.  


• Investigating failures of insurance companies, including those involving offshore 
fraud and money-laundering schemes.  


• Investigating embezzlements from family offices and trusts.  
• Drawing on his extensive accounting experience and an astute attention to detail to 


uncover and analyze vital evidence needed to paint a clear picture of costs and 
damages in complex, high profile cases. 


 
As an adjunct faculty member at Benedictine University, Marty teaches graduate courses 
in forensic accounting and fraud investigation.  He also has developed and presented 
programs on risk management, fraud detection and prevention, and professional liability 
matters.  Marty earned a B.S. in Accounting (magna cum laude) and a Master of 
Accountancy (with distinction) from DePaul University. 
 
Part IV: Conclusion 
 
It is in investors’ best interests for the independent committee to accept our offer.  
Accepting our offer will accord with NQ’s repeated promises to provide a high degree of 
transparency, and will provide credibility that will otherwise be lacking due to the sorry 
track record of independent committee investigative failures in China.  We look forward 
to engaging Plante & Moran to work with you and your advisors. 
 
Sincerely, 
Carson C. Block 
Muddy Waters, LLC
