5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 1/19


Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI
Whistleblower
Aug. 3, 2016 9:25 AM ET25 comments
by: The Friendly Bear


Summary


Publicly available court filings from February-April 2016 show that BOFI took specific
legal steps to conceal details regarding a second "whistleblower" from the public
court system.


According to filings, BOFI anticipated that the individual, a former Assistant Vice
President with significant experience, was going to use BOFI information to "assist in
government investigations".


This revelation shatters BOFI's prior intimations that its whistleblower activity was
confined to only one "rogue" and "junior" employee.


BOFI actively petitioned the court to move the case into private arbitration because it
was concerned that if the case went public it would cause "irreparable harm" to
BOFI.


The undisclosed second whistleblower casts significant doubt on both the Audit
Committee and Dentons investigations, neither of which ever addressed this second
whistleblower.


During last night's BofI Holding (NASDAQ:BOFI) earnings call, we were highly entertained
by the discussion surrounding "investigations" and what the definition of an "investigation"
is. In fact, when we asked Bloomberg to provide us with a transcript of the call, we got this
odd video response:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BOFI
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 2/19


Source: YouTube


We will let Brad Berning handle the philosophical question of what the definition of an
"investigation" is. In the meantime, on to far more salient news...


...And then there were two...


We found a case in a San Diego court called BofI Federal Bank v. Golub, that shows
that BOFI has been aware for quite some time of the existence of yet another
"alleged whistleblower" and yet the company has not made any disclosure
regarding this matter to investors. Needless to say, we think this finding is a BIG
deal and is arguably the most "material" development related to the company since
the first whistleblower case from October 2015. How can any reasonable investor
not think that the existence of a second "alleged whistleblower" is not a
significantly material revelation. We fondly remember Bob Ramsey speaking
bullishly about BOFI stock months ago after he wrote that "no second
whistleblower" had emerged. Hmm... will Bob be issuing a revision to his note in
response to this article?



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4XT-l-_3y0

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/2/38059736-1470176235233289_origin.jpg
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 3/19


Will there be more whistleblowers? Are there already more? Is this the reason that
the CEO provided a "Presidential-caliber" evasive response on the topic of
"investigations"?


Author note: In this article, we use the term "second whistleblower" or "whistleblower" to
refer to the employee in question in the Golub matter. Based on our review of BOFI court
filings, the employee in question alleged that she was wrongfully terminated due to
whistleblowing activities. It is important to note that from the filings, BOFI appears to
dispute the former employee's whistleblower status (just as it disputes Erhart's
whistleblower status). Nonetheless, BOFI's own court filings indicate that the woman filed
a whistleblower claim with OSHA in October 2015, so we therefore believe it is
appropriate to refer to the employee as a "whistleblower" both due to her OSHA complaint
and for overall writing simplicity. Investors deserve to know that a second former employee
has been involved in whistleblower activity, and absent this article, we doubt BOFI would
have ever included this piece of litigation in its disclosures given it does not even include
the Erhart matter in its legal disclosures.


We were wondering if the Golub matter would be disclosed on last night's call, but it was
not. The existence of what appears to be a second whistleblower has implications from a
government investigation perspective, internal controls perspective, and litigation
perspective. Given that the stock fell ~30%+ on the revelation of the first
whistleblower, we find it hard to see how management deemed information
regarding an incremental whistleblower as immaterial from a disclosure
perspective. This fact pattern calls into question the CEO's claims from last night that its
ongoing dialogue with government agencies is not worthy of 8-K disclosure.


If the company felt comfortable enough to omit disclosure regarding a second
alleged whistleblower, one has to wonder how the company defines its "materiality
threshold" to disclose government "investigations".


Before getting into the guts of it, we think it is important to get this disclaimer out of the
way right now. All of our research ever conducted on this stock has relied on only publicly
available information.


The court document that we dug up in this article that serves as the basis for the entire
article was filed by an individual named Polly Towill. Her name shows up on the top left of
almost every piece of litigation that was filed in the past several years, suggesting that she
is one of the company's chief external litigators.
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 4/19


Therefore, if BOFI management takes issue with the information provided in this article,
we suggest they raise their concerns directly with their own lawyer because she is the one
who filed these motions...


Given last night's discussion around whether an "investigation" is something that is
material enough to warrant 8-K disclosure, we think this article also provides interesting
insight into the types of things that BOFI management views as "material enough" to
disclose (or in this case, NOT disclose) to investors...


How we came across the second whistleblower in court filings:


It took us reading through volumes of litigation relating to BOFI to actually dig up the
lawsuit referenced later in this piece. To give you a sense for the amount of litigation we
read through, our review spanned dozens of foreclosure filings all the way to a lawsuit
from a former employee about an ergonomic complaint. Most of the litigation was
immaterial from a securities perspective. For example, in Rowe vs. BOFI Federal Bank,
the plaintiff sued the bank for wrongful termination after claiming she was dismissed
because she complained about the lack of ergonomic support in the workplace. It
obviously does not take a securities lawyer to see that this type of litigation is clearly not
material to investors.


However, as usual, our dumpster dive on BOFI eventually resulted in what we view as yet
another glaring example of the most egregious disclosure practices that we have
ever seen from a public company.


The Friendly Bear feels almost foolish for having missed this key piece of litigation in past
searches. The litigation in question was classified as an "arbitration dispute" making it
seem fairly innocuous and uninteresting on face value. However, the most innocuous
pieces of litigation often lead to the most interesting revelations (Hello Philidor!). BOFI's
CEO presumably already loosely alluded to this litigation in very cryptic terms back in a
January earnings call in which he talked about the potential for new lawsuits, but the
Friendly Bear mistakenly assumed that the CEO's reference was related to the Houston
securities fraud lawsuit. Oops. Our mistake, because the real lawsuit being referenced is
far, far more damning!


Before continuing, we suggest that readers recreate our work and go get a copy of the
docket relating to the case of "BOFI Federal Bank v. Golub" that was filed in a San Diego
County court back in February 2016. The docket number is 37-2016-00004902. This
website will allow you to download a copy yourself. The docket includes a number of



http://www.sdcourt.ca.gov/portal/page?_pageid=55,1&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 5/19


documents filed by BOFI that demonstrate how BOFI was actively trying to move a former
employee's lawsuit out of the court system and into the arbitration system (BOFI ultimately
succeeded in April 2016).


Despite the volumes of litigation BOFI has filed in the past few months, never ONCE
has BOFI mentioned the former employee from the aforementioned case in any of
its federal pleadings (to our knowledge). The securities fraud lawsuit also did not
mention this individual. Unsurprisingly, the individual has also never been named in any of
BOFI's public filings or conference calls.


So we FELL OUT OF OUR CHAIRS when we got into the details of the Golub docket,
particularly in the motion titled "BofI Federal Bank's Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support of Motion for Preliminary Injunction". The motion makes it quite
clear that both BOFI AND its lawyers at Shepard Mullin have been aware for quite
some time that there was another employee at the bank who claims to have been
whistleblowing.


A brief description of the employee in question is found in the declaration below:


Source: Declaration of Traci Holley, 37-2016-00004902


In its motion, BOFI itself said that it anticipated that the individual in question may
have taken information from the bank with the intention of using it to "assist in a
government investigation":



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId6.png
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 6/19


Source: BofI Federal Bank's Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion
for Preliminary Injunction; 37-2016-00004902


In other words, BOFI itself alleges that this individual - someone who appears to
have a strong background in the banking industry (See Exhibit A) - took the rather
extreme step of "wrongfully" taking information from BOFI with the intention of
"assisting with a government investigation". This was despite the individual likely
being well aware of the retribution faced by Erhart on a very public and now infamous
conference call from October 14, 2015. It is highly unusual for a working professional to
lose her mind on a whim and decide to walk out of a company with confidential
information. Why in the world would someone with solid career experience take bold
risks when faced with such a troubling fact pattern?


BOFI furthermore draws parallels between the second whistleblowerand Erhart in its own
motion, noting that the employee in question is represented by the same lawyer as Erhart
and was also "allegedly engaging in whistleblowing":



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId7.png
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 7/19


Source: BofI Federal Bank's Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion
for Preliminary Injunction; 37-2016-00004902


It is obviously no surprise that BOFI would be concerned about the potential for a second
former employee's whistleblower allegations to be aired publicly, so we do not find it odd
or nefarious that the company moved to force the case into private arbitration. Its Petition
to Compel Arbitration (that was successful) is a fairly routine tactic employed by
companies dealing with litigation from former employees.


However, in our view, any reasonable investor in BOFI stock would have likely
viewed the arbitration case involving a second whistleblower as highly material to
their decision of whether or not to invest in the stock. How could this piece of
information NOT be considered material to investors given how the stock reacted to
the prior lawsuit? This is a question of "total mix" of information and it seems clear
to us that this information does in fact alter the mix.


What is most unbelievable about this situation is that BOFI appears to have been aware of
the employee's "whistleblowing activities" as early as October 21, 2015 (although
potentially even earlier given that the case claims she was terminated in May 2015).



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId8.png
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 8/19


Source: BofI Federal Bank's Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion
for Preliminary Injunction; 37-2016-00004902


Despite this fact, on October 29th 2015 (8 days after the second whistleblower OSHA
complaint was filed), the company's CEO did not even mention anything about this
individual on the earnings call, exclusively focusing attention on two other former
employees and attributing all legal issues to a single "disgruntled" employee:


Source: October 29 , 2015 Call


There is only one instance in which the company's CEO even loosely alluded to the
potential for more wrongful termination litigation. This was during a January 2016 earnings
call (and in hindsight, we incorrectly attributed his commentary to a Houston securities
fraud lawsuit filed in April 2016, rather than to this action that was opened in the San
Diego court system in February 2016):


th



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId9.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId10.png
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 9/19


Source: January 28 , 2016 BOFI call


Given that all we have done is review one single public court filing related to this matter,
we have no idea where this case has gone or what the underlying allegations were. The
docket suggests that the case was ultimately sent to private arbitration in April 2016, and
the only thing we know about arbitration is that it is a technique that companies often use
in order to "maintain a low profile regarding the existence of a dispute":


Source: JAMSADR


BOFI's legal action to move the case into arbitration was first filed by BOFI on February
16, 2016.


We therefore find it very suspect that BOFI was able to convince DA Davidson, FBR,
and KBW to underwrite a bond offering on February 25, 2016, only days after it
moved the court to shift its dispute with the second whistleblower into private (i.e.
secret) arbitration.


If you purchased bonds in that offering, we suggest that you reach out to the
underwriters and ask about what they knew regarding this purported second
whistleblower. Were these underwriters knowledgeable about what was happening


th



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId11.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId12.png
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 10/19


in the San Diego court? Would this bond offering have been possible if potential
investors were aware of the second whistleblower's existence?


Source: Bloomberg


We also find it particularly notable that Dentons, a law firm hired by BOFI to conduct an
"independent" investigation into whistleblower claims - and a law firm that the CEO
claimed on a recent earnings call "cleared management of any wrongdoing" - does
not appear (based on BOFI public disclosures) to have even investigated anything relating
to this second whistleblower despite concluding its investigation in March 2016.


By March 2016, assuming the Audit Committee was functioning in an appropriate
manner, Dentons undoubtedly should have been informed of this second
whistleblower and looked into it:


Source: BOFI 8-K dated March 14, 2016


So to summarize, here is what we can gather from this single public court filing:


There is clear evidence that BOFI was aware of a second employee alleging that she
was involved in whistleblowing activities (BOFI would dispute her whistleblower status,



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId13.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/8/38059736_14701678763515_rId14.png
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 11/19


but nonetheless, it is clear that this employee was engaged in some sort of
whistleblower activities with at least OSHA).
The employee in question appears to have filed some sort of wrongful termination
complaint against the bank in relation to her alleged whistleblowing activities (unclear
where this complaint ultimately went, but we suspect it moved directly to secret
arbitration at some point in April 2016 based on our review of the docket)
Based on the court filings, the employee in question claims that she was wrongfully
terminated around May 2015 as a result of her "alleged" whistleblowing activities
In our view, the employee has strong credentials (pretty hard to argue about JPMorgan
being a real banking institution), yet in spite of this, the employee took the risky and
drastic step of taking BOFI information with her after leaving the company, which BOFI
anticipated she did in order to "assist in government investigations"
The second whistleblower worked in single family mortgage audit (BOFI's questionable
and wide-spread single family mortgages have been referenced in the past in the New
York Times as well as in various blog posts, including a December 2014 Seeking
Alpha blog post that first provided detail on BOFI's lending practices)
We think this entire fact pattern calls into question all of the public claims BOFI has
made about the company facing whistleblower allegations from only one "junior" and
"rogue" former auditor
BOFI has never disclosed this second whistleblower to the market, other than the CEO
making a cryptic comment about the potential for more wrongful termination lawsuits
(there is a BIG difference between the vague potential for new wrongful termination
lawsuits - such as the one filed by Ms. Rowe relating to ergonomics - and BOFI's
concern in the Golub docket that a former employee had wrongfully taken
information with the purpose of assisting in a government investigation)
While actively petitioning the court to move its second whistleblower litigation into
secret arbitration, BOFI sold bonds to the public with FBR, DA Davidson, and KBW all
complicit in selling bonds that - in our view - contained highly misleading disclosures
given the lack of mention of this second whistleblower
Dentons (a law firm tied to BOFI) ran a supposedly "independent investigation" into
Erhart's claims, but the validity of that entire investigation is now called into question
given that there was no mention of Dentons looking into allegations coming from a
second whistleblower in the BOFI 8-K filed in March 2016
The Dentons review has been touted as a key piece of BOFI's defense in the Houston
securities fraud matter, calling into question BOFI's defense claims in the Houston
matter as well as with potential government inquiries that appear to be ongoing based
on the CEO's commentary last night
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 12/19


The market is now going to naturally wonder if there are any other secret
whistleblowers that BOFI is hiding from the public?
Closing thought: Following the Diamond Resorts (NYSE:DRII) fiasco, will BDO find this
fact pattern material enough to force the company to disclose these allegations in the
upcoming 10-K?


We leave readers with this somber parting thought. BOFI is not just any run of the mill
company.


It is not in the business of selling couture clothes to wealthy New York socialites.
This is a regulated bank. A company that is entrusted with people's hard earned life
savings. While the company is no doubt tired of its public critics, this article serves a
fundamental purpose as it is not only a topic of interest for shareholders, but also for the
general public and for tax payers who fund institutions such as the FDIC.


We close this note by bringing back the painful memories of Madoff. We all need to
remember that if more people had listened to Harry Markopolos when he first raised red
flags, a $50B fraud could have been prevented and life savings could have been saved.


Source: Hornsby Law


Exhibit A: Selected Excerpts of Career History for Purported Second Whistleblower
(LinkedIn Grab)



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DRII

http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=124208012

http://www.hornsbylaw.com/atlanta-whistleblower-lawyers-lg
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 13/19


Source: Linkedin


Disclosure: I am/we are short BOFI.


I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have no business relationship with
any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: I am/we are short BOFI. All information for this article was derived
from publicly available information. Investors are encouraged to conduct their own due
diligence into these factors. Additional disclosure: This article represents the opinion of the
author as of the date of this article. The information set forth in this article does not
constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any security. This article contains certain
"forward-looking statements," which may be identified by the use of such words as
5/23/2018 Court Filings Reveal Existence Of Undisclosed Second Alleged BofI Whistleblower - BofI Holding, Inc. (NASDAQ:BOFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3995038-court-filings-reveal-existence-undisclosed-second-alleged-bofi-whistleblower 14/19


