5/19/2018 Bronte Capital: Longtop makes an announcement


http://brontecapital.blogspot.com/2011/05/longtop-makes-announcement.html 1/5


The sometimes eccentric views of John Hempton


Bronte Capital


Monday, May 23, 2011


Posted by John Hempton at 11:46 PM  


Longtop makes an announcement
Longtop Financial Technologies - the subject of several posts on this blog - has made a statement. 
 
Here is the release: 


HONG KONG, May 23, 2011 /PRNewswire-Asia/ -- Longtop Financial Technologies
Limited ("Longtop" or the "Company") (NYSE:LFT - News) announced today that the
Company's registered independent accounting firm, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd.
("DTT"), has resigned as auditor of the Company by letter dated May 22, 2011.  The
Company also announced that Derek Palaschuk, the Company's Chief Financial Officer,
tendered his resignation by letter, dated May 19, 2011, and the Board has taken his
resignation under advisement.   


In its letter, DTT stated that it was resigning as the result of, among other things (1) the
recently identified falsity of the Company's financial records in relation to cash at bank
and loan balances (and possibly in sales revenue); (2) the deliberate interference by
certain members of Longtop management in DTT's audit process; and (3) the unlawful
detention of DTT's audit files.  DTT further stated that DTT was no longer able to rely on
management's representations in relation to prior period financial reports, that
continued reliance should no longer be placed on DTT's audit reports on the previous
financial statements, and DTT declined to be associated with any of the Company's
financial communications in 2010 and 2011. 


Longtop's Audit Committee has retained US legal counsel and authorized the retention
of forensic accountants to conduct an independent investigation into the matters raised
by DTT's resignation letter.  The Audit Committee has also initiated a search for a new
auditor.  Further, Longtop was advised by the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC") that the SEC was conducting an inquiry regarding related matters.
 Longtop intends to cooperate fully with the SEC's inquiry. 


Longtop is unable to determine the full effect of these matters, including whether any
restatement of its historical financial statements will be required, until the Audit
Committee completes its review.  Longtop cannot predict when it will announce its
financial results for Q4 2011, or when it will file its Form 20F for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 2011.


 
Enough said.


