5/21/2018 Neoprobe: Did the Pivotal Studies Meet Their Primary Endpoints? - Navidea Biopharmaceuticals (NYSEMKT:NAVB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/276434-neoprobe-did-the-pivotal-studies-meet-their-primary-endpoints 1/26


Neoprobe: Did the Pivotal Studies Meet Their Primary Endpoints?
Jun. 23, 2011 11:21 PM ET93 comments
by: Martin Shkreli


One of the most difficult aspects of investing is the continuous pledge to double-check
assumptions, scrutinize management’s capital deployment plans and second-guess
yourself by examining risk-reward on a dynamic basis.


I’ve been watching Neoprobe (NEOP) for a few years and have never had more than a
tiny position for a few days at a time. When I saw several consecutive bullish analyst
reports and scheduled New York roadshows, I reasoned the company was preparing for a
capital raise. I read the initiations and enjoyed the lofty estimates and high assumed
probability of achieving those estimates.


One thing I didn’t immediately notice was scrutiny of phase III results. Some Phase III data
are cut and dry. Some Phase III data seem cut and dry and are not. I am going to spend
some time showing you why I think both Lymphoseek Phase III trials failed to meet their
primary endpoint. This means what you might think it means – Neoprobe will not receive
FDA approval for Lymphoseek because of what I’m going to outline. This probably
wouldn’t have been brought to light until FDA decision time without my discoveries.


I’ve read every public statement ever made by Neoprobe. Again and again and again.
SEC filings, news releases, presentations, database searches, everything. I started pulling
on this thread when I saw the 1/2010 presentation (viewable at my fund’s website –
msmbcapital.com) and the 12/2010 presentation had different patient sample sizes for
the Phase III NEO03-05 study. Think about that for a second. Clinical trials should have
one sample size. The number of patients enrolled in a study is generally not subject to
change. This time will be different.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NEOP
5/21/2018 Neoprobe: Did the Pivotal Studies Meet Their Primary Endpoints? - Navidea Biopharmaceuticals (NYSEMKT:NAVB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/276434-neoprobe-did-the-pivotal-studies-meet-their-primary-endpoints 2/26


In the January 12th, 2010 OneMedPlace presentation, the company notes that n=179
patients were “enrolled for safety” and 158 patients were “evaluated for efficacy”. This is
not the way a clinical trial works. You can’t separate which patients you feel are viable for
safety or efficacy. Everyone has to be in both. This is the ITT (intent-to-treat) principle.
There are deviations from this standard, and we’ll go through them in a minute. But this is
how the process began. The presentation, on page 14, continues to explain that the ITT
population consisted of n=158 and the per-protocol population consisted of n=156. Again,
this flies against the face of my experience and basic clinical science – the ITT population
is always composed of all patients enrolled in the trial. The high p-value of 0.04 for the ITT
group also stuck out at me. That is awfully close to the “limit” of p=0.05. I always get
nervous when a company has a pivotal trial near p=0.05!


With this in mind, in the December 2010 at Neoprobe’s Analyst Day, page 21 indicates,
again, that n=179 patients were “enrolled for safety” (a phrase that makes my head hurt)
and n=136 were “evaluated for efficacy”. Until now, I hadn’t really noted any red flags. But
the clearly changed n=158 to n=136 from presentation to presentation would make even a
colorblind analyst fret.


It was at this point I decided to do a full statistic review of both pivotal trials. The way I see
it, NEO03-05 had three pools of patients: n=179 “ITT” (this is my definition, Neoprobe’s is
“enrolled for safety”), n=158 “modified ITT” (this is my definition, Neoprobe’s is “ITT”) and
n=136 “per-protocol” (this is my definition, Neoprobe’s is sometimes “ITT” and sometimes
not). Defining ITT is important. It usually has one definition: all patients assigned to a
treatment group. In other words, patients who have been screened, are eligible, gave
consent and have been processed as enrolled in the study should be in the ITT group.
This is relatively “holy” in clinical science. Anything past this point is unusual and the FDA
doesn’t appreciate strange ITT definitions (witness the recent Biomimetics debacle). Some
companies try to throw out patients that get lost to follow-up. This is the most common
type of removed patient from ITT to mITT (or if the company insists on referring to it as
ITT). Similar types of patients include patients enrolled but never randomized, patients
who never got any treatment, etc.


So who were the missing ITT to mITT patients in the Lymphoseek studies? The company
explained very carefully on a March 12th, 2010 conference call (the transcript of this call is
not publicly available) that “The ITT population was prospectively designed as patients
who consented to participate in the clinical study, who were injected with Lymphoseek,
and who provided at least one lymph node that contained the vital blue dyes”. The
5/21/2018 Neoprobe: Did the Pivotal Studies Meet Their Primary Endpoints? - Navidea Biopharmaceuticals (NYSEMKT:NAVB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/276434-neoprobe-did-the-pivotal-studies-meet-their-primary-endpoints 3/26


company has confirmed that all n=21 “missing” patients were those that did not provide a
blue dye node. Should these patients have been included in the ITT analysis? Let’s put
that in the back of our heads while we go to another related topic.


Since I can remember, I've been doing my own statistics with company clinical trials, when
possible. There’s no point in trusting a company to calculate a p-value when you can do it
yourself. In the Analyst Day presentation referred to earlier, Neoprobe explains the
statistical method with which they calculated the primary endpoint. It’s all well and good to
say “the primary endpoint is concordance”, but what was the null hypothesis, the statistical
formula used, etc. That information was made available by Neoprobe – the null hypothesis
was that concordance was 90%, or 0.9. Rejecting the null hypothesis would require the
entire one-sided tail to be greater than (to the right of) 0.9. The Exact Binomial Test, also
called the Clopper-Pearson test was used. Calculating the primary endpoint using the
Clopper-Pearson method computes a lower bound of 0.901. That’s right, Neoprobe’s
lower bound had to be greater than 0.900 and it came in at 0.901. What good luck they
must have! One non-concordant node would have resulted in NEO03-05 failing to meet its
primary endpoint.


So let’s go back to the n=21 patients that were excluded from this study. N=158/179 (for a
difference of n=21) results in blue dye node identification rate of 88%. The literature
suggests a blue dye node identification rate of 95% to 100% (Chintamani et al. 2011.
100%, Shirah et al. 2011. 99.1%, Narui et al. 2010. 99%, Krikanova et al. 2010. 95%,
Mathelin et al. 2009. 99%). Why were Neoprobe’s studies so far below the normal blue
dye node identification rate?


It’s obvious to me that this open label protocol biased the concordance data and the
patients who did not provide a blue dye node should be in the ITT group. This calculation
would result both pivotal trials to fail (get a Clopper-Pearson calculator and check for
yourself!). It’s very rare to not find a blue dye node. My guess is the clinicians were trying
for the best data (don’t forget a few centers with long-time ties to Neoprobe enrolled many
patients), and patients who weren’t clearly concordant were thrown out. When you can
clearly see which patients are concordant, and which patients are not, you can throw out
the bad ones and keep the good ones. That’s what happened here. It’s the only
explanation which satisfies the below-average blue dye identification rate, the curiously
high concordance rate (isn’t a non-blue patient who has positive Lymphoseek nodes non-
concordant?), the strange p-values, the lack of disclosure on these patient groups and the
lack of a peer-reviewed publication. Not even the ASCO posters have this data (shame on
ASCO).
5/21/2018 Neoprobe: Did the Pivotal Studies Meet Their Primary Endpoints? - Navidea Biopharmaceuticals (NYSEMKT:NAVB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/276434-neoprobe-did-the-pivotal-studies-meet-their-primary-endpoints 4/26


