www.presciencepoint.com 3 


YONGYE INTERNATIONAL, INC. (YONG) 
December, 2011 


In this report, we present a number of reasons why investors in Yongye International, Inc. (“YONG” or the 


“Company”) should be especially cautious. We believe that YONG’s business activities are riddled with undisclosed 


related party transactions and that its revenue and profit may be overstated in its filings with the SEC. Further, we 


urge the NASDAQ and the SEC to look into Yongye’s largest sources of revenue in an effort to protect public 


shareholders and defend the integrity of US financial markets.  Our evidence includes: 





 In connection with YONG’s registration of the recent Morgan Stanley investment with the Securities and 


Exchange Commission, the SEC forced YONG to disclose the names of its primary customers.  An 


independent source indicates that Yongye is vastly overstating sales to one of its main distributors. Two 


of the disclosed key customers appear to be related parties, casting doubt over YONG’s reported 


revenue and providing a potential mechanism by which to mislead KPMG, its auditor since 2009.  For 


this reason we urge NASDAQ and SEC interjection. We would also note that these three highly dubious 


customers made up $67 million – or one third of all -- of Yongye’s revenue for fiscal year 2010. 


 On May 31, YONG announce that Morgan Stanley would be investing $50mm into the Company via the 
purchase of convertible preferred stock. The deal is marvelously structured as a win-win for Morgan 
Stanley. Should YONG violate any number of covenants, Morgan Stanley reserves the right to simply walk 
away with its capital and earn an IRR of 30%. The structure magnifies losses attributable to common 
shareholders in the downside scenario, which we view as most likely.  There are several key catalysts 
that give MS the right to withdraw its investment at a 30% IRR, one of which is if YONG engages in ANY 
transaction with related parties (see first bullet).  


 Prior reports pertaining to YONG by other analysts --  including the ones here, here, here, here and here -
-  have done an excellent job documenting potential related party transactions, unusual accounting, the 
potential siphoning of corporate assets via sham acquisitions, and the destruction of shareholder value 
through excessive dilution.  Management’s rebuttals can be found here, here and here.  


 
We estimate fundamental value for YONG is $0.53/share (assuming possibility of any recovery). 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimer: This research report expresses Prescience Point LLC’s opinions. Use of the research produced by Prescience Point LLC is at your own risk. This is a short-


biased report and you should assume the author of this report and its clients and/or investors hold a short position and derivatives tied to the security of Yongye 


International, Inc. that will benefit from a decline in the price of the common stock. Following publication of the report, the author (including members, partners, 


affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with its clients and/or investors intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and may be long, 


short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of the initial recommendation.  The author of this report has obtained all information contained herein from sources 


believed to be accurate and reliable and has included references where available and practical. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of 


any kind– whether express or implied. The author of this report makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any 


such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Forward looking statement and projections are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and 


involve many risks (known and unknown) that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. All expressions of opinion are subject to change 


without notice, and the author does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. Prescience Point LLC is not a 


broker/dealer or financial advisor and nothing contained herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any investment or security mentioned in 


this report. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein, including, but not 


limited to, the suitability of any transaction to your risk tolerance and investment objectives and consult your own tax, financial and legal experts as warranted. READ 


THE IMPORTANT LEGAL DISCLAIMER ON THE NEXT PAGE. 



http://absaroka.com/uploads/YONG.ResearchReport.051811-vFINAL.pdf

http://presciencefunds.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/YONG_OLP-report.pdf

http://seekingalpha.com/article/251103-yongye-international-why-this-stock-s-story-is-too-good-to-be-true

http://seekingalpha.com/article/259656-yongye-s-recent-filings-raise-various-red-flags

http://seekingalpha.com/article/269262-yongye-international-s-reported-production-sec-filings-raise-red-flags

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yongye-international-responds-to-misconceptions-in-recent-article-115477964.html

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yongye-international-responds-to-post-on-seeking-alpha-website-118577589.html

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yongye-international-responds-to-allegations-in-purported-analyst-reports-122267053.html
www.presciencepoint.com 4 





Legal Disclaimer: 


This research report expresses our opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are set out in this 


research report.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or 


estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or 


gain.  Any information contained in this report may include forward-looking statements, expectations, and projections. 


You should assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect.  Use of 


Prescience Point LLC’s research is at your own risk.  You should do your own research and due diligence before 


making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.   





You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point LLC (possibly along 


with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 


investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, 


including without limitation Yongye International, Inc., and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the 


event that the price of stock declines.  Following publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue 


transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter 


regardless of our initial recommendation.  





This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to 


any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  


Prescience Point LLC is not registered as an investment advisor.  





To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained 


from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock 


covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other 


person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Prescience Point LLC.  However, such 


information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  Prescience Point LLC 


makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information 


or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  





All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Prescience Point LLC does not undertake to 


update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein.
www.presciencepoint.com 5 


As a cautious research firm we go to great lengths and commit substantial resources to verifying the claims 


companies make in their filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  To date, 


two of four of the companies we have exposed as engaging in fraudulent behavior have been halted from trading 


(ABAT and APWR).  In addition, the SEC is pursuing a detailed investigation into APWR to determine whether it or 


any of its personnel violated the federal securities laws.  


Consistent in nature with those and other troubled Chinese RTOs we’ve assessed in the past, a thorough analysis 


of YONG’s accounts and filings reveals numerous red flags, including: 


 Declining earnings quality 


 Exaggerated claims of product efficacy 


 A lack of required disclosure and transparency in spite of well-established US financial market regulations 


 Egregious transfers of wealth to undisclosed recipients in the name of strategic acquisitions 





Prior reports pertaining to YONG by other analysts --  including the ones here, here, here, here and here --  have 


done an excellent job documenting potential related party transactions, unusual accounting, the potential 


siphoning of corporate assets via sham acquisitions, and the destruction of shareholder value through excessive 


dilution.  Management’s rebuttals can be found here, here and here.  


In this report, we’ll shed light on current events and new information recently made public that casts doubt over 


YONG’s reported revenue and provides a potential mechanism by which to mislead its auditor KPMG. 


 
Valuation 


 
Based on a careful assessment of the evidence, we believe Yongye International has historically served as a conduit 


for transferring wealth from outside investors into the pockets of Company affiliates.  Since we believe the 


Company has no valuable technology or intellectual property and because we are doubtful of its supplier and 


customer relationships, we are forced to value the Company based on its liquidation value. 


In addition, because we believe the Company to be transacting with related parties, we cannot rely on the values 


of assets and liabilities in its financial reports and assume that, with the exception of PP&E, they offset one 


another. Our valuation handicaps the value of YONG’s PP&E to $17 million, 80% of its Q3 balance sheet value. 


Adding the value of adjusted PP&E to the $80.5 million YONG reports on its books, less $71.5 million in claims 


ranking senior to the common equity, divided by the number of share outstanding results in a residual value of 


$0.53/share.   


We estimate fundamental value for YONG is $0.53/share (assuming the possibility of any recovery). 





Overview 


For many investors, Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia’s (“Morgan Stanley”) late-May decision to make a $50 


million investment in Chinese fertilizer producer Yongye International (YONG) was seen as an all-clear signal. But 


while Morgan Stanley’s investment served as a seeming affirmation of the Company, the investment did not sweep 


away the allegations made in previous reports that Yongye was engaging in questionable business practices and 


that some of its financial statements didn’t seem to make sense. The SEC had some concerns of its own, sending 


some sharply worded questions to Yongye regarding its recent filings. 



http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/a-power-receives-sec-subpoena-128005333.html

http://absaroka.com/uploads/YONG.ResearchReport.051811-vFINAL.pdf

http://presciencefunds.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/YONG_OLP-report.pdf

http://seekingalpha.com/article/251103-yongye-international-why-this-stock-s-story-is-too-good-to-be-true

http://seekingalpha.com/article/259656-yongye-s-recent-filings-raise-various-red-flags

http://seekingalpha.com/article/269262-yongye-international-s-reported-production-sec-filings-raise-red-flags

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yongye-international-responds-to-misconceptions-in-recent-article-115477964.html

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yongye-international-responds-to-post-on-seeking-alpha-website-118577589.html

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yongye-international-responds-to-allegations-in-purported-analyst-reports-122267053.html

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411033066/v224507_ex99-1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411033066/v224507_ex99-1.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 6 


After taking a further look at the SEC’s information request and Yongye’s replies, our due diligence has uncovered 


several deeply troubling concerns about the Company’s reported operations, including: 


 An independent source shows that Yongye is vastly overstating sales to one of its main distributors 


 One of Yongye’s “independent distributors” appears to be a related party run by a Yongye employee 


 Another of Yongye’s “independent distributors” appears to in fact be nothing other than Yongye’s own 


corporate-owned and operated Hebei Marketing Center 





The SEC Forces YONG’s Hand:  What Was The Company Hiding? 





Yongye sells its products through a distribution model comprised of provincial distributors who purchase its 


products and sell them through a chain of local distributors whose terminal sales point is either a retail store or a 


large farm. 


 
 
 
Yongye has historically not disclosed the names of its largest provincial-level distributors (i.e. its largest customers), 


instead labeling them as simply “Customer A”, “Customer B” and so on in the Company’s SEC filings.  Per the 2010 


10-k: 


 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000000000011041193/filename1.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411041508/filename1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411014483/v214367_10k.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411014483/v214367_10k.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 7 








The practice appears to be a clear violation of SEC regulation S-K, Item 101, which requires public companies to 


disclose significant customers that make up >10% of a Company’s sales.  Yongye was duly criticized for this 


practice.  





In response to criticism, Yongye management issued the following in response:   





Employing one of the favorite tactics of the short sellers, or those who conspire with them, the Author 


notes that we do not name our distributors and then suggests that the fact that we seem to be hiding 


something evidences our bad faith and "might" indicate that there is "a chance" that our distributors are 


related parties. Our decision not to publicize those names is for competitive reasons, and there is nothing 


wrong with it. We provide those names to our auditors to be used for their audit procedures on the 


financial statements. Once again, the facts, not the Author's clever innuendo, are important. 





The SEC seemed to disagree with management’s response and forced Yongye’s hand, stating the following in its 


information request: “Please describe to us in detail the nature of your relationship with each of your five major 


distributors. Tell us how each relationship does not meet the related party criteria outlined in ASC 850-10-20. 


Include in your description information about each distributor, including whether they have physical facilities or 


employees. Also tell us what portion of their business you comprise.” 





Yongye responded with a table listing the names, locations, and percentage of Yongye’s products sold as compared 


with the distributor’s total sales. Yongye further warrantied that nothing else was amiss. Among other things, 


Yongye made the following claims:  





 “The distributors are not our affiliates,”  


 “We have no equity interests in our distributors nor have we provided any short or long term loans or 


advances to the distributors. In addition, none of our employees (including our management and their 


immediate family members) holds any equity interests in our distributors,”  


 “None of our employees and their immediate family members are owners of our distributors or related to 


the distributors’ principal owner nor were involved in the initial establishment of the distributors,”  



http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&sid=20c66c74f60c4bb8392bcf9ad6fccea3&rgn=div5&view=text&node=17:2.0.1.1.11&idno=17#17:2.0.1.1.11.2.31.1

http://seekingalpha.com/article/259656-yongye-s-recent-filings-raise-various-red-flags

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yongye-international-responds-to-post-on-seeking-alpha-website-118577589.html
www.presciencepoint.com 8 


 “We do not control and cannot significantly influence the management or operating policies of our 


distributors.” 





Our research finds Yongye’s statements to be extremely unlikely to be accurate. In fact, we have found major 


concerns with at least three of Yongye’s five purported main customers (not including the questions raised by 


other analysts regarding the necessity of the Hebei provincial distributor acquisition – the fourth of Yongye’s five 


main customers).  We would like to also note that these three highly dubious customers made up $67 million – 


or one third – of all of Yongye’s purported revenue for Fiscal Year 2010. 














Shenzhen Jiuzhoufangyuan Appears To Be A Related Party To Yongye 


Shenzhen Jiuzhoufangyuan ( 深圳九州方圆科技发展有限公司 or 深圳市九州方圆科技发展有限公司 ) is 


supposedly an independent distributor of Yongye’s products. However, our research finds that Shenzhen 


Jiuzhoufangyuan is operated by the same man, Mr. Dan Shen Hua (沈丹华) who also operates Yongye’s Group 


Marketing Center. This article from a Chinese newspaper lists Mr. Dan Shen Hua as the general manager of 


Yongye’s South China Marketing Center.  However, this description of Shenzhen Jiuzhousfangyuan – Yongye’s 


supposed independent supplier – shows that the distributor’s contact person is Mr. Dan Shen Hua, the same as of 


Yongye’s Group Marketing Center.  


Furthermore, we would note that the primary business of Shenzhen Jiuzhousfangyuan is in distributing mobile 


technology products such as MP3 players, cameras, and electronic dictionaries. Please note that this is the exact 


same business – distributing PDAs and MP3 players – that Yongye engaged in during 2003 before abruptly shifting 


to fertilizer sales several years later. We believe it is highly likely that Mr. Dan Shen Hua’s Shenzhen 


Jiuzhousfangyuan is a related party to Yongye. In fact, it seems probable that Mr. Dan Shen Hua has worked for 


Yongye for quite a few years, thus casting the Company’s entire response to the SEC into doubt. We don’t see how 


either of the following statements made by Yongye can be true if a long-term Yongye employee runs one of 


Yongye’s largest distributors:  


 “None of our employees and their immediate family members are owners of our distributors or related to 


the distributors’ principal owner nor were involved in the initial establishment of the distributors,”  


 “We do not control and cannot significantly influence the management or operating policies of our 


distributors”  


Shijiazhuang Jichuang – A Supposed Customer – Appears To Be Yongye’s Marketing Center 


Yongye claims that Shijiazhuang Jichuang (石家庄冀创方大商贸有限公司简介) is a key customer of the Company. 


But our research finds that Shijazhuang Jichuang is likely a part of Yongye rather than an independent customer of 



http://nf.nfdaily.cn/epaper/nfnc/content/20091022/Articel10003FM.htm

http://web.archive.org/web/20030623222021/http:/www.china-yongye.com/wqx.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 9 


the Company. For example, we’d note this job advertisement for Shijiazhuang Jichuang. While the job 


advertisement is ostensibly for Shijazhuang Jichuang – a supposed entity independent of Yongye – when one reads 


the advertisement, it becomes clear that this is an advertisement to work for Yongye itself.  


The advertised job is a finance position to work in helping Yongye with tax issues, accounting, finance, and other 


related issues. In the job listing, we see that the Company size is listed as 100-499, which seems highly unlikely for 


a small distributor, and we see that the Company lists itself as part of Yongye and proudly touts the success of 


Yongye and its ability to get a listing on the Nasdaq stock exchange. Once again, it is hard to believe any claim that 


Shijiazhuang Jichuang is an independent party when a job  


listing for Shijiazhuang Jichuang appears to be trying to fill a position in Yongye’s Hebei Marketing Center. And of 


course, if Yongye listed its own marketing center as an independent distributor, this would raise great alarm 


regarding the trustworthiness of Yongye’s SEC filings and the reliability of its revenue claims. 


Bameng Jingshirong: Does This Distributor Even Exist At All? 


Unlike the previous two listed distributors, where we were able to find the Chinese names of the distributors, we 


had no such luck with Bameng Jingshirong. In Yongye’s SEC letter, the Company chose not to disclose the Chinese 


names of its entities. Internet searches turn up no sign of this distributor in any way. 





However, we have found fairly compelling evidence that Bameng Jingshirong cannot exist – at least not in anything 


close to the size that Yongye reports it to be. Bameng Jingshirong, which is purportedly Yongye’s distributor in 


Yongye’s home province of Inner Mongolia, was supposed to have provided $19 million in revenue to Yongye in 


2010.  


However, an authoritative list from this year of the largest 100 enterprises in the Inner Mongolia province found 


no traces of Bameng Jingshirong whatsoever. Yongye Nongfeng Biotechnology, the Chinese subsidiary of Yongye 


International – placed on the list at #34 with revenues of 1.45 billion RMB ($227 million). However, Bameng 


Jingshirong is not in the top 100. This is inexplicable if Yongye’s SEC response letter is accurate. 


In Yongye’s letter, the Company claims that Bameng Jingshirong represented $19 million of revenue and that less 


than 20% of Bameng Jingshirong’s sales were of Yongye’s products. This means that, at minimum, Bameng 


Jingshirong had to have sold at least $95 million of products in 2010. This would mean the Company should have 


reported at least 600 million Yuan of revenue in 2010, which would have easily qualified it for the list of 100 largest 


Inner Mongolian based enterprises. At the very minimum, the Company should have placed at #52 (where a 


business with 600 million Yuan of revenue would fall) on the top 100 largest companies. Instead, presumably 


Bameng Jingshirong was not large enough to even make the list, which would have required only 123 million Yuan 


($19 million) of revenue. Yongye appears to be overstating the size of Bameng Jingshirong by at least 4/5ths. And 


as we stated previously, we could find no proof that Bameng Jingshirong exists in any form whatsoever. 





Morgan Stanley’s Marvelously-Structured Show Of Confidence 


On May 31, Yongye announced that Morgan Stanley would be investing $50 million into the Company via a Series 


A Convertible Preferred security.  Because Yongye had been covered by a shroud of uncertainty, investment in the 


Company from a premier financial institution like Morgan Stanley felt to equity investors like clean bill of health. 



http://www.jobyun.com/j_110005435800

http://www.nmgfic.com/Overall_front/Newshdt_view.aspx?id=4634

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411033066/v224507_ex99-1.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 10 


A Bloomberg article followed that painted the picture of Yongye as a battleground stock in the China RTO space, 


the main characters being Morgan Stanley on the one side and the short selling ‘hedge funds’ on the other.   


In reality, they aren’t on opposite sides at all. An examination of the deal structure (see the Securities Purchase 


Agreement and the Certificate of Designation) indicates that Morgan Stanley was very concerned about the 


potential downside scenario – the “Fraud Scenario”. As a matter of fact we believe that given the possible 


outcomes, Morgan Stanley’s presence is a net negative for common shareholders and has the potential to 


accelerate the collapse in stock price when the YONG story begins to unfold. The terms of the MS deal are 


structured such that MS can force early redemption (and be compensated with a 30% IRR) in the occurrence of any 


of the following events (not to mention many more) if not cured within 90 days: 


 The Company is suspended or delisted by the NASDAQ 


 Any required financial report is not filed on a timely basis, including the 10-k, audited by a Big 4 auditor 
with required audit opinions 


 The Company engages in ANY related party transaction (in accordance with the above section, if our 
assessment is accurate, YONG is in violation of this covenant (Covenant 8.15)) 


 The Company does not obtain, without any additional material consideration, the exploration rights (探


矿权) and the mining rights (采矿权) to and the environmental evaluation approval of the lignite coal 


mine located at Wuchuan county (武川县上秃亥乡枳笈滩风化煤矿) on or prior to December 31, 2011  


(Covenant 8.28; Post-Closing Covenant, Section 6). 
 


Related to the final bullet, Yongye announced on September 6, 2011 that it had obtained an “approval for mineral 


resource exploration” of the lignite coal mine.  Our understanding is that if the Company does not receive the 


“mining rights” and the “environmental evaluation approval”  by December 31, 2011 it will be in violation of this 


critical covenant as well, another trigger giving Morgan Stanley the right to force early redemption and collect 


penalty interest on its investment in the form of a 30% compounding annual rate of interest return. 


These aren’t the only ways that Morgan Stanley wins, of course.  Should Yongye survive and continue posting a 
parabolic rate of earnings growth (which we consider highly unlikely due to the laws of physics), Morgan Stanley 
will receive a payoff several years down the line in common equity at what is likely to be multiples of the current 
price. If Yongye’s growth slows, falling below 20% in any six rolling quarters, MS has the right to force early 
redemption and achieve a 20% IRR.   
 
The point is that MS has structured what on the surface appears a win-win, a deal likely made possible by 


management desperation during a period in which the stock price was plummeting… a win for Morgan Stanley; a 


loss for common shareholders. We’d like to remind Morgan Stanley, however, that C.V. Starr placed a similarly 


structured investment in China Mediaexpress (OTC:  CCME), only to discover that in actuality there was no cash to 


walk away with.  


Conclusion 


Yongye has a history of being on the defensive, and with good reason.  Investors and analysts have for the past 


year or so hurled accusations of fraud at the Company, with its seemingly too good to be true business model and 


its refusal to disclose the identities of who it’s doing business with and who it’s transferring tens of millions of 


dollars to in exchange for assets of dubious quality. The Company has been cloaked in a shroud of opacity, one that 


has begun unraveling at an accelerated pace as new information comes to the surface and new eyes are drawn to 


the story. 


In light of the sharp questions the SEC pointed at Yongye, we strongly believe that the Company may still be 


playing fast and loose with the facts as it seeks to present a bullish case to investors. Furthermore, our research 



http://www.businessweek.com/news/2011-06-21/china-reverse-merger-pits-morgan-stanley-against-hedge-funds.html

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411033066/v224507_ex10-1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411033066/v224507_ex10-1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411033066/v224507_ex3-3.htm

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/yongye-international-receives-government-mineral-resource-exploration-permit-129294533.html

http://www.chinahearsay.com/the-china-mediaexpress-saga-part-ii-%E2%80%93-the-litigation/

http://www.chinahearsay.com/the-china-mediaexpress-saga-part-ii-%E2%80%93-the-litigation/
www.presciencepoint.com 11 


into the Company’s suppliers indicates that the Company is almost certainly misleading investors about the nature 


of the Company’s relationship with at least three of its supposedly five most important customers. We  would like 


to again highlight that these three highly dubious customers made up $67 million – or one third – of all of 


Yongye’s purported revenue for Fiscal Year 2010. If these distributors are something less than what the Company 


states, Yongye’s numbers may be materially different than what has been reported to the SEC. We find Yongye’s 


answer to the SEC’s question regarding its largest customers to be straining to credibility, and we urge KPMG to 


take a long hard look at Yongye’s largest sources of revenue before signing off on the Company’s books during the 


Company’s upcoming FY11 audit. 


We urge common shareholders to think independently about the Company’s prospects. Morgan Stanley holds an 


advantaged position in the capital structure and has structured a deal that isn’t necessarily aligned with common 


shareholder interests.  Further, based on our analysis, it appears Yongye is already in violation of covenant 8.15 of 


the Securities Purchase Agreement, which if true gives Morgan Stanley the option to walk away with a big 30% IRR 


payoff, to the detriment of common shareholders.  


In summary, we find various parts of Yongye’s response to the SEC’s questions wholly inadequate, and we have 


great doubts regarding Yongye’s customers and its purported revenues. We urge the SEC and the NASDAQ to take 


a look at Yongye’s largest sources of revenue in an effort to protect public shareholders and defend the integrity of 


US financial markets.
www.presciencepoint.com 12 


*UPDATE - YONGYE INTERNATIONAL, INC. (YONG) 
Dec, 2011 


Investors and analysts have for the past year or so have hurled accusations of fraud at Yongye 


International, Inc. (NASDAQ: YONG), with its seemingly too good to be true business model. It appears 


riddled with related party transactions and the acquisition of assets of dubious quality from those related 


parties for tens of millions of dollars. In this update we present further evidence of Yongye playing fast 


and loose with the facts as it seeks to present a bullish case to investors and evade auditor scrutiny. 


Specifically, we believe Yongye is overstating its raw material costs by at least 50x in an effort to manage 


the margins it reports on an inflated top line.  


We urge the NASDAQ, the SEC, and KPMG to closely examine the evidence put forth in the public 


domain in their efforts to protect public shareholders and defend the integrity of our financial markets. 


Prescience' initial analysis and full disclaimer can be downloaded HERE. 


We reiterate our estimated fundamental value estimate for YONG of $0.53/share (assuming 


possibility of any recovery) 












































Disclaimer: This research report expresses Prescience Point LLC’s opinions. Use of the research produced by Prescience Point LLC is at your own risk. This is a short-


biased report and you should assume the author of this report and its clients and/or investors hold a short position and derivatives tied to the security of Yongye 


International, Inc. that will benefit from a decline in the price of the common stock. Following publication of the report, the author (including members, partners, 


affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with its clients and/or investors intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and may be long, 


short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of the initial recommendation.  The author of this report has obtained all information contained herein from sources 


believed to be accurate and reliable and has included references where available and practical. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of 


any kind– whether express or implied. The author of this report makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any 


such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. Forward looking statement and projections are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and 


involve many risks (known and unknown) that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. All expressions of opinion are subject to change 


without notice, and the author does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. Prescience Point LLC is not a 


broker/dealer or financial advisor and nothing contained herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any investment or security mentioned in 


this report. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein, including, but not 


limited to, the suitability of any transaction to your risk tolerance and investment objectives and consult your own tax, financial and legal experts as warranted. READ 


THE IMPORTANT LEGAL DISCLAIMER ON THE NEXT PAGE. 



http://presciencefunds.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/YONG_Report_Final.pdf
www.presciencepoint.com 13 


Legal Disclaimer: 


This research report expresses our opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are set out in this 


research report.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or 


estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or 


gain.  Any information contained in this report may include forward-looking statements, expectations, and projections. 


You should assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect.  Use of 


Prescience Point LLC’s research is at your own risk.  You should do your own research and due diligence before 


making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.   





You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point LLC (possibly along 


with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or 


investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, 


including without limitation Yongye International, Inc., and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the 


event that the price of stock declines.  Following publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue 


transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter 


regardless of our initial recommendation.  





This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to 


any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  


Prescience Point LLC is not registered as an investment advisor.  





To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained 


from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock 


covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other 


person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Prescience Point LLC.  However, such 


information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  Prescience Point LLC 


makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information 


or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  





All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Prescience Point LLC does not undertake to 


update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein.
www.presciencepoint.com 14 


Yongye claims that humic acid – the supposed key ingredient of the company’s Shengmingsu fertilizer – 


makes up a great part of its costs. In its response letter to an SEC inquiry, Yongye stated (question 7), 


that “Humic acid accounts for over 50% of our cost of goods sold and is derived from lignite coal. We 


believe that our gross margin will show incremental improvement if we start to use our own coal in the 


future.” 


Our research reveals that its response to the Securities and Exchange Commission is implausible and, 


further, that its investment in a coal mine is not likely to produce the gross margin improvements that the 


company is touting.  


According to Yongye’s most recent 10-K, in 2010, the company’s cost of sales was $94,833,834 and it 


sold 18,800 tons of Shengmingsu, implying an average cost of $5,044/ton per Shengmingsu 


(Shengmingsu made up 97% of sales in 2010).  According to Yongye’s response to the SEC inquiry, of 


this amount more than half, ~$2,500/ton of Shengminsgsu, is due to humic acid costs. 


This is impossible; Yongye’s statements to the SEC simply do not add up with claims made in its own 


fertilizer license filed in China and market realities.  Humic and fulvic acid (i.e. water-soluble humic acid) 


can be sourced for well under $1,000/metric ton (examples here, here, here, and here).  According to 


Yongye's own fertilizer license (here and here), each ton of Shengmingsu requires 50 kilograms of humic 


acid.  Thus, a ton of humic acid is sufficient to produce roughly 20 tons of Shengmingsu.    


In other words, assuming Yongye pays at the upper threshold of market prices for its primary raw 


material, it pays $1000/ton.  Each ton of raw material is sufficient to produce 20 tons of Shengmingsu 


according to Yongye’s patents, so based on market prices humic acid costs the company no more than 


~$50/ton of Shengmingsu.  


Yongye claims in its SEC response to spend $2,500/ton of Shengminsu on humic acid, seemingly 


exaggerating its cost by at least 50x. There are a number of reasons why Yongye may choose to 


inflate its costs:   


 Margins would otherwise look high beyond any realm of reality, especially in light of what 
we believe may be revenues inflated on the basis of  sales made to related parties. 


 Since the purchases flow through Wuchuan Shuntong (which it has been alleged, and we 
believe likely, is a related party), the cash may be getting ‘recycled’ (i.e. laundered). 


 KPMG, Yongye’s auditor since 2009, would surely be asking questions about the absence 
of cash in Yongye’s bank accounts 





In summary, we find various parts of Yongye’s response to the SEC’s questions wholly inadequate and in 


this case misleading.  We strongly believe the Company is playing fast and loose with the facts as it 


seeks to present a bullish case to investors, and we have great doubts regarding Yongye’s customers, its 


purported revenues and reported profits. 


Based on a business model riddled with inconsistencies, we believe Yongye International has historically 


served as a conduit for transferring wealth from outside investors into the pockets of company 


affiliates.  We again urge the NASDAQ, the SEC, and KPMG to take a look at Yongye’s largest 


customers and suppliers and to examine the many allegations made by others – including the ones here, 


here, here, here and here – in an effort to protect the public interest and defend the integrity of US 


financial markets. 


 



http://sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411041508/filename1.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398551/000114420411014483/v214367_10k.htm

http://lvfengfeiliao.en.alibaba.com/product/336960958-212420677/Refined_biotechnology_fulvic_acid.html

http://www.alibaba.com/product-gs/340520635/humic_acid_potassium.html

http://www.alibaba.com/product-gs/326206859/Biochemical_Fulvice_Acid_Potassium.html

http://www.alibaba.com/product-gs/435703464/Super_Potassium_Humic_Acid.html?s=p

http://www.zzys.gov.cn/feiliao_search.aspx?id=61984

http://www.zzys.gov.cn/feiliao_search.aspx?id=64578

http://presciencefunds.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/YONG_Report_Final.pdf

http://absaroka.com/uploads/YONG.ResearchReport.051811-vFINAL.pdf

http://absaroka.com/uploads/YONG.ResearchReport.051811-vFINAL.pdf

http://presciencefunds.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/YONG_OLP-report.pdf

http://seekingalpha.com/article/251103-yongye-international-why-this-stock-s-story-is-too-good-to-be-true

http://seekingalpha.com/article/259656-yongye-s-recent-filings-raise-various-red-flags

http://seekingalpha.com/article/269262-yongye-international-s-reported-production-sec-filings-raise-red-flags
