Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block 





These Terms of Use govern current reports published by Muddy Waters Research and supersede any prior Terms of Use for older reports of Muddy Waters 
Research, which you may download from the Muddy Waters Research’s website. 


 
The reports on this website have been prepared by Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters Capital”).  We refer to Muddy Waters Research and Muddy Waters Capital collectively 
as “Muddy Waters” and individually these entities are referred to as a “Muddy Waters Entity”.  You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Muddy Waters report, 
Muddy Waters Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants), Muddy Waters Related Persons clients 
and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors have a short position in one or more of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives 
related to one or more of these securities), and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of a Covered Issuer 
decline or appreciate. Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and/or the Muddy Waters Related Persons intend to continue transacting in the securities of Covered Issuers for 
an indefinite period after an initial report on a Covered Person, and such person may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position and views as stated 
in the research report published by Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital will update any report or 
information on its website to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Muddy Waters Related Person.  Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that report.  All reports 
are for informational purposes only.  Under no circumstances should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments. 


Muddy Waters Research is an online research publication that produces due diligence-based reports on publicly traded securities, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC is an investment 
adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The reports are the property of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity that published that report.    This website is 
owned by Muddy Waters Research.  The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely attributable to the applicable Muddy Waters Entity and are not attributable to any 
Muddy Waters Related Person (defined below) (other than the applicable Muddy Waters Entity). 


By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research on this website is at your own risk. You (or any 
person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold harmless Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and its affiliates and related parties, including, but not limited to any 
principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Muddy Waters Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses 
(including trading losses) attributable to any information on this website or in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any 
securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this website. You 
further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use. 
If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If 
you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same 
Terms of Use. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor any Muddy Waters Related Person (including Muddy Waters Capital) 
are offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through this website or reports on this website. Muddy Waters Research is affiliated with Muddy Waters Capital. 
Muddy Waters Capital is an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Muddy Waters 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Muddy 
Waters Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial 
situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and Muddy Waters Capital has no such knowledge about you. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO (each a “Permitted Recipient”).  In 
relation to the United Kingdom, the research and materials on this website are being issued only to, and are directed only at, persons who are Permitted Recipients and, without 
prejudice to any other restrictions or warnings set out in these Terms of Use, persons who are not Permitted Recipients must not act or rely on the information contained in any of the 
research or materials on this website.  


The research and reports presented on this website express the opinion of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity only.  Reports are based on generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s ability and belief, 
all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that the applicable Muddy Waters Entity believe to be accurate and reliable, and 
who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or 
indirectly). However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied.  With respect to their respective research reports, Muddy Waters 
Research and Muddy Waters Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and 
neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital undertakes to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.  


In no event shall Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, 
indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any information on this website. This limitation of liability 
applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons. You accept all risks in relying on 
the information on this website. 


You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, 
or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained research published by Muddy 
Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms 
of Use. You further agree that any dispute between you and Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website 
or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to 
submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, 
given that Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates are based in San Francisco, California. The failure of Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital to exercise or enforce any 
right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree that each Muddy Waters Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these 
Terms of Use. If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give 
effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law 
and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to this website or the material on this 
website must be filed within one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred. 





Page 1 of 3
Credibility in the Balance: Six Key Questions for INGN Management 
 
On February 8th, Muddy Waters released a report in which we stated that INGN has created 
an egregiously false narrative about its growth prospects, particularly with respect to the size 
of the U.S. total addressable market (“TAM”) for oxygen therapy.  INGN was in the quiet 
period, and thus did not respond.   
 
We present six key questions that management needs to address on its upcoming call, rather 
than hiding behind the reliably pliable sell side.  We again note that management has sold 
over $145 million of stock since going public, and therefore their credibility hinges on 
whether they will answer these questions clearly and honestly. 
	
1. You have claimed that the U.S. oxygen therapy market is $3 billion to $4 billion;1 


however, total Medicare spending on oxygen was $740 million in 2017.2  Per your own 
disclosures, Medicare forms 60% of the patient population.3  These two data sources 
yield a market of only $1.2 billion.   
 
How do you bridge the missing $1.8 billion to $2.8 billion?   
 


2. Using your suggested methodology (including data from the Kaiser Family Foundation 
on Medicare Advantage patients), we calculated that the number patients on oxygen 
therapy has been declining at a CAGR of -2.6% per annum since 2010.4  You have 
claimed the market is growing.   
 
How do you calculate market growth, and over what period of time?  
 


3. Our calculation of the 1.3 million user U.S. TAM is based on dividing CMS’s number of 
“allowed services” by 12 to find the average number of Medicare users on oxygen 
therapy at any one time (642,852).  We do this because we understand that starting from 
1.23 million Medicare beneficiaries receiving oxygen therapy overstates the number of 
users at any one time because it includes users who ceased therapy during the year, as 
well as new users. 


 
Is the average number of services per month during the year a valid base from 
which to gross up for capped out, Advantage, and non-Medicare users?  If not, then 
why? 
 


4. We listed five academic papers we cited on page 6 of our report that estimate the U.S. 
oxygen therapy market is significantly smaller than three million patients.   
 
What are the differences between their estimates and yours? 





																																																								
1 MWC February 8, 2019 report, pp. 10-11 
2 HME News “State of the Industry 2018”, p. 4, via CMS 
3 INGN 2017 10-K, p. 3 
4 MWC February 8, 2019 report, p. 6 


Page 2 of 3
5. You suddenly removed references to WinterGreen Research from all presentations in 
January 2019.  You also recently deleted the 7% – 10% market growth claim from your 
presentations.  	
 
Why did you delete these items?	
 


6. Based on the much smaller U.S. oxygen therapy TAM we calculated of 1.3 million users, 
we modeled INGN peak sales this year or next.  This is partly due to the six-year 
estimated useful life of machines purchased by homecare providers, which impacts their 
purchasing schedules.  As we pointed out, even as the installed base and penetration 
continue to grow, sales will not. Our methodology is below.   
 
If one assumes U.S. market is only about 1.3 million users, do you agree that you 
would hit peak sales this year or next?  If not, why do you feel our conclusion is not 
accurate? 
 


 
U.S. peak unit sales 


Total U.S. oxygen therapy patients 1,306,610 
Proportion of ambulatory patients 73% 
Ambulatory oxygen population 953,825 


Penetration 90% 
Addressable patient population 858,442 


INGN peak market share 65% 
INGN peak installed base 557,988 


  
DTC as a percentage of unit sales 45% 


DTC installed base 251,094 
Years used / 2 = 


DTC units sold 125,547 
  


B2B as a percentage of unit sales 55% 
B2B installed base 306,893 


Years used / 6 = 
B2B units sold 51,149 


  
Peak steady-state U.S. INGN units sold per year 176,696 








Page 3 of 3
