Short World Acceptance Corp (WRLD) 


  Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       1 


Jacob Ma-Weaver, CFA September 22, 2014     September 19, 2014  


Last Price Diluted 
Shares Out 


Market Cap Net Debt/ 
(Cash) 


Enterprise 
Value 


Daily Avg 
Liquidity 


Borrow 
Availability 


USD mm USD mm USD mm USD mm USD mm Shares 


$72 9.9 709 532 1241 14 >300,000 





Cost to 
Borrow 


Short 
Interest 


Days to 
Cover 


P/E 
TTM 


Tangible 
Book Value 


P/Tangible 
Book 


FCF Yield 
TTM 


APY % of outst. As of 8/29 x Per share x % 


~2% 41 32 6.7 $24 3.0 13.5 


Souces: FactSet, prime brokerage data, company filings, proprietary estimates.  


I am short WRLD with a target equity value of zero. 


This will be a little different from most disclosed short theses. I am not going to hyperventilate about what a 


terrible company WRLD is nor accuse anyone of deliberate malfeasance. There is no need. Candidly, I do not 


think my analysis breaks any new ground on the company. WRLD is one of the most heavily shorted stocks 


traded on US exchanges for good reason. I believe shares will ultimately prove to be worthless.  


Sometimes the buyside consensus turns out to be correct. Nevertheless, there is still meaningful borrow 


availability and liquidity along with continued sellside support. The stock is actionable today.  


WRLD has been a popular target of short sellers since at least 2009, when it was first profiled by Citron 


Research. The company provides high-interest credit products through retail storefronts in 14 states and 


Mexico. 75% of World’s loan portfolio carries an interest rate greater than 36%. It is not even particularly 


controversial to note that its lending practices are abusive and unsavory—they are illegal in most states. 


ProPublica extensively documented exploitative behavior and detrimental consequences to borrowers in areas 


where the company operates under permissive state laws. Consumers and short sellers have been waiting for 


years for the government to step in. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) established by 


Dodd-Frank created the first potential federal oversight of the industry, but until recently it had focused on 


other priorities. 


With a CFPB investigation now underway, there remains only a debate over the timing and extent of federal 


intervention. The seemingly low valuation on an earnings basis is a bit of a red herring, as WRLD must 


continue as a going concern to justify any premium to book value. WRLD has been a difficult stock to short 


profitably over the past few years. I think it is finally timely. 


Rather than dwell on why World’s operations have generated scrutiny and if that scrutiny is deserved, my 


focus is on the likely financial consequences. I examine the earnings and balance sheet impact of six potential 


catalysts, several of which could result in bankruptcy, before closing with a brief discussion of risks to the 


short. 


 



http://www.propublica.org/article/installment-loans-world-finance
Short World Acceptance Corp (WRLD) 


  Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       2 


I. Cyclicality and risk of covenant breach 


If WRLD were any other balance sheet-driven financial company not operating under a cloud of regulatory 


risk, the impact of the credit cycle would be my primary concern. Absent legal worries, World’s portfolio of 


consumer loans is dangerously exposed to the strength of the economy. As of June 30, 2014 WRLD holds a 


portfolio of $780 million ($1,164 million gross of provisions and unearned charges) in subprime credit 


exposure, against $532 million of net debt secured by substantially all the firm’s assets. WRLD provides credit 


to low-income consumers, the unbanked, those with poor credit history, and others who are otherwise unable 


to access credit. Debates over whether or not this does borrowers a service aside, the borrowers represent 


very high default risk. Since 2002, WRLD has never recorded net charge-offs below 13.3%. 


WRLD’s primary credit facility nominally has up to $680 million in availability. However, it contains a $265 


million minimum net worth covenant, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets. As of June 30, WRLD 


had just under $275 million in equity by this definition, leaving less than $10 million of headroom. (The net 


worth calculation adjusts for under-provisioning, leaving management with little near-term discretion). 


WRLD has been aggressively buying back stock and has leveraged itself to within inches of the covenant.  


In principle, default rates will increase during periods of economic distress. Every 100 bps increase in the net 


charge-off ratio above provisions would reduce net worth by about $8 million. It would take only an 


approximately 8% increase in WRLD’s charge-offs above expectations over the next twelve months to violate 


the covenant. In the next downturn, it is therefore questionable whether WRLD will have any borrowing 


capacity available, and the lending syndicate could have the right to accelerate maturity of its debt. 


Recently, several leading indicators of credit experience have been trending for the worse. Past-due loans 


have risen from 8.4% of gross receivables in Q1 2013 to 8.7% at March 31 and 9.3% at June 30. WRLD has 


been only modestly building its net provision for loan losses from 7.6% at year-end 2012 to 7.7% in 2013 and 


7.8% in 2014. The provision build is negligible relative to historical experience with increased charge-off rates, 


which rose as high as 16.7% in 2009. 


In other words, WRLD does not have the financial capacity to absorb much of a change in the lending 


environment, let alone a full-blown recession. 


Furthermore, this analysis takes management at its word that charge-offs have accurately reflected the 


experience of the loan portfolio. Over the past 12 years including two recessions, charge-off rates have been 


startlingly stable in the neighborhood of 14%. One possible explanation for this experience is the company’s 


policy of encouraging borrowers to refinance loans before they become delinquent, after as few as two 


payments. 76% of the current gross loan book was refinanced, and last year, 75% of new loan originations 


were refinancing transactions. The practice is one of the reasons WRLD has drawn scrutiny, as it calls into 


question whether refinanced loans are in fact collectible. As long as refinancing continues, there is little way 


to know for sure. The company notes that only 1.5% of originations are refinancing of already-delinquent 


loans. However, the obvious question is whether repeated refinancing suggests that the principal balance of 


loans that otherwise would have eventually have been written off are being rolled into new loans.
Short World Acceptance Corp (WRLD) 


  Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       3 





As long as WRLD continues as a going concern, refinancing may be able to delay high default rates. In 


liquidation, it is possible that charge-off rates would be significantly higher.  


In an economic downturn that caused WRLD to breach its net worth covenant, lenders could force WRLD 


into liquidation. In such a scenario, tangible book value of $24 would represent a ceiling for any equity 


recovery. Equity value would be wiped out if refinancing has been masking higher default rates, as I suspect. 


Scenario fair value: $0 - $24 in bankruptcy. 


II. CFPB action against credit insurance 


One of the key potential concerns from regulators is credit insurance, a large profit center for WRLD. WRLD 


receives large commissions from a credit insurer for the sale of accident and health insurance tied to its loans. 


Regulators have been concerned that the policies are unnecessary, high-cost, aggressively marketed, and 


poorly understood by consumers. As with high-interest loans, there are a patchwork of state laws that ban 


credit insurance in some jurisdictions, but the CFPB is now responsible for setting national standards. 


According to disclosures from a public insurer, commissions can exceed 60% of the policy premium. 


Moreover, WRLD adds the premiums to loan balances, generating additional interest charges. 


Elsewhere in the financial industry, credit insurance was an early target for the CFPB. Its first enforcement 


actions were large monetary penalties and refunds against Discover and Capital One for deceptive marketing 


practices related to credit insurance. It has subsequently issued judgments against several other issuers for 


similar practices, none of which are as high-pressure as the in-person sales pitch given to WRLD’s customers. 


The CFPB also expressed concerns about the financing of credit insurance premiums in the home equity 


market. 


It is plausible that following its investigation, the CFPB may require WRLD to refund credit insurance 


premiums, enjoin WRLD from continuing to offer the product, or prohibit financing of the premiums. 


0


2


4


6


8


10


12


14


16


18


2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014


P
e
rc


e
n


t 
o


f 
a
v
e
ra


g
e
 l


o
a
n


s
  


re
c
e
iv


a
b


le
 


Fiscal year ending March 31 
*Temporarily lower due to bankruptcy law change 


WRLD reported net charge-offs
Short World Acceptance Corp (WRLD) 


  Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       4 


Although credit insurance is an add-on product, any of these actions would have a dramatic impact on 


World’s income statement. 


In fiscal 2014, WRLD earned $50.4 million in credit insurance commissions, representing 30% of its profit 


before tax. At a minimum, this amount could disappear. However, because WRLD finances the premiums, a 


significant portion of its reported interest income may also be due to credit insurance. Citron Research 


estimated that at a 64% average premium and 64% average interest rate, the reported income from credit 


insurance could be double the commissions alone. 


WRLD has suggested that its lowest-rate loans would not be profitable at all without credit insurance, so the 


24.6% of its loans carrying a stated interest rate between 21-36% (the lowest category in its filings) could also 


be at risk. Based on the current loan balance in the category and assuming a default rate consistent with the 


rest of the portfolio, lower-interest loans generate $19-79 million of interest charges, net of charge-offs. If 


these loans never took place, and WRLD lost its credit insurance commission earnings stream, profit before 


tax could fall by $70-130 million, about 40-75%. 


If the CFPB cracks down on credit insurance, WRLD is not really trading at a 6.7x P/E. It could be trading 


as high as 28x forward earnings. 


Scenario fair value: $20-64, assuming an 8-10x earnings multiple and only the loss of credit insurance. 


III. CFPB rulemaking limiting refinancing transactions 


When the CFPB acts, it is unlikely to consider credit insurance alone. Public comments by agency staff and its 


white papers on the payday lending industry evidence a particular concern over credit products that create a 


“cycle of debt” for unwary consumers. The agency is tasked with trying to help prevent debt dependency, 


which can arise from repeated reliance on short-term lending products at high interest rates. Whether or not 


one agrees with the politics of its approach, the CFPB is empowered through its rulemaking process to place 


significant limits on practices it deems to be abusive. 


Popular opinion in the industry has held that the CFPB is targeting payday lending, not the installment 


lending offered by WRLD. On the surface, payday loans appear more ripe for abuse, given their shorter tenor 


and security interest in a borrower’s future income (through postdated checks or payroll deductions). WRLD 


uses payroll deductions only in Mexico, and otherwise generally offers longer-duration loans that are not 


considered “income anticipation” loans like a payday loan. Industry observers have been clear that the 


CFPB’s priority since 2012 has been payday loans, followed by installment lending at some yet-to-be-


determined future date. However, the terms “payday” and “installment” are not well-defined. 


With World’s receipt of a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) in March 2014, the payday/installment 


nomenclature appears to be a distinction without a difference. Given the slow pace of the rulemaking process, 


I had been somewhat hesitant to short WRLD prior to March. The CFPB CID changed that. It now 


appears that WRLD could be affected by the imminent payday lending rulemaking process. 


The CFPB has expressed concerns over repeated refinancing of payday loans, suggesting that it may act to 


prohibit a second loan within a 14-day window following loan repayment. This has important implications for 


World’s refinancing business. The CFPB may write broad rules that limit repeated refinancing of a loan, 


independent of their stated duration. A longer-term loan that is refinanced every few months may not be 


distinguishable from a “payday” loan that is refinanced every few paydays. Moreover, some of World’s loans
Short World Acceptance Corp (WRLD) 


  Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       5 


clearly have an “income anticipation” purpose if not name, particularly around holiday bonuses. The 


company’s business is highly seasonal, with nearly 40% of operating income and significantly higher 


repayment rates generated during the post-Christmas quarter. 


Some consumer advocates have already recognized the false distinction. The Center for Responsible Lending 


issued a letter to the CFPB in May that explicitly asked that the forthcoming payday rule cover installment 


lenders. Proposed rules are anticipated before year-end, and should the CFPB defines payday loans narrowly, 


it could still issue rules governing installment lenders later.  


As mentioned previously, refinancing represents 75% of World’s originations. 83.9% of originations in fiscal 


2014 were to former customers, and the company’s risk disclosures include an acknowledgement that 


regulatory action could prevent it from continuing to operate. As with a covenant breach, CFPB action to 


prevent refinancing could lead to WRLD no longer continuing as a going concern. In run-off, World’s equity 


in loans that were not refinanced would be worth some amount between zero and tangible book value, 


depending on the repayment experience. 


Scenario fair value: $0 - $24 in run-off. 


IV. Increased competition from payday lenders and others 


Even without the regulatory overhang, World’s core business is not as strong as it once was. Perhaps 


unsurprisingly, the major payday lenders are increasingly offering competing installment loans. Ostensibly the 


firms are just responding to opportunities in the marketplace, but several analysts have recognized the moves 


as a naked regulatory arbitrage. If the CFPB cracks down on payday loans, then installment loans offer a form 


of diversification. Importantly, while CFPB officials have expressed some public support for installment 


lending generally, in contrast to payday lending, it is the repeated refinancing and aggressive marketing 


practices at WRLD and elsewhere that obviate the distinction between the two. 


In 2013, Cash America (CSH) more than doubled revenues from installment loans, and was continuing to 


grow its installment business at 60% y/y in the most recent quarter. Advance America and EZCorp (ESPW) 


have also been increasing their installment exposure state-by-state in recent years. While WRLD remains 


dependent on brick-and-mortar loan sales, some competitors offer fully online applications. While the target 


market for installment loans in many cases also lacks Internet access, competitors are gaining market share. 


The new entrants, along with continued economic weakness among lower-income Americans, have led to a 


significant slowdown in World’s loan growth. In stark contrast to CSH, average net loan growth in the June 


quarter was just 4%, with 2.7% same-store revenue growth. 


Other competitive threats are on the horizon. Peer-to-peer lending platforms such as Lending Club offer 


loans as small as $1,000. Better underwriting technologies exist, such as ZestFinance, which enables 


installment loans for larger institutions using statistical analyses. Competing lenders may adapt technology to 


better serve higher-risk consumer pools. With more efficient competing alternatives, there is little reason for a 


WRLD retail storefront to continue to exist in terms of maintaining consumers’ access to credit. A regulator 


contemplating rules that would put WRLD out of business may be comforted by the willingness of other 


lenders to serve the installment market. 


I expect the competitive environment for installment lending to continue to remain challenging for WRLD. 


Loan growth will likely remain slow, and WRLD could eventually witness fee and interest rate compression.
Short World Acceptance Corp (WRLD) 


  Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       6 


Even in the absence of regulatory intervention, I believe WRLD shares warrant a low multiple given 


constrained growth prospects and an appropriate risk premium for its high leverage. Historically the company 


grew through entering new states, which I think remote in the current regulatory environment.  


Without regulatory action, fair value for WRLD represents a fundamental downside case for the short 


position. Ex-growth, an 8-10x multiple on free cash flow (cash from operations less capex and net issuance 


including refinancing) could be appropriate. In other words, the current share price does not appear to 


discount much in the way of regulatory intervention. 


Scenario fair value: $65-81 based on TTM free cash flow. 


V. CFPB monetary penalties or legislative action 


Though more difficult to handicap, there is also the possibility the CFPB could simply fine WRLD. The 


investigation of its business practices may be independent of the broader industry rulemaking process. Some 


of the behavior alleged by ProPublica is illegal. If the CFPB finds that World’s collections practices, 


marketing, or disclosures violate the Truth in Lending Act or other laws, the financial penalties could be 


significant. Previous fines and required consumer refunds of larger institutions have amounted to hundreds of 


millions of dollars. Any meaningful fine would at a minimum cause WRLD violate the net worth covenant. 


Given its stated mission and priorities, I believe it is unlikely the CFPB will give WRLD a clean bill of health. 


It is possible the company’s critics have overstated the negative aspects of its operations, but WRLD is hardly 


a model of corporate citizenship. The CFPB has historically had a zero-tolerance policy in imposing penalties 


on significantly better-run organizations. That the CFPB has chosen to investigate WRLD at all leads me to 


believe that it is highly probable the company will suffer some form of regulatory penalty once the 


investigation is completed.  


Separately, other legislative action could yet impact WRLD. Efforts to pass a federal usury cap have been 


unsuccessful for years. While unlikely, it is possible Congress could simply legislate WRLD out of existence 


by capping interest rates at 36%, as has been proposed. Similar efforts in states where WRLD operates are 


always a risk. Over half of revenues are generated in World’s 4 largest states, any of which could impose new 


limitations on its business at any time. 


Scenario fair value: $0? 


VI. Accounting and management red flags 


This would not be a complete short thesis without taking note of the numerous red flags present at the 


company. Individually, none of these issues is indicative of wrongdoing, but collectively, they represent 


indicators that the company may be mismanaged and that potential financial misstatements—whether 


intentional or not—could go undetected. 


 Employee turnover is very high at 30% annually, which may also be indicative of poor morale. 


 Two senior executives of long-standing, the COO and CFO, resigned late last year with little notice. 


The CFO was said to be “retiring” at the age of 43. 


 WRLD had a weakness in its internal controls in 2013 relating to its treatment of loan losses. 


Though the accounting adjustments were ultimately minor, the allowance for loan losses is a key 


element of management’s discretion and an area of potential concern for reasons discussed above.
Short World Acceptance Corp (WRLD) 


  Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       7 


 WRLD’s longstanding auditor, KPMG, chose not to continue auditing the company after this year. 


 Insiders have been consistent, high-volume sellers of stock without making open market purchases. 


Scenario fair value: ? 


Risk Factors 


Due to state licensing requirements, WRLD is an unlikely acquisition target. However, there are other risks 


for short sellers. Perhaps the most significant is the technical risk presented by the high short interest. As 


much as half the float is currently sold short by some estimates. The risk of forced buy-ins or other undesired 


covering is magnified by high short interest. The risk of a short squeeze is not trivial. A significant lender 


could recall shares, a manipulative transaction could take place via the options market, or the company could 


announce unanticipated good news. If I am completely wrong in my assessment of the CFPB’s approach, an 


announcement that the investigation has concluded without any findings of wrongdoing would likely trigger a 


rush for the exits that would drive prices well above the fundamental value of the business. 


Meanwhile, WRLD executives are incented on the basis of EPS targets, and they continue to buy back as 


much stock as the credit facility allows. The current $25 million authorization supports the share price in the 


near term, but covenants limit additional purchases in advance of cash generation. WRLD also has a few 


ancillary businesses I haven’t discussed. The Mexico operations and the tax prep business together represent 


less than 10% of revenue. They could represent some residual value in the event of US regulatory action, but 


even if they grow unexpectedly, they represent a limited upside risk.  


This report has not discussed the basic profitability of installment lending at usurious interest rates, but it to 


the extent defaults are minimized, the business generates high returns on capital and significant cash from 


commissions, fees, and ongoing charges. In recent years, the cash flow from performing loans at WRLD has 


comfortably exceeded even the large amounts required to be reinvested in refinancing and originations. 


WRLD has generated $172 million in cumulative free cash flow over the past three years, 24% of the current 


market cap. Of course, if the business is not a going concern, cash flows cannot exceed the gross unearned 


interest and principal in the loan portfolio. But in the meantime, WRLD appears quite profitable. 


To the extent the company continues to generate cash, timing—always one of the hardest parts of short 


selling—is especially critical for WRLD. Even though cash generation may decline due to loan losses and 


competition, the company will continue to devote its excess cash flow to buybacks. Unless and until the 


CFPB acts, the company will keep bidding up its shares in a sort of game of chicken with short sellers.  


That’s a game I expect short sellers to win.
Short World Acceptance Corp (WRLD) 


  Cable Car Capital LLC | Concentrated, hedged value investing                       8 


Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep


70


75


80


85


90


95


100


105


110


Disclosure of 


CFPB 


investigation


Source: FactSet Prices


Closing Price


20-Sep-2013 to 22-Sep-2014 (Daily) Price (Local Currency)


World Acceptance Corporation





Cable Car Capital LLC ("Cable Car") is a limited liability company with principal place of business in San Francisco, California. Cable 


Car is registered as an investment adviser in California and may be required to register in other jurisdictions where it does business in 


the future. Registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities authority does not imply a certain level of 


skill or training. This material is intended only for persons in jurisdictions where Cable Car is authorized to provide investment advice, 


and no content should be construed as an offer to provide investment advisory services in any location where such offer would be 


unlawful. Moreover, provision of information about Cable Car's services does not constitute an offer to provide investment advisory 


services. Such offer can be made only by means of a written advisory agreement. 


This report contains opinions and representations of fact believed to be accurate as of the date hereof and based solely on the 


author’s judgment and publicly available information. Images and charts originally published by third parties are the property of their 


respective owners and are excerpted under fair use. Cable Car and its principals, affiliates, and assigns make no claims, warranties, or 


guarantees as to the accuracy or validity of any content. NOTWITHSTANDING THE OPINIONS EXPRESSED HEREIN, THIS 


REPORT SHOULD NOT BE CONSIDERED A RECOMMENDATION TO INVEST IN WORLD ACCEPTANCE 


CORPORATION (WRLD) OR ANY OTHER SECURITY. No content should be viewed as advice regarding the value of any 


securities or the advisability of investing in, purchasing, or selling securities. Discussion of securities in written reports and on 


SumZero or other websites is not intended to be investment advice and should under no circumstance be considered a 


recommendation to take action with respect to any security. Cable Car, its principals, and its clients may hold positions, long or short, 


in such securities, and Cable Car may trade in and out of the subject securities without informing readers. Investing in securities 


involves risks and may result in the loss of some or all of the principal invested. AS OF THE DATE OF THIS REPORT, JACOB 


MA-WEAVER BENEFICIALLY HELD A SHORT POSITION IN WRLD, INDIVIDUALLY AND ON BEHALF OF 


CLIENTS. 


Before investing, prospective clients should consider their investment objectives and the costs and risks associated with Cable Car's 


investment program. Investments are not FDIC insured and may lose value. Past performance may not be indicative of future results. 


All materials regarding Cable Car or its investment activities should be read only in conjunction with the disclosures in Cable Car's 


Brochure on Form ADV.
