5/23/2018 Our Favorite Misleading, Factually Inaccurate, And Utterly Illogical Statements From Veeva's Underwriters' Initiation Reports - Veeva Sys…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1877221-our-favorite-misleading-factually-inaccurate-and-utterly-illogical-statements-from-veevas-underwriters-initiation-reports


Our Favorite Misleading, Factually Inaccurate, And Utterly Illogical
Statements From Veeva's Underwriters' Initiation Reports
Dec. 4, 2013 12:40 PM ET10 comments
by: Suhail Capital


"Jerry, just remember, it's not a lie if you believe it." - George Costanza


Our journey into the land of believing......


(Note that we spared the co-lead underwriters here as their contributions are covered in
our report).


"We believe that there are more than 450,000 pharmaceutical sales reps worldwide
that could benefit from using their products. Additionally, we think most
pharmaceutical companies spend $5,000-10,000 per year on front-office software for
its sales reps. Adjusting down for emerging markets, we are assuming the low end
of the ASP range to get an average ASP of $5,000 per rep, per year. Multiplying this
by 450,000 sales reps, that works out to approximately $2.0-2.5 billion in available
software spend. This applies only to the company's CRM products and does not
factor in any content management or MDM."- Wells Fargo, Veeva, pg10


Verdict: Extremely Poor Assumption/Grossly Negligent


Cegedim's (OTC:CGMJF) 140k Life Sciences CRM users at $5,000 per seat would work
out to $700 million in CRM revenue. They did about $250 million in CRM revenue over the
past twelve months. Veeva's (NYSE:VEEV) estimated avg Q2 crm user count by our
calculation was 110k. Q2 Sub revenues of $34 million annualized and divided by the
average rep count works out to $1236 annual asp per seat. If all professional services
revenue are included, we were able to get to $1800. Note that the only way to get close to
this wildly inaccurate $5k ASP number is if we use Cegedim's entire CRM/SD division
revenue number of $657 million. A $10k asp would mean $800 plus a seat per month. Are
we writing science fiction here or sell-side research? Better question, is there a difference
between the two anymore?


"Cegedim generated greater than $550 million in revenue in 2012." -Wells Fargo,
pg21


Verdict: Bizzaro



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CGMJF

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV
5/23/2018 Our Favorite Misleading, Factually Inaccurate, And Utterly Illogical Statements From Veeva's Underwriters' Initiation Reports - Veeva Sys…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1877221-our-favorite-misleading-factually-inaccurate-and-utterly-illogical-statements-from-veevas-underwriters-initiation-reports


Cegedim is a public company. The company's 2012 revenues are on its corporate
website, Bloomberg, Factset, and countless other financial information providers. The
exact figure for 2012 is $1.23 billion. Would I say Apple did more than $70 billion over the
last year when I know it did $170 billion? Would we say Ted Williams hit over the Mendoza
line in 1941, when he batted .406? This number is off by 55%. The entire paragraph
preceding it was cut and pasted from Cegedim's website 'about' section. This was clearly
the only sentence added by the research analyst. We simply could make absolutely no
sense out of it. We only highlight it here because it is just another example of
carelessness and/or incompetence. If this analyst had no time to pull the correct numbers
from the website, do you think he or anyone else at his firm actually bothered calling
around to have detailed conversations with management teams regarding their
assumptions? Well, we already know the answer to that question because we had the
necessary conversations.


"Roughly half of the CRM addressable opportunity is derived from full penetration of
base subscription fees, and the balance is the development and maturation of 15-20
other add-on applications, which could double monthly ASPs."-Canaccord Genuity,
Veeva, pg 10


Verdict:Factually Inaccurate and Illogical


Canaccord dubbed this as its 'conservative' bottoms-up estimate for how it got to $2 billion
CRM TAM. On a 450k global rep count, this works out to a base ASP of $2200 per year.
At the audited 403k count we used, it works out to $2500 (btw - Veeva's own internal
estimates as disclosed to the underwriters, thank you Stifel, put the rep count at 400k). As
we have shown, Veeva is likely at a base closer to $1200. Since their disclosure to the
SEC states they recognized no Veeva Approved Email revenue in the six months ended
July 31, 2013, you can view Irep, which we deem as their core functionality versus an 'add
on', as nearly every customer opts for it on top of core crm(ie. white labeled
salesforce.com), as that base solution/flagship product. Again we have math on Veeva
that is off by 50% and supported by comparable Cegedim analysis. Due to the fact that
Cegedim and Veeva control 66% of the total LS CRM seats, we are extremely confident in
our analysis. We also 'believe' that LS industry trends with respect to layoffs and patent
expirations strongly contradict any assumption regarding pricing power in crm, let alone
doubling asp's.
5/23/2018 Our Favorite Misleading, Factually Inaccurate, And Utterly Illogical Statements From Veeva's Underwriters' Initiation Reports - Veeva Sys…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1877221-our-favorite-misleading-factually-inaccurate-and-utterly-illogical-statements-from-veevas-underwriters-initiation-reports


"We fundamentally believe Veeva offers a noticeable advantage in terms of both cost
savings and functionality versus its key competitors, and we believe these factors will
continue to sustain the company's growth for the next several years." Stifel, Veeva, pg 3


Followed by this three pages later:


"We believe the transformational nature of Veeva's CRM solution is not accurately
captured within market assessments that fail to incorporate the growth and revenue
potential of solutions such as iRep and Approved Email. These relatively new
features are pushing the annual subscription dollars per sales representative past
the levels that Siebel and Cegedim have historically seen."Stifel, pg 6


Verdict: Direct Contradiction and Factually Inaccurate


If Veeva is cheaper than its competitors how is it realizing annual revenue per seat that
exceeds what it has historically seen? Is Stifel making an on-premise comparison which
has no subscription revenue and is license/maintenance revenue, isn't that really
misleading? Cegedim's average sub dollar per seat is higher. We repeat, as per Veeva's
disclosure to the SEC, Veeva Approved Email recognized no revenue in the six months
ended July 31, 2013. If no revenue was recognized, shouldn't Stifel have used the future
tense with regards to its revenue impact?


"Although we believe the company has had some successes, we mostly view
Cegedim as a "number three" vendor within the marketplace, given its continued
insistence on a legacy selling and delivery model, as well as its lack of muscle
compared to Oracle." Stifel, Veeva, pg27


Verdict:Factually Inaccurate


Has had some success? Cegedim owns 36% global crm ls market share and the
undisputed leading global HCP database. On Demand, single or multi-tenant, is 70%+ of
CRM. Reading such shoddy analysis/research when you conduct extensive work on
something simply makes you think you are delusional.
5/23/2018 Our Favorite Misleading, Factually Inaccurate, And Utterly Illogical Statements From Veeva's Underwriters' Initiation Reports - Veeva Sys…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1877221-our-favorite-misleading-factually-inaccurate-and-utterly-illogical-statements-from-veevas-underwriters-initiation-reports


