5/23/2018 Veeva's #1 Biopharma Customer CRM Contract Loss: A Red Flag Like No Other - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1945341-veevas-1-biopharma-customer-crm-contract-loss-a-red-flag-like-no-other 1/12


Veeva's #1 Biopharma Customer CRM Contract Loss: A Red Flag Like
No Other
Jan. 15, 2014 9:30 AM ET34 comments
by: Suhail Capital


"Was all this legal? Absolutely not!"- Jordan Belfort, Wolf of Wall Street


While Wall Street and the financial media remain asleep at the wheel, we have continued
our extensive field research into the Life Sciences CRM IT space.


Over the course of the past month we have surveyed (including one full day ride along) a
good deal of pharmaceutical reps (including over 50 mostly Irep users) with respect to
their CRM and broader daily technology daily activities. We did this with the aim of
learning more about functionality, and ultimately the future of the pharma sales rep role
and tools. We will share those findings at a later date. Today, we'd like to focus on the
implications of a recent Veeva (NYSE:VEEV) CRM customer loss on our overall short
thesis.


In the process of surveying pharma reps during the past month, we were surprised to
discover that Genentech is no longer using Veeva CRM. This jumped out at us because
Genentech was cited as a Veeva CRM customer in the press coverage of the IPO, and
more notably because they were Veeva's 1st big name CRM customer win back in
2007/2008. Genentech is the poster child in life sciences for IT innovation and cloud
adoption. They lead and others follow, so their decision to abandon Veeva warranted a
closer investigation. What we discovered was a lot more interesting than the simple fact
that Veeva actually lost an existing top ten pharma CRM client. (We estimate the impact at
no more than 2,000 seats for Genentech/Roche North America, and to the best of our
knowledge this revenue is off the books as of Q2/Q3.) What is interesting here is not the
seats lost, but rather the fact that it is Genentech/Roche (OTCQX:RHHBY) who Veeva's
lost (The world's #1 Biopharma company with $37.5 billion in sales in 2012 and a current
market cap of $240 billion), and more importantly that the seats lost were to
Salesforce.com's (NYSE:CRM) PAAS solution.


To give you a little background on the matter. Genentech, the world's most innovative
biotech company, was the earliest life sciences player to make a big push into cloud. It
adopted Google Apps across the enterprise, build custom apps like 'Peeps' (corporate
directory) and 'Kudos' (loyalty rewards), and has been using the salesforce.com platform
since 2007 (they are 2nd largest implementation of Salesforce.com worldwide).



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV

http://www.bizjournals.com/sanjose/news/2013/10/16/ipo-rocket-veeva-from-7m-investment.html?page=all

http://www.sramanamitra.com/2008/09/18/deal-radar-2008-verticals-ondemand/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/RHHBY

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRM

http://googleenterprise.blogspot.ae/2008/11/innovation-its-in-genes.html

http://readwrite.com/2012/08/22/how-3-big-enterprises-are-building-their-own-internal-ipad-apps#awesm=~osXbIyOPos2hfX

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9oX_CVWOa84
5/23/2018 Veeva's #1 Biopharma Customer CRM Contract Loss: A Red Flag Like No Other - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1945341-veevas-1-biopharma-customer-crm-contract-loss-a-red-flag-like-no-other 2/12


So, in 2007/2008, Genentech leads the way in Cloud CRM with its adoption of
Veeva/Salesforce. In the spring of 2009 Roche acquires Genentech and during the
integration Roche North America's CRM is ported from Siebel to Veeva. Then at some
point in time about a year or so ago (this timeline can be verified through publically
available information online with respect to development/implementation which we are not
linking to here out of respect for individual privacy…though just to be thorough we also
independently verified this information with reliable industry sources), Genentech/Roche
North America decides to dump Veeva in favor of building its own custom in-house
solution on the Salesforce.com platform which went live over the past few months.
Basically, it used the Force.com platform in the same way Veeva did in building out its
CRM solution. This appears to be consistent with Roche's global initiative to standardize
on the Salesforce.com platform. As Roche, outside of North America, has over the past
three years been porting Siebel/Stay in Front CRM solutions all to the Salesforce.com
platform. This news is a little more relevant seat wise because Roche ex-North America
has 16,000 crm seats that will now never be available to Veeva to sell into because they
have ported straight to SFDC. (You can read in detail about this implementation here)
Again, seat numbers are beside the point here; Genentech wouldn't have made a move
like this for 2,000 reps if it felt they could get what they needed out of Veeva no matter
what Roche Global was doing. What is of interest is what this move says about the
Veeva/Salesforce.com relationship going forward, and the 'cutting edge' nature of the
Veeva crm offering.


In our initial presentation, we mentioned that the Veeva/Salesforce.com deal comes
with its share of longer-term risks, but we certainly didn't expect to be confronting
those risks two months after the IPO! In fact, our short thesis and valuation of Veeva
happily conceded nearly the entire LS CRM market to them. This development raises very
serious issues that even the most blindly bullish investor can't ignore. We'd say it is the
straw that broke the camel's back, except it's definitely not a straw. When a sector
innovator and leader abandons what is being promoted as a cutting edge solution, we
take notice.


Our read into this is pretty clear, the Veeva CRM's product success has not been about
"very deep application functionality". It's been about price, and the unique human capital
edge they possessed for displacing Siebel's strategically- neglected product. Moving
forward, a standardized commodity solution like Veeva is completely the wrong CRM
product for the future of pharmaceutical sales. This is an industry in which the way drugs
are being sold and marketed now drastically varies across commercial divisions, as well
as across products. The foot soldier approach is going to go the way of the dinosaur.



http://www.slideshare.net/Salesforcede/salesforce-fuer-life-science-pharma-customer-company-tour-munich2013

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1873601-veeva-systems-saass-biggest-bubble-and-techs-best-short
5/23/2018 Veeva's #1 Biopharma Customer CRM Contract Loss: A Red Flag Like No Other - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1945341-veevas-1-biopharma-customer-crm-contract-loss-a-red-flag-like-no-other 3/12


So, what are the investment implications of all of this?


Well, in our opinion there are two main points to focus on:


1) ASP's per LS CRM seat will be going down and not up.


This is a no-brainer assumption which we pointed out in our original thesis. These findings
make it a foregone conclusion. If you are a big pharma company that completed a large
crm implementation over the last few years, you are not going to be looking at price
increases. Rather you will be in a strong position to ask for price concessions. From a
purely economic standpoint, converting to a Force.com license and leveraging the existing
development ecosystem to build a custom solution on the platform is going to save you
money and provide you with a more customizable offering for your unique needs. So, you
either make a strategic call to go this route for the long-term, or you use this as bargaining
power to get what you want. Either way, this is not good news for Veeva's future CRM
ASP's. (It is also quite material news when you factor in the sell-side has modeled asp's
quadrupling over the coming years.)


2) Veeva's bargaining power with Salesforce.com is Zero.


Keeping point one in mind, Veeva is in a very precarious position with respect to
Salesforce.com. When their value-added reseller agreement expires next year, we doubt
Salesforce.com will renew it without a big financial concession. They simply have no
strategic or financial incentive to renew it as is. That means Veeva either offers a very
lucrative margin in addition to the platform access revenue or they leave their customers
with a choice. That choice will be between staying on the Force.com platform or moving to
whatever new infrastructure Veeva will be offering. When you consider the investments
these companies have made in Salesforce.com infrastructure and the fact that they are
likely to be using even more Salesforce.com services across their organization, this is not
much of a choice. Add in the development ecosystem around Salesforce.com's Force
platform and the fact that the world's leading bio-pharma just completed such a migration,
and we now clearly understand why Veeva IPO'd when they did and the need to
aggressively market themselves as something more than a LS CRM company. Their CRM
business model is a Virtually-Zero-Barrier-To-Entry business. IMS Health's recent
acquisition of Force.com based LS CRM ISV 360 Vantage further supports this (we will
share more about this pharma IT monsters IPO and what interesting moves they have
been making in a subsequent piece). If anything, when all is said and done, Veeva will
probably have ended up acting like a Trojan horse for Salesforce.com. By catalyzing



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1393052/000119312513373497/d541293dex107.htm

http://www.imshealth.com/portal/site/ims/menuitem.d248e29c86589c9c30e81c033208c22a/?vgnextoid=605b5d4e3a1ce310VgnVCM10000076192ca2RCRD&vgnextchannel=437879d7f269e210VgnVCM10000071812ca2RCRD
5/23/2018 Veeva's #1 Biopharma Customer CRM Contract Loss: A Red Flag Like No Other - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1945341-veevas-1-biopharma-customer-crm-contract-loss-a-red-flag-like-no-other 4/12


a quick transition off of Siebel, they have opened the door to embedding their PAAS model
inside the entire life sciences industry. (Note we have been long Salesforce.com because
of this hunch since our original thesis.)


We'd also like to point out that our discovery of this development also raises very serious
questions around the two big catch-phrases associated with the Veeva IPO.


Namely….


1) Verticals Do It Better


If the world's leading bio-pharma company by revenue and earliest cloud adopter, as well
as 1st big name Veeva CRM customer, feels the need to transition off a Vertical solution to
an in-house custom offering, that is clearly not the case.


2) Vertical is the new Horizontal


If a vertical solution built on top of the leading global CRM's horizontal platform is replaced
by the world's leading biopharma company with a custom solution built on that horizontal
platform, this is again clearly not the case. As we argued in our original thesis and as is
often the case in technology; the platform providers are where you want to be invested.


Sensational claims around an IPO don't take much work to discredit, which is why in this
case we remain shocked that nobody else has raised these issues. We note the timeline
around the Genentech/Roche developments clearly pre-dates the initial public offering
period. Now, while we don't expect a press release on the matter, we are rather surprised
this risk was not disclosed in the S-1. Sure losing access to the Salesforce platform is in
there, but there is definitely no mention of losing major customers to that platform; this is a
material and clearly very real risk. And isn't the whole idea of risk disclosures to keep them
as broad as possible so as to shield yourself from potential future liability? Based on our
research, it now appears evident that the biggest threat to Veeva's CRM business is
in fact Salesforce.com robust PAAS offering, and what technologically savvy LS
companies can do with it on their own. Even if it was not in the S-1, you'd think that at
least one sell-side analyst could point out that this threat is in fact very real; nope, not in
this market. Sell the story no matter what, and leave dealing with the consequences to
someone else.


A Consensus Shocker….
5/23/2018 Veeva's #1 Biopharma Customer CRM Contract Loss: A Red Flag Like No Other - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1945341-veevas-1-biopharma-customer-crm-contract-loss-a-red-flag-like-no-other 5/12


The consensus view out there on Veeva is that CRM is slam-dunk, and that
salesforce.com relationship is in the bag. We pointed this out in our initial thesis as
something we were willing to readily concede, and still be short the stock with an expected
75% downside. Inaccurate disclosures, convenient omissions, very poor underwriter sell-
side assumptions as well as analysis, Veeva's extreme relative valuation outlier nature
with respect to Medidata (NASDAQ:MDSO) and Cegedim, crystal clear TAM
overstatements in the CRM space, similar TAM issues in ECM and MDM, strategic
question marks in those areas, telling comps like the Qumas deal, and extreme media
hype around the IPO were our primary focus. This news comes as a shock to even us.
Though we acknowledge the competitive/business model concerns raised here far
outweigh any lost revenue from the Genentech seats, this is not a value stock. Veeva
can't afford to lose even ONE crm user seat due to a displacement of any sort, let
alone all the seats they had at the world's leading biopharma company.


Now ask yourself these questions:


If Genetech/Roche built a mini-Veeva on top of Salesforce.com, is the future of their
LS CRM business a slam-dunk?


We can only imagine how many of Veeva's early sales pitches were, "if we are good
enough for Genentech, we are good enough for you." What happens to that pitch
now?


If Genentech/Roche chose to go this route, why won't Amgen or Pfizer eventually
follow them?


Is the Salesforce.com relationship not a major cause for concern?


What is the gap between perception and reality here?


To answer the last question, that gap is huge.


Disclosure: I am short VEEV, . I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own
opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have
no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: I am long CRM.


 Like this article



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MDSO
5/23/2018 Veeva's #1 Biopharma Customer CRM Contract Loss: A Red Flag Like No Other - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1945341-veevas-1-biopharma-customer-crm-contract-loss-a-red-flag-like-no-other 6/12


