5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 1/10


Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference
Call
Jun. 16, 2014 9:50 AM ET4 comments
by: Suhail Capital


Summary


J.P. Morgan's Initiation Report is the Best Example Yet of Just How Bad Things Have
Gotten w/Respect to the Sell-Side and Tech Underwriting.


Veeva's added TAM disclosures and Q1 call questions on the matter show just how
spot on we were, but still fall far short of the transparency shareholders deserve.


Valuation Bubble not execution is still Veeva's biggest problem. Expect the stock to
trade down to $10-$15 range over coming six months.


"A deflating bubble stock is like a plane flying through a storm. Once you're onboard
there is nothing you can do, but sit back and wait for the turbulence to run its
course."


We really didn't think that at this stage in the game we would get the opportunity to
comment on another Veeva (NYSE:VEEV) sell-side research report. Really, at this
juncture you had to believe that there wasn't much more this bunch could do to warrant
commentary.


Enter J.P. Morgan…..


Rarely does one come across an entire initiation report that leaves you wondering whether
the person who wrote it knew what day it was let alone what is going on in markets, but
this Veeva report does exactly that. We had planned on limiting our comments on this
report to a brief private distribution note, but after some extensive prodding have decided
to share them in a public piece. If anything, we feel it would be unfair to the original 'Veeva
Six' to let the worst of the bunch slide without us chiming in.


Anyway, what makes this report so bad is not some new failed attempt at a Veeva TAM
spin, but rather that it appears to have been written almost six months ago!



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV
5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 2/10



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/6/19147561_14029151607015_rId8.png
5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 3/10


Now let's just pretend for a minute that all six of the sell-side analysts covering the stock
have not fully capitulated on Veeva's CRM product with respect to ASPs over $2k (not
exactly a major accomplishment if you know the industry), and decided to move onto other
more distracting farfetched arguments. Let's also pretend that we never wrote anything
about Veeva, and that this analyst never read anything we have written on the name (not
exactly a stretch). Let's also pretend a bubble did not recently pop in SAAS stocks, and
that Veeva shares have not shed more than half their value over the past six months
(requires some serious imagination).


With all this in mind, how does this analyst come up with a $5k ASP using "Veeva's
current CRM product portfolio"?


Is Approved Email a $4k a year add-on? If so, that Prolifiq lawsuit just got a lot more
interesting. Or maybe the attach rates for iRep are at less than 5% and that's why at 1/3+
rep penetrated the ASP math doesn't compute?


This 'research' just boggles the mind. Remember, this pricing does not include add-ons,
which "Veeva does not currently offer, but may offer in the future." Yes, before we know it,
Pfizer is going to have to choose between a Birken bag for their female reps to carry their
iPad's in or the Veeva CRM application with all its add-ons.


Was this report published by JT Marlin or J.P. Morgan? Makes one wonder what it takes to
earn those secondary placement fees these days…


Anyway, read this report all the way through you will quickly conclude that this was a
quickly pushed out cut and paste job as nobody actually covering the name could be this
incompetent.


Now onto Veeva's Q1 call……



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2245003-veeva-systems-veev-ceo-peter-gassner-on-q1-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 4/10


To be perfectly blunt, it is very hard to take these conference calls seriously. They really
have become more about providing a forum for the analysts to clean up some of their
Veeva mess than to actually ascertain anything material about this business or industry for
an investor in the stock. That being said we were quite pleased to see the TAM issue
finally brought forward to some extent.


This call was interesting in that for the first time the phrase TAM actually came up courtesy
of Mr. Barnicle of Pacific Crest:


Brendan Barnicle - Pacific Crest


And Peter, with any of the announcements that you made at the user conference last
week, does that do anything to that $5 billion TAM you've historically talked about,
changed at anyway?


Peter Gassner - Chief Executive Officer


Matt, do you want to take that one?


Matt Wallach - President


Sure. So the announcements that made were mostly in the CRM area. And so I'd
focus in on the $2 billion TAM that we have always defined for CRM and the way that
we defined - the short answer is no, it's all within the $2 billion. And that's because
the way that we've defined it, is it it's the CRM and other sales productivity and
compliance tools that sales reps use. Two of the big areas of spend are meeting its
management and territory alignments and planning. And so those were always
included in the TAM and always on our product roadmap is just kind of a question,
when we would get there? So those are big opportunities, but within the $2 billion.


And then this gem from Richard Davis of Canaccord:
5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 5/10


Richard Davis - Canaccord


Hey, thanks. So one, I'll take Brendan's question one step further. So if you had
100% attach rate with your existing kind of add-ons. Would it be - would your
revenues be about 50% higher than they are today, is that kind of a rough math, am
I correct on that or is that in line or not?


Tim Cabral - Chief Financial Officer


I don't think we could - yes, I think that's probably kind of extrapolation too hard. We
haven't kind of really added it up that way. And I think there is a lot of factors that go
into that. So I think we're not going to slide down the TAM quite that far.


Richard Davis - Canaccord


I will just make it up, that's okay. And then the second question, I got a question from
our investor, he said, there is always biotech company has been going public, there
has been kind of burst in funding, a burst in business formation. You kind of touched
on it how people jumping straight to the cloud, but correlate to that is not only are
these firms I guess more likely is cloud, but is it also logical to assume that there
might be a increase in the number of sales people to whom your software and
platform would be useful, in other words the TAM gets bigger in that fashion, in other
words think about that way? Thanks.


Tim Cabral - Chief Financial Officer


Yes, I think good question is, in that area, is TAM increasing because the dynamics
of the industry is changing more innovation. Matt, why don't you give you thoughts
on that one?


Matt Wallach - President


Sure. So the normal cycle is that products get approved, new products get approved
these biotechs to go public, they announce the new product and they release it. But
then you also have products coming to the end of their patent expiration. And so
that's kind of the normal yin and yang in the industry. I don't think that with the
biotech boom, that's necessarily going to change and all of the sudden, there are so
many new approvals that the TAM changes materially.
5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 6/10


So we sort of - we don't plan for that kind of TAM expansion. We think the market is -
I mean there really has been pretty static in terms of the size, but it's been shifting.
Some of it has been shifting towards emerging markets. And in the large markets,
we see a shift towards digital, digital promotion, digital strategies, multi-channel and
so that's why in our CRM business you've seen these announcements in more multi-
channel areas. So approved email was the first, so we got out of face-to-face and we
have the email channel. But the two that we announced last week, were the web
channel or web channel and then screen sharing. So still CRM, still driven by sales
reps in the middle of the conversation, but allowing them to traverse more channels
and we see a lot more spend. I mean data something like 75% growth in spend in
digital over the last few years. So, I think that's more the important dynamic in the
industry than the number of companies going public from a kind of revenue potential
perspective for Veeva.


This first part struck us as some serious CYA on Veeva's part which was further confirmed
by recent modifications to their risk factors in their most recent 10-q.


From the risk factors of their recently filed 10-q:


"For example, in order to address the entire TAM we have identified, we must
continue to enhance and add functionality to our existing solutions and introduce
new solutions."


We are going to guess that some legal concerns have finally started to creep in here, and
would note that there has been one investigation initiated by a notable shareholder rights
firm. Consequently, Veeva management wants you to know that $2 billion for CRM has
always been based on anything and everything that exists or could ever exist. This is
comical when you consider that they are a value added reseller and that their value
proposition is saving money and adding functionality via the move to the cloud, but who
are we to judge.


Though reading this new disclosure in the 10-Q is kind of amusing when you consider it
directly contradicts what J.P. Morgan's analyst had to say in the initiation report. Again an
undeniably well-deserved research razzie goes to JPM here.


In all seriousness, this conference call exchange continues to prove just how out to lunch
everyone in Veeva coverage land is. The question from Canaccord's Davis regarding
attach rates on existing add-ons is the best example. Revenue 50% higher at 100%
existing add-on attach rate? This is just too funny. Let's assume you believed Veeva was



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1393052/000119312514228721/d707842d10q.htm
5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 7/10


earning $135 a month per iRep sub at top twenty pharma clients (that is clearly not the
case, but let's just suspend reality for now). Then you are supposed to believe that
Approved Email gets you to $200 a month? For Novartis (NYSE:NVS) or Eli Lilly
(NYSE:LLY) this would imply another $15 million a year for adding regulated email
functionality. If this was truly the case, LS regulated email would be the hottest sector in
technology by tomorrow with about two dozen well-funded startups competing against
Veeva. Of course, we know this is not true as pharma clearly has no intention of ever
spending more than $2k per rep. That's their ceiling based on our extensive work in this
space, but more importantly the general view here is for 'share voice' (i.e. the foot soldier
reps) is resoundingly in $1k a year or lower neighborhood. Though you got to love the
evasive response when simply saying 'no way' was what they should have done.


Veeva can keep making announcements about new functionality and hosting calls to
discuss this functionality, but it's not going to help the stock here. For some LS CRM
experts we chatted with, Veeva's recent announcements were tantamount to Elon Musk
trying to differentiate the Model S by declaring it offers an anti-lock braking system.
Seriously, releasing a press release out about meeting management functionality is
embarrassing when this is pretty much considered standard functionality; and real-time
screen sharing? push to chat? Am I paying $3k for an iPhone because it has Siri or do I
pay the same price or lower than I paid for the previous model? It's hard to grasp whether
Veeva management genuinely believes they will literally be raiding the coffers of pharma
companies over the coming years as their CRM offering is upgraded or if they are just kind
of playing along with the sell-side for now. It would be nice to hear them explain just how
things like territory management work in LS instead of tossing the term around like it's
something they can offer to 200,000 reps tomorrow. How often is a territory planning done
in a year? Who requires the functionality/service? What is typically spent across a large
pharma for this 'consulting work' etc?


Anyway that's enough criticism for now.


We were recently asked what it would take to get us long this stock; which is a great
question. When you have invested a significant amount of time in a space there is nothing
better than having the opportunity to turn around and flip the trade. We have done this on
a few occasions in the past, and in several instances these short to long flips (much more
common than long to short for us) have been the most successful investments we have
ever made. The problem is they are hard to come by outside of highly cyclical names, and
Veeva is a perfect example of why these opportunities are typically few and far between.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NVS

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LLY
5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 8/10


While we have been quite critical of Veeva's depiction of its market opportunity, the sell-
side analysts that cover the stock and the investment bank that brought this company
public; we'd like to reiterate that we don't have any qualms with the company's actual
business model. In fact we believe in it and see the products Veeva provides as a genuine
value-add to the pharmaceutical sales industry. The issue we've had from its initial S-1
filing was the rumored valuation and portrayed market opportunity of the company. If you
strip that away and look at what we would actually pay for the business you need to run
back to our initial work and price target. We pride ourselves on being selective and value
driven investors that do their homework, in that respect we see Veeva fairly valued at $8-
10/share depending on its penetration and ability to add "add-on" revenues. Taking that as
our fair value, we would look for a 30-50% discount, effectively a $4-7/share, level for us
to be interested enough in going long. But with the stock at $22 the risk-reward element
here still says this still is a screaming short. This is the nature of a bubble. Stocks that get
cut in half tend to get cut in half again. So really the only thing that we presently envision
factoring into us flipping our view is a much much much much (no typo here) lower share
price. When we get to those levels we expect to be just as vocal about the opportunity that
exists in going long shares in the company. Until then there really isn't much to do other
than to sit back and watch the law of gravity take hold.


DISCLAIMER


Suhail Capital Limited is an exempted company registered in the Cayman Islands
("Suhail Capital") is an investment advisor to funds that actively participate in the
buying and selling securities and other financial instruments.


You should assume that as of the publication date of this report, Suhail Capital
(possibly along with or through our partners, affiliates, employees, and/or
consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or
investors has a short position in Veeva Systems Inc. "Veeva" (and/or options,
swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock), and therefore stands to realize
significant gains in the event that the price of Veeva should decline. You should
also assume that as of the publication date of this report, Suhail Capital (possibly
along with or through our partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along
with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors has a long
position in Salesforce.com, Cegedim and any other publicly listed company in this
report (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to these stocks) , and
therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of
Salesforce.com, Cegedim or any other company listed should increase.
5/23/2018 Veeva: J.P. Morgan's Research Razzie And The Q1 TAM Conference Call - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2270223-veeva-j-p-morgans-research-razzie-and-the-q1-tam-conference-call 9/10


