5/23/2018 Is Morgan Stanley's Veeva Upgrade A Belated April Fools Prank? - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2122343-is-morgan-stanleys-veeva-upgrade-a-belated-april-fools-prank 1/13


Is Morgan Stanley's Veeva Upgrade A Belated April Fools Prank?
Apr. 2, 2014 10:37 AM ET34 comments
by: Suhail Capital


Summary


Morgan Stanley now believes Veeva is a TAM expansion story.


This is comical because in 5 months they have failed to prove how the current TAM
is anywhere close to $5 billion.


"Rigged" is the appropriate word to describe the game being played by underwriters
and sell-side analysts in Tech IPOs these days.


At some point one starts to wonder whether the analysts covering Veeva (NYSE:VEEV)
need to seek financial therapy for their TAM Denial Syndrome.


A few months ago, we pointed out how the sell-side work on Veeva was exhibiting
elements of 'backfire'. We can now safely say these analysts have become hopelessly
entrenched.


As a quick refresher, the basic premise of 'backfire' is that when confronted with facts that
prove them wrong, opinionated individuals in highly specialized professions react very
differently from the uninformed. Basically, instead of changing their minds and
acknowledging the correct facts, they entrench themselves even deeper into their existing
view.


Today, Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) upgraded Veeva to overweight based on a "TAM
expansion" thesis.


YES, A TAM EXPANSION THESIS!


Here is how it reads:


"Veeva is a TAM expansion story, in our view, and the company is executing on that
front with early success in both Vault and Network. However, the scope of the
investment debate has narrowed to Veeva's seat growth potential in Sales Force
Automation (SFA), which in turn has driven a 40% pullback in the stock from the
highs." MS Veeva, April 2, 2014



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MS
5/23/2018 Is Morgan Stanley's Veeva Upgrade A Belated April Fools Prank? - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2122343-is-morgan-stanleys-veeva-upgrade-a-belated-april-fools-prank 2/13


Is this a joke?


It's been nearly five months since we exposed this mess, and not a single report has
bothered to address the current market size. Now, Morgan Stanley wants you to focus on
how that TAM is going to grow from here.


Do these guys think they are going to pull off a Kansas City Shuffle?


As for the fact that $5 billion is nowhere remotely close to what the market size is today,
well, we got precisely one sentence on that in the report.


"There has been significant debate regarding the potential size of Veeva's market
opportunity, and while we view the $5b current market opportunity presented at the
IPO as fair, we think the bigger story is the $44b IDC estimates Life Sciences
companies spend on IT each year, and how much of that Veeva can capture over
time"- MS Veeva, April 2, 2014


Fair?


It's off by a multiple of 5X!
5/23/2018 Is Morgan Stanley's Veeva Upgrade A Belated April Fools Prank? - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2122343-is-morgan-stanleys-veeva-upgrade-a-belated-april-fools-prank 3/13


Yes, we have painstakingly researched the top 50 and modeled out the seat penetration
problem. But to be frank, that issue pales in comparison to the ASP problem in core CRM.
We have identified data points for pricing at top ten pharma in emerging market
deployments that if the whole market converged to such a level would imply a sub $200
million TAM for LS CRM today. While we do not expect this to happen, we cannot take any
research seriously that simply has no interest in addressing such a material element.
Furthermore, we can assure you that Veeva's ASPs will come under pressure because of
their high market share in the United States. Incremental seat additions will be coming
from much lower ASP markets, and renewals in the USA are likely going to exhibit pricing
pressure. There are smaller competitors that could price at $50 a seat for a large seat
deal, and still make money. And we are aware of pricing from larger competitors for
smaller seat deals that are as low as $70 a month. Run those numbers against the 400k
reps in the top 50 and tell us with a straight face that the current TAM presented at the
IPO is "fair." Yet, in this entire 24-page report the word ASP doesn't come up even once!
5/23/2018 Is Morgan Stanley's Veeva Upgrade A Belated April Fools Prank? - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2122343-is-morgan-stanleys-veeva-upgrade-a-belated-april-fools-prank 4/13


Furthermore, how can you call Vault a $2 billion TAM? Or model $870 million in revenue
for it by 2028?


All of EMC IIG did $647 million in revenue last year. This is across all verticals, and not
just Life Sciences. And if you understand this space you will realize that the price point
replacement proposition here is nowhere near the same as it was with Siebel in CRM. And
with most of these pharmas having enterprise wide agreements in place; Veeva will more
often than be fighting nothing but the annual maintenance contract.


We have done extensive research, which shows MDM customer master is $200 million
max and a highly commoditized space.


Furthermore, if you have gone through implementation after implementation you will get
familiar with things like Informatica cloud as well as Onekey integrations, which will give
you some serious insight into just how strong the competition is here.


Suffice to say when we go through this math, we can't help but wonder whether this model
was constructed in Neverland.


And what is this nonsense about the SFDC contract renewal:


"Veeva also signed an early renewal of their contract with Salesforce.com
(NYSE:CRM) on favorable terms, extending it by ten years through 2025, and
thereby removing a key risk"- MS Veeva , April 2, 2014


Favorable? To whom? Salesforce.com obviously!


Veeva's 10-K risk disclosures regarding this contract's 'true-up' provision look like they
were cut and pasted from our last report. And the key risk from SFDC has always been its
PAAS nature and the ability of customers to leverage the existing development ecosystem
to build their own solution, and not of SFDC promoting their own competing life sciences
specific solution. The terms of this renewed contract make that risk even more clear.


The sad thing here is that these analysts don't realize that when you expose something
that stinks as bad as this TAM story does, people tend to come forward. The discrepancy
is just so huge that they can't resist chiming in. So, this is not a debate between Bulls and
Bears. This is a debate between those seeking the truth, and a group obfuscating it; who
seem willing to go to just about any length to help bury it.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CRM
5/23/2018 Is Morgan Stanley's Veeva Upgrade A Belated April Fools Prank? - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2122343-is-morgan-stanleys-veeva-upgrade-a-belated-april-fools-prank 5/13


