5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: 'In The Land Of The Blind, The One-Eyed Man Is King' - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1888421-veeva-systems-in-the-land-of-the-blind-the-one-eyed-man-is-king 1/12


Veeva Systems: 'In The Land Of The Blind, The One-Eyed Man Is King'
Dec. 10, 2013 10:41 AM ET44 comments
by: Suhail Capital


Well, the optimists in us had hoped that putting our research out there was enough to get
the underwriters to rectify their mistakes, but it appears we are at that stage in the cycle
where such a strategy simply doesn't work. Instead of revisiting their clearly sloppy
initiation reports which contained materially misleading facts/analysis that we identified as
well as highly exaggerated and unwarranted claims about the life sciences CRM market,
the "Veeva Six", as we will refer to them from now and on, have chosen to ignore their
professional responsibility with the hope that this will all simply go unnoticed. To be frank
we kind of figured this is the way they would go with this. In fact, we were elated to see the
Deutsche Bank and Canaccord's analysts issue notes raising their price targets on Friday
morning. This phenomena is called 'backfire', and has been studied extensively by
behavioral psychologists. The basic premise is that when confronted with facts that prove
them wrong, opinionated individuals react very differently from the uninformed. Basically,
instead of changing their minds and acknowledging the correct facts, they entrench
themselves even deeper into their existing view. This type of behavior makes it a lot easier
for us to show that these analysts are about as conflicted as it gets.


We would like to remind the sell-side and everybody else that while a certain degree of
this behavior is accepted as 'industry practice' there are still federal securities laws and
FINRA rules at play here. The fact that it has been 10 years since the regulators made a
serious example out of anyone doesn't mean these regulations no longer exist. These
regulations require that published research reports, amongst other things, have a
reasonable basis, present a fair picture of the investment risks and benefits, and not make
exaggerated or unwarranted claims. There are principles of fair dealing and good faith at
play here that are supposed to protect investors from baseless, unreasonable, unverified,
misleading and factually inaccurate statements in published reports on listed securities.


Investment banks are no strangers to these policies as they all have guidelines in place
that are based on these regulations. This is an example from a top firm's research
guidelines:



https://seekingalpha.com/article/1873601-veeva-systems-saass-biggest-bubble-and-techs-best-short
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: 'In The Land Of The Blind, The One-Eyed Man Is King' - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1888421-veeva-systems-in-the-land-of-the-blind-the-one-eyed-man-is-king 2/12


Investment Research Analysts ("Analysts") are required to observe high standards
of integrity and ethical behaviour. All investment research reports ("research
reports") must be based on strict standards of truthfulness and fair dealing, and must
be presented in a manner such that they are fair, clear and not misleading. Analysts
are required to ensure that they have a reasonable basis for their analysis and
recommendations. X has policies giving guidance to Analysts regarding the proper
presentation of facts and opinions in research reports, for example regarding
verification of facts and the avoidance of superlative, flamboyant, emotional, libelous
or promissory statements. X operates procedures to ensure the independence of
expression of views by Analysts and to prevent improper influence on Analysts'
professional judgment.


Now, with that in mind, we call your attention to the Canaccord Genuity analyst covering
Veeva Systems (NYSE:VEEV). This analyst was very loud on Friday which really
surprised us considering how many things in his initiation report were confirmed as flat out
wrong after the conference call. His CRM TAM analysis assumed a 'base CRM' average
revenue of $2,220 a seat. On the call, Veeva confirmed that they are 1/3 penetrated into
the rep market, and that the vast majority of those reps have Irep. Thus CLM is, as we
accurately described it, more of a 'base' selection versus an 'add-on'. This means anyone
doing the math here for ASPs should be getting a CRM+CLM avg annual revenue per
seat in the $1,100-$1,125 range. If CRM+CLM for 1/3 the seats on the planet is half your
number for CRM alone, you should not be commenting at all let alone raising your price
target by $2. Seriously, how hard is it to simply pipe down and 'revise' your analysis based
on more complete disclosures. This is just arrogance and the antithesis of all things
'research', and because of that we will now share with you precisely how this analyst's
'analysis' was described by three independent life sciences CRM experts we shared it with
during our thorough review of the space. "Utterly baseless, and without merit." -
Industry Analyst; "Nonsense!" -LS CRM Exec; "You sure he's talking about CRM,
because it's impossible for anyone covering LS CRM to make such a statement."-
Top 50 Pharma CTO.


As you can see, it shouldn't take FINRA or the SEC too much time to figure out this
analyst is publishing research for which he has absolutely no reasonable basis.


And it doesn't stop there...



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: 'In The Land Of The Blind, The One-Eyed Man Is King' - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1888421-veeva-systems-in-the-land-of-the-blind-the-one-eyed-man-is-king 3/12


"Value- focused investors can huff and puff that this stock is "too expensive," but the
fact is that software stocks almost always go up as long as they hit or beat
estimates, and we believe that is very likely for Veeva for the next several quarters
and, frankly, years. We're buyers of VEEV today."


Canaccord Analyst, Dec 6, 2013 quote picked up extensively by wires.


This is maybe one of the most ignorant and utterly irresponsible statements we have ever
come across in a sell-side research report. First, there are NO 'value-focused' investors in
this stock. Second, it's comical for this analyst to comment on Veeva beating estimates
because his Q3 estimate was for 1% sequential revenue growth. To put that in
perspective, Veeva averaged 15% q/q revenue growth over the past four quarters. His
model had their growth rate collapsing 95% in their first quarter as a public company. If
that was what he believed would happen, one wonders how he had a buy rating on the
name before this huge 'surprise' quarter. If a company that grew 100%+ in 2012 and is
trading as the most expensive SaaS stock by far on a price/sales basis is forecasted to
grow 1% in your model, then there is something very wrong with your model. If there is
something very wrong with your model, then beating your estimates is irrelevant to any
investor with a functioning brain. Most skilled investors are familiar with the art of low-



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2013/12/19147561_13866694884692_rId5.png
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: 'In The Land Of The Blind, The One-Eyed Man Is King' - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1888421-veeva-systems-in-the-land-of-the-blind-the-one-eyed-man-is-king 4/12


balling an 'estimate', but that is not what is going on here. This is what we call flat out
trying to manipulate investor perception of a stock. If a 'research analyst' knowingly
publishes an estimate that is highly inconsistent with his recommendation/analysis of a
stock simply to guarantee that the company will beat this estimate, and then comes out
the next day and says stocks that beat estimates 'almost always go up'; he is nothing
more than a manipulator and promoter in our book. Five of the "Veeva Six" modeled 0-1%
growth with the one outlier coming in at a whopping 3%. If these estimates were
independent and based on historically driven quantitative factors, statistically they would
all be major outliers. If there were qualitative factors involved here, then the stock would
have been rated and modeled very differently. This is business as usual for an IPO, but in
this case it is so egregious because of Veeva's growth trap nature that you can't help but
call them out on it. You also have to love the 'almost always go up' and 'next several
quarters and frankly years' comments here. Talk about superlatives in a 'research' report.
(Btw- anyone who followed this recommendation is down at least 10% already) Makes
one wonder how long before Charles Schwab breaks out the "put some lipstick on this
pig" commercial they ran in 2002 to take a swipe a Merrill Lynch and Henry Blodget.


Then you have the DB analyst, whose assumptions we clearly showed to be based on
factually inaccurate data. This analyst is still reiterating his less than 10% CRM dollar
value penetration despite the fact that this has been proven 100% wrong. He even upped
his target by a dollar after Veeva 'beat' his 0% sequential growth estimate.


The other underwriters showed a greater degree of restraint, but that is not exactly saying
much.


The bottom line here is these analysts picked the worst stock and sector to play make
believe with. The facts are out there. They are clear, accessible, repeatedly verifiable, and
undeniably refute what these analysts have been publishing.


As for our notes from the conference call, we will say one interesting thing that jumped out
at us was the fact that Veeva management went on the record putting the global rep count
at 450k. We point this out because our research indicated the count is roughly 400k, and
because this number was in fact what Veeva disclosed to one of their own underwriters'
research analysts.


"We note there are currently approximately 80,000 US-based pharmaceutical sales
representatives, and approximately 400,000 global reps, according to company
estimates" - Stifel Veeva Initiation Report, Nov 11, pg 3.



http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=24sTGLxNNKs

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1881351-veeva-systems-ceo-discusses-f3q-2014-results-earnings-call-transcript
5/23/2018 Veeva Systems: 'In The Land Of The Blind, The One-Eyed Man Is King' - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1888421-veeva-systems-in-the-land-of-the-blind-the-one-eyed-man-is-king 5/12


