Muddy Waters, LLC 
268 Bush Street 


#2931 
San Francisco, CA 94105 





Ms. Marie Ehrling 
Mr. Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo 
Mr. Mats Jansson 
Mr. Mikko Kosonen 
Ms. Nina Linander 
Mr. Martin Lorentzon 
Mr. Per-Arne Sandström 
Ms. Kersti Strandqvist 
Ms. Agneta Ahlström 
Mr. Stefan Carlsson 
Mr. Peter Wiklund 
Ms. Eva-Marie Penttilä 
c/o TeliaSonera AB 
Sureplan 8 
106 63 Stockholm 
Sweden 
 
To the Directors of TeliaSonera AB: 
 
We are short the securities of TeliaSonera because we believe information that is being 
withheld from investors, along with the current board and management’s (in)actions, will 
significantly impact the company’s shares and credit profile.1  While TeliaSonera has 
provided some transparency into its misdeeds in Uzbekistan, it has not made public the 
likelihood that the company’s other Eurasian and Nepal operations suffer from similar 
problems, and on a massive scale.  It appears that TeliaSonera made corrupt payments in 
Uzbekistan exceeding SEK 3.1 billion (US$380 million).2,3  Uzbekistan appears to be 
only the tip of the iceberg.  We estimate – perhaps conservatively – that TeliaSonera 
could have made corrupt payments throughout its Eurasia and Nepal operations that 
exceed SEK 17 billion (US$2.1 billion).  In addition, TeliaSonera is potentially obligated 
to make additional payment to a problematic partner in Azerbaijan of up to SEK 7.6 
billion (US$934.5 million).   
 
TeliaSonera’s inability, or failure, to disclose more information to investors has at least 
four major implications. 
 


• TeliaSonera’s financial statements are misleading, and likely contain material 
misstatements.  Knowingly (or with willful ignorance) continuing to make those 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 
analysis and opinion on this site. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this 
report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service. If you 
download or receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your 
principal to these same Terms of Service. You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports 
and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, 
employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors 
has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and 
bonds (and/or derivatives related to them) covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains 
in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities of issuers 
covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, or neutral at 
any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of 
an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from any person 
through this site or reports on this site. Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in 
any jurisdiction. If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and 
materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity 
falling within Article 49 of the FPO. Our research, reports, and letters express our opinions, which we have 
based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due 
diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and 
who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any 
fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” 
without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no representation, 
express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard 
to the results to be obtained from its use. Further, any report or letter on this site contains a very large 
measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and 
Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 
analysis and opinion contained in them. You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and 
you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / 
reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any 
manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link 
and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your use of this 
report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and 
independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located 
within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that 
Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce 
any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If 
any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the 
parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected 
in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, 
in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or 
law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the 
material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever 
barred 


Page 37 of 37
