5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 1/18


Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking
Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson
Oct. 21, 2015 10:30 AM ET
by: The GeoTeam


Summary


TEDU has a large, accelerating accounts receivable problem that we think will
continue to get worse as the company's financing partners deteriorate in quality.


The company's receivables as a percentage of revenue are exponentially higher
than U.S.-listed, China-based peers, indicating TEDU has a company specific
problem in collecting on tuition.


We believe that the inability of TEDU's students to access credit has caused the
quality of the TEDU's financing partners to move from established banks to shadow
banks.


TEDU's students have posted reviews and complaints online from different locales
throughout China; these reviews report deceptive practices and false promises.


If China begins to look at the for-profit education space through the same critical eye
as the U.S., TEDU could be accelerating quickly into a hard wall.


This idea was discussed in more depth with members of my private investing
community, GeoInvesting Micro Insights.



https://seekingalpha.com/checkout?slug=the-geoteam&source=mp_marketing_text_top
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 2/18


GeoInvesting members had an advanced look at this article earlier this morning. This time
embargo is exclusive to Geo subscribers. You can find more information about becoming
a GeoInvesting subscriber at www.geoinvesting.com.


We believe Tarena International's (NASDAQ:TEDU) business model is seriously flawed to
the point that the company's current pace of revenue growth, net income growth, and cash
generation could all be unsustainable and in jeopardy. While the risks we highlight may
not pose an immediate threat to TEDU's growth profile, we think it's prudent for longer-
term bullish investors to be aware of the factors that already appear to be in motion. We
feel these factors could result in TEDU being a much smaller company than it is today,
operating at a loss. Likewise, those who choose to short TEDU should be aware that the
company has a buyback program in place and involvement from a couple of well-known
institutional investors. We are short.


An article published in 2014 discussed the risk inherent in TEDU's business due to the
substantial amount of revenue it generates from its shadow banking relationships. The
stock is down about 30% from then, potentially as investors begin to look past TEDU's
"amazing" top-line growth. Or, perhaps some astute investors who combed through the
fine print of TEDU's filings noticed that TEDU's only non-shadow banking relationship
expired in 2014. Or, perhaps they noticed that one of the shadow banks that TEDU had a
relationship with is controlled by the chairman of TEDU - a relationship that has now been
severed. Also disturbing is that the amount of revenue tied to shadow banking has
increased materially, nearly overnight, as the company went public. In 2013, shadow
banking contributed to about 11% of revenue - according to the latest data, it contributes
61.4% now. The clues are telling us that industry experts are viewing TEDU with a riskier
profile.


If the company's revenue (tuition collected) from questionable third-party shadow banking
relationships were to be put into jeopardy or to disappear altogether, the company would
be left with a business that is generating 55% less revenue than reported in SEC filings.
Shadow banking and uncollectable accounts are two growing problems for the company -
problems that we believe could lead to investors in TEDU learning a hard lesson.


The accounts receivable issues that we will highlight are not only a manifest of the
company's high-risk marketing strategy that targets low credit students, but appear to be
the result of a very dissatisfied customer base.



http://www.geoinvesting.com/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TEDU

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2441425
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 3/18


Our due diligence has recovered media reports and reviews from TEDU's students
complaining about the company's product offering, deceptive recruiting, and nightmare
debt collection stories.


"TEDU's recruitment is a bait and switch," reads one review from Chongqing.


In order to embrace a bullish case on TEDU, investors would need to assume that the
company's shadow banking relationships will continue to generate substantial revenue
growth for the company.


We have chosen to take the opposite view. We think it is illogical to assume that the
accounts receivable issues taking place at TEDU we are about to highlight are not
occurring at the shadow banking level. We believe that at some point, the non-collectable
risk will jeopardize the company's remaining shadow bank relationships. We don't know
what exactly will be the "straw that breaks the camel's back," but what we do know is that
we believe this time is nearing.


We can boil our skepticism of TEDU down to two key points that we will explore in depth:


1. The company's accounts receivable are growing significantly - and growing older.
Accounts receivable from 7-12 months old have increased from 5.2% of total
receivables in 2012 to 20.1% of total receivables in 2014. Receivables greater than
one year old have increased from 3.8% of total receivables in 2012 to 10.5% of total
receivables in 2014.


2. Based on our assumptions, if the negative aging account receivable trend continues,
maintaining profitability will be a challenge - and that's assuming the shadow banking
relationships it has in place today are not in jeopardy.


It appears evident to our team that an aggressive marketing strategy and a poor product
are beginning to rear their heads under the surface in the financials at TEDU.


Huge Receivables Telegraph a Problem Unique to TEDU


On the US markets, there are several Chinese public companies that are comparable in
industry to TEDU, such as New Oriental Education (NYSE:EDU), China Distance
Education Holdings Limited (NYSE:DL), TAL Education Group (XRS) and Xueda
Education Group (NYSE:XUE). We compared accounts receivable as a percentage of
revenue for each of these companies in 2014 and we found that TEDU's receivables
appear to be an exponentially larger problem than its counterparts. It is worth noting as
well that EDU and other peers use a different payment model, where students are
generally asked to pay their tuition upfront. TEDU's model differs in that it allows financing



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EDU

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DL

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/XUE
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 4/18


as students progress, in anticipation of finding jobs and being able to pay back tuition in
the future. This is why we think TEDU's model is broken - should the company collect
upfront, there would be far less revenue, but also far less of an A/R problem.


Within this group of companies, TEDU is the only company that relies largely on third-
party financial service providers to finance student tuitions. As we showed in the table,
TEDU's accounts receivable to revenue percentage is 10 times, and in some cases, even
100 times higher than other companies. We believe this makes TEDU an obvious risk
when compared to peers. Also consider that around 55% of TEDU's students paid their
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 5/18


tuition fee with loans upfront in 2014 compared to 57% in 2013. Yet we will show a trend of
a dramatically worsening account receivable situation which shows that quality of revenue
TEDU is keeping in-house has substantially deteriorated.


In these detailed assumptions, we lay out how meaningfully affected TEDU's earnings
would be if the company was to increase the allowance it held for doubtful accounts,
which we think could be a reasonable occurrence in the future given the company's
growing A/R number.


The business issues we have highlighted in this report are clearly reflected in TEDU's
aged accounts receivable at December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014. Note that at December
31, 2012, over 83% of A/R was current with 9% aged seven months or more. At year-end
2014, only 39% of A/R was current with over 60% past due, including 31% aged more
than seven months. If this trend is to continue on this path, past due receivables could be
bringing the company to the tipping point. The company has progressively increased its
allowance for doubtful accounts from 7.1% of gross accounts receivable at December 31,
2012, to 19.1% at the end of 2014, but that, in our opinion, is inadequate compared to the
worsening A/R aging picture.


It may seem that the company is making a more conservative assumption with its
allowance for doubtful accounts growing, but you can see that the allowance versus
accounts older than 7 months shows the gap widening significantly in 2014. In 2012,
allowance of 7.1% was nearly in line with 9% of accounts being older than 7 months. In
2013, allowance of 13% was nearly in line with 14.8% of accounts being older than 7
months. In 2014, however, we see an astonishing parity where the company's allowance
of 19.1% is now far shy of its 30.6% of accounts receivable older than 7 months.
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 6/18


We can't help but notice that the allowance for doubtful accounts in the prospectus for
2012 and 2013, before going public, looked relatively conservative. Since going public in
2014, however, the bad debt allowance has fallen well short of the over 7 months past due
exposure. We think the 2014 allowance should be at least 30%, which would have added
around $3.3 million bad debt expense to last year's operating results, reducing net income
before taxes by that amount. The company is, therefore, failing to provide for its increasing
risk profile and likely losses embedded in AR - this despite the company's risk profile
being adversely impacted by shadow banking issues. We understand a $3.3 million
allocation might seem minimal, but the key questions are:


1. How much bigger can this number get?
2. More importantly, if these issues are happening on the shadow banking level, could a


fair amount of net income be in jeopardy?


For those 55% of students who paid their tuition fees through third-party financial
providers such as CreditEase, we assume based on the poor online reviews and poor
performance by its students that there may also be a high percentage of default on third-
party financial provider payments. This high risk of default, in turn, may explain the main
reason for Bank of Beijing Consumer Finance Company's ("BOB CFC") possible
termination of its business with TEDU.


TEDU primarily offers two payment options for its students, including one-time full
payment upon enrollment and multiple payments within two months of enrollment. TEDU
also allows qualified students to pay its tuition fees within a period of time after graduation.
TEDU generally charges RMB1,000 (US$161) higher in tuition fees to students electing to
pay in multiple payments within two months of enrollment and charges RMB3,000
(US$483) higher in tuition fees to students qualified and electing to pay in installments
post-graduation, as compared to students who elect to pay in full upfront.


As we stated earlier, for those students who elect to pay in full up-front, they may either
pay directly out of pocket or pay through third-party financial service providers, such as
CreditEase. In 2013 and 2014, approximately 55% of TEDU students chose to pay tuition
upfront with the help of one of the third-party financial services. TEDU did not provide a
breakdown of the number of students who pay its tuition in full, upfront, directly out of
pocket.


For the purposes of our discussion, we conservatively assume that 30% of students may
choose to pay their tuition fees with either multiple payments within two months of
enrollment or within a period of time after graduation. As stated by TEDU in its 20-F,
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 7/18


"accounts receivable primarily represent tuition fees due from students". TEDU's accounts
receivable comes from those students who choose to pay their tuitions with either multiple
payments within two months of enrollment, or within a period of time after graduation.


Based upon TEDU's 20-F, as of December 31, 2014, it had booked $30.4 million in
accounts receivable with only $5.7 million in allowance for doubtful accounts. From
December 2013 to December 2014, TEDU's accounts receivable increased around $12.7
million.


When we look through past filings and past accounts receivable numbers, we see current
accounts receivables are only up from ~$11 to ~$12 million. But past due accounts
receivable tripled from $6.6 million to $18.4 million from 2013 to 2014. It appears that
TEDU's accounts receivable management is getting worse with more bad debts incurred
in 2014.


After we looked into TEDU's past due accounts receivable, we saw that in 2012, TEDU
only had about $3 million in past due accounts, which rapidly increased to $6.6 million in
2013 and $18.4 million in 2014, after TEDU's aggressive marketing strategy.
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 8/18


Consider the fact that TEDU's total revenue in 2014 was $136.2 million. In the event that
we assume 30% of students choose the payment method that winds up increasing the
company's accounts receivable, and assuming revenue generated by each student is
similar, there should be only around $40 million gross revenue added to accounts
receivable in 2014. However, in 2014, past due accounts receivable increased by around
$12 million, which is around 30% of gross revenue.


In the 2014 20-F, TEDU made following disclosure about its accounts receivable:


"Understanding the difficulty for recent college graduates to afford the high tuition
fees of our courses, we offered qualified students the post-graduation tuition
payment option beginning in 2006, which led to our relatively high accounts
receivable. As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our outstanding accounts
receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, were US$17.0 million, US$15.4
million and US$24.7 million, respectively. Although we conduct financial evaluations
of our students applying to use our post-graduation tuition payment option, we do
not require collateral or other security from our students."


From this analysis, we can reasonably assume that TEDU's growth has been a result of its
aggressive marketing efforts. The obvious concern, however, is in TEDU's growing
accounts receivable number and how large that number is as a percentage of the
company's total revenue. It seems that TEDU's training services may not be recruiting
creditworthy students, but instead students who are more likely to default on their tuition
payment, especially with this recent downturn in the economy.


Reports of False Promises and Predatory Collection Tactics


We believe that TEDU's "amazing" growth story may end up being an expensive lesson
for investors. TEDU's high growth comes after strong marketing efforts that are reported to
be deceptive in nature, as reviews from different parts of China seem to contradict the
story that TEDU is offering investors and potential clients.


Sequential Revenue - TEDU


As you can see above, the company has reported very impressive sequential revenue
numbers over the last 5-6 quarters. In the company's 8/18/2015 press release, it stated,



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1592560/000114420415022976/v401846_20f.htm#rom893237_31

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tarena-international-inc-announces-second-quarter-2015-results-300129986.html
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 9/18


"We achieved a profitable quarter with a revenue growth of 29% year-over-year.
More importantly, we delivered a 43% year-over-year quarterly student enrollment
growth, another record high since becoming a public company, in the second
quarter. Such enrollment result is again due to the strong market demand for our
high quality professional education services, as well as our continued investment in
sales and marketing effort and capacity expansion."


After noticing the growth of TEDU's numbers, we wanted to understand its business and
take a look at the quality of its training. We realized that TEDU's aggressive sales and
marketing efforts may belie the actual quality of the company's training, which we believe
to be below average. Widespread online complaints regarding TEDU, written by current
and past students, are one of several red flags that we noticed in performing our diligence.


There is also this video of a CCTV news report exposing TEDU's manipulative recruiting
processes and a second video that profiles TEDU's students looking to sue the company
for misleading advertisements, false job prospect guarantees, and using
violent/threatening tactics for loan collections.


In its student recruiting process, TEDU puts up IT-related job recruiting advertisements,
but according to these videos, after potential employees begin the "job interview process,"
TEDU's career counselors try to sell them on becoming TEDU students. The videos also
claim that TEDU does not have the job placement capabilities that the company uses to
lure these students into its program to begin with.


Example Reviews


Qingdao



http://my.tv.sohu.com/us/160755972/72374843.shtml

http://it.21cn.com/itnews/a/2015/0714/18/29797871.shtml?ADUIN=11
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 10/18


"Credit Ease called me every day to collect money. I told them TEDU did not fulfill its
promise and I do not have the capability to pay back the loan, as I do not have a job.
CreditEase said that job placement doesn't have anything to do with their business,
and they only wanted to collect on their loans. They even called my family members.
TEDU's job placement promise is fake. I called TEDU to ask for refund. TEDU said
that I took the loan from CreditEase and TEDU wasn't involved in the loan issue."


宜信又天天打电话催款，我说当初达内承诺没有做到，我没工作没有能力还，宜信的


说那跟他们没关系，他们只是催还贷款，而且还给家人打骚扰电话。达内的保就 业保
底薪完全是假的，我给达内打电话，要求达内退款，达内说宜信贷款跟她们没关系，


是你向宜信贷的款，说我被公司辞退是我技术不行，可以去达内从新培训。


(Source: http://www.hebeirexian.com/html/2015/1009/121214.html)


Chongqing


"TEDU's recruitment is a bait and switch. I am from Chongqing. In 2014, I was
looking for jobs online and consulted TEDU who had posted jobs online. After that,
TEDU called me every day for an interview. I wound up not finding a job, but took out
a RMB 20,000 tuition loan."


达内科技钓鱼招生,我是重庆的学生，2014年在网上想找工作，咨询了一下招聘网上
的达内科技,于是每天接到一次达内的打电话叫我去应聘，没想到，工作没找到，却欠
下2万元的贷款


(Source: http://bbs.tianya.cn/post-no20-513985-1.shtml)


Beijing


"After I started my studies, I realized that it was impossible for me to understand the
content through the webcast. As a person without previous knowledge, it's
impossible to follow the teachers. After you ask one question, it is impossible for you
to follow up on additional content."


后来进入了正式学习 天哪 才知道 这根本都是学不会的东西 而且是多媒体教学 电视在
前面讲 没有基础的人根本都跟不上 你还没办法提问题 等你问完这个不会的问题了 下
面讲的阶段都跟不上了(Source: http://ts.21cn.com/tousu/show/id/21611)


Hangzhou



http://www.hebeirexian.com/html/2015/1009/121214.html

http://bbs.tianya.cn/post-no20-513985-1.shtml

http://ts.21cn.com/tousu/show/id/21611%29
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 11/18


"TEDU is the biggest pyramid selling group, using bait and switch to lure in
customers!"


达内科技才是中国最大的传销集团！坑蒙拐骗，钓鱼招生！！！！


(Source: http://bbs.tianya.cn/post-763-784377-1.shtml)


Dalian


"TEDU is recruiting improperly, luring young people in with vocational training with
tons of promises that result in large loan debts."


达内利用招聘,欺骗,诱惑刚步入社会的青年参加培训,口头承诺,背负高额贷款!


(Source: http://www.wlbgt.com/408.html)


In sum, these TEDU students clearly appear to be dissatisfied with the company's
services and its inability to provide the promised job placement opportunities.


Third-party financial service providers collecting on TEDU's business could probably care
less as to whether or not the company is providing the intended services - their sole
interest is likely whether or not they are getting paid. These same students also claim that
the interest rates used by TEDU's third-party financial service providers are extremely high
and some have even speculated as to whether TEDU and its financiers could be complicit
in engaging in fraud together.


TEDU Loses Traditional Banking; Now Reliant on Shadow Banking


To assist its students in paying tuition fees, TEDU formed cooperative relationships with
different credit sources to provide financing services for students to make one-time,
upfront tuition payments. Approximately 56.9% of TEDU's students that enrolled in 2013
obtained financing from these third-party service providers and approximately 55% of its
students enrolled in 2014 obtained financing from one of the three below mentioned
sources.


We took a look at all of the past and present financiers for TEDU's students, beginning
with the most reputable bank, the Bank of Beijing Consumer Finance Company, followed
by banks that are known for substantially less stringent lending requirements.



http://bbs.tianya.cn/post-763-784377-1.shtml

http://www.wlbgt.com/408.html

http://bbs.tianya.cn/post-news-335900-1.shtml
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 12/18


TEDU launched the BOB CFC student loan program in September 2012. Approximately
61.4% of TEDU students who obtained financing for tuition fees in 2013 elected BOB CFC
as the lender. However, in 2013, only 11.5% of TEDU's students who obtained financing
for tuition chose BOB CFC.


BOB CFC is under the umbrella of Bank of Beijing, an important national bank with a very
good credit system. It appears that BOB CFC is substantially decreasing its lending
service to TEDU's students. In the company's most recent 20-F, TEDU reported that its
agreement with BOB CFC expired in February 2015 and that it was in the process of
renewing their agreement.


So far, TEDU has not announced whether it renewed its agreements with BOB CFC or
not. While this remains up in the air, it is our opinion that TEDU has elected to take on
business from some far less reputable lenders.


1. CreditEase


CreditEase is definitely a significant step lower in terms of credit quality and consumer
creditworthiness than BOB CFC.


CreditEase, a credit management and microfinancing company in China, now assists
TEDU's students in obtaining loans to pay for their tuition. CreditEase utilizes a "person-
to-person" lending method to enable qualified students to borrow unsecured loans from
unrelated individuals without using a bank as an intermediary. Under this person-to-person
lending method, CreditEase identifies third-party individual lenders and matches their
lending needs with the loan demands of TEDU's students. Approximately 32.7% of
TEDU's students who obtained financing for tuition fees in 2013 obtained funding sourced
by CreditEase. In 2014, approximately 73.9% of TEDU's students who obtained financing
for tuition fees in 2014 obtained funding sourced by CreditEase.


2. Renrendai


In January 2015, TEDU also began to cooperate with Renrendai, a third-party person-to-
person lending service provider, in arranging loans for TEDU's students to pay for our
tuition fees.


3. Chuanbang


Chuanbang is also, like Bank of Beijing, no longer doing business with TEDU.
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 13/18


Chuanbang utilizes a person-to-person lending method similar to the one used by
CreditEase to assist students in obtaining loans to pay for their tuition. Chuanbang is
owned by Mr. Shaoyan Han, TEDU's chief executive officer. Chuangbang began to offer
this service to students in 2011. Approximately 5.8% of students who obtained financing in
2013 elected funding sourced by Chuanbang. Chuanbang has ceased offering financing
services to TEDU's students enrolled since January 1, 2014.


We believe that Chuangbang's departure from working with TEDU may be the result of
one or both of the following:


1. The CEO was looking to end the relationship with the company due to potential related
party transaction issues.


2. The CEO may have realized that he did not want Chuangbang to be exposed to the
same type of non-creditworthy clientele that makes up TEDU's student base.


Regardless, the CEO's shadow bank no longer has exposure to the same risk that other
shadow banks that work with TEDU have.


We can clearly see that after providing loans to TEDU's students for more than two years,
Bank of Beijing - the most credit worthy of the third-party financiers - substantially
decreased and appears to us to have recently terminated its loan services to TEDU's
students. Since Bank of Beijing ("BOB CFC") has been fading out of TEDU's business,
TEDU has been heavily reliant on lower quality "shadow banking", such as CreditEase
and Renrendai. Bank of China ("BOC") remains the only semi-reputable bank participating
in TEDU's financings - it provided loans to about 14% of students in 2014. It is obvious
that a bank such as Bank of Beijing can generally provide lower interest rates than any of
the peer-to-peer "shadow banks". Obviously, given this information, we'd expect more
students to be looking for the higher quality loans with lower interest rates - instead, we're
seeing just the opposite, as students are now more reliant on P2P lending to pay TEDU's
tuition. We can only think of three possible reasons that this change would logically take
place:


1. High student loan default rates from TEDU's students may have forced Bank of Beijing
to cease business with TEDU.


2. Less creditworthy students who may not have the necessary credit score to qualify for
a Bank of Beijing style loan.


3. TEDU may simply be getting a better deal from CreditEase on the cost of TEDU's
students.
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 14/18


CreditEase's loans to TEDU's students are clearly outside of the mainstream banking
system with a higher risk of default. The problems with these types of P2P "shadow
banking" loans are that they're outside of the banking system and have very little collateral
requirements or due diligence associated with them.


In practice, this type of lending means that the lender assumes someone else will pick up
the tab if all else fails. TEDU did not provide any details on what due diligence CreditEase
performs to assure that the loans to TEDU's students will be paid back. In China, the
entire economy is slowing down and some lower quality banks are facing default loan
risks, which we believe may eventually affect the relationship between TEDU and
CreditEase.


Before CreditEase provided third-party financial services to TEDU's students, TEDU
guaranteed the loans for the bulk of its students from Chuanbang until April 2013. It
guaranteed these loans through an arrangement with Chuanbang, which is another
shadow bank similar to CreditEase, and a related party of TEDU jointly that is controlled
by Shaoyan Han, TEDU's CEO.


This guaranteed arrangement with Chuanbang has ended, raising questions of how willing
external banks, such as CreditEase, will be to continue lending at the pace that
Chuanbang was previously - now without the guarantee by TEDU.


To conclude, TEDU remains highly reliant on shadow banking, such as CreditEase and
Renrendai, to continue its business growth. Traditional banks, such as BOB CFC, leaving
TEDU's business for unknown reasons cast further clouds over the future of the business.


In the event that Chinese banking authorities intensify their regulation of shadow banking
and/or shadow banks' system risks in China, TEDU's business may be negatively
affected.


Select Caveats


1. We are aware of two large institutional investors, including KKR and Areo Holdings, in
the stock.


2. For the story to play out in our favor, our thesis is heavily reliant on the shadow bank
funding to the company falling off.


3. The company has approved a share repurchase program.
4. The agreement with Bank of Beijing, while no longer active, according to the most


recent 20-F filing in February 2015, may be renewed in the future. We are not positive
that the company is under obligation to update its relationship with Bank of Beijing
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 15/18


publicly. This, however, doesn't change the fact that more students are clearly using
shadow banks to finance their tuition


Our Conclusions


We think it's just a matter of time before delinquent accounts or Chinese regulators catch
up to TEDU.


There has been a significant amount of attention in the United States on regulating the for-
profit education space. Over the course of the last few years, government agencies have
moved to meaningfully tighten regulation in the for-profit education field. As a result, many
of the publicly traded companies that make up these for-profit education businesses in the
U.S., such as ITT Educational Services (NYSE:ESI) and Apollo Education Group
(NASDAQ:APOL), have been decimated.


As an example, here are the stocks of ITT Educational Services and Apollo Education
Group, the holding company for University of Phoenix over the last 5 years. As you can
see, they're down 93% and 70%, respectively, largely as a result of increased regulation
and government scrutiny.


History has proven to us that Chinese regulators often like to take their cues for action and
tightening regulation from the United States. This is something that, despite our
differences with Chinese securities regulators, we commend the Chinese government for.
It also means that to us, it is reasonable to believe that Chinese regulators may begin to
crack down on deceptive, false and misleading tactics that have been used in the
vocational/for-profit education sector in China.


Why would Chinese regulators focus on for-profit education now?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ESI

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/APOL

http://money.cnn.com/2015/07/01/pf/college/for-profit-colleges-debt/

http://www.insidesources.com/u-s-follows-chinas-example-on-internet-regulation/

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/10/20/saupload_13-apol-esi.png
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 16/18


We have seen the new Chinese administration begin to crack down on previously poorly
regulated industries and we believe for-profit education/vocational companies could be
next. A recent example that we have significant experience with is the Chinese
government's recent crackdown on unregulated lottery sales within the country. This is an
industry that is vigorously regulated in the United States, and it now appears that China
may be in the process of setting up a countrywide infrastructure in order to enforce the
same type of regulation.


This brings us to TEDU


1. TEDU's aggressive recruiting campaign has resulted in numerous reports of low
satisfaction levels on the part of its customers. This aggressive recruiting campaign
may be ruining the company's training quality and reputation on an ongoing basis.
TEDU's lower student satisfaction levels and tarnished reputation may negatively
affect operations and future growth.


2. Traditional banks are leaving TEDU's high-risk business. TEDU has to rely on high-risk
shadow banking, such as CreditEase and Renrendai, for its business operations and
growth. The dependence on high-risk shadow banking may introduce regulatory and
operational risk to TEDU's future growth.


3. We believe that TEDU's accounts receivable shows that TEDU's training services have
generated a very high percentage of past due accounts, which may ultimately turn out
to be bad debt. TEDU may need to take a higher bed debt allowance in the future. In
the event that TEDU adopts a higher allowance, the bottom line will be affected
negatively.


4. The Chinese economy is rapidly slowing down. TEDU's business performance may
unavoidably be influenced by the country's macroeconomic situation. Considering the
lower student satisfaction and poor reputation, we believe that TEDU's expansion in
the future could move significantly slower - and that the business may even contract.


Valuation


We see the value of TEDU's shares as having limited upside with more substantial
downside. The upside is likely limited by the issues hanging over the company, not the
least of which is that 55% of the company's students obtain financing for their tuition fees
through third-party financing companies. Given the poor online reviews by students
concerning the quality of TEDU's courses and lack of job prospects after completing them,
the likelihood that a significant percentage of disgruntled students will default on their
loans is high. This is already evident in TEDU's deteriorating aging of A/R, indicating it is
very likely that third-party financing companies are also facing increased default rates with



http://www.zdnet.com/article/new-chinese-regulation-hits-online-lottery-sellers-alibaba-tencent/
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 17/18


TEDU's students. If that is the case, third-party financing will become much more difficult
for students to obtain and/or more expensive. If the cost of loans to students becomes too
great, third-party lenders may find themselves exposed to government sanctions for
predatory lending practices. Longer term, third-party financing of tuition could simply dry
up, inhibiting TEDU's ability to attract new students. We believe this is an issue that will
erode TEDU's growth prospects and business model over time.


If the company begins to face difficulties in maintaining its third-party financing
relationships, the valuation scenario that we have presented could be very generous since
cash and profitability would likely take a major hit.


The downside for TEDU's shares could be significant, 28% or more from the recent
trading price of $9.71. We see three factors that could pressure shares of TEDU.


Valuing the shares at 10x the average analyst estimate for 2016.
Valuing the shares at 2x estimated cash and time deposits per fully diluted share at
December 31, 2015. The company had $182.5 million cash and short- and long-term
time deposits at June 30, 2015, and given recent trends that amount should reach
$200 million or more by year end.
Although, assigning a value is not possible, considering the possibility that TEDU's
students are no longer able to secure third-party financing to pay for tuition. That would
put 55% of TEDU's current revenue stream in jeopardy with unknown consequences
as management attempts to adapt.


Given TEDU's circumstances, we believe a short-term price target of $7.00 is reasonable
based on EPS estimates for 2016 and the cash and time deposits the company is likely to
have on hand at year end:


10x FY 2016 EPS average analysts' estimates ('A') : $7.10
2x Cash and time deposits per fully diluted share ('B') : $6.87
Target price : $7.00


Notes:


Source average analysts' 2016 estimates per Yahoo! Finance


Based on financial statements reported by TEDU @ June 30, 2015


If the company begins to face difficulties in maintaining its third-party financing
relationships, these price targets could be very generous since cash and profitability would
likely take a major hit.
5/23/2018 Aging Receivables And The Potential Loss Of Legitimate Banking Partner May Teach Tarena International's Investors A Hard Lesson - T…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3588816-aging-receivables-potential-loss-legitimate-banking-partner-may-teach-tarena-internationals 18/18


