Things gained through unjust fraud are never secure.
- Sophocles


Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group and other contributors to this report have short positions in UTA  
(and/or options of the stock), and therefore stand to realize significant gains if the price of UTA’s stock declines.  Following publication of this  
report, Glaucus Research Group and other contributors to this report intend to continue to buy or sell securities issued by UTA and may take  
long, short or neutral positions at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an  
offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under  
the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  We have obtained all information set forth in this report from public sources which we believe to be  
credible.  All information set forth in this report is presented “as is” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied.  Glaucus  
Research Group makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with the  
results obtained from its use.  Glaucus Research Group’s research, opinions and conclusions should be used at your own risk.  All expressions of  
opinion are subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group does not undertake any duty to update or supplement this report or  
any information contained herein.


Universal Travel Group Inc. Announces Resignation of its Auditors


On April 14, 2011, a little over a month after the Glaucus Research Group released a  report detailing 
various  accounting  irregularities  and  fraud  at  Universal  Travel  Group,  Inc.  (“UTA”),  Windes  & 
McClaughry Accountancy Corporation ("Windes") resigned as UTA’s independent auditor.  The NYSE 
has halted trading in shares of UTA.  


Windes stated in its  resignation  letter that  “management  and the Audit  committee  were unwilling to 
cooperate and help facilitate the audit process…  In addition, recent statements made and/or positions 
taken  by  the  Audit  Committee  and/or  Management,  appeared  to  impair  our  independence  thereby 
prohibiting us from rendering an opinion on the December 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements.”
According  to  PR  Newswire,  “Windes  stated  [its  resignation]  was  due  in  part  to  the  Company's  
management and/or the Audit Committee being non-responsive, unwilling or reluctant to proceed in good 
faith and imposing scope limitations on Windes' audit procedures.  Windes also stated that it had lost  
confidence  in  the  Board  of  Director's  and  the  Audit  Committee's  commitment  to  sound  corporate  
governance and reliable financial reporting.”1  


UTA replaced Windes with EFP Rotenberg & Co, LLP, who will be the company’s  6th auditor in five 
years.  We will be watching.  


1 http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/universal-travel-group-inc-appoints-efp-rotenberg--co-llp-as-
independent-auditors-subject-to-clearing-client-acceptance-procedures-119872339.html 


Glaucus Research Group
April 15, 2011


UNIVERSAL TRAVEL GROUP (UTA)



http://www.glaucusresearch.com/Research.html

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/universal-travel-group-inc-appoints-efp-rotenberg--co-llp-as-independent-auditors-subject-to-clearing-client-acceptance-procedures-119872339.html

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/universal-travel-group-inc-appoints-efp-rotenberg--co-llp-as-independent-auditors-subject-to-clearing-client-acceptance-procedures-119872339.html

http://sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1336644/000114420411022074/v218638_ex16-1.htm
