“May you live in interesting times.”  -  Robert Kennedy 























On October 22, 2015, we published our investment opinion (the “Report”) on Real Nutriceutical Group Limited 


(2010.HK) (“Real Nutri” or the “Company”), a PRC based producer of nutritional supplements and health 


drinks.1  In our Report we presented publicly available evidence, including PRC government filings, tax 


rankings, and the results of retail channel checks, which in our opinion, indicate that Real Nutri’s sales and net 


income are substantially less than reported to investors and regulators in the Company’s Hong Kong filings.   


On December 24, Real Nutri responded with a Clarification Announcement (the “Clarification”).  Real Nutri 


took 64 days to respond to basic questions about its business.  Given the length of time, we expected better.   





In our opinion, Real Nutri’s Clarification is a textbook example of a Company caught defrauding investors that 


has and will say anything, no matter how far-fetched or unlikely, to remain in the capital markets.   In this 


rebuttal, not only do we present NEW evidence that Real Nutri does not pay the amount of taxes that it 


claims (and thus does not generate the net income that it claims) but we also pick apart the Clarification 


line by line to show just how ridiculous Real Nutri’s explanations really are.  





With every answer in the Clarification, Real Nutri hides important details in the hopes that investors will not 


stress test or check the Company’s claims.  Take for its example its retail presence.  Real Nutri claims to have 


200 Real Nutri Health stores.  In our Report, an investigator took pictures of a number of Real Nutri’s store 


locations that were closed, indicating, in our opinion that the Company has fabricated its retail store count.  True 


to form, Real Nutri said that the stores we visited had moved but failed to provide a complete list of 


addresses of its retail stores.  We directly challenge the Company: if your retail store count is true, then 


provide the addresses of all 200 stores and we will visit each one.  If not, investors will know that Real Nutri is 


lying about its retail presence.  





Even the publication date of the Clarification, Christmas Eve (Dec. 24th), appears a premeditated attempt to slip 


back into the market unnoticed.  Why else would the Company issue such a presumptively important 


announcement on a date when most investors, journalists and analysts are on holiday, out of the office, or are 


otherwise occupied with friends and family.   





                                                             
1 Our Report is available for download at our website: https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-
content/uploads/downloads/2015/10/GlaucusResearch-Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Strong_Sell_Oct_21_2015.pdf.  


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is not 


investment advice nor should it be construed as such. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the 


securities covered herein. We have a short interest in Real Nutri’s stock and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instruments 


declines. Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


COMPANY:  Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010 


INDUSTRY:  Nutritional Supplements 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/10/GlaucusResearch-Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Strong_Sell_Oct_21_2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/10/GlaucusResearch-Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Strong_Sell_Oct_21_2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/10/GlaucusResearch-Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Strong_Sell_Oct_21_2015.pdf
2 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





But the Company will not be able to hide for long.  Real Nutri announced in its Clarification that “the board 


and audit committee … decided that the Company shall voluntarily engage an independent professional Big 


Four accounting firm to conduct an independent review on all allegations…”2 





We are of the opinion that there is nothing voluntary about this independent review, which is standard procedure 


when such credible evidence exists that a listed Company is fabricating its financial performance.  We are also 


of the opinion that the Company will fail this independent review, miserably.  In order to properly conduct an 


independent review of Real Nutri, the big four firm conducting the independent investigation must:  





 Verify VAT returns from the State Administration of Taxation and VAT invoices of the Company’s 
subsidiaries. 


 Conduct surprise visits to the Company’s factories to verify activity level and production. 


 Independently verify Real Nutri’s 200 retail stores. 


 Independently investigate Real Nutri’s largest customers and suppliers. 


 Inquire into independent sales rankings (like CMH). 


 Obtain invoices directly from advertising agencies and media vendors to verify Real Nutri’s supposed 
spending, including the review of marketing campaigns and of media time (TV, billboards, online) 


purchased by the Company. 


 Investigate the related parties mentioned in our Report. 
 


Real Nutri’s Clarification is so poor that it only solidifies our conviction that the Company has massively 


fabricated its reported revenues and profitability.  We do not believe that the Company will pass either its annual 


audit by Deloitte on its FY 2015 financials or any bona-fide independent investigation conducted by a big four 


accounting firm.  





In our opinion, Real Nutri has simply failed in any meaningful way to address the wealth of clear and 


convincing evidence that the Company’s sales and profits are substantially less than reported to 


investors.    





We confidently stand by our Report and continue to value Real Nutri’s equity at HKD 0.00.


                                                             
2 Clarification, p. 27.
Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                                          www.glaucusresearch.com 





I. New Tax Evidence 
 


Since our Report, we have uncovered new evidence indicating that Real Nutri does not pay the amount of 


taxes that it claims and thus generates far less net income than it reports in its public filings.  


In April 2013, the Xinhua news agency published a tax rankings based on information obtained directly 


from the Jiangsu provincial office of the State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”), which lists the top 100 


tax payers in Jiangsu province in 2012.   


The rankings include both VAT and income taxes paid, and there is a detailed description from the head of 


the SAT as to how the list in compiled.  Participation in the rankings is not voluntary.  Rather, the rankings 


are compiled according to the taxes received by the SAT. 





Based on the reported financial performance of Real Nutri’s primary operating subsidiary in the 


Clarification,3 we estimate that Ruinian Industry paid RMB 197 million in income taxes and RMB 191 


million in VAT in 2012 for a total of RMB 389 million in total taxes paid in 2012. 


                                                             
3 Clarification, p.6. states that Ruinian Industry accounted for 93% of the Company’s revenues in 2012, thus we estimate it paid 


93% of the Company’s reported income tax and 93% of its VAT. 



http://xhrb.jschina.com.cn/mp2/page/1/2013-04-09/A04/38981365447761265.pdf
4 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





The threshold for the top 100 taxpayers in the 2012 Jiangsu tax rankings was RMB 280 million, so if Real 


Nutri’s reported financials are true, Ruinian Industry should have easily made this list. 





As any investor can see, it does not.   





Ruinian Industry Reported Taxes Paid in 2012


RMB mm 2012


197        


192        


389        


280        


Source: Clarification, p. 6; Xinhua Daily; Glaucus Calculation


Estimated Income Tax for Ruinian Industry


Estimated VAT Tax for Ruinian Industry


Estimated Total Tax for Ruinian Industry


Threshold of Top 100 taxes payer in Jiangsu - 2012



http://jsnews.jschina.com.cn/system/2014/04/24/020839771.shtml
5 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





Ruinian Industry should have easily made the rankings of top 100 taxpayers in Jiangsu in 2012, yet is 


conspicuously absent from the list.  But the rankings do include SSPC, ranked #87, which, as discussed in 


our Report, was mentioned as one of the two highest tax paying manufacturers by the Binhu district report. 


This is further evidence that Real Nutri does not pay the taxes it claims, and thus does not generate the net 


income reported in its Hong Kong filings.  


There is a way for regulators, the primary auditor, the auditors conducting the special investigation and 


investors to further confirm whether Real Nutri pays the amount of taxes it claims (and thus earns the net 


income that it claims).  We estimate, conservatively, that Ruinian Industry should have paid at least RMB 


181 million in VAT for FY 2013.  We challenge the Company to make available its VAT returns from the 


State Administration of Taxation.  Such records are non-public, so we have no way to access them, but any 


PRC-based Company should have VAT returns readily available.  


VAT invoices, unlike other public records, are difficult to fake because VAT invoices have a computer 


generated code which can be verified online.  Indeed, some fraudulent companies have been caught because 


they presented false VAT invoices.  


If the Company is telling the truth, then we challenge them to make public the VAT returns for both Ruinian 


Industry and Wuxi Biotech and its 10 largest VAT invoices for FYs 2011-2014.  These invoices should be 


readily available.  We believe that such evidence will confirm what the Binhu government corporate tax 


report and what the new tax evidence presented here already says: that Real Nutri pays nowhere near the 


amount of taxes it claims because it has largely fabricated its reported revenues and profits.
6 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





II. Mofcom Filings Indicate Real Nutri Massively Exaggerated Sales and Profits 
 


In our Report, we highlighted publicly available filings from the Ministry of Commerce (“Mofcom”), which 


show that Real Nutri’s two primary operating subsidiaries, Wuxi Ruinian Industry & Commerce Co., 


Limited (“Ruinian Industry”) and Wuxi Zhenqian Bio-Technology (“Wuxi Biotech”), which together 


account for over 90% of the Company’s reported revenues and profits; only generated RMB 839 million 


in combined revenues from 2011-2013, 84% less than reported to Hong Kong investors and 


regulators.  Mofcom filings also show that rather than generate RMB 1.97 billion in operating profits from 


2011-2013 (as reported), Real Nutri’s primary operating subsidiaries only generated RMB 26 million in 


operating profits over that period, which is 99% less than reported in HKEX filings.  


a. Real Nutri Argues our Financial Statements are “Budgets” 


Real Nutri states that our Mofcom filings are “foreign exchange reports” which “came from certain budget 


data submitted by the [Company] to the local district Finance Bureau … at the request of local government 


departments.”4  According to Real Nutri, each year, the local governments “requested Ruinian Industry and 


Wuxi Biotech respectively to submit their budget financial data only for that year [and only for sales 


in Zhejiang province]… to the local district Finance Bureau to enable Taihu District Government and 


Xishan District Government to compile their statistics… based on the minimum target budget.” 


Real Nutri argues that the Mofcom filings in our Report, which contained an income statement and balance 


sheet for each subsidiary, were in fact prospective budgets submitted at the request of local government.   


This explanation is complete nonsense.  First, any investor can clearly see that the financials provided in 


our Report are labelled “income statement” and not “budget.”   


Second, the Mofcom filings in our Report are obviously retrospective (like a financial statement), and 


not prospective (like a budget), because they include the previous year’s financial data.  For example, 


below is the 2013 Mofcom filing of Ruinian Industry, which includes historical financials for 2012, which 


would never be included in a budget.  


Finally, the financial statements we provided are incredibly specific, as we would expect for a financial 


statement, and not vague, like a budget.  For example, the excerpt below states that Real Nutri’s primary 


operating subsidiary, Ruinian Industry, generated an operating profit of RMB 5,676,581.68 in 2013 and 


RMB 13,356,438.84 in 2012.  Likewise, the filing states that the subsidiary’s revenues were RMB 


252,414,328.09 in 2013 and 226,486,824.28 in 2012.  If these were budgets (and not financial 


statements) wouldn’t the numbers be vague estimates, and not numbers listed down to the decimal 


place? 


A real budget projects RMB 220-250 million in sales, not RMB 252,414,328.09 in sales.  The specificity 


of the record shows the absurdity of Real Nutri’s contention that these records are budgets and not financial 


statements.    


                                                             
4 Clarification, p. 8.
7 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 








Source: 2013 Mofcom Filings – Ruinian Industry 








Source: 2012 Mofcom Filings – Ruinian Industry
8 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 








Note that the 2013 Mofcom filings have the exact same historical financials for FY 2012 as the 2012 


Mofcom filings, which would not be the case if these financials were simply a “budget.”  That would only 


be the case if these Mofcom filings contained actual financials. 


These records raise another question.  If our filings are “budgets,” then why are they so low (i.e. profits are 


99% less than reported and revenues are 80% less than reported)?  Real Nutri tries to explain that the 


“budget data were compiled on a conservative approach” for sales in “Zhejiang Province (including 


Shanghai) only but not including others sales markets… in other provinces in the PRC.”5 


This makes no sense.  Why would the Taihu District Government and Xishan District Government ask for 


sales figures from another province (Zhejiang)?  


Furthermore, if local governments want a budget, it is because they want to project tax revenues.  The 


Company claims that both subsidiaries had to submit a budget to their local governments (in the district in 


which they are located).  If this was the case, then the budget should include all the projected sales 


(regardless of province), because that would establish the projected taxes that Ruinian Industry and Wuxi 


Biotech would have to pay their respective local governments.  Even under the Company’s broken logic, 


the budgets would have to project all revenues expected to be generated by the subsidiaries that will pay 


taxes to the local government.   


The notion that the financial statements included in our Report are merely “budgets” is obviously complete 


nonsense, a desperate attempt by a Company caught with its hand in the cookie jar.   


b. Mofcom Filings 


Next, Real Nutri attempts to spread confusion about Mofcom filings in a misguided attempt to undermine 


damning evidence showing that its sales and profits are significantly less than reported to Hong Kong 


investors.6  


First, Real Nutri mistakenly states that “the records at AIC are the only publicly available and authoritative 


source of the financial information of Ruinian Industry and Wuxi Biotech that were filed at PRC 


government departments and for their taxation purpose.”  This is simply false and shows how little Real 


Nutri understands PRC public record and filing requirements.   


As stated in the report, wholly-foreign owned enterprises (“WFOE”) are required by law to submit Mofcom 


filings annually.  In addition, as a registered company in the PRC, WFOEs are also required to annual 


submit filings to the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (“SAIC”; 國家工商行政管理總).   


The submission of Mofcom and SAIC filings are done separately via two channels.  WFOEs submit SAIC 


filings directly to SAIC offices in the local jurisdiction in which they operate.  By comparison, WFOEs 


submit Mofcom filings directly to the Mofcom office as part of a joint-reporting system.   It is called joint-


reporting system because the WFOE’s Mofcom filings are transmitted to and used by other PRC agencies, 


including the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”; 國家外匯管理局), National Bureau 


of Statistics of the PRC (“NBS”; 國家统计局), State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”; 國家税務總局


), Ministry of Finance (“MoF”; 財政部),etc…7   


                                                             
5 Clarification, p. 8. 
6 It is interesting that Real Nutri authenticates our records, stating that they came from a local filings.   
7 http://www.lhnj.gov.cn/ ; http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/b/f/201202/20120207989274.shtml  
 



http://www.lhnj.gov.cn/

http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/b/f/201202/20120207989274.shtml
9 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 








SAIC filings and Mofcom filings are supposed to contain the exact same data (a WFOE’s annual financials), 


but as shown in the diagram above, the filings are submitted to separate agencies.  That disconnect creates 


an opportunity for companies to submit false and misleading SAIC filings without being caught by PRC 


authorities.   


Because financial data in the Mofcom filings are eventually transmitted to the SAT, we believe it is far less 


likely that a company would fabricate financial data submitted to a tax authority.  By contrast, SAIC filings 


are typically reviewed locally, so an entity submitting false filings to a local SAIC office would not risk 


repercussions with the NBS, SAT, SAFE or the MoF.  We therefore think it is much more difficult to fake 


a Mofcom filing, and as a result, such filings are likely to be much more accurate and reliable source of 


publicly available information about a listed company.       


c. Hiding in the Dark 


Real Nutri complains that the Mofcom records provided in our Report were not official Mofcom records.  


Instead, the Company states that it has obtained supposedly true and accurate copies of its Mofcom records 


and its SAIC filings, which supposedly corroborate the financial data presented to investors in the 


Company’s Hong Kong filings.  


First, it is critical to note the Company is eager to conceal from market participants it’s supposedly 


“accurate records.”  Real Nutri fails to even include snapshots of the financial statements which 


purportedly exonerate it.  


Rather, Real Nutri states that any interested investor can only review the filings under the watchful eye of 


the Company’s lawyers during a 14-day period over the holidays.  We assume that investors will not be 


allowed to make copies of the records, even though they supposedly contain the same financial data as in 


the Company’s Hong Kong filings.  


This is no accident.  By limiting access to its documents, Real Nutri is attempting to avoid scrutiny of its 


records by market participants.  After all, if such records are accurate and publicly available, why not make 


them available to be analyzed and tested in the crucible of market opinion? Only those with something to 


hide make a concerted effort not to ensure documents are not widely disseminated. 


We believe that the Company is presenting fabricated Mofcom and SAIC filings in an effort to continually 


deceive investors and regulators about the performance and profitability of its underlying business.  


WFOE 


SAIC 


filings 


Mofcom 


filings 


Joint-reporting system Directly to SAIC 


SAIC SAT Mofcom SAFE MoF NBS 


Submit 


Used by
10 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





The notion that the publicly available records in our Report were merely “conservative budgets” and not 


financial statements is laughably false.  It simply demonstrates the desperation with which the Company 


will reach for any excuse, no matter how ridiculous, to attack black and white evidence showing that its net 


income and revenues are substantially less than reported.    


III. Tax Rankings Indicate Net Income a Fraction of Reported Figures 





If Real Nutri’s Hong Kong financials are true, we estimate that Real Nutri’s primary operating subsidiary, 


Ruinian Industry, whose headquarters and production base are located in Binhu district, Wuxi city, in the 


province of Jiangsu, should have paid RMB 351 million in taxes in 2013 (income taxes and VAT).  Yet the 


Binhu district government released a report regarding its 2013 tax base, stating that only two 


manufacturing companies, Sino Swede Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd (“SSPC”) and Koso (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 


(“Koso”), paid over RMB 100 million in taxes in 2013 (combined VAT and income taxes).  Ruinian 


Industry’s omission from the Binhu district’s 2013 tax report suggests that Real Nutri did not pay the 


amount of taxes that it claims (and thus generates far less net income than it claims) in its public filings. 


Real Nutri’s response is twofold.  First, it claims that the article is not official because it was not published 


on the official website of the Jiangsu Wuxi Municipal Office of the State Administration of Tax.8 This is 


irrelevant, considering, as the Company admits, that the article was published on the official website of 


the Binhu district government of Wuxi city.  Local governments frequently publish tax lists in China as 


an advertisement for the local economy, which is why such tax lists a rich source of due diligence on 


Company’s like Real Nutri that we believe are fabricating sales and profits.  There is no disputing that the 


Binhu district government would have the data on its tax base, making the report a reliable source of tax 


information.      


Real Nutri’s second response is that the Binhu district tax list is not an “exhaustive list.”8  The Company 


claims that the tax list is merely highlighting SSPC and Koso as two large taxpayers, but does not state that 


SSPC and Koso are the only tax payers to pay over RMB 100 million. 


This is absurd.  First, the literal translation of the report is that SSPC and Koso are the two companies 


paying over RMB 100 million in taxes.  It does not say that SSPC and Koso are “among” the companies 


paying over that amount, or that the two firms are “examples” of high taxpayers.  It says, as any investor 


can see, that Koso and SSPC are the two companies that paid over RMB 100 million in taxes.  There is 


nothing to support the Company’s contention that the list is not exhaustive. 





Stable growth of fiscal income:  The total annual fiscal income reached RMB14.8bn, growth of 5%.  


Public fiscal budget income was RMB7.65bn, growth of 5.9%.  Tax income from manufacturing 


reached RMB4.03bn while two enterprises namely SPCC and Koso paid over RMB100m of tax…  


Source: http://www.wxbh.gov.cn/bhmh/sitePages/subPages/1360019001484500.html?sourceChannelId=197&did=337878 


                                                             
8 Clarification, p. 10. 



http://www.wxbh.gov.cn/bhmh/sitePages/subPages/1360019001484500.html?sourceChannelId=197&did=337878

http://www.wxbh.gov.cn/bhmh/sitePages/subPages/1360019001484500.html?sourceChannelId=197&did=337878
11 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





Moreover, why would the local government publish an article about the highest tax contributors in its 


district and mention Koso and SSPC, which combined paid over RMB 200 million in taxes, and fail to 


mention a company that supposedly paid over RMB 350 million in taxes (RMB ~180 million in VAT 


and RMB ~170 million in income taxes) in 2013?  


It would be like an article about the results of a running race that only mentions the time of the 3rd and 4th 


place runners, but fails to even mention the winner who ran by far the fastest time.  It would not happen. 


To put in context Ruinian Industry’s purported contribution, if Real Nutri’s Hong Kong filings are true, 


then we estimate that Ruinian Industry’s tax contributions should accounted for approximately 8.7% of the 


Binhu district’s total tax revenues from manufacturing.  It would be a much larger contributor to the 


district’s tax revenues than either Koso or SSPC. 





If the Company’s reported financials are true, Ruinian Industry would account for almost 10% of the 


Binhu government corporate tax revenues from manufacturing, making it by far the biggest local 


manufacturer (by revenues, profits and taxes) and almost certainly the highlight of any article that singles 


out the top tax paying companies in the district.   


In our opinion, the fact that the government fails to even mention Real Nutri but highlights the contribution 


of two other, smaller tax payers, indicates that Real Nutri pays far less in taxes than it claims; meaning its 


net income is actually a small fraction of the net income figure reported to Hong Kong investors and 


regulators. 








Binhu District's Biggest Tax Payer?


RMB mm 2013


4,030         


Ruinian Industry Est. VAT 181            


Ruinian Industry Est. Income Tax 170            


Ruinian Industry Total Est. Tax 351            


  %  Contribution 8.7%


Binhu District Total Tax Income From Manufacturing
12 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





IV. We Meet Again, Mr. Poon 


In our Report, we highlighted that Real Nutri’s CFO, Mr. Poon Yick Pang, served as the director of finance 


for China Medical Technologies (“CMED”), a US-listed company which Glaucus exposed as a massive 


fraud in 2011.  Shortly thereafter, CMED went dark, wiping out 100% of shareholder equity and leaving 


bond holders with $426 million in unpaid debt.  CMED filed for bankruptcy in August 2012 and was 


subsequently liquidated.1F9  Today, CMED serves as a cautionary tale for investors who put their faith in 


the wrong people.  After we exposed CMED’s fraud, Real Nutri tried to conceal Mr. Poon’s connection to 


the disgraced company by removing any reference to CMED in his biography in the Company’s annual 


reports.   


Real Nutri’s response is that Mr. Poon was merely the “director of finance [of CMED] from July 2007 to 


June 2008 and he was mainly responsible for assisting and providing supportive work to the then chief 


financial officer of CMED in mergers and acquisitions.”10  


First, if Mr. Poon’s association with CMED was not a big deal, why did Real Nutri change its disclosures 


of Mr. Poon’s work experience in its annual reports to purposefully omit any mention of his association 


with CMED? 


More importantly, Real Nutri attempts to minimize Mr. Poon’s role at CMED, as if a position titled 


“director of finance” was not at all involved in a massive financial fraud.  Indeed, Real Nutri states that 


he was mainly responsible for assisting in “mergers and acquisitions” between 2007 and 2008.  


The problem is that the key element of CMED’s fraud was embezzling money from the Company 


through fake acquisitions of a shell company secretly controlled by CMED’s chairman, which 


occurred in November 2007! 


Interested parties can read our full report on CMED (available at our website, or by clicking here).  On 


November 26, 2007, supposedly when Mr. Poon was mainly responsible for CMED’s M&A, CMED 


announced the acquisition of Beijing Bio-Ekon Biotechnology Co., Ltd. (“BBE”) from an allegedly 


independent third party for USD 28.8 million, consideration to be paid in cash.  


But according to publicly available filings, (a) the alleged ‘independent third-party seller’ was the executive 


assistant to CMED’s chairman and CEO and (b) BBE was worth at most between USD 5-8 million. The 


evidence indicates that CMED’s chairman and CEO used a complex web of international shell companies 


and connected persons to embezzle between USD 20-23 million from CMED’s investors. 


Mr. Poon was CMED’s director of finance mainly responsible for M&A in 2007 and 2008, meaning his 


tenure coincided with a fraudulent acquisition of a shell company from a party secretly related to CMED’s 


Chairman.211  We also believe, and subsequent events support, that during this time, CMED filed false 


financial statements which deliberately inflated the Company’s reported sales and profits.     


This may be stating the obvious, but reputable and trustworthy companies do not employ CFOs who served 


as a director of finance for a stock scam which defrauded shareholders and bondholders.  We believe that 


Real Nutri is perpetuating a similar fraud on the market, and the fact that it employs a disgraced CFO 


strongly supports our investment opinion.    





                                                             
9 http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2012-08-31/china-medical-technologies-files-chapter-15-bankruptcy  
10 Clarification, p. 11.  
11 https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2011/12/GlaucusResearch-China_Medical-CMED-


Strong_Sell_December_6_2011.pdf   



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2011/12/GlaucusResearch-China_Medical-CMED-Strong_Sell_December_6_2011.pdf

http://www.law360.com/articles/623487/ch-15-liquidator-renews-push-for-paul-weiss-docs

http://www.law360.com/articles/623487/ch-15-liquidator-renews-push-for-paul-weiss-docs

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2011/12/GlaucusResearch-China_Medical-CMED-Strong_Sell_December_6_2011.pdf

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2012-08-31/china-medical-technologies-files-chapter-15-bankruptcy

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2011/12/GlaucusResearch-China_Medical-CMED-Strong_Sell_December_6_2011.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2011/12/GlaucusResearch-China_Medical-CMED-Strong_Sell_December_6_2011.pdf
13 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





V. Customers are Undisclosed Related Parties 





In its prospectus, Real Nutri claimed that two of its five largest customers, distributors Wuxi Lianren 


Trading Co., Ltd. (“Lianren”) and Wuxi Zongwei Logistics co., Ltd. (“Wuxi Logistics”), were “independent 


third parties.”  But evidence suggests that both customers are in fact related parties controlled by Real 


Nutri’s Chairman Wang Fucai.   


Real Nutri denies that either party is related, but its explanation for the evidence presented in our Report is 


among the more ridiculous explanations we have encountered in the capital markets.   


a. Lianren 


In our Report, we provided links to two job postings by Lianren, one from 2014, in which Lianren advertises 


itself as a subsidiary of Real Nutri.  In response, Real Nutri claims that both job postings are inaccurate and 


that it has contacted Lianren to correct the error.12 


Investors must decide for themselves, but we find Real Nutri’s excuse that Lianren’s postings were in error 


to be weak.   


Both job postings certainly do not seem inadvertent.  In each posting, Lianren describes in detail the 


corporate history of Real Nutri.  The postings each state that Real Nutri was founded in 1997 and listed on 


the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2010.  The postings also describe, in detail, Real Nutri’s other 


subsidiaries, including Wuxi Biotech, Ruinian Industry and Lianren.  Indeed, most of Lianren’s job postings 


are dedicated to describing Real Nutri.  


 
Source: http://life-phar.njtech.edu.cn/view.asp?id=6706&class=850 


                                                             
12 Clarification, p. 12. 


 



http://life-phar.njtech.edu.cn/view.asp?id=6706&class=850
14 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: http://bys.ujs.edu.cn/home/company_show/com_id/1672 





Looking at the above job postings, it hardly seems likely that Lianren would fabricate in such detail its 


connection to Real Nutri.    


After all, if Lianren was lying in its job posts, what would happen when candidates actually respond to the 


posts and visit for interviews? If Lianren was truly not a subsidiary of Real Nutri and had submitted false 


information in its job posting, wouldn’t candidate immediately discover that Lianren was not a part of Real 


Nutri? How would Lianren ever get a candidate to accept a job offer if it was so obviously fabricating the 


basic nature of its business?  


Imagine if a company posted a job opening for Apple, but once candidates arrived for an interview, they 


found that the firm was just a reseller of Apple products? No one would accept a job offer, and most 


candidates would likely walk out.  Fabricating the bulk of a job posting would be counter-productive for 


any business looking to hire quality candidates.   


We believe that Lianren is obviously a related party and find the excuse that Lianren was posting false 


information on recruiting websites to be a ridiculous excuse by a Company that has and will say anything, 


no matter how far-fetched or unlikely, to remain in the capital markets.    


b. Wuxi Logistics 


In our Report, we pointed out that Wuxi Logistics, which the Company claims is an independent third party, 


has the same registered address as Company subsidiary Wuxi Ruinian Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Ruinian 


Pharmaceutical”).  In its Clarification, the Company states that the addresses are similar but different and 


describe difference locations.  Any investor who is still on the fence about whether Real Nutri is credible 


need only consider this point.   


In our report, we showed two public records showing that both Wuxi Logistics and Company subsidiary 


Ruinian Pharmaceutical are registered at No. 102 Furongzhong No. 2 Road, Xishan Economic 


Development Area, Wuxi: 


 



http://bys.ujs.edu.cn/home/company_show/com_id/1672
15 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: http://gsxt.saic.gov.cn/ 


Source: http://www.ganji.com/gongsi/28116338/ 








Both companies obviously list the same address.  But what comes next is perhaps more interesting.  Only 


eight days following our report, Company subsidiary Wuxi Ruinian Pharmaceuticals changed its address 


to No. 103 Furongzhong No. 1 Road, Xishan Economic Development Area, Wuxi: 





 



http://gsxt.saic.gov.cn/

http://www.ganji.com/gongsi/28116338/
16 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 








Source: http://www.jsgsj.gov.cn 


SAIC records show that only eight days after our Report, the Company subsidiary changed its registered 


address. It does not change the fact that prior to our alerting the market, both the Company’s subsidiary and 


its customer shared the same registered address at No. 102 Furongzhong No. 2 road. The address of the 


subsidiary was only changed after our Report because Real Nutri knew it was caught.  


In our opinion, this is an obvious attempt at a cover up.  If the addresses were slightly different, as the 


Company claims in its Clarification, then why did Company need to change the registered address of 


its subsidiary eight days later?  


Change of company 


address


No. 102 Furong Zhong No. 2 Rd, 


Xishan Economic Development 


No. 103 Furong Zhong No. 1 Rd, 


Xishan Economic Development 


Wuxi Ruinian Pharmaceutical Co., 


No. 103 Furong Zhong No. 1 Rd, 


Xishan Economic Development 


October 30, 


2015
17 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





Furthermore, we highlighted a publicly available court record in which one of Wuxi Logistics’ primary 


shareholders, Fan Xijuan, states that she is also a current employee of Ruinian Zhiye, which is owned by 


Chairman Wang Fucai. 


Real Nutri’s response is so far-fetched it actually deserves to be quoted in full.  The Clarification states that 


neither Mr. Wang Fucai nor any of his companies has ever employed Fan Xijuan.  Instead, Real Nutri 


claims that because Ms. Fan Xijuan had “encountered similar kinds of commercial dispute in which Mr. 


Wang Fucai’s company was involved and Ms. Fan Xijuan was more familiar with the legal proceedings of 


such kind of dispute, Mr. Wang Fucai asked [her] to attend the legal proceedings for his company.”13 


At the proceedings, Real Nutri claims that “Ms. Fan Xijuan inadvertently stated that she was an 


employee of Mr. Wang Fucai’s company, so that she would be allowed by the local court to assist in … 


the legal proceedings.”14 


This explanation is laughable.  Are we to believe that Ms. Fan Xijuan, a shareholder of one of Real Nutri’s 


supposedly independent customers, lied to a PRC court by pretending to be Mr. Wang Fucai’s employee 


so that she could represent his company in a litigation proceeding?   


This makes no sense.  If her familiarity with a litigation matter was critical to Mr. Wang Fucai’s legal 


strategy, she could certainly advise his attorneys appropriately without having to appear in the court as 


the Company’s designated legal representative under the claim that she was one of Mr. Wang Fucai’s 


employees. 


Also, it does not appear as if she could have “inadvertently” mentioned she was an employee as Real Nutri 


wants to claim.  She is not listed in the public record as one of many representatives.  She is listed as the 


sole legal designated representative because according to a public court document, she is an employee of 


Mr. Wang Fucai.  The record is black and white. 


 
Source: http://caseshare.cn/full/126159159.html 


                                                             
13 Clarification, p. 12. 
14 Clarification, p. 12. 



http://caseshare.cn/full/126159159.html
18 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 








If she was not an employee, why would she lie in a court of law merely because she was helping out Mr. 


Wang Fucai in his litigation? If Real Nutri’s explanation was true, why wouldn’t she simply advise the 


litigation? Why did she have to appear as the sole designated representative?  


At some point, investors must recognize the pattern in Real Nutri’s response.  We point out hard evidence 


showing that the Company has lied to investors, and Real Nutri concocts a highly unlikely and complicated 


“explanation” for why investors should not believe the evidence staring them in the face.   


In our opinion, the evidence indicates that both supposedly independent customers are in fact undisclosed 


related parties.  We believe that this is another clear violation of Hong Kong listing rules and a material 


misrepresentation to Hong Kong investors and regulators.
19 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





VI. On-Site Due Diligence Confirms Exaggerated Retail Presence 





On-site channel checks of the Company’s retail presence, both at Real Nutri stores and third party 


distributors through which Real Nutri claims to sell its products, suggest that the Company’s retail footprint 


is far smaller than it claims.   


a. Retail Store Count Likely Exaggerated 





As of December 31, 2014, Real Nutri claimed that there were 200 Real Nutri Health Stores which together 


contributed revenue of RMB 239.5 million in the year.3F15  In order to get a more complete understanding 


of the Company’s retail presence, an independent investigator visited nine reported Real Nutri locations in 


four provinces (Shanghai, Zhejiang, Jiangsu and Shangdong).  The investigator found only 3 working Real 


Nutri stores. 


In the Clarification, the Company states that the stores we visited had recently moved to other retail 


locations because of expiring leases.  Real Nutri claims the investigator visited the wrong locations and that 


our addresses are not up to date.  


Is it just a coincidence that of the nine stores visited by the investigator, six moved? Retail stores try to 


avoid moving, because relocating is likely to confuse repeat customers, so we find it highly unlikely that 


Real Nutri is moving its stores with such frequency.   


If Real Nutri is telling the truth, and it really has 200 Real Nutri Health Stores in China, we CHALLENGE 


it to publish the list of addresses of all 200 stores.  We will visit each one.   


There is no reason for the Company not to publish the addresses of its stores.  It is running a retail operation 


and should therefore want more consumers to know the locations of its stores.  If Real Nutri is telling the 


truth, it should have no problem at all disclosing the locations of all 200 retail stores.  


If the Company FAILS to do so, investors can rest easy knowing that the Company is likely exaggerating 


its retail footprint.  














                                                             
15 2014 Annual Report, p. 6.
20 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





VII. Reported Expenditures Simply Not Credible. 





A business that fabricates sales faces a tricky problem.  Fake sales necessitate commensurate expenses.  


Fake sales also produce fake profits, and such fabricated profits must be accounted for on the balance sheet 


either in the form of a fabricated acquisitions, capital expenditures, fake receivables and/or fake cash 


balances.   


In our opinion, a number of Real Nutri’s reported expenditures appear highly dubious and suggest that the 


Company is straining to whitewash fake sales either through fabricated expenses, acquisitions, capital 


expenditures or cash balances.   


a. Advertising Expenses Simply Not Credible 





In our Report, we showed that Real Nutri’s reported advertising expenses are a fiscal black hole.  Real Nutri 


claims to have spent over RMB 1 billion on advertising expenses over the last three years, amounting 


to approximately 18% of its revenues over this period.   


To put Real Nutri’s absurd advertising expenses into context, if true, Real Nutri would be among the top 


30 spenders on advertising of all Chinese companies listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges, 


alongside popular national brands such as Unicom and Yanjing Beer.  This is simply not credible.    


 
Source: 2012 Advertising Expenditure Rankings 





In response, Real Nutri states that “the Company is not listed on the Shanghai Exchange or Shenzhen 


Exchange.  Obviously, the Company should not appear on that list.  Moreover, none of the 12 selected, 


companies listed … were in the health products industry.  Accordingly, the advertising expenses of those 


purported big advertising spenders and that incurred by the Group are not comparable and have no reference 


value.” 


Real Nutri misses the point entirely.  We didn’t say that Real Nutri should be on a list of top advertisers of 


A-share listed companies, because, obviously, the Company is not listed on the A-shares markets.  Rather, 


we highlighted the list because it shows, by comparison, the absurdity of Real Nutri’s reported advertising 


expenses.  The list is important because no reasonable investor would believe that Real Nutri spends as 


much on advertising as China’s leading brands.   


 



http://money.163.com/special/2012guanggaofei/

http://money.163.com/special/2012guanggaofei/

http://money.163.com/special/2012guanggaofei/
21 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





But in Real Nutri’s inane response, it actually pointed out a great detail that we missed: that the list does 


not contain any other companies in the health products industry.  


As a result, in order to believe that Real Nutri’s financials are true, an investor would have to believe that 


in fact Real Nutri spends more on advertising than any other health products listed in China.  Who 


would believe that?16  


Real Nutri also failed to address a related point.  In our Report, we linked to a list, compiled by China’s 


National Bureau of Statistics, which ranks PRC-based dietary supplement by brand awareness.  By-health 


(汤臣倍健; SZ: 300146) is ranked #1 overall, and Tai Tai Pharmaceutical (太太药业 a.k.a. 健康元药业; 


SH: 600380) is ranked #8.  Real Nutri is not even ranked, even though Real Nutri supposedly spends 


much more on advertising (on both an absolute basis and as a percentage of revenues) than its more well-


known competitors.   


The Clarification complains that our conclusions are groundless, arguing that sometimes less popular 


brands have to spend more than popular brands on advertising to get market share.   First, note that the only 


way out for Real Nutri is to admit that its advertising isn’t working – that is why it claimed that “the amount 


of advertising expenses does not necessarily correlated to brand rankings.”17  In other words, it spends way 


more but is less well known because we are supposed to believe that its advertising campaigns are a failure.  


Nice try but do not believe it. 


It is no coincidence that the world’s top retail brands (Coca-Cola, Nike, and Apple) also have the largest 


advertising budgets, as brand awareness is a critical driver of sales.  Real Nutri, by contrast, tells investors 


it spends like a top brand yet it fails to appear on the PRC rankings of brand awareness.  Either Real Nutri’s 


advertising is completely ineffective, as the Company would have investors believe, or it is lying about the 


amount it spends on advertising because it needs to offset fabricated revenues and profits.  We believe the 


latter.  


The Company’s excuse also rings hollow considering the sheer amount it claims to spend and the fact that 


it has claimed to spend so much for so long.  Real Nutri claims to have spent over RMB 300 million on 


advertising expenses each year since FY 2010, which is significantly more than other brands which are 


ranked #1 and #8 on the PRC’s government rankings of dietary supplements by brand awareness.  





Comparatively, what does Real Nutri have to show for RMB 1 billion in advertising expenses over the last 


three years?  Real Nutri spends much more than other dietary supplement brands, yet is comparatively 


obscure and has little to show for such spending in the form of endorsements or brand awareness.  We do 


not believe that such reported expenses are credible, rather we believe that such expenses are a convenient 


black hole on the Company’s income statement to swallow some of its fabricated “revenues” and “profits.”  





                                                             
16 The evidence is indeed so damning that Real Nutri meekly attempts to say our list is inaccurate, even though the advertising 
budget of the firms listed on the list are available on Bloomberg.   
17 Clarification, p. 16.  


Advertising Expenses


RMB mm 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014


Real Nutriceutical 瑞年国际 317       349       346       348       320       


By-health 汤臣倍健 n/a n/a n/a 134        149        


Jiao Da Onlly 交大昂立 n/a n/a n/a 34         19         


Tai Tai Pharm 太太药业 42         46         63         44         45         



source:%20http://news.xinhuanet.com/yuqing/2015-03/11/c_127569515.htm
22 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





b. Questionable Capital Expenditures 





In our Report, we alerted investors that despite aggregate capital expenditures exceeding RMB 1.5 billion 


since 2011, the return on such spending is so unquestionably abysmal that we believe Real Nutri’s reported 


capital expenditures have been fabricated to mask inflated sales and profits.  


According to its public filings, Real Nutri has reportedly spent RMB 1.5 billion on aggregate capital 


expenditures from 2011 through 2014.  The returns on such spending have been dismal.  Revenue 


supposedly increased by only RMB 705 million during that four year period.  Conveniently for Real Nutri, 


such capital spending swallowed 75% of its operating cash flows during this period.   


In its Clarification, the Company’s excuse is that such spending is “necessary for the long term development 


of its business,”18 but fails to address why its returns are so dismal.   


Not only did aggregate capital expenditures exceed (by 2x) the increase in revenue from 2011 through 2014, 


but its return on assets deteriorated from 17% in 2011 to 9.8% in 2014.  This is not the only indicator that 


Real Nutri is getting little in return for such massive reported expenditures.  


Real Nutri’s fixed asset turnover ratio, a measurement of the return on capital expenditures, declined by 


over 50% from 2.17x in 2011 to an abysmal 1.06x in 2014.  Compare Real Nutri’s returns to the fixed asset 


turnover ratio of By-Health, which has steadily remained between 2.56x and 3.11x over the last four years.  


If such capital expenditures are indeed necessary, why don’t Real Nutri’s competitors invest equally 


massive amounts?  In our opinion, Real Nutri’s returns on its purported capital spending are so abysmal 


that such spending appears obviously fabricated. 


c. The Mystery of Advanced Technical Know-How 





Our Report pointed out a highly suspicious line item in the Company’s balance sheet: advance payments 


for acquisition of ‘technical know-how.’4F19  This balance has increased from RMB 27 million at the 


time of the Company’s IPO to over RMB 100 million since 2011. Real Nutri gives little detail on the nature 


of this ‘advanced know-how,’ but every year it states that it expects to be granted a license by the PRC 


government which will enable the Company to complete the acquisition.  Each year, the expected date for 


obtaining the license keeps getting pushed back, all the while the balance of advanced payments grows.  


Meanwhile, Real Nutri never tells investors from whom it is purchasing such ‘know-how’ or why exactly 


it is required to pay in advance for an unlicensed process.   


The Clarification attempts to deflect suspicion by stating that the Company “entered into various 


agreements with a research institute which is an independent third party research company in the PRC 


pursuant to which research institute unit conduct researches on new products and ultimately will transfer 


all the rights associated with the research results and technical expertise in the form of technical know-how 


to the Group for its manufacturing of the newly developed health products and pharmaceutical products for 


commercial purposes.”20 The Company claims that such technical know-how discovered by this mysterious 


third party can only be transferred when the PRC government grants a license, which the Company claims 


takes a matter of years. 


We are highly suspicious that Real Nutri fails to disclose the name or identity of the third party 


researcher.  The Company is likely afraid of a market participant checking its claims.  We challenge the 


Company to provide the identity of this so-called independent third party researcher. 


                                                             
18 Clarification, p. 17. 
19 E.g., 2013 Annual Report, p. 84, 2014 Annual Report, p. 89. 
20 Clarification, p. 18.
23 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





Furthermore, if paying a mysterious third-party research firm is standard in the industry, why don’t Real 


Nutri’s competitors do it? We stand by our original opinion that this “advanced technical know-how” is 


simply fabricated by the Company to hide fake “profits.”  


VIII. Retail Sales Data Indicates Fabricated Reported Sales 





CMH compiled a ranking of the top 20 best-selling healthcare and nutritional supplements in 2013.  None 


of Real Nutri’s products, including its supposedly popular amino-acid based supplements, appear on 


CMH’s rankings.   


By contrast, By-Health (SHZ: 300146), which reported total sales in 2013 of only RMB 1.5 billion 


(compared to Real Nutri’s reported RMB 1.9 million in sales that year), has seven nutritional products 


on CMH’s lists (ranked 1, 2, 6, 7, 11, 15 and 19).    


The ubiquity of By-Health’s products on the CMH health product rankings contrasts with the stark absence 


of any of Real Nutri’s products, corroborating the rest of the evidence in our Report that Real Nutri is 


massively exaggerating its reported sales.   


In its Clarification, Real Nutri complains that “CMH has never approached the [Company] to obtain the 


[Company’s] sales data.21  Exactly! That is precisely why we believe the CMH data is credible, because 


had CMH approached the Company about its sales, we believe that Real Nutri would simply have lied to 


CMH like it has its investors.   


Real Nutri tries to undermine the authenticity of the CMH study because its methodology was not disclosed.  


Ignoring the fact for the moment that Real Nutri could simply have called CMH and asked about its 


methodology (like we did), lets discuss the methodology of the study.  


CMH is a leading independent market research firm, specializing in the healthcare sector.  CMH employs 


a monitoring system to track the sales of drugs and nutritional supplements to consumers in China and 


compiles the data into annual rankings of the best-selling nutritional supplements and products.  Thus 


CMH’s data is generated independently of the companies it monitors (as opposed to self-reported sales 


rankings) and is therefore far more credible!    


Real Nutri tries to undermine this point by attacking the assumption of the percentage of the Company’s 


sales which are through pharmacies and drug stores.  Interestingly, Real Nutri disputes our assumption 


(25%) but fails to correct it, even though such data would be easily available.   


Again, consistent with its other answers in the Clarification, Real Nutri is focused on disclosing as little as 


possible in the hopes that if it keeps details hidden, the market will not scrutinize its claims.  But do not be 


fooled.  If Real Nutri’s reported sales were true, we believe its top products would have easily made the 


threshold to appear on the CMH’s rankings.  The fact that Real Nutri’s products are conspicuously absent 


from the list further confirms our opinion that the Company is fabricating its reported sales.    


IX. Real Nutri’s Supposed Efficiency Almost Impossible 





In our Report, we highlighted that Real Nutri reported RMB 2.17 million of revenue per employee in 2014, 


which significantly exceeds the revenues-per-employee reported by its peers, including By-Health (RMB 


0.85 million per employee), Jiao Da Onlly (0.54 million per employee) and Tai Tai (RMB 0.87 million per 


employee).   


                                                             
21 Clarification, p. 22. 



http://www.sinohealth.cn/solutions/decision/cmh
24 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 








Real Nutri’s Clarification tried to explain away the numbers on the grounds that a majority of the 


Company’s sales are to distributors and that “other companies may be operating on a different business 


model with emphasis on retail instead of distribution sales.”22  The Company speculated that its competitors 


may have to hire more front line employees and thus their revenue-per-employee figures may be lower.  


This is nonsense.  First, Real Nutri claims to operate over 200 retail outlets, so any productivity losses from 


a large retail presence should affect Real Nutri as much as its competitors.  


Moreover, Real Nutri’s competitors (By-Health, Jiao Da Onlly, Tai Tai) also primarily operate through 


distributors.  Indeed, By-Health reported that only 3-4% of its revenues in FY 2013 and 2014 came from 


its own retail channel, the rest through third party distributors.23  


Real Nutri’s attempted explanation falls flat and does not explain away the Company’s revenue-per-


employee figures.  Like China Metal Recycling, which was halted and liquidated subsequent to a Glaucus 


report, we believe that Real Nutri simply forgot to increase its headcount when it inflated its sales figures, 


as there is no feasible way that Real Nutri can produce nutritional products 2.5 to four times more 


efficiently than its nearest competitors while operating a similar business model.  Ultimately, Real Nutri’s 


reported productivity is an outlier and further evidence to support our thesis that its financials are fabricated.   


X. Inexplicable Short Term Borrowings 
 


Real Nutri has historically claimed a large cash balance, exceeding RMB 1.3 billion in each of the last three 


FYs (2012-2014).  Despite excessive cash reserves, the Company has also reportedly taken short term loans.  


Its short term loan balance was RMB 195 million, RMB 435 million and RMB 884 million, at FYE 2012, 


2013 and 2014, respectively.   


In our Report, we asked why a Company with such a healthy cash balance would take out short term loans, 


especially at interest rates (+6.0%) far exceeding the rate received for the Company’s existing bank 


balances?   


In its Clarification, Real Nutri shot itself in the foot.  The Company pointed out that our calculation of 


implied interest was incorrect, because Real Nutri was actually taking out much larger short term loans 


throughout the year than we believed.24  Indeed, the Company disclosed that it took out short term loans 


of RMB 670 million, RMB 568 million and RMB 1 billion in FYs 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively.  


This further compounds our suspicion.  Why are such loans necessary when Real Nutri reported EBITDA 


margins of over 40% and maintained a cash balance of at least 1.3 billion every year since 2010?  


                                                             
22 Clarification, p. 23. 
23 By-Health 2013 Annual Report, p. 44; 2014 Annual Report, p. 145. 
24 Clarification, p. 24. 


Reported Revenue per Employee - FY2014


RMB mm Real Nutri By-health Jiao Da Onlly Tai Tai


Reported Revenue 2,062           1,705           388              7,418           


No. of employees 950              2,017           718              8,534           


Rev. per employee 2.17            0.85            0.54            0.87            


Real Nutri reported productivity above comps n/a 2.6x            4.0x            2.5x            


Source: Companies' Public Filings



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2013/01/GlaucusResearch-China_Metal_Recycling_Holdings_Ltd-HK0773-Strong_Sell_January_28_2013.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2013/01/GlaucusResearch-China_Metal_Recycling_Holdings_Ltd-HK0773-Strong_Sell_January_28_2013.pdf
25 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





Real Nutri claims that it takes out short term loans to fund acquisitions, which is nonsense.  It has only 


completed one major acquisition in five years, which cost only RMB 200 million.  It had ample cash on 


hand to make this purchase without short term borrowing.  


Real Nutri also offers the ridiculous excuse that it was borrowing to “maintain a good relationship with 


banks and build up the bank’s trust in the [Company] so that the existing banking facilities will not be 


cancelled … and it also facilitates the [Company] in obtaining banking facilities for long term loans in the 


future.”25   


We have never heard the excuse that a Company needs to borrow (short term) at interest rates above the 


deposit rates of its significant cash balances just to maintain a relationship with banks.  After all, wouldn’t 


the banks be satisfied by the enormous amount of cash that the Company supposedly deposits with them 


at a very low interest rate? Also, wouldn’t future loans from banks be contingent on cash flows and debt 


levels and not whether a company was stupid enough to take out unnecessary short term loans at high 


interest rates?  


We suspect that the Company’s reported cash reserves, like its reported revenues and profits, are 


significantly overstated, which explains why Real Nutri needs to engage in short term borrowing a higher 


interest rates to make up the short-fall and fund its continuing operations.  


XI. Negative Free Cash Flows and the Illusion of Dividends 
 


We believe that Real Nutri has successfully deflected at least some of the market’s suspicion regarding its 


financial performance by consistently paying dividends.  Indeed, since its IPO, Real Nutri has declared 


~RMB 296 million in dividends to shareholders.  In our Report, we showed that since 2010, the Company 


has raised RMB 2 billion in proceeds from the capital markets, of which it has declared a dividend of 


roughly RMB 296 million (~13% of capital raised).  


Our conclusion was that the cash paid out to shareholders was not generated by the “profits” of the business 


but simply the proceeds of cash raised from the capital markets.  


Curiously, in its Clarification, Real Nutri accused of a “lack of basic knowledge of accounting” because 


under Hong Kong law, such dividends can only be paid out of profits and not from the proceeds of the debt 


and equity markets.26  


Real Nutri’s response is a joke.  Cash is fungible, so cash which is dividended out to shareholders can be 


from anywhere, including cash raised from the capital markets.  The Company has failed to generate free 


cash flows since 2010, meaning that the cash paid to shareholders obviously came from the capital 


markets.   





                                                             
25 Clarification, p. 24. 
26 Clarification, p. 25.
26 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





If a business which pays dividends records paper profits but fails to generate free cash flows from its 


operating business, such dividends are paid from the proceeds of capital raises and not from the operating 


business.  


Real Nutri fails to address (because it cannot) the fact that despite reporting EBITDA margins of 40-45% 


and net income margins of 24-30%, the Company is still a serial capital raiser.  This is because its cash 


flows used in investing (in dubious capital expenditures and acquisitions of questionable authenticity) 


typically exceeds reported cash flows from operations.  This trend looks set to continue.   


On October 6, 2015, Real Nutri announced a HKD 325 million rights issuance, supposedly to fund the 


proposed acquisition of a chain of retail drug stores in the PRC.  In the wake of our Report, Real Nutri 


postponed the rights issuance, but we believe it is just a matter of time, if left unchecked, before Real Nutri 


attempts to raise money again.   


Like CMED and CMR, despite supposedly generating consistent and world-beating profit margins, Real 


Nutri is forced again and again to return to the capital markets to raise funds.  In our experience, this is a 


tell-tale sign of fabricated financial statements.   


XII. Chinese SOE Quietly Cashed out at a Loss 


Our Report included another significant red flag for investors.  In May 2013, Newport Consulting Limited, 


now owned by China Shipbuilding (an SOE), subscribed to RMB 200 million of convertible bonds issued 


by the Company.  Trouble followed.  First, China Shipbuilding elected not to exercise its option to purchase 


a 2nd tranche of bonds worth RMB 400 million.  Then, in July 2015, China Shipbuilding elected to convert 


its bonds at HKD 3.00 when the Company’s shares were trading at, or below, HKD 2.00.  Following 


conversion, the SOE promptly assigned its shares to a third party.  The decision to realize a significant loss 


by converting at a strike price 50% above the last traded price of the shares is inexplicable and irrational 


unless the SOE wanted (desperately) to exit its position.    


In the Clarification, Real Nutri attacked our logic saying that any concerned bond holder looking to exit its 


position would call an event of default and not convert the bonds into equity, which ranks lower in priority 


than debt. Not so. 


We believe that the SOE realized a significant loss upon conversion because it desperately wanted liquidity 


and this was the safest way to recover at least some of their principal investment.  If a bondholder believed 


that a company was fabricating its financial performance, calling an event of default might result in total 


loss because the bonds would sit junior to onshore, secured creditors.  This is exactly what happened in 


CMED.  When a company is flagrantly fabricating revenues and profits, bond holders have an equal 


likelihood of being wiped out as equityholders if they call a default. 


The SOE’s decision to convert its bonds at HKD 3.00, when Real Nutri’s stock traded below or at HKD 


2.00, resulted in a loss of RMB 66 million.  We believe that the SOE likely preferred to lose RMB 66 


million than risk RMB 200 million if Real Nutri collapsed.  The only reason why an investor would take 


such a loss is to get out of its investment in Real Nutri, which is exactly what the SOE did by transferring 


the shares it received in the conversion to a third party.  Following the conversion, China Shipbuilding, 


through Newport, fully exited its position as a shareholder of the Company.   


The only way to explain the SOE’s decision to realize a loss by converting at a price well above the trading 


price is that the SOE wanted to quickly get out of its position, something it accomplished without risking a 


total loss by calling an event of default.  We believe that this is a significant red flag of which investors 


should be wary. 


 



https://www.etnet.com.hk/www/eng/stocks/realtime/quote_news_detail.php?section=related&code=2010&newsid=ETE251006205
27 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





XIII. Chairman Lies About Production Hours 
 


In the wake of our Report, we believe that Real Nutri has continued to lie to investors and the media about 


its business.  In an article on the website of Wenweipo News27 on November 3, 2015, Real Nutri’s Chairman 


is quoted as saying that “the Company’s staff continues to work 24 hours to produce products.” 


To verify whether the Chairman’s statement was true, investigators monitored, physically observed and 


photographed Real Nutri’s two primary factories for a full 24 hours on November 17, 2015.  The 


investigators found that contrary to the Chairman’s statement, both factories closed for the night and 


absolutely did not operate on a 24-hour production schedule during the period under observation.  


For example, the investigator visited the factory at No. 36, Mashan Changkang Road, Binhu District, Wuxi.  


SAIC filings confirm that this is Ruinian Industry’s primary factory, even though the building carries a sign 


of Real Nutri’s other subsidiary: Yinqian Biotechnology Co., Ltd. in the front.  








The investigators observed that the light in the workshop was on at 22:51 but was turned off by 23:48, as 


can be seen in the photos below. 





                                                             
27 http://news.wenweipo.com/2015/11/03/IN1511030033.htm  



http://news.wenweipo.com/2015/11/03/IN1511030033.htm

http://news.wenweipo.com/2015/11/03/IN1511030033.htm
28 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 








In the other buildings, the lights went off by 21:56. 








As any investor can see by these photos, Real Nutri’s Chairman continues to lie to investors and the media 


about the Company’s business in order to resume trading. 


According to the Clarification, the Chairman’s statement in the Wenweipo article about the Company’s 


factories operating 24-hours a day only referred to the day and night of November 3rd, 2015, and did not 


refer to the factories’ regular production cycle.28 


This excuse is simply shameful.  In the article, the Chairman clearly said that “the Company’s staff 


continues to work 24 hours to produce products” and did not provide any caveat that the factories were 


only operating 24 hours on one day.  He clearly lied to the press about the operations of Real Nutri’s 


factories in an attempt to make it appear as though the Company was incredibly busy despite the suspension 


in trading from the HKEX.   


We believe that the Chairman lied because he did not believe anyone would actually check his claims.  


Faced with direct evidence that he was caught in a lie, Real Nutri tried an absurd evasion that the Chairman 


was only referring to one specific day.  


XIV. Valuation 
 


We continue to believe that the most appropriate comparison to Real Nutri is CMED, the US-listed 


company which defrauded investors and creditors by fabricating its reported financial performance.  In our 


Report, we presented a wealth of publicly available evidence to support our opinion that Real Nutri’s sales 


                                                             
28 Clarification, p. 27.
29 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





are 84% less than reported and net income is 99% less than reported to investors and regulators in the 


Company’s Hong Kong filings.  


Given the limited offshore assets available for seizure and the difficulty recovering onshore assets (property 


and equipment) under China’s byzantine judicial system, our price target on its HKEX-listed shares is HKD 


0.00.
30 
 


Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010                       www.glaucusresearch.com 





DISCLAIMER 
 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is Real Nutri. So are the banks that raised money for the 


Company. If you are invested (either long or short) in Real Nutri, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that 
we are wrong. We, like everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


We believe that the publication of our opinions about the public companies we research is in the public interest. 


 
You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Real Nutri stock declines. This 


report and all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not 
statements of fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we 


set out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in 


a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of 
evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own 


homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court 


of law. 
 


As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) 
(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients 


and/or investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and 


therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of Real Nutri’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research 
Group California, LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any 


investment decision with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment 


advice nor should they be construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind. 
 


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be 
long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of 


an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer 


would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information 
contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, 


and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or 
duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time 


and attention in an effort to ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive 


for accuracy and completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, 
all such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. 





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group 
California, LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 


million or a high value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) 
Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or 


international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO. 


 
Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 


completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion 


are subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or 
supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly 


and independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be 
governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal 


and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other 


jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company 
that operates in California; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action 


arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or 


cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce 
any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this 


disclaimer is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should 
endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this 


disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
