“May you live in interesting times.”  -  Robert Kennedy 




















On October 22, 2015, we published our investment opinion (the “Report”) on Real Nutriceutical Group Limited (2010.HK) 


(“Real Nutri” or the “Company”), a PRC based producer of nutritional supplements and health drinks.1  In our Report we 


presented publicly available evidence, including PRC government filings, tax rankings, and the results of retail channel 


checks, which in our opinion, indicates that Real Nutri’s sales and net income are substantially less than reported to 


investors and regulators in the Company’s Hong Kong filings.  On Christmas Eve at 11:00 p.m. (Hong Kong time), Real 


Nutri responded with a Clarification Announcement (the “Clarification”).  Real Nutri took 64 days to respond to basic 


questions about its business and the timing of its Clarification suggests that the Company was trying to sneak back into the 


market without adequately addressing the substantial, independent evidence indicating that Real Nutri is fabricating its 


reported financial performance.   





On December 28, 2015, Glaucus issued a detailed, 30-page rebuttal (available here) (the “Rebuttal”), which picked apart 


Real Nutri’s contradictory and nonsensical responses and offered NEW evidence indicating that Real Nutri does not 


pay the amount of taxes that it claims (and thus does not generate the net income that it claims). 





On January 5, 2016, Real Nutri issued a flimsy one-and-half page response (the “Second Clarification”) which addressed 


neither the new evidence raised in our Rebuttal nor our detailed, line-by-line dissection of its inadequate responses.   





Real Nutri is hiding, and each day, the Company continues to fail in its legal obligation to give sufficient and accurate 


information about its business to the investing public.  We do not believe that Real Nutri will be able to hide for long, as 


we think it will fail both its annual audit (by Deloitte) and its special, independent investigation by a big four accounting 


firm.   





1) Real Nutri is Hiding 
  


In our Rebuttal, we challenged Real Nutri to answer basic questions about its business, which, if the Company was not 


deceiving investors about its reported financial performance, would be easy.  Every day that the Company is silent is a 


stain on the integrity of the capital markets.  Here is a brief list of questions and evidence, to which Real Nutri has failed 


to respond:  





 We directly challenged the Company: if your retail store count is true, then provide the addresses of all 200 
stores and we will visit each one.  Any legitimate company would have quickly disclosed its retail store locations.  


Yet, given two weeks, Real Nutri has inexplicably failed to provide a list of its retail stores, reinforcing our 


conviction that the Company is lying about its retail presence. 





                                                           
1 Our Report is available for download at our website: https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-


content/uploads/downloads/2015/10/GlaucusResearch-Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Strong_Sell_Oct_21_2015.pdf.  


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is not 


investment advice nor should it be construed as such. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the 


securities covered herein. We have a short interest in Real Nutri’s stock and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instruments 


declines. Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


COMPANY:  Real Nutriceutical Group Limited │ HK: 2010 


INDUSTRY:  Nutritional Supplements 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/10/GlaucusResearch-Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Strong_Sell_Oct_21_2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/12/GlaucusResearch-Rebuttal_to_Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Maintain_Strong_Sell_Dec_28_20151.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/10/GlaucusResearch-Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Strong_Sell_Oct_21_2015.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2015/10/GlaucusResearch-Real_Nutri-HK_2010-Strong_Sell_Oct_21_2015.pdf
 Disclose the amount of VAT paid by each of the Company’s operating subsidiaries (including VAT returns and 
top ten invoices).  We now have shown two tax lists (2012) and (2013), both of which are independent evidence 


indicating that Real Nutri does not pay the taxes it claims and thus does not generate the net income that it claims.   





 Release to all investors the publicly available Mofcom and SAIC filings which supposedly exonerate the 
Company.  In our Report, we highlighted publicly available Mofcom filings which show that Real Nutri’s two 


primary operating subsidiaries only generated RMB 839 million in combined revenues from 2011-2013, 84% less 


than reported to Hong Kong investors and regulators.  Mofcom filings also show that rather than generate RMB 


1.97 billion in operating profits from 2011-2013 (as reported), Real Nutri’s primary operating subsidiaries only 


generated RMB 26 million in operating profits over that period, which is 99% less than reported in HKEX filings.  


We believe that the Company is presenting fabricated Mofcom and SAIC filings in an effort to continually deceive 


investors and regulators about the performance and profitability of its underlying business.  If the Company’s 


records are reliable and accurate, why not disseminate them to the investing public?    





 Disclose in detail the Company’s reported spending on advertising.  Real Nutri claims to have spent over RMB 1 
billion on advertising expenses over the last three years, amounting to approximately 18% of its revenues over this 


period.  If true, Real Nutri would be among the top thirty advertising spenders of A-share companies, alongside popular 


national brands such as Unicom and Yanjing Beer.  This is simply not credible and we challenge the Company to 


provide a detailed response on how, where, and with whom such advertising money was spent. 
 


2) New Tax Evidence 
  


In our Rebuttal, we highlighted tax rankings, published by the Xinhua news agency based on information obtained directly 


from the Jiangsu provincial office of the State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”), which lists the top 100 tax payers in 


Jiangsu province in 2012.  The rankings include both VAT and income taxes paid, and there is a detailed description from 


the head of the SAT as to how the list in compiled.   





Based on the reported financial performance of Real Nutri’s primary operating subsidiary (Ruinian Industry),2 we estimate 


that Ruinian Industry paid RMB 197 million in income taxes and RMB 192 million in VAT in 2012 for a total of RMB 


389 million in total taxes paid in 2012.  The threshold for the top 100 taxpayers in the 2012 Jiangsu tax rankings was 


RMB 280 million, so if Real Nutri’s reported financials are true, Ruinian Industry should have easily made this list.  It 


did not. 





In its Second Clarification, the Company’s only response was that it is “not in a position to comment on or verify the 


source of the information” and that there “may be certain consideration, criteria or assumptions, not being explained in the 


article, which have been taken into account in compiling the list.”3  





This answer is wholly insufficient.  Contrary to the Company’s meek evasion, the methodology for the tax rankings was 


clearly disclosed, as any investor can see (link here).  The rankings are based on the taxes received directly by the SAT, 


so participation in the rankings is not voluntary and there should be no question about the accuracy of the tax 


information.  Furthermore, the tax rankings include both income tax and VAT. 





If Real Nutri’s reported financials are true, it should have easily made the list.  In fact, it should have paid over RMB 110 


million more in taxes than the last-ranked company on the list.  Yet Real Nutri is conspicuously absent from this tax list, 


and the 2013 tax list highlighted in our initial Report.  This is concrete, undeniable evidence that Real Nutri does not pay 


the taxes it claims, and thus does not generate the net income reported in its Hong Kong filings.   





In our opinion, Real Nutri has simply failed in any meaningful way to address the wealth of clear and convincing 


evidence that the Company’s sales and profits are substantially less than reported to investors.   We confidently 


stand by our Report and continue to value Real Nutri’s equity at HKD 0.00. 





                                                           
2 Clarification, p.6. states that Ruinian Industry accounted for 93% of the Company’s revenues in 2012, thus we estimate it paid 


93% of the Company’s reported income tax and 93% of its VAT. 
3 Second Clarification, p. 1. 



http://xhrb.jschina.com.cn/mp2/page/1/2013-04-09/A04/38981365447761265.pdf

http://www.wxbh.gov.cn/bhmh/sitePages/subPages/1360019001484500.html?sourceChannelId=197&did=337878

http://xhrb.jschina.com.cn/mp2/page/1/2013-04-09/A04/38981365447761265.pdf

http://jsnews.jschina.com.cn/system/2014/04/24/020839771.shtml

http://xhrb.jschina.com.cn/mp2/page/1/2013-04-09/A04/38981365447761265.pdf

http://www.wxbh.gov.cn/bhmh/sitePages/subPages/1360019001484500.html?sourceChannelId=197&did=337878
DISCLAIMER 
 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is Real Nutri. So are the banks that raised money for the 


Company. If you are invested (either long or short) in Real Nutri, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that 


we are wrong. We, like everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


We believe that the publication of our opinions about the public companies we research is in the public interest. 





You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Real Nutri stock declines. This 


report and all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not 


statements of fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we 


set out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in 


a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of 


evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own 


homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court 


of law. 





As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) 


(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients 


and/or investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and 


therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of Real Nutri’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research 


Group California, LLC’s research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any 


investment decision with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment 


advice nor should they be construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind. 





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be 


long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of 


an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer 


would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information 


contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, 


and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or 


duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time 


and attention in an effort to ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive 


for accuracy and completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, 


all such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. 





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group 


California, LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 


million or a high value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) 


Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or 


international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO. 





Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 


completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion 


are subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or 


supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly 


and independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be 


governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal 


and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other 


jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company 


that operates in California; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action 


arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or 


cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce 


any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this 


disclaimer is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should 


endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of this 


disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision.
