Globo Plc 


Our Final Opinion: It’s a Greek Parmalat 


By Quintessential Capital Management – Investigative Research Team
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 





Acknowledgements 


We would like to provide our most sincere thanks to the few brave and inquisitive people who 
have contributed to the creation of this report. Your help has been crucial and will not be 
forgotten. Most sincere thanks also to Mr. Simon Cawkwell giving us the idea to look at this 
stock. 


About QCM 


QCM is a long/short global equity fund. We invest through a concentrated portfolio of high-
quality securities acquired opportunistically when fear or uncertainty create a sizeable gap 
between price and intrinsic value. Our short activity focuses on activist short selling, whereby we 
seek to uncover and expose deeply troubled corporate situations (e.g. frauds, illegal activity, 
failed business models, etc.) through state-of-the art investigative work.  


On the short side, we only act when supremely confident on our thesis and, so far, we enjoy a 
spotless success rate. Our latest short, American Addiction Center, has dropped over 70% in the 
two weeks following the release of our report12.  


Executive Summary 


Quintessential Capital Management has opened a short position on Globo Plc stock. We have 
been investigating Globo Plc after studying several online blogs containing allegations of 
fraudulent accounting and other questionable behavior. After months of deep due diligence and 
information-gathering activity on the field, we have collected overwhelming evidence suggesting 
the existence of what appears to us as a large-scale conspiracy to deceive investors and creditors 
through pervasive and systematic accounting manipulation.  


In a nutshell, we are of the view that Globo Plc is massively overstating its revenue and profit by 
generating fictitious sales invoices from shell companies created and controlled by Globo to pose 
as legitimate clients. In order to justify the resulting cash shortfall, other shell companies pose as 
suppliers to Globo and generate fictitious expenses, part of which are then capitalized. The 
results of our investigation suggest that the Company relies on its fabricated financial statements 
to issue shares and to secure credit to cover its ongoing expenses and to finance the acquisition 
of legitimate businesses, in the hope of diluting the "fraudulent" part of its business and 
eventually listing itself on the NASDAQ.  


While a minor portion of its business is authentic, the results of our investigation strongly 
suggest that at least 60% of Globo’s turnover is fabricated. The Company’s alleged activities, in 
our view, suggest possible criminal behavior and  to cause its total demise if exposed.  


                                                
1 http://seekingalpha.com/article/3342015-american-addiction-centers-our-final-opinion-its-a-
castle-of-cards 
2http://blogs.wsj.com/moneybeat/2015/08/05/blog-post-from-college-student-causes-massive-
sell-off-in-aac-holdings/
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


3 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 





Company Description 


History 


Costis Papadimitrakopoulos founded Globo Plc in 1997 out of a small office in Athens, Greece. 
Costis has followed an unconventional career path for a tech entrepreneur. Costis initiated his 
career as a professional windsurfer. He then joined his family business, a food processing 
company. This experience apparently involved plenty of travel abroad, especially in Eastern 
Europe, where Costis claimed he formed many business contacts which, as we will see later, 
might play a part in the subsequent Globo affair. Following his family business experience, he 
then completed a degree in Electrical Engineering and subsequently started Globo.3 


According to our research, in 2007 Globo went public not through a customary IPO, but by way 
of a reverse merger with an Israeli shell company4. While a legitimate instrument, reverse 
mergers have historically been used by numerous fraudulent companies to float their shares and 
their reputation is doubtful, since they allow a company to go public while avoiding the scrutiny 
and due diligence typical of an IPO.  


Over the years Globo showed an impressive sequence of increasing sales and profits (albeit with 
increasingly negative free cash flows) and was active in M&A transactions, both as a buyer and 
as a seller. In 2013 and 2014 it acquired Notify and Sourcebits, two California-based mobile 
software companies for $5m and $12m respectively. Each transaction was performed at a 
valuation of 1x sales so Globo acquired $17m worth of sales.  


In 2012, Globo sold 51% worth of Globo Technologies (GT), a subsidiary engaging in software 
development and distribution, to Globo’s management. Although the consideration was about 
$15m, the terms of payment were unusual and one of the net effects of the disposal was to 
effectively decrease the amount of trade receivable on Globo’s balance sheet5. This is because at 
less than 50% GT assets, including receivables, get consolidated and treated as a long-term 
investment.  


Following its US acquisitions, Globo’s CEO has moved to Palo Alto in order to lead Globo’s 
expansion in the United States, although the company’s headquarters remain in Athens. In June 
2015 Globo attempted to raise $180m on the high yield bond market.6 The move raised many 
eyebrows in the investment community7 since these bonds would be issued at a very high  
interest rate. According to its financial statements, Globo sits on $104 of cash (though most of it 


                                                
3 https://www.megabuyte.com/free2air/18779/megabuyte-interview-costis-papadimitrakopoulos 
4 http://www.bloomberg.com/research/stocks/private/snapshot.asp?privcapId=23809915 
5 http://lordshipstrading.blogspot.com/2013/10/globo-gbo-wake-up-and-smell-houmous.html 
6 http://www.morningstar.co.uk/uk/news/AN_1434706989487905400/globo-wants-to-issue-
high-yield-bonds-to-fund-acquisitions-(alliss).aspx 
7 http://www.morningstar.co.uk/uk/news/AN_1442242423577575800/globo-says-high-yield-
bond-issue-delayed-by-market-uncertainty-(alliss).aspx
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


4 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


held in banks with speculative credit ratings) and it is unclear why it would be willing to pay a 
8%+ interest rate while having cash sitting unused in the bank. The bond issue was first reduced 
to $120m and then suspended altogether because it failed to generate sufficient interest from 
perspective buyers. According to our research, prior to their attempt to issue junk debt, Globo 
tried unsuccessfully to raise a senior secured loan of $120m from a large global investment 
management firm. The apparent inability of Globo to pass serious creditor due diligence 
lately should be seen with concern. 


Business Model 


Roughly 90% of declared revenue originates from Globo’s Mobile Products and Services 
division. Essentially, Globo sells two main product categories: first, it helps businesses develop 
customized mobile applications for their specific needs (Go!AppZone). Second, it sells ready-
made applications for so-called BYOD, or Bring Your Own Device needs (Go!Enterprise). As 
employees frequently prefer to use their own mobile devices for work needs, BYOD apps allow 
the user to connect to the company’s servers and securely access their work email, calendars, 
files, etc. This is a common feature and is supplied by a number of large competitors including 
IBM, Kony, Microsoft, SAP and many others.  


Globo claims as many as 3 million active users, 340k enterprise users and 13 million of device 
licenses in place. We shall see later on how such statistics seem enormously inflated vis-à-vis 
objective metrics such as the number of downloads executed from Android or iOS platforms.  


Allegations 


Numerous analysts on the web question the real nature of Globo Plc and the following 
allegations frequently recur in one form or another89: 


• Accounting Inconsistencies: Globo shows consistent revenue and earnings growth over 
the years, yet generates overall negative and decreasing free cash flows. The discrepancy 
between earnings and free cash flow is primarily due to receivables, capitalized R&D 
expenses and purchases of intangible assets. Some investors have speculated that Globo’s 
sales and profits may be overstated, using aggressive capitalization of intangibles to 
“cover up” any cash flow discrepancy. 


• Lack of Proven Customers: Some analysts have raised doubts as to the authenticity of 
all or part of Globo’s client base. Globo does not disclose the identity of its main 
customers, but does mention a few names on its reports. Attempts to verify the 
authenticity of such supplier/client relationships have repeatedly failed. Surveys of 
various IT departments have shown that Globo’s applications are not known in the 
industry. 


• Doubts on product quality: The validity of Globo’s products has been put into serious 
question. Product reviews accessible online are overwhelmingly negative. Attempts to 


                                                
8 Ennismore research  
9 http://lordshipstrading.blogspot.com/2013/10/globo-gbo-wake-up-and-smell-houmous.html
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


5 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


test Globo’s products have shown a barely functioning software, particularly prone to 
freezes and often causing a dramatic slowdown of the devices where it is installed. 


• Suspicious financial management: As mentioned earlier, Globo’s decision to raise 
funds in the high-yield bond market seemed strange for a company claiming large cash 
reserves. Many investors have expressed skepticism as to the actual existence of Globo’s 
bank deposits.  


• Corporate Governance Concerns: the presence of some board members has raised red 
flags. For example, a blog written by Ennismore Fund Management, a hedge fund with a 
short position on the stock, observes how Mr. Barry Ariko, a member of Globo’s board, 
has been a non-executive director at Peregrine Systems. The latter is a software company 
that went bankrupt in 2002 following an accounting scandal. It should be noted that Mr. 
Ariko himself was not personally charged in connection with this episode.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


6 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Financial Analysis10 

















                                                
10 Source: Capital IQ
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


7 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


 
At first glance, Globo’s financials look impressive. During the last five years, revenue and 
earnings have been positive and growing at 35% and 65% compounded respectively. A closer 
look, however, suggests a different picture. While earnings have been increasing, free cash flows 
(as defined by Capital IQ) have been almost always negative and steadily decreasing. 
“Investments” (especially capital expenses and intangibles) have outpaced operating cash flows. 
The shortfall has been covered with cash raised through creditors and stock issues. Since 2007, 
when Globo went public, it claims to have generated Euro 119m in operating cash flows, while 
investing 145m and raising 145m from credit and stock issues.  


Generally, software companies are highly cash generative and require relatively little 
reinvestment in the business in order to grow. In Globo’s case however, a combination of 
increasing capex, intangibles and trade receivables seems to prevent the company from 
ever generating cash flows from its profits. It is also notable that, unlike many of its peers, 
Globo capitalizes its software development expenses, including a substantial portion of workers’ 
salaries. 


Some observers have raised a troublesome concern: could it be that Globo’s cash flow 
generation problems actually indicate the presence of an accounting scheme? 





Mechanics of the Scheme 


Based on the evidence obtained through our extensive research, we believe strongly that most or 
all of the allegations concerning Globo Plc are well founded and, if anything, they tend to 
underestimate the gravity and scale of the irregularities being committed.  


As far as we understand, Globo started probably as a legitimate company. In its early phase, 
prior to its reverse merger in 2007, Globo seemed to be involved mostly in software development 
and in various digitalization projects, mostly in Greece. For example, we learned that Globo 
performed a number of low value added services to government entities, such as digitizing 
various forms of official records.  


The situation changes following Globo’s listing in the stock market in 2007. It would seem that, 
at this point, Globo’s executives started getting greedy and initiated or intensified a large-scale 
scheme to inflate Globo’s financials at the detriment of creditors and investors.  


The most important part of the scheme involves so-called “satellite companies”. These are 
essentially empty shell companies, located in various countries (especially Cyprus, Panama and 
Greece), which Globo uses to generate fictitious sales and costs in order to inflate revenue and 
profitability. The resulting fictitious financials are then mixed up with legitimate ones to give the 
impression of a larger and rapidly growing company. We suspect that, fabricated financials make 
it possible to raise additional funds from creditors and shareholders with the objective of 
acquiring legitimate companies and, presumably, to dilute the "fraudulent" part of the business 
over time.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


8 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 





Nature of satellite companies 


From our trusted sources, we know of more than 20 suspected satellite companies located in 8 
different countries. These companies are often located in shadowy jurisdictions (e.g. Cyprus, 
Panama) and we understand are controlled by directors close to Globo’s executives. We 
investigated all of the satellite companies we managed to identify and found ample evidence 
suggesting very high probability of fraud. These companies, which pose as Globo’s customers 
and suppliers, tend to exhibit the following suspicious characteristics: 


• They are often located in non-transparent jurisdictions. 


• They show little or no evidence of ordinary business activity. 


o No business address or located in residential neighborhoods. 


o No websites or very generic ones. 


o Little or no web footprint. 


o Few, if any, employees. 


o Phone lines disconnected or not available. 


o Lack of responsiveness to email or other forms of solicitation. 


• They feature directors serving in multiple companies, seemingly unrelated, but with links 
to Globo. 


• In many cases, links with Globo, e.g.:  


o Directors are former Globo employees (in some cases seemingly trying to conceal 
it). 


o Addresses located at walking distance from Globo’s headquarters. 


o Company logos or website design looking similar to Globo’s (suggesting the use 
of the same design firm). 


Suspicious Use of Satellite Companies 


In order to generate fictitious sales, Globo seems to “pretend” to sell its products and services to 
these satellite companies. In a typical transaction, Globo (or often one of its foreign subsidiaries) 
would invoice one of these shell companies for a given amount, which would then be booked as 
a sale even though no cash, goods or services ever changed hands. The sale would then be 
booked in the trade receivables account and never get settled.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


9 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Of course, this creates a problem: customer balances cannot stay overdue for too long without 
arising the auditor’s suspicions. The solution seems to lie in satellite companies, this time posing 
as suppliers. Here, the shell company would invoice Globo for a certain amount offsetting part of 
the receivables. In some cases, the same shell company may act as both customer and supplier. 
In other cases, it is two separate shell companies, which can then trade with each other to offset 
the transactions without services or cash changing hands. Sometimes, shell companies are 
apparently used directly to pay Globo’s employees. Because a large portion of Globo’s expenses 
is capitalized as software development costs, the company is able to generate an accounting 
profit even if revenue and expenses are of equal amounts. 


What kind of expenses and revenue are being “passed around”? Since Globo’s activities deal 
with intangibles, there is no need to provide any physical evidence of transactions. Globo’s 
subsidiaries typically have a vendor/customer agreement in place with these shell companies and 
the issuing of invoices back and forth becomes a relatively straightforward process. 


These fictitious transactions seem to serve multiple purposes for Globo: 


1. They inflate revenue and profit, which support the price of Globo’s stock. 


2. They allow Globo to raise additional cash from creditors and shareholders. 


3. They may allow Globo to elude taxation since transactions are “engineered” so that 
Globo’s subsidiaries in high-tax jurisdictions stay unprofitable while profits are 
concentrated in low-tax countries. It would be a big problem having to pay high taxes for 
non-existing profits! 


4. They seem to allow Globo to reap certain EU subsidies that require certain expenses to 
originate in a particular country, for example for hiring unemployed personnel.  


Below a flow chart detailing how the scheme may work:
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


10 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


11 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 





The Evidence 


The ones just described constitute serious allegations and we would not advance them without 
being certain of their veracity. The evidence we collected is based on the followings sources: 


1. Declarations of sources close to the company. 


2. Analysis of Globo’s distributors and resellers. 


3. Analysis of Globo’s clients and suppliers (suspected satellite companies). 


4. Research on personnel involved in the scheme. 


5. Interviews with industry players (e.g. IT personnel, competitors) 





Globo’s partners (i.e. distributors & resellers) 


Globo disclosed its “partners” prominently on a dedicated page on its website. We have 
identified, analyzed and approached the majority of Globo’s claimed suppliers and resellers. 
Despite the fact that we know part of Globo’s business to be authentic, we have been unable to 
confirm even a single legitimate partner. In many cases, the claimed distributors tend to 
exhibit a number of issues including the following: 


• The company cannot be detected (e.g. no records, valid address, functioning phone, etc.). 


• The company exists, but seems to operate in an unrelated industry. 


• The company operates in a related industry, but does not appear to sell Globo’s products. 


• The company appears to sell Globo’s product, but interrupts all communication once 
Globo is mentioned in our enquiries.  


We have collected a list of suspicious partners in the appendix together with evidence 
questioning the validity of these companies. We have meticulously checked each and 
every one of Globo’s partners (about 40) and, every time, failed to receive any 
significant response from any of these companies. You are welcome to try them yourself: 
in the appendix you will find a full list with our specific findings. 


For the sake of example, we have included a few of the most emblematic cases of likely 
bogus distributors (complemented by the full list in the appendix):
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


12 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Distributor #1: Mezza Group 
Mezza Group appears on Globo’s website11 as a “specialized partner”. We did not find other 
significant partners in the UK so this one must account for a significant portion of UK revenue12. 
The website13 looks generic enough and describes a company apparently involved in online 
marketing and SEO (what does Globo’s enterprise mobility have to do with this?). The telephone 
number listed on the website leads directly to a fax, without any voice mail present. Our many 
approaches to the company by mail and its employees via LinkedIn have gone unanswered.  


Mezza Group is a UK company located in South London. Yet, a LinkedIn search reveals six 
employees all of whom Greek and living in Greece. Five out of six are no longer working at 
Mezza Group. 





                                                
11 http://globoplc.com/globo-at-a-glance/partners/#ourPartners 
12 Globo does not segment revenue by country, but 13.5% would come from Western Europe and 
we suspect UK is a major part of this. 
13 http://www.mezzagroup.com/
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


13 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


 
Mezza Group is located in London at 25 Norway Gate, SE16 7TR. This is what the company’s 
building looks like from outside (it’s located in a residential neighborhood): 





We checked if other companies are located at the same address and found 48 (!): 





We studied meticulously these 48 companies (feel free to check for yourself) and have concluded 
that almost all of them look suspicious. For example, almost all of them have Greek directors 
(this is remarkable since this is an address in London). Most of them do not have websites or any
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


14 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Internet footprint or any employees we could identify. Is this some sort of UK den for Greek 
shells? 


We checked Mezza Group’s directors and found the following document:  








Two obviously Greek directors Alexandros Symeonidis and Dimitris Galaktopoulos founded the 
company and then left immediately leaving the directorship to a “Neil Patrick Holman” and to a 
company named “Federal Infosystems”. We found no useful information on the former, but we 
did come across an interesting article apparently claiming that Mr. Galaktopoulos was 
involved in a fraud concerning a technology company14: 


                                                
14 http://www.netweek.gr/default.asp?pid=9&cID=5&arId=29612&la=1
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


15 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


16 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


 
About the next director, Mr. Holman, we checked whether he was director in any other company 
and found 32 (!) of them15:  





Finally, you will see that a further director alongside Mr. Holman is a company called “Federal 
Infosystems LLC”. This is very curious since Federal Infosystems is listed on Globo’s website 
as another of its distributors in…Mumbai! (a full analysis on this distributors follows in a later 
section). 


Curious by these staggering findings, we actually went for a recon trip to Mezza Group in 
London, its located about 20’ walk from Canada Water tube station, in a narrow residential street 
called Norway Gate. It took us almost ten minutes to locate the building, but eventually we came 
across a common English apartment building. On the entrance, not a single company label or 
sign. We spoke to a gardener working in the area who told me he knows the building well and is 
sure it is fully residential, with no offices inside whatsoever. The door was locked, so we rang 
#25, corresponding to Mezza Group. We almost left after two minutes, when somebody 
answered, in a sleepy voice and a foreign accent (Greek?) as if he just woke up. We said we were 
looking for Mezza Group: the person simply hanged up: Mezza Group (and the other 48 
                                                
15 http://www.endole.co.uk/profile/1172216/neil-patrick-holman
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


17 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


businesses domiciled at #25 Norway Gate) simply does not seem to have any basic business 
infrastructure.. 


These are the photographs we took on our field trip: 





So what is going on here? Mezza Group, a company that Globo claims is its main UK 
distributor, shares its address with 48 other dodgy companies all having Greek directors. The 
company’s office apparently does not exist.  


Mezza Group has one director, Mr. Holman, that looks like a figurehead. About its three former 
directors: one (Mr. Symeonidis) is unknown. The other, Mr. Galaktopoulos, has been charged 
with fraud. The third director, Federal Infosystems, is a small laptop repair shop in Mumbai that 
Globo claims is its Indian distributor. The company’s phone number is inactive and its 
employees have ignored any approaches.  


You may draw your own conclusions. For us, this is strong documented evidence that 
Mezza Group is a dummy company that has been engineered by Globo to pose as a 
distributor.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


18 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Distributor #2: Ionaworks 


Ionaworks is one of Globo’s Asian distributors. The name however, sounds anything but Asian, 
in fact, the word “Ionic” is curiously a synonym for “Greek”! 


This is Ionaworks description appearing on Globo’s website: 





The poorly designed website is not very informative and the team appears to be composed by 
Chinese and Korean youngsters (interesting, since the company is located in Kobe, Japan). The 
company did not reply to our email approaches and we found out that their phone line is 
disconnected16. There is no address on their website but the company does provide a map. 





Using Google Maps, we located the region in Kobe and the property address based on the 
information above. 


                                                
16 http://www.ionaworks.com/#!contact/c24vq
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


19 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 








This is a residential neighborhood and residential house! 


 
 
In our opinion, all evidence again points to a bogus distributors for bogus products and 
services.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


20 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Distributor #3: Abox 


Abox is one of Globo’s distributors located in Barcelona.  


http://www.abox.com/abox.asp 


It looks small scale, quite unlike the pompous description appearing on Globo’s website (see 
below) and is located on the 3rd floor of a derelict building. We approached the company and 
managed to receive an answer in English.  


We posed as potential clients for an “enterprise mobility solution”. The manager was 
immediately eager to offer a solution by a certain “MobileGest” (we did not manage to identify 
what this is!). We told him we were interested in Globo instead. The manager did not reply and 
interrupted all contact with us after Globo was mentioned. All our subsequent solicitations 
went unanswered. 





Abox less than majestic offices in Barcelona (3rd floor).
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


21 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Distributor #4: Federal Infosystems 


This is Federal Infosystems’ description appearing on Globo’s website: 





From Globo’s description above, you would think this is a large scale IT provider. However, a 
cursory look at Federal’s website17 would reveal that this is a humble laptop repair shop in 
India where Globo’s products do not fit and are never mentioned. This company, as we saw 
earlier, figures as the director of Mezza Group, another distributor of Globo’s in the UK. There 
is no good reason for that and logic would dictate that Globo probably asked Federal Infosystem 
to be on the board of Mezza Group to give the impression of being a legitimate company, and 
not the dodgy shell it probably is. 


 
                                                
17 http://www.federalinfosystems.com/
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


22 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


It is probably a low quality business as well as these Google reviews seem to suggest:
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


23 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Distributor #5: Mobile Services International (MSI) 


This is Globo’s description of MSI:  





As usual,  high-sounding description of a large multinational operating in 15 countries. Yet, a 
LinkedIn search shows only 1(!) employee, who conveniently chooses to remain anonymous.  
 


 
 
The company lists two different office addresses:
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


24 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


We investigated these locations: the first address looks like a residential location in Florida 
(strange since the only LinkedIn employee lists its location in New Jersey).  
 


 
 
The second address lists a Regus facility in Virginia (Regus is a short term office lease 
company). 
 





Once again, evidence suggests the use of bogus distributors for bogus services (by the way, MSI 
does not even list Globo products on its site).   
 
The five cases above are only examples. The reader may refer to the appendix showing that most 
remaining distributors of Globo are just as suspicious as the ones mentioned above.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


25 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Evidence 2: Satellite Companies 
This is a critical part in our inquiry. Of course, Globo does not reveal the identity of its clients 
and suppliers (unlike most legitimate companies). We asked Globo several times to reveal the 
name of its main customers and, while they were responsive to other questions, they always 
remained silent to this one (and other potentially revealing ones).  


However, with our extensive due diligence, we managed to uncover a few companies which we 
strongly suspect are used as shells for Globo to fabricate dummy invoices. Some of these 
companies do not appear on Globo’s list of partners, but they still boast a Globo partnership logo 
on their website. We assume that this implies some sort of link that Globo prefers to keep 
covert.  





Suspected Satellite co. # 1: Metis SA 


We strongly suspect this is a satellite company. It claims to be a large, multinational firm in IT 
services with 140 employees. They boast a Globo partnership logo, even though the company 
does not appear in Globo’s official distributors list:  





The first suspicious thing about Metis is its location, exactly 9 minutes walking from Globo’s 
headquarters in Athens in what appears to be a residential building.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


26 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 








Second, the company claims having 140 employees on its website in several countries, yet 
LinkedIn shows only five, all very junior and all located in Greece.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


27 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Suspected Satellite Co. #2: Darga LLC 


This is a very interesting one. Just like Metis, Darga does not appear on Globo’s partners list, yet 
it boasts a logo partnership logo on its, very basic, website:  





Next, we confronted the two logos:  











Are we the only ones that see some curious similarities? Let’s move along. 


Darga’s website18 looks quite vague and generic. This is the information appearing on the 
“contact us” page:  


                                                
18 http://dargamobile.com/home.html
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


28 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 





There is a voice mail service, but no option for leaving a message (try it yourselves). There is an 
option to obtain technical support, but the line disconnects as soon as you choose that option.  


Next we visited the “sales office” address and found that Darga claims to be located in the 
McGraw Hill building in the middle of midtown Manhattan, no less. We spoke to the concierge 
and security guards and tried to locate the company: unsurprisingly, nobody had ever heard of 
them. These are the pictures we took during our visit to the building:  





The alleged owner of the company appears to be a “Craig Darga”. We couldn’t find much on 
him on the web and this is the only photograph of this colorful character with his exact same 
name on a Facebook profile:
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


29 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


I think there is no need to be explicit in drawing conclusions about this company as the evidence 
clearly speaks for itself. But it gets better: 


Darga Mobile (http://dargamobile.com/home.html) website is very low budget and looks highly 
suspicious. The website owner/creator is a certain “Alan Bates”19.  


A search under this name shows a company, Alan Bates Design Limited, with registered address 
located at NORTH HOUSE, HIGH STREET, TONBRIDGE, KENT, TN9 1BE UK. No number 
is provided, but a search of this address in Google maps brings up the following location: 











Zooming in shows the sign “Fosse House” which is a rental agency it seems. The address for this 
location is 198, HIGH STREET, TONBRIDGE, KENT, TN9 1BE UK.  


4 properties down the street (20m), guess what, is a Globo listed office at 190 High Street 
Tonbridge, Kent TN9 1BE! As of June 2015 part (or all) of this property was for let.  


                                                
19 is http://www.scamadviser.com/check-website/dargamobile.com
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


30 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 











http://gbcomp.p-o.co.uk/en/alsoatthisaddress/05506731/ 


There are 61 companies registered at the same address as Globo Plc 190, High Street TN9 1BE, 
including the following: 
 GLOBO PLC  
GLOBO TECHNOLOGIES UK LIMITED  
HELLENIC CAPITAL PLC  
HIGHAM WOOD THREE LIMITED  
HOT ROCKS INVESTMENTS PLC  
IFA (2014) LIMITED Active PRI/LTD BY GUAR/NSC 
IFA FACULTY OF BUSINESS LIMITED  
IFA INSTITUTE OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT LIMITED  
IFA INSTITUTE OF BUSINESS MANAGERS LIMITED  
IFA INSTITUTE OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT LIMITED  


The companies highlighted in BOLD have a clear connection to Globo in that a Globo director is 
also a director at that company.  
 
This provides a strong basis to the theory that someone (or multiple) people from the board of 
Globo know Alan Bates and that he was contracted by Globo to create a dummy website for 
Darga LLC (a supposedly US company) to create the illusion of a company which is buying their 
products.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


31 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Auditing 


If Globo is indeed generating significant fraudulent transactions, as overwhelming evidence 
seems to show, a legitimate question is why the auditors did not pick up on this behavior. Well, 
in a way they did. Until 2014 Globo was audited by BDO, but was dismissed on March 2014 by 
Globo ostensibly because of concerns over pricing and scope. In the occasion, Globo’s 
management released the following letter:
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


32 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


The following is a letter issued by BDO with their own version of the situation:  





Clearly, BDO do not mention pricing issues, but they do cite their inability to agree on an audit 
scope. Of course this is vague so we investigated with people close to the company about the real 
reason for the change in auditors. It turns out, BDO demanded, as part of its activity, to audit 
not only Globo Plc accounts, but also the accounts of Globo’s foreign subsidiaries. Globo 
denied and BDO essentially refused to proceed. Now, why would Globo refuse to let BDO audit 
these subsidiaries? Given the evidence above, we can guess that all the bogus transactions with 
shell companies take place not with Globo Plc, but with Globo’s foreign subsidiaries. An audit of 
those subsidiaries would have entailed checking the identity of their clients and suppliers and, 
most likely, uncovering the alleged scheme just as we are trying to do in this report.  


BDO’s successor, Grand Thornton, appears instead willing to close an eye instead and let Globo 
play its game. It is impossible to know whether this is simply sloppy auditing work or if there is 
something worse going on (corruption?). The fact remains that the Greek representatives of 
Grand Thornton are a small entity and could be vulnerable to all sorts of pressure or incentives.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


33 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


 
People Involved 


According to the evidence we analyzed, the alleged scheme was probably engineered by many of 
the senior executives and employees in 2007 or earlier. The CEO hired some of his friends, many 
with debatable talent, questionable experience, but unquestionable loyalty. The bargain might 
have been participation in the scheme, discretion and loyalty with long-term tenure and high 
salaries in return20. 


This of course includes the company’s founder and CEO Costis Papadimitrakopoulos. Given 
the fact that most satellite companies are located abroad, we believe that the head of international 
accounting, Mr. Panagiotis Martinos might be heavily involved. Also, it is hard to believe that 
the scheme could be perpetrated without knowledge of the CFO, Mr. Dimitrios Gryparis. A 
former junior banker at Eurobank, Mr. Gryparis never held a CFO role before. Presumably he 
was hired due to his connections in banking that came in handy in order to raise credit for Globo.  


We don’t know whether the entire board and the rest of the management team is involved in the 
alleged scheme. Our sources claim that most board members are completely uninvolved in the 
company, that contacts between them and the company are rare and that some of them have not 
been paid in years. Apparently, most board members have been hired solely on the basis of their 
name and reputation.  


The interactions with satellite companies and distributors must have required the complicity, or 
at least the tacit knowledge, of some junior employees and of key personnel in many of Globo’s 
distributors, besides, of course, the directors of the satellite companies.  


Most of Globo’s junior employees are probably unaware, but it is known within the company 
that Globo’s products are “junk” and that nobody is buying them21. Incredibly, we heard that 
Globo employees do not use Globo’s products on their mobile devices!  


                                                
20 Source: interview with persons close to the company. 
21 Source: declarations of former employees.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


34 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Is any of Globo’s business real? 
Yes, we believe that a significant part of Globo’s activities are legitimate and real, and this is 
what makes the scheme harder to uncover. First, we have evidence that Globo Technologies, the 
software company partially divested in 2012 is a real company with real sales. According to 
Capital IQ Globo Technologies has sales of $40m, half of which belong to Globo that owns 49% 
of it.  


Globo recently acquired two US companies, Sourcebits and Notify. The former has sales of 
$13m, the latter sales are unknown, but selling price was $5m and we assume a multiple of 1x 
sales was paid. Summing it all up, we estimate that real sales are at least $38m vs $100m 
declared in Globo’s income statement. So, about 60% of Globo’s sales may be fraudulent and 
this is the same number we received from our sources close to the company, implying that most 
of Globo’s legacy products i.e. Go!AppZone and Go!Enterprise are most likely fictitious.  


It is to be noted how the companies recently acquired by Globo do have real (but tiny) sales to 
large US accounts (e.g. Coca Cola) and this would allow Globo to boast such clients on its 
website.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


35 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


 
Product Quality 


To see further evidence of quality of Globo’s flagship products, it might be helpful to take a look 
at some of their their apps reviews on Google Play:
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


36 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


Reviews are overwhelmingly negative and we suspect that Globo’s employees may have 
posted the few positive ones. Please note (bottom right corner) how the application has been 
downloaded only 10-50k times, in stark contrasts with the millions of users claimed by Globo.   


The situation is even worse for iOS users: here the downloads have been so few that the 
system does not display any reviews: 








Our own research confirms these findings. We spoke to several of Globo’s competitors (e.g. 
Kony) and many IT providers and, almost without exception, Globo’s products were 
completely unknown. We downloaded a trial version of the app on our devices and it froze 
irrevocably after a couple of minutes.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


37 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


 
The Mysterious Cash Balances 


Many bearish bloggers have wondered whether Globo’s cash balances, totaling $104m, are 
actually existent. Their doubts were based on the accounting irregularities we mentioned earlier 
and on Globo’s eagerness to issue $120m worth of junk bonds at high interest rate. Also, Globo’s 
annual report does not mention the name of the banks where the cash is held, but it shows the 
banks’ credit rating, for the most part below investment grade: 





Our investigation actually shows that Globo’s cash balances may be genuine and backed by 
bank statements. The cash was in junk-rated banks presumably because it is needed where 
Globo’s subsidiaries and satellite companies are located, often in low-credit rating countries such 
as Cyprus and Greece.  


The existence of genuine cash balances does not contradict our possible "fraudulent" scheme 
thesis: the cash comes from bank credit, shares issues and, in minor part, from the legitimate 
parts of the company.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


38 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


 
Legal Analysis of Globo Plc Activities 


Our talented legal team, together with top notch outside consultants, has gone through the entire 
Globo affair and produced a preliminary assessment as to what sort of liability might be 
involved. The list is long and serious and includes both civil and criminal charges. The following 
is a non-exhaustive list: 


• Securities fraud. 


• Transfer Pricing Violations. 


• Misrepresentation. 


• Tax Evasion. 


• Breach of Fiduciary Duties. 


• Lack of Disclosure. 


• Classic Fraud. 


The evidence seems to suggest that the above-described activities involve multiple countries. 
Therefore, we would assume that many of Globo’s legal liabilities are likely to involve multiple 
jurisdictions.  





What is Likely to Happen Next 


Given the extent of the alleged scheme, we believe that its uncovering will no doubt involve 
dramatic effects including a collapse of Globo’s stock price (followed by its prompt delisting), 
the opening of multiple investigations (civil, criminal and regulatory) and the initiations of 
several lawsuits by creditors and shareholders.  


The company will likely try to defend itself and deny these allegations, but any reader, armed 
with a PC and a telephone can verify our claims easily. 





Conclusion 


We believe we have presented overwhelming evidence on the likely existence a massive 
"fraudulent" scheme perpetrated by Globo Plc. The overwhelming majority of the data we 
published is easily verifiable: for example, you can easily try to call many of Globo’s distributors 
appearing on its website and check whether they exist as legitimate companies and carry Globo’s 
products. You can also try and download Globo’s apps and verify their quality.
--- Strictly Private & Confidential --- 
 


39 
 NSREEP\286964.2 - 07/18/15 


A lot of people are likely to have suffered and will continue to suffer serious damages as a result 
of Globo’s activities, unless somebody puts an end to this activity. This is our humble attempt. 





Appendix: Comprehensive 
list of Globo’s partners and 
our findings 


























Entity Name Location Notes


Cipher ?
product does not appear on the website. 
Sent email, no response.


Ingram US


Large public co. Globo does not appear on 
the website. We contacted one of their 
sales managers and they never heard of 
Globo.


MSI US


They claim having offices in 15 countries, 
yet only one employee (anonymous on 
Linkedin)..Their head office in Florida looks 
like a residential address (a villa). Their 
sales office in Virginia correponds to a 
Regus location. They don't list Globo as 
Partner or product.


Grupo Softron Chile


Bare, generic website. 3 generic 
tweets.Approached the company's 
manager. Interrupted all 
communication after Globo was 
mentioned.


Beytech Brazil


They have several employees and list 
Globo as a partner. Approached them 
with a request for proposal. No reply.


Softbrilliance Peru
Legitimate company. Approached 
employee to ask references. No reply. 


Qast China
Dynamics ? unable to identify. No footprint


Mobilise IT Australia
they list Globo's products on their website. 
The company's CEO appears to be Greek.


Federal Infosystems
Mumbay 
India


This appears to be litlle more than a laptop 
repair and retail shop. No mention of 
mobility nor of Globo.


Pha Vietnam Vietnam
They list Globo on their website. It is all 
very vague.


Telesma Greece
1 employee on linkedin. Street view shows 
a residential apartment.


Saga Group France
large company but involved in logistics. No 
clear the link with Globo.


Insight UK UK Globo appears on the website.


Bechtle Germany
Company looks legit, but Globo is not 
listed in their mobility solutions. 


Chase Security UK


They sell IT security solutions. Globo is 
listed as a partner. The company has but a 
single employee on Linked in.


IT2Trust Holland They recommend Globo MDM products


LxPN Germany


they recommend globo on their website. 
We contacted a former employee for 
questions and received no replies.


Agiltech 


Mellon Technologies Greece
The company seems legit and seems to 
include Globo.


Sistemi e Servizi Italia


Globo does look like a partner, but the 
products they sell are unrelated. The 
company did not reply an innocent 
request for a meeting.


Tim Systems Serbia
Small IT consulting firm in Belgrade. They 
list Globo as partner.


Soluti ? unable to identify. No footprint


Alexander Moore Greece


They seem to sell SAP solutions. Globo not 
mentioned. They are located 12' walk 
from Globo's headquarters.Buildings 
looks like a residential location.


Prestigio Cyprus
seems another name for Asbis. Sent 
email, no reponse.


Asbis Cyprus


Only 1 product shows up on the online 
catalog and is listed at a price of $0. Sent 
email, no reponse.
