5/19/2018 OCZ - The Master of SSD (Shady, Suspect, Deceitful) - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/166874-ocz-the-master-of-ssd-shady-suspect-deceitful 1/31


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


OCZ - The Master
of SSD (Shady,
Suspect,
Deceitful)
Apr. 20, 2011 11:19 AM ET61 comments | Includes: DVMT, …


Today we published a long report on OCZ Technology (NASDAQ:OCZ), "OCZ -
The Master of SSD (Shady, Suspect, Deceitful)" which can be found in its
entirety here: 
 
www.scribd.com/doc/53435574/OCZ-The-Mast... 
 
Below is a brief intro of the issues covered in the first few pages of the article,
many of which we believe will be helpful reveleations for investors...... 
 


Over the last six months, investors have learned a painful and expensive
lesson from the following story. A small Chinese company comes public
through an RTO (reverse take-over) or a backdoor listing on the OTC Bulletin
Board. The story blossoms alongside a rising stock price, riding a new hot
theme or even a legitimate end market. Ignoring red flags from management's
past, sellside analysts and investors choose to believe the Cinderella tale. The
tale itself is always hard to verify, but the detailed insight the CEO shares
creates complacency and a willingness to look past obvious risks and financial
irregularities. Based on the CEO's story, a cult-like following ensues, and the
company is able to raise large sums of capital. The company puts up huge
revenue numbers quarter-after-quarter, yet the profitability and cash flows
never seem to materialize. And then one day, investors realize that numbers
never reconciled and huge accounting inconsistencies existed the whole time.
They also realize important facts were never disclosed and the product wasn't



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DVMT

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/IBM

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OCZ

http://www.scribd.com/doc/53435574/OCZ-The-Master-of-SSD-Shady-Suspect-Deceitful
5/19/2018 OCZ - The Master of SSD (Shady, Suspect, Deceitful) - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/166874-ocz-the-master-of-ssd-shady-suspect-deceitful 2/31


what management claimed. Ultimately, investors suffer large losses as the
final chapter. OCZ Technology (OCZ) may just be the American version of the
story above.





OCZ has parlayed investor and market excitement for solid state drives (SSDs)
into an amazing story. From a low of $1.79 last summer, OCZ's stock has
steadily climbed more than 350% on a feel good tale told by its CEO. But there
is a much darker and sinister side that has been well hidden. It is our opinion
that OCZ has misrepresented its SSD growth and has financial irregularities
that are nearly impossible to reconcile. We believe that some form of a
restatement may be required and that the auditors tick and tie review has
some substantial inconsistencies. As such, we have sent our findings to the
Securities and Exchange Commission asking for clarification on the multiple
sets of numbers that we have uncovered. We believe OCZ's Board has the
fiduciary responsibility to form a special committee to examine these
discrepancies.





But the misrepresentations are not confined to the financials. A scathing
lawsuit and industry reviews suggest OCZ has misrepresented product specs
and performance. Additionally, a recently completed secondary failed to
disclose the CEO's criminal record, major underwriter conflicts (until the final
prospectus), and contained financial results that were different from past
filings. And if that is not enough, there are other confusing pieces to the story
such as Fusion-io, STEC, and Smart Modular disclosing that they do not see
OCZ in competitive situations. Amazingly, we believe most of the interest in
OCZ is nothing more than a wise guy backdoor play on the hot Fusion-io deal
that should backfire as the OCZ issues get exposed.





As investors begin to recognize that the CEO has told the world that OCZ is
trying to get qualified at EMC and IBM (so much for selective disclosure), the
last catalyst will have played itself out versus elevated expectations. Although
the sellside will likely remain complicit, we believe buyside investors that
expect $400 million of revenue, and more importantly $0.75 of earnings in
fiscal 2012, will be disappointed. With buyside estimates at unobtainable levels



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OCZ
5/19/2018 OCZ - The Master of SSD (Shady, Suspect, Deceitful) - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/166874-ocz-the-master-of-ssd-shady-suspect-deceitful 3/31


and promotional qual announcements fully priced in, we think the stock will
finally be valued on fundamentals. If OCZ trades in-line with the comp group,
a generous assumption given OCZ's limited asset value, differentiation, and
minimal profitability, a reasonable price target would be between $2.58 and
$4.98 per share.





This report will highlight:


1) Huge losses for AIM investors and a previous profitless revenue
ramp. OCZ listed its stock on the AIM before moving to a U.S. listing. OCZ
management rode a profitless revenue ramp and told a very similar story then
to raise money from investors. They proceeded to miss estimates by 40% and
delist their shares less than three years after the original listing. OCZ's stock
declined 95% from its peak.


2) BCInet - an unusual transaction. OCZ claims to have sold its Neural
Impulse Actuator line to a company that was incorporated, at most, just seven
days before the sale took place. Public filings show OCZ shares the same
address as the purported buyer, a company called BCInet.


3) Accounting Irregularities, SSD growth overstatement, and
irreconcilable financials. Based on discrepancies in OCZ's SEC filings, we
believe the company has misrepresented its SSD revenue and growth rates.
The SSD revenues from past financials do not reconcile with an important
segment table they have been providing since January. Based on comments in
the MD&A from the 10Q, it appears management has overstated the year-
over-year SSD growth rate by over 200%.


4) Irregularities in the prospectus, past filings, and a needed
restatement. The prospectus that investors relied upon for the recent
secondary appears to have contained material financial inaccuracies. Based
upon the financials provided, we are unable to reconcile the Segment
attributions with past SEC filings. The prospectus appears to overstate SSD
growth for 2010 by 183%. The 8K (from 1/10/11), the 10K, and the revenue
from quarterly results reported in each 10Q do not reconcile. Additionally, it
appears SSD revenues were somehow reallocated to the PSU segment in some
5/19/2018 OCZ - The Master of SSD (Shady, Suspect, Deceitful) - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/166874-ocz-the-master-of-ssd-shady-suspect-deceitful 4/31


financials and the memory segment in others - with the result being
overstated forward revenue growth in SSD. Finally, OCZ's CFO resigned late
last year after only 18 months in that role.


5) Material information was withheld about the CEO's past felonious
activity. OCZ and the underwriters did not disclose material background
information on the CEO's criminal record. While we are sympathetic to
mistakes made in the past, we believe the importance of the CEO's credibility
is essential given the extreme reliance investors and analysts have placed on
his story. A national criminal records search shows the CEO was arrested
and/or charged in various Courts for: Grand Theft, Forgery, Unlawful Entry
Motor Vehicle, Theft-1, Drug Violations, and Traffic in Stolen Property.


6) Controversial geographic disclosures suggest all of the growth is
from EMEA. Despite cagy references to HP, Yahoo, and other U.S.-based
enterprise wins, close to 100% of OCZ's growth has come from the Middle
East, Africa, and Europe. Based on public disclosures by the CFO, for the
numbers to reconcile, SSD business outside of the U.S. is somehow growing
nearly 3x faster than U.S. SSD growth. The company's comments about SSD
attributions imply North American non-SSD revenues would have fallen
between 53% and 92% sequentially, while that same non-SSD business was
flattish outside of the U.S. While unrelated, it is worth noting that OCZ has
received inquiries from the FBI about product sales into the Middle East.[i]


7) Claiming to triple capacity out of thin air. OCZ has publicly stated
multiple times that they expanded capacity by 3x in the third fiscal quarter. We
have been unable to find the associated expenses or capital expenditures
supporting that level of capacity expansion. In fact, PP&E declined by $10,000
from Q1 to Q3, while capex was only $728,000 for the entire first nine months
of the fiscal year.


8) Hype aside, OCZ looks ugly next to STEC. Despite a rocky road ahead
for STEC, the side-by-side comparisons are alarming for OCZ investors that
believe the company has the infrastructure and support to establish large
revenue agreements with OEM's (qualification announcement do not equal
revenue). STEC employs 250% more heads in R&D and spends nearly 90%
more per such employee. Further, STEC spent more than 400% more on R&D
5/19/2018 OCZ - The Master of SSD (Shady, Suspect, Deceitful) - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/166874-ocz-the-master-of-ssd-shady-suspect-deceitful 5/31


in 2010 than OCZ spent in the previous four years combined. When taking all
of OCZ's options and warrants into consideration, the enterprise value of OCZ
is now just $250 million less than STEC.


9) OCZ's appears delusional and does not seem to play in the high-end
enterprise SSD sandbox. Don't take our word for it, look at the supposed
competition. In public filings, OCZ claims to compete with Fusion-io, STEC and
Smart Modular. However, none of those three list OCZ as a competitor in their
public filings. Additionally the "wise guy" investors that have bought OCZ as a
backdoor to Fusion-io are likely to be sorely disappointed if they actually
compare the financial profiles and end markets of the two companies.


10) Industry reviews accuse OCZ of disingenuous specs and "shady"
marketing. The CEO of DDRdrive and the industry review website Storage
Review have accused OCZ of knowingly publishing disingenuous product
specifications. OCZ's decision to deceptively market new products with legacy
specs and marketing material led one industry website to warn (talking about
the product, not the stock) "At this point it is buyer beware until OCZ steps up
and reveals some degree of transparency."[ii] 


11) OCZ is being sued for Negligent Misrepresentation and Deceptive
Advertising Practices. OCZ failed to disclose any of the details behind the
lawsuit filed against them in U.S. District Court less than three weeks ago. The
lawsuit provides great detail into OCZ's decision to change the number of
modules, the densities, and the nodes of its flash cells without disclosing such
changes to customers. The lawsuit accuses OCZ of Deceptive Advertising and
Negligent Misrepresentation, among six total claims, "OCZ's advertisings and
marketing representations concerning the storage capacity and performance of
the Products are false, misleading, and deceptive."


12) The Indilinx acquisition - fuzzy math and a bleak revenue picture.
Despite management's rosy comments around Indilinx and future accretion,
public SEC filings portray Indilinx as a company that was quite challenged. In
2010, Indilinx revenues fell by 69% to just $2 million. Excluding the decline in
revenue from OCZ, their sales still fell 46% compared to 2009. We are unsure
how management defines "accretive" and do not think Indilinx can generate
the required $1.7 million of EBIT to offset the dilution from the deal.
5/19/2018 OCZ - The Master of SSD (Shady, Suspect, Deceitful) - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/166874-ocz-the-master-of-ssd-shady-suspect-deceitful 6/31


13) OCZ will not come close to hitting buyside expectations. We have
carefully analyzed buyside expectations for revenues this year (FY'12) of $400
million and pro forma earnings of $0.77 per share. We believe that buyside
investors are making a major error extrapolating the contribution margins that
are implied in the fourth quarter from management's two press releases.
Further, we believe management may need to rely on a) selling DRAM
inventories at 100% gross margins that had previously been reserved against,
and b) the possible reversal of an accrual taken for lack of payment to a
supplier. We slice the numbers several different ways and think buyside
revenues may be attainable, but the company will come nowhere close to
making $0.77 of earnings.


14) The co-founders aggressive selling may be one step ahead of
investors. The spate of insider selling could raise some flags. CEO Ryan
Petersen sold nearly two million shares a few months ago in private
transactions and the open market at levels 50% lower than where the stock
currently trades. Also, one of OCZ's co-founder's recently sold most of his
stock below $4.00 (he may have sold 100% of his stock, but we can not
confirm that yet).


15) Why was the Merriman Capital relationship not disclosed in the
preliminary prospectus? For some reason the lengthy and intertwined
relationship between OCZ and Merriman Capital did not appear to get
disclosed in the preliminary prospectus. Given the depth of the relationships,
the Chairman's significant stake in OCZ, and the bullish support from research,
we are unsure why the relationship was not initially disclosed.


 
Disclaimer – As of the publication date, the author of this report has a short
position in the company covered herein and stands to realize gains in the
event that the price of the stock declines. The author does not use options to
establish positions prior to a report’s publication. The author does not discuss
unpublished reports, or provide any advanced warning of future reports to
others. Following publication, the author may transact in the securities of the
company, and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless
of our initial opinion. The author of this report has obtained all information
herein from sources believed to be accurate and reliable. The author of this
report makes no representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy,
5/19/2018 OCZ - The Master of SSD (Shady, Suspect, Deceitful) - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/166874-ocz-the-master-of-ssd-shady-suspect-deceitful 7/31


