5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 1/13


QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A
World Of Hurt
Jun. 15, 2015 2:49 PM ET9 comments
by: The Emperor Has No Clothes


Summary


The New York Times broke news linking QIWI as one of the main methods of choice
used to crowdfund the war in Ukraine involving Russia.


QIWI clearly notes its inability to comply with Anti-Money Laundering (AML) rules -
the very same rules that prevent funding of terrorism. This places QIWI's business in
jeopardy.


Are QIWI insiders aware of its dirty little secret? Insiders plan to sell over $150
million of stock (12% of the company) in the open market shortly.


Is the company also dealing with U.S. sanctioned entities? Operations could be
meaningfully impacted or shutdown if so. Are QIWI’s compliance standards
comparable to a key competitor? Nope.


QIWI has a limited history of compliance with regulatory requirements; the company
has skirted too close to the line on many fronts and it seems the music is about to
stop.


The New York Times has broken the ice on a little-known issue - QIWI facilitating
funding of rebel groups in the ongoing Russian/Ukraine conflict…


The conflict between Russia and Ukraine has intensified since mid-2014. The relations
between Russia and the western world remain cold as U.S./Euro sanctions emplaced on
Russia have no end in sight. On June 8, 2015, President Obama convinced European
leaders to maintain economic sanctions on Russia. On June 11, 2015, New York Times
journalists Jo Becker and Steven Lee Myers released an article highlighting skeletons in
QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) closet. The NYT authors spilled the beans on QIWI's enabling
war funding through its payment transfer system in the Russian-Ukraine conflict. QIWI is
an instant payment operator for consumers in Russia that now finds itself between a rock
and a hard place. The writing is on the wall as QIWI will now face negative attention for
involvement in funding terrorism, not dissimilar to the attention received by the Clinton
Foundation for funding from a Russian uranium deal. The rest of this report sets out the
details that illustrate why.



http://www.cnn.com/2015/06/08/politics/g7-russia-sanctions-barack-obama/

http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/12/world/europe/russian-groups-crowdfund-the-war-in-ukraine.html?smid=tw-nytimesworld&_r=0

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/QIWI

http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/24/us/cash-flowed-to-clinton-foundation-as-russians-pressed-for-control-of-uranium-company.html?_r=1
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 2/13


QIWI's business and stock will face meaningful negative pressure as a result of this
newly uncovered information


Through mid-May, QIWI's stock had risen over 70% year-to-date. Since the New York
Times uncovered QIWI connections to war financing, the stock is down a little over 2% -
nothing notable. It is my view that this information is much more substantial than both
investors and QIWI realizes. In the case of QIWI, there has been no response to the
New York Times findings, it has not put out a press release or any filing - perhaps it is
hoping that investors did not appreciate the importance of the information.


In my view, QIWI's compliance procedures are inadequate, and this is confirmed as it
openly notes this in its filings. The company has taken down certain inappropriate users
trying to attain funding but have not fixed the heart of the matter which opens it to
significant ongoing risk. As a critical partner, Visa (NYSE:V) is unlikely to be content with
QIWI's issues - this could drastically change their relationship. QIWI has been linked to
funding of both Russian and Islamic State militants - its current structure and compliance
network only amplifies potential future issues. Only one research analyst, Goldman Sachs
analyst Dmitry Trembovolsky, has highlighted this risk and that was over half a year ago -
as such I deem this to be critical as the market, analysts and investors do not have this on
their radar. Competitor filings, in this case that I reviewed - Paypal - do not note similar
compliance issues and risks. QIWI insiders may be selling due to all these issues, and the
company could even be in violation of U.S. sanctions laws. The combination of all these
aforementioned points place QIWI in serious trouble as it has limited options to remediate
these shortfalls.


QIWI can (i) shut down operations and complete a significant overhaul; (ii) it can wait until
authorities (Russian, banks, etc.) inform it that its current practices need to be fixed; or it
can do some combination of these two options. These options will result in a hefty hit to
operations through a combination of operations being halted, significant investment in
adequate infrastructure or legal fees if the company is not proactive.


QIWI's business will be materially impacted by the information uncovered by the New York
Times as facilitating the funding of war is not compliant with AML rules. With insiders
selling and other shareholders likely to follow suit - it is my view that QIWI's stock and
business are set to face negative pressure. See appendix A and B for details on QIWI's
structure and operations.


Important tidbits from the New York Times - QIWI's issues are meaningful and need
to be fixed



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/V
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 3/13


Shifting back to the new information unearthed by the NYT, the extent of how much of
QIWI's business is impacted is still unknown "or how much money flows through it, though
the separatist groups identified by The Times claim in social media posts to have raised
millions of dollars…One of the fund-raising groups, Save the Donbass, claimed in May to
have raised the equivalent of $1.3 million in donations through Sberbank
(OTCPK:SBRCY) and other payment systems, including QIWI." As per the New York
Times, "Nearly all the fund-raising groups solicit donations through QIWI" with
Paypal and others being used to a lesser extent.


QIWI maintains payment terminals which allow groups to attain funding similar to payment
transfers conducted through Paypal (where money can be transferred via an email
address; QIWI alternatively uses a phone number). According to the New York Times -
Visa, a QIWI partner, claims to be unaware of QIWI's questionable involvement in
facilitating the purchase of binoculars, tactical military gloves, laser range finders, radios
and cars used during the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. Visa is unlikely to condone this
activity. Not to mention that each time a QIWI account is blocked (due to inappropriate
activity), it is often replaced with another account set up to receive funds for the same
purpose (as per the New York Times) - QIWI compliance and controls appear not to be
working.


As per this article (released on May 17, 2015), "a group of Islamic State militants from
Russia's North Caucasus region are using the popular Russian QIWI wallet electronic
payment system to raise money online." It appears that QIWI's problems of funding
terrorism spread beyond just the Russian-Ukraine conflict and stretch as far helping
the jihadists in ISIS.


QIWI is said to be wildly popular in Eastern Europe but there too, it has also skirted legal
trouble. Per its filings (20-F), "our payment system remains susceptible to potentially
illegal or improper uses." In mid-February, QIWI announced it cooperated with law
enforcement officials in connection with an investigation relating to a small number of
clients in Moscow - just another red flag.


Unlike most payment transfer companies, QIWI tip toes the line too close for
comfort - its filings support lack of compliance and maintains potential for AML
issues


Per translation of an article on November 19, 2014, Denis Dushnov, who worked for QIWI
for eight years, claims that kiosks were used for advanced money-laundering mechanisms
which use existing loopholes in legislature. Not surprising as QIWI's filings specifically



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SBRCY

http://www.rferl.org/content/islamic-state-funding-russian-web-payments-qiwi/27021379.html

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1561566/000119312515088634/d888283d20f.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1561566/000119312515056417/d878077d6k.htm

http://yodnews.ru/2014/11/19/obnal
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 4/13


identify various risks with respect to Anti-Money Laundering ("AML") issues:


QIWI's 20-F filings illustrate that the company uses judgement calls to get around
financing limits and thus AML laws
The company does not identify its customers - meaning anyone could be using its
networks
As AML laws have evolved, QIWI has not kept up and is significantly behind the eight
ball in terms of being compliant


QIWI claims having limited experience and a lack of proven management to establish
solid compliance required by the industry in which it operates. This is not the first time its
system has been used in a manner not intended - Appendix C contains an example of
where QIWI's services have been exploited by money launderers as well.


Goldman Sachs analyst on October 23, 2014, indicated that "QIWI's customer
identification process may not be fully in accord with the new regulation for person-to-
person transfers, which could raise compliance risks." Refer to Appendix E for Goldman
Sachs reasoning for its sell rating.


Paypal, a comparable money transfer company is able to maintain compliance, but
QIWI is not


One of the major payment processors in the world is Paypal, which is currently owned by
eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY). Despite recently facing shareholder activism, eBay and
Paypal run a pretty tight ship. A review of their financial statement risks reveals quite
typical notations of potential for intense competition, global and regional economic
conditions, natural disasters and other. I specifically highlight that there is limited
discussion of compliance issues. Paypal is specifically noted to be affected by
government regulation, but from the perspective of oversight, not an inability to keep up
with compliance like QIWI. The filings highlight both eBay and Paypal's commitment to
excellence and here is their view on fraud: "Failure to deal effectively with fraud, fictitious
transactions, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences would increase our
loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish consumer confidence in and
use of our services" - as can be seen, Paypal takes fraud seriously and its risks are much
more stringent than QIWI's aforementioned inability to prevent manipulation or deal with
fraud/compliance. Please take a review of risks noted by eBay here. Interestingly,
compliance costs are noted as a significant part of operations - this is why I think QIWI's
operations will be meaningfully impacted as a result of inability to prevent Russian and
Islamic militants from receiving funding.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EBAY

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1065088/000106508815000054/ebay201410-k.htm
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 5/13


On March 25, 2015, Paypal was slapped on the wrist with a $7.6 million fine for sanctions
violations - it would be my view that QIWI's transgressions are much more serious and
could result in more meaningful costs, penalties and remediation investments (source
from U.S. Treasury, external source). The key question here is that if Paypal does not note
the risk of potential for dealing with sanctioned entities and inability to maintain
compliance, then why can QIWI not figure it out?


Could insiders be aware of these issues? They are selling over $150 million of stock


Is it surprising that QIWI insiders have filed to sell 6.4M shares equivalent to over $150
million of stock (or roughly 12% of total shares outstanding) in the open market on Jun 4,
2015. Perhaps insiders are aware of QIWI's compliance issues and rebel funding
activities?


On May 14, 2015, QIWI announced the purchase of Contact and Rapida from Otkritie for
5.6 million shares. On June 2, 2015, QIWI completed the acquisition of a 70% interest in
Contact in Rapida and issued 3,915,129 Class B shares. See highlighted in Table A,
Otkritie has already filed to sell shares it received a little over a week ago. Why does an
insider receive stock as consideration only to turn around with intention to sell a few
weeks later?


Is QIWI in violation of the United States' sanction laws?


The U.S. and European Union have placed sanctions on Russian companies and certain
parts of Putin's inner circle. A few days ago, Europe stipulated its endeavours to maintain
sanctions against Russia. QIWI once again, within its filings, admits that it may be
conducting business with Russian financial institutions sanctioned as Specially



http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/OFAC-Enforcement/Pages/20150325_33.aspx

http://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/news/paypal-coughs-76-million/

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1561566/000119312515213464/d937792df3asr.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1561566/000119312515186735/d926201dex991.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1561566/000119312515210868/d935406dex991.htm

http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/28/world/europe/it-pays-to-be-putins-friend-.html

http://www.cnn.com/2015/06/08/politics/g7-russia-sanctions-barack-obama/
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 6/13


Designated Nationals by U.S. Treasury. Per QIWI filings "Although we believe our client
identification practices to be in accordance with the law, the Russian regulators may view
them as being non-compliant and impose fines and other sanctions on us." If QIWI is
dealing with U.S. sanctioned entities, it could face the wrath of the U.S. government. Refer
to appendix D for details.


Summary


Timely insider selling indicates QIWI may have bit off more than it can chew. With the New
York Times now shinning a light on QIWI's tail, a bombshell may be dropped on its stock
as negative attention may come its way. QIWI has illustrated its inability to maintain
regulatory compliance (i.e. AML rules), which is amplified by key connections to various
rebel group receiving financing facilitated through QIWI. The company's filings indicate
potential for much more serious violations of compliance, AML rules and sanctions laws -
especially when compared to major comparative companies like Paypal. QIWI is now in
between the devil and the deep blue sea - it pays through the nose whether it finally fixes
its compliance issues or faces significant regulatory headwinds. Caveat Emptor!


Appendices


Appendix A - QIWI Structure Background


QIWI has a complicated structure, but at the top of the pyramid is QIWI plc, a company
based in Cyprus (originally incorporated on February 26, 2007, as OE Investments
Limited). In April 2008, the QIWI brand was formally launched. QIWI plc was established
upon converting to a public limited company on February 25, 2013.


QIWI plc controls the following subsidiaries (this organization chart may have an updated
version):



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1561566/000119312515088634/d888283d20f.htm
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 7/13


Appendix B - Operations


QIWI's operations are primarily comprised of two segments: kiosks and digital wallets.


QIWI Kiosks - The company operates a network of 180,000+ physical kiosks and
terminals located in public places such as convenience stores, groceries and train
stations. It primarily operates in markets that are primarily reliant on cash-based
commercial activity as opposed to systems flush with the use of credit and debit card
transactions. Cash-centric consumers can thus purchase goods and services through
QIWI that are otherwise difficult to purchase with cash (i.e. mobile phone service, other
utilities, etc.). Customers can transact by depositing cash into QIWI kiosks and
subsequently payment options for selected goods and services.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/6/24672673_14343130056929_0.png
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 8/13


Visa QIWI Wallet - QIWI customers also use kiosks to add cash to Visa QIWI Wallet
accounts. These accounts can be used for peer-to-peer financial transactions similar to
Paypal. Visa QIWI Wallets can also be linked to Visa prepaid debit cards, which enables
card-based transactions at physical points-of-service. The QIWI-Visa partnership was
established in November 2012 - this partnership effectively expanded QIWI's platform.


Appendix C - Unlike most payment transfer companies, QIWI tip toes the line too
close for comfort - its filings support lack of compliance and maintains potential for
AML issues (details)


QIWI's filings specifically identify various risks with respect to AML issues:


QIWI's 20-F filings illustrate that QIWI uses judgement calls to get around financing
limits and thus AML laws: "We sometimes have to make significant judgment calls
in applying anti-money laundering legislation and risk being found in non-
compliance with it, particularly in relation to its mandatory client identification
requirements, if, for example, we process payments made by our consumers from their
Visa Qiwi Wallet accounts for amounts in excess of the thresholds imposed by anti-
money laundering legislation without the required client identification."
QIWI does not identify its customers - meaning anyone could be using its networks:
"because of the nature of our business, we do not generally identify our customers
where there is no express requirement to do so under Russian anti-money laundering
legislation. Therefore, we are not always able to screen them against the Specially
Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List published by OFAC and other
sanctions lists."
As AML laws have evolved, QIWI has not kept up and is significantly behind the eight
ball in terms of being compliant: "Recent changes to know-your-client requirements
established by Russian anti-money laundering legislation may adversely impact our
transaction volumes… remote identification requires the verification of certain data
provided by consumers against public databases, which are not yet up and running at
scale that is required by our payment system, which could cause us to be in
violation of the identification requirements."


QIWI itself claims having limited experience and a lack of proven management to
establish solid compliance required by the industry in which it operates: "We have neither
an established operating history nor proven management experience in
establishing and maintaining, over the long term, the required compliance
processes, procedures and controls. Our success requires significant public confidence
in our ability to handle large and growing payment volumes and amounts of consumer
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 9/13


funds, as well as comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure to manage
consumer funds or to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the
imposition of fines, harm our reputation and significantly diminish use of our products."


This is not the first time its system has been used in a manner not intended. QIWI's
services have been exploited by money launderers: "Despite measures we have taken
and continue to take, our payment system remains susceptible to potentially illegal
or improper uses. These may include use of our payment services in connection with
fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled
substances, software and other intellectual property piracy, money laundering, bank fraud
and prohibited sales of restricted products. In the past there have been news articles on
how organized crime groups have used our payment services to transfer money in the
course of illegal transactions. In particular, in February 2013 it was reported by the media
that the Moscow Arbitration Court upheld a RUB 289 million tax claim against LLC Rusal
Folga, a subsidiary of the major Russian aluminum producer Rusal, confirming that in
2008-2009 LLC Rusal Folga used shell firms for tax evasion. Some of these shell firms
acted as our agents and cashed out money via QIWI kiosks. Criminals are using
increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting
and fraud. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Our risk
management policies and procedures may not be fully effective to identify, monitor and
manage these risks. We are not able to monitor in each case the sources for our
counterparties' funds or the ways in which they use them. Increases in chargebacks or
other liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. Furthermore, an increase in fraudulent transactions or publicity
regarding chargeback disputes could harm our reputation and reduce consumer
confidence in the use of our kiosks and terminals and virtual wallets."


Appendix D - Potential for Sanctions


Per QIWI's 2014 20-F filing, QIWI accepts payments from sanctioned individuals? "In the
ordinary course of our business, we may accept payments from consumers to or
otherwise indirectly interact with certain entities that are the targets of U.S.
sanctions. We operate primarily within the Russian financial system and, accordingly,
many of our customers have accounts at banks in Russia. A number of Russian banks,
including Bank Rossiya, SMP Bank, Investcapitalbank and Sobinbank have been
designated by OFAC and are subject to U.S. economic sanctions. In addition, Tempbank
was designated due to its dealings with the Syrian government. U.S. sanctions may be
extended to any person that U.S. authorities determine has materially assisted, or
5/19/2018 QIWI's Compliance Issues May Place Its Stock And Business In A World Of Hurt - QIWI plc (NASDAQ:QIWI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3259825-qiwis-compliance-issues-may-place-its-stock-and-business-in-a-world-of-hurt 10/13


