5/23/2018 The Market Is Misunderstanding Lumber Liquidators' Announcement - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement 1/21


The Market Is Misunderstanding Lumber Liquidators' Announcement
May 7, 2015 2:08 PM ET63 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Lumber Liquidators announced three pieces of news this morning that are being
misinterpreted by the market as positive developments, but they’re not.


What we have witnessed in the past 67 days has, I believe, been a frantic attempt to
engineer a massive cover-up - and today’s announcement means that this has
failed.


The company needs to immediately take a number of steps to do right by customers.


I view the stock's rise today as a gift, so I materially increased my short position this
morning.


Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) announced three pieces of news this morning: a) that it's
suspending sales of its Chinese-made laminate flooring; b) that 97% of the initial tests it
commissioned of the air in customers' homes show formaldehyde levels below the limit set
by the World Health Organization; and c) that it hired the firm run by former FBI Director
Louis J. Freeh "to serve as an independent compliance advisor to the company."


These announcements are being misinterpreted by the market as positive developments,
but they're not. In fact, we may look back upon this day as a decisive point in the eventual
collapse of Lumber Liquidators.


Let's review each piece of news in turn.


Suspending Sales Of Chinese-Made Laminate


In the 60 Minutes story that aired on March 1st, the board and senior management of
Lumber Liquidators were confronted with overwhelming evidence that their Chinese-made
laminate didn't comply with CARB standards and was emitting a dangerous level of
formaldehyde, a known carcinogen that was likely causing serious adverse health effects
among a significant percentage of people exposed to it, especially children. As one father
emailed me recently:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

http://investors.lumberliquidators.com/2015-05-07-Lumber-Liquidators-Provides-Update-On-Laminate-Flooring-Sourced-From-China

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations

http://investors.lumberliquidators.com/management-and-directors
5/23/2018 The Market Is Misunderstanding Lumber Liquidators' Announcement - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement 2/21


I just wanted to thank you for your work on Lumber Liquidators. My wife and I put the
St James Vintners Reserve (a Chinese-made laminate) in our house back in May
2013. We have a 7-month-old who had basically been sick his whole life with all the
symptoms caused by formaldehyde poisoning (asthma, rashes, upper resp.
infections, daily breathing treatments, constant wheezing) and we (including the
pediatricians, who were trying everything) for the longest time could not figure out
what was wrong with him until we saw the airing of 60 Minutes. We got our things
and got out of our house while we could figure out what steps to do next. During the
time out of the house (little over a month) my son started almost immediately doing
better as did my wife, me and our little girl.


Yet, rather than taking the obvious step of immediately suspending sales of the product in
question, they, shockingly, did the opposite, slashing prices to dump this toxic product as
quickly as possible on unsuspecting customers, all the while assuring them that:


…our laminate products, all of our products, are 100% safe.


These attacks are driven by a small group of short-selling investors who are working
together for the sole purpose of making money by lowering our stock price. They are
using any means to try and scare our customers with inaccurate allegations. Their
motives and methods are wrong and we will fight these false attacks on all fronts.


In addition, Chairman and founder Tom Sullivan went on national television saying that "60
Minutes did a great job of scaring people, making up this story."


This is one of the most immoral and reckless decisions I have ever seen a company
make, which led me to conclude that Lumber Liquidators Is Evil.


Halting sales now - after selling thousands of American families tens of millions of dollars
of toxic flooring in the 67 days since the 60 Minutes story aired - is too little, too late, as
the damage has already been done.


Importantly, it also likely means that Lumber Liquidators is under immense pressure from
regulators, who will, I expect, take decisive action to rein in and punish this rogue
company. I simply don't believe Lumber Liquidators would halt sales of its own volition,
given that it must now write off ~$13 million of inventory and be out of stock on some of
this high-margin product for many months, which will seriously impact results for the



http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/

http://www.cnbc.com/id/102503331

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3019166-lumber-liquidators-is-evil
5/23/2018 The Market Is Misunderstanding Lumber Liquidators' Announcement - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement 3/21


second and third quarters. (One source tells me that the decision to halt sales was made
by the board, over management's objections, which, if true, means that perhaps they kept
the board in the dark about their nefarious actions.)


Lumber Liquidators certainly tried to sell all the Chinese-made laminate it could right up
until the stores closed yesterday, according to a friend of mine who sent me this email
earlier today:


What's amazing is I had heard hints of this and have been calling stores this week. I
spoke with three stores in Florida and all three told me I could buy the (Chinese-
made laminate) product on Tuesday or Wednesday, but had to pick it up by
Wednesday night. So, they were actively selling it while knowing that they were
going to pull it. That's a dream for a class action attorney...


If my supposition is correct that a regulator has contacted Lumber Liquidators and is about
to take action (my best guess would be CARB, whose results will, of course, show that
virtually every sample fails its standard and that the average sample is 6-7 times the
standard), then this is very bad news for the company and increases the odds that this
stock eventually goes to zero (perhaps from 20% to 40%).


Making things even worse for the senior executives of Lumber Liquidators, I'm 99%
certain (for reasons outlined in my article, Did Lumber Liquidators Know It Was Selling
Toxic Laminate?) that they knew that they were sourcing non-CARB-compliant laminate in
China. They were not deceived by the Chinese mills; rather, the mills did just as Lumber
Liquidators instructed.


Why would they knowingly poison their own customers? The oldest reason in the book:
greed. Laminate is one of the company's largest and most profitable product lines (prior to
the 60 Minutes story, Chinese-made laminate was ~14% of the company's $1 billion in
annual sales), and non-CARB-compliant laminate is ~10% cheaper, so the company
saved a lot of money on sourcing costs. I think illegally cutting corners on sourcing (both
for this product and others) was a significant contributor to a quick doubling of margins,
which in turn helped drive the stock up eight-fold from $15 to $119 in less than two years.
The top two executives, Chairman Tom Sullivan and CEO Robert Lynch, recognized a
golden opportunity when they saw it, dumping $37 million worth of stock at prices more
than double today's level in early- to mid- 2013.


Initial Test Results



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3057456-did-lumber-liquidators-know-it-was-selling-toxic-laminate
5/23/2018 The Market Is Misunderstanding Lumber Liquidators' Announcement - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement 4/21


In its announcement this morning, Lumber Liquidators disclosed:


Initial Indoor Air Quality Testing Program Results


Initial results of the indoor air quality testing program for certain laminate flooring
customers - conducted by independent, accredited laboratories - indicate that over
97% of customers' homes were within the protective guidelines established by the
World Health Organization for formaldehyde levels in indoor air…


… While various groups have recommended higher or lower levels, there is currently
no national standard for recommended indoor home air concentrations in the United
States. The company has used the guideline established by the World Health
Organization, which is an international consensus standard that draws on recent
research and the expertise of the many governments, academic institutions and
researchers that have studied formaldehyde emissions.


Phew, we can all breathe a big sigh of relief, right? WRONG! These results are
meaningless for three reasons:


First, the testing program, according to expert testimony, is "the cheapest possible way to
test," "cannot be considered valid" and "will likely provide some consumers with poor data
that give them a false sense of security," as I detail in my article, Lumber Liquidators' Offer
to Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears to Be A Sham. In short, Lumber Liquidators has
rigged the testing program to show the results it seeks.


Second, for many customers, the formaldehyde will have off-gassed - a process that can
take anywhere from a few months to a year or two. Thus, even if the testing program was
rigorous and legitimate, it would show low levels of formaldehyde in the air of most
customers' homes (I'd guess pretty much all of them who'd installed their flooring more
than a year ago). But that doesn't mean that they weren't being poisoned to a significant
degree in the first year or so after the flooring was installed. And it certainly doesn't mean
that the Chinese-made laminate that Lumber Liquidators is selling right now is safe - in
fact, all of the evidence indicates that it's not.


Lastly, the WHO standard of 81 ppb that Lumber Liquidators chose is for "30-minute
average concentration," which is not the appropriate standard for flooring in one's home,
where babies and children might be playing/crawling on the floor for many hours every
day. As I discussed in my article, More On Lumber Liquidators And Formaldehyde, four
different regulators have set limits for homes ranging from 7-33 ppb.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3072996-more-on-lumber-liquidators-and-formaldehyde
5/23/2018 The Market Is Misunderstanding Lumber Liquidators' Announcement - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement 5/21


Here are questions Lumber Liquidators needs to answer:


1) Why isn't Lumber Liquidators offering customers a professional test conducted by an
Industrial Hygienist or other accredited technician?


2) If a homeowner pays for a professional test themselves, will Lumber Liquidators honor
the results?


3) What are the results broken down by how recently the flooring has been installed?
What's the average formaldehyde level for flooring installed in the past month, 3, 6, 12, 18
and 24-plus months?


4) What were the exact results: how many were below 10 ppb, 10-20, 20-30, 30-50, 50-
75, 75-100, 100-200, and 200+?


5) Why does Lumber Liquidators think the WHO standard, which is only for "30-minute
average concentration," is appropriate for homes? Why is the company ignoring standards
for the home set by CARB, FEMA, NIOSH and the California Office of Environmental
Health Hazard Assessment?


6) For customers with formaldehyde levels exceeding the WHO threshold, Lumber
Liquidators makes only a vague promise to "take additional steps that may include further
in-home air testing and testing of floor samples from the customer." Why does the
company think customers will be satisfied with this lame offer? Why doesn't it offer to
immediately replace the flooring or pay for removal and give a full refund?


Hiring Louis Freeh


I'm delighted that Lumber Liquidators has hired the firm run by former FBI Director Louis J.
Freeh "to serve as an independent compliance advisor to the company," as this makes it
even more likely that the truth will come out - and that truth, I believe, will be damning: that
senior executives of Lumber Liquidators knowingly sourced non-CARB compliant laminate
in China, thereby poisoning their customers, in order to save ~10% on sourcing costs.


If I'm right, then what we have witnessed in the past 67 days has been a frantic attempt to
engineer a massive cover-up -- and today's announcement means that this has failed. If
so, then founder and chairman Tom Sullivan, CEO Robert Lynch and Senior Vice
President, Chief Compliance and Sustainability Officer Ray Cotton (and perhaps others)
should be fired, and appropriate regulators should investigate them and, if warranted,
bring civil and criminal charges.
5/23/2018 The Market Is Misunderstanding Lumber Liquidators' Announcement - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement 6/21


Next Steps


Since the 60 Minutes story aired, Lumber Liquidators has consistently done the wrong
thing at every turn. If it wants to break this dismal streak and start behaving like an honest
and reputable company, it needs to take a number of steps:


1) Offer a full refund to any customers who want to return Chinese-made laminate that's
already been delivered but not yet been installed.


2) Rather than waiting for inbound calls and complaints, Lumber Liquidators should send a
letter to every customer who has purchased its Chinese-made laminate flooring in the
past, say, five years, informing them that the product may be emitting dangerous levels of
formaldehyde and offering to send someone to their home to conduct a proper test (not
the sham testing that the company is currently offering).


3) For any customers with a reading above 0.016 parts per million (16 ppb), the standard
set by both FEMA and NIOSH (I'm being generous - 7 ppb is the limit set by the California
Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment), offer to pay all costs for them, if they
wish, to temporarily move out of their home until the flooring can be removed and replaced
with safe flooring, at Lumber Liquidators' cost (even if the customer chooses carpeting or
wood flooring bought from another company). Also, for these customers, offer to pay all
medical bills for anyone in the home suffering symptoms consistent with formaldehyde
exposure.


Conclusion


The stock should be down 20% on this announcement. The fact that the market is totally
misunderstanding what's going on here and driven the stock up is a gift that I will gladly
take, so I materially increased my short position this morning.


PS - A link to all 15 articles I've written since the 60 Minutes story aired is posted here.


PPS - I don't read the message boards for the articles I publish, but I do want to hear
thoughtful comments and questions so I invite my readers to communicate directly with
me via Seeking Alpha messaging. I will post my answers on the message board.


Disclosure: The author is short LL.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLTilsonarticles.pdf
5/23/2018 The Market Is Misunderstanding Lumber Liquidators' Announcement - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement 7/21


