5/23/2018 Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply With CARB - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb 1/80


Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply With CARB
Mar. 4, 2015 11:00 AM ET286 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Lumber Liquidators released a statement following the 60 Minutes report on Sunday,
claiming that its laminated wood testing protocols are correct.


In fact, I, 60 Minutes and others used the correct CARB testing protocols.


Anderson Cooper: Do you have any idea how much of this wood is in people's
homes right now?


Richard Drury: We believe there are probably tens of thousands of households in
California that have installed Lumber Liquidators Chinese laminates that may
exceed formaldehyde standards


Anderson Cooper: Nationwide?


Richard Drury: Nationwide, its probably hundreds of thousands.


Drury and Larson bought more than 150 boxes of laminate flooring at stores around
California and sent them to three certified labs for a series of tests. The results?
While laminate flooring from Home Depot and Lowes had acceptable levels of
formaldehyde, as did Lumber Liquidators American-made laminates, every single
sample of Chinese-made laminate flooring from Lumber Liquidators failed to meet
California formaldehyde emissions standards. Many by a large margin.


Richard Drury: The average level in Lumber Liquidators products that we found was
over six to seven times above the state standard for formaldehyde. And we found
some that were close to 20 times above the level that's allowed to be sold. “60
Minutes” March 1, 2015


Following the 60 Minutes segment quoted above, Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) released
a statement that says, in part: “We believe that 60 Minutes used an improper test method
in its reporting that is not included in CARB's regulations and does not measure a product
according to how it is actually used.”


This is nonsense.



http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbsnews.com%2Fnews%2Flumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNGep9lICD27Z2Tpf4IffL4bld95zQ

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL
5/23/2018 Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply With CARB - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb 2/80


In fact, I, 60 Minutes and others used the correct CARB testing protocols, and it’s LL that’s
using its own made-up tests. It’s a complex story, but briefly, the generally accepted and
used test is to sand off the outer layer of the laminate and then test it. This allows for an
accurate reading of the formaldehyde that’s embedded in the product. LL, in contrast,
tests the laminate without sanding it, which is, in fact, how the product “is actually used.”
But:


a) CARB, scientists, etc. all do it the other way; they could do it LL’s way, but then
they’d set a much lower exposure/detection threshold – pick your poison (pun
intended) but it’s incumbent upon LL to do the tests the way the regulators do or the
results are meaningless (as are the claims LL makes that their products are all CARB
2 compliant, blah, blah, blah; in short, you can’t do the tests a different way than CARB
– which minimizes the amount of formaldehyde detected – and then proclaim that your
flooring complies with CARB standards); and
b) just because the formaldehyde is somewhat “sealed” into the laminated wood by the
outer layer doesn’t mean LL’s customers aren’t being poisoned – it just means that the
formaldehyde leaks out slowly over a long time, along the edges, as the floor wears,
etc.


Finally, here are some spot-on insights from friend who manufactured and imported
luggage from China for many decades:
5/23/2018 Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply With CARB - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb 3/80


Sent: Monday, March 02, 2015 2:43 AM


To: Whitney Tilson


Subject: You on TV


Whitney,


I watched the 60 minutes piece. Congrats.


Having done business in China for literally decades, what I found most amazing in
the piece is the LL CEO's statement that they trust their manufacturers. If that is true,
then the company is guilty of incredible naivete or incompetence.


I have negotiated with factories in China. What happens is that the American buyers
drive a hard bargain.....and with multiple factories, as LL has, the factories know that
they are in competition with one another. A negotiation always comes down to
pennies. It is pretty common for the Chinese factory to do what they have to do to
keep the business.....ie, agree to the best price they can get from the buyer, but
agree nevertheless. And then, once they have the business, they try to figure out
how to make money on it.


But a reasonably savvy buyer knows that, and has approved samples against which
actual production is compared. If the actual production does not match the approved
sample, then the production is rejected. We did that with just about every production
run. If LL didn't do that, then they deserve whatever flak they catch....not because
they are deceitful necessarily, but just because they are incompetent.


Of course, if they knew about it, and were complicit either by looking the other way
or somehow condoning it, then that is a different story. Either way, however, the
company is guilty. And the State of California goes after the seller, not the supplier.
So a company like Home Depot, for example, will have a standard clause in their
contracts whereby the vendor indemnifies Home Depot against any action that may
arise from a product that they sell, made by the vendor.


But a vertically integrated operation like LL, where they are both the retailer and the
supplier, has no place to hide if the California DOJ comes a'callin'.


Even with our best inspections, our best efforts to compare product against the
approved samples, from time to time, there would be quality problems. We had our
standard purchase agreement which we executed with each factory that supplied us,
5/23/2018 Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply With CARB - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb 4/80


which allowed us to deduct from future payments to them, whatever quality charge-
backs we received from our customers. That is unbelievably punative. Here's why:


Suppose a product was sold to us FOB China for $10. By the time it landed in the
US, freight and duty etc included, it cost us $13.20. We would then sell it to the
retailer for $20 (which would net us about $18 after advertising deductions etc.) And
they would sell it for $40. If the consumer returned the product, the store refunded
the consumer the $40 she paid. And charged that $40 back to us. We in turn
charged the factory $40 for one defective product they had originally sold to us for
$10.


The point is that, knowing they stood to risk a 4:1 expense if the quality was poor,
was the best quality control tool we had. The factories ultimately found it was much
less expensive to give us the correct quality and make a smaller profit, than to cut
corners and risk a 4:1 expense. In other words, they way you get quality control out
of China is to make it in their economic interest to do what you want them to do.


Now I didn't learn this in business school. It is common sense. If LL doesn't have
common sense, then they deserve to lose. As simple as that.


Anyway, I enjoyed watching you on TV.


I am in awe of the investigative journalism 60 Minutes did, which validated my decision to
bring the story to them. They uncovered many things I didn’t know and I am now even
more convinced that this stock is a zero, for reasons I outline below.


As for LL challenging the test results, I can’t figure out if they are evil liars, trying to cover
up the fact that they’re knowingly poisoning their own customers to save a few bucks on
sourcing costs, or whether they’re just incompetent – but it’s one or the other. Based on
my research and analysis, I believe that LL’s testing regimen is largely a sham because
it’s disconnected from rigorous, credible tests that others (regulators, Home Depot,
Lowe’s, etc.) use and rely on. Evidence for this are the results from five independent sets
of tests, including one I commissioned, which show that LL is buying and selling to its
customers highly toxic laminated wood (virtually all of it from China).


Once it becomes clear that LL is, in fact, doing this, they will undoubtedly go on an
apology tour, saying how sorry they are and positioning themselves as the victims who
were defrauded by unscrupulous Chinese mills. This is complete nonsense. Laminated
wood is a low-end, global commodity product in which 1% or 2% differences in pricing are
meaningful. For a savvy player like LL, which has been buying in China for roughly two
5/23/2018 Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply With CARB - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb 5/80


decades, they would instantly know that if they were buying 10% below the standard price
for a particular piece of laminated wood that something was wrong: perhaps it was stolen,
used illegal or incorrect wood, was of exceptionally low quality, or was filled with toxic
chemicals.


Maybe this example will resonate. Let’s say you’re in Shanghai and looking to buy the
DVD of the latest Hollywood movie – let’s say, Academy Award winner Birdman, which is
still in theaters, so it’s of course not yet out on DVD. Ah, but lo and behold, as you walk
down the street, you see that a street vendor has a copy and sells it to you for $2.
Moments later, the police apprehend you and accuse you of buying illegal /forged
merchandise. You would of course claim that you had no idea – but OF COURSE you
knew, based on where you were (China) and the price you paid.


Similarly, LL had to have known there was something seriously wrong with the laminated
wood it was buying, given the absurdly low price and the fact that it was coming from
China, which is the wild west when it comes to environmental standards and rule of law.
Even if the Chinese mills said they were CARB 2 compliant and even if they were
supposedly inspected, this cannot be relied on. Heck, this is a country that sold us
defective wallboard that soon because filled with toxic mold, and which pumped pigs full of
clenbuterol (see: www.rsc.org/chemistryworld/News/2011/April/19041102.asp). In short,
many Chinese companies, especially those in highly competitive, commoditized
industries, scoff at most regulations, especially if the product is being shipped to the US.
Many friends have told me that China is for the Chinese; if they can screw Americans,
they will – and they did with LL, which might take down company.


But LL’s pleas that they are the victim here ring hollow once you realize that the two
biggest buyers of wood flooring in the US, Home Depot (NYSE:HD) and Lowe’s
(NYSE:LOW), also buy laminated wood in China, yet don’t have a formaldehyde problem
(to the best of my knowledge). The reason is simple: they have serious, rigorous
compliance programs and understand that you can’t hit the low bid in China and expect to
get high-quality, compliant product. So they pay more and get good flooring – but earn
lower margins, something LL wasn’t willing to do in its pell mell pursuit (regardless of the
consequences) of a higher and higher stock price so insiders could cash out.


The three funds I manage are currently short 44,676 shares of LL (a $2.3 million position
based on Friday’s closing price), making it a 2.6% position (it was well over 3% before the
stock got whacked last week).



http://www.rsc.org/chemistryworld/News/2011/April/19041102.asp

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HD

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LOW
5/23/2018 Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply With CARB - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb 6/80


