5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators, Formaldehyde And Asbestos - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3059966-lumber-liquidators-formaldehyde-and-asbestos 1/34


Lumber Liquidators, Formaldehyde And Asbestos
Apr. 9, 2015 2:25 PM ET102 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Some are claiming that Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate "just doesn’t
emit harmful levels (of formaldehyde) in the home" and thus "there won’t be any sick
people."


But the evidence – both from tests and anecdotally – contradicts this assertion.


It is highly likely, I believe, that Lumber Liquidators’ Chinese-made laminate has
been (and still is) emitting harmful levels in many customers' homes and is causing
serious adverse health effects.


Exposure to formaldehyde, however, is not as serious as exposure to asbestos.


But unlike most companies associated with asbestos, who had no idea that it was
dangerous, I think it’s highly likely that the senior managers of Lumber Liquidators
knew that they were buying toxic, formaldehyde-drenched, non-CARB compliant
laminate from their Chinese suppliers, knowingly putting untold numbers of
American families at risk.


I recently received an email from a friend in the flooring industry who "hates" Lumber
Liquidators (NYSE:LL), but disagrees with my view that the stock is a compelling short
today. I think he makes some good points, which echo what I've heard from other bulls on
the stock, so in the spirit of stimulating a healthy debate, I'm sharing his email (with
permission) and my reply. He wrote:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators, Formaldehyde And Asbestos - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3059966-lumber-liquidators-formaldehyde-and-asbestos 2/34


On the liability side there won't be any sick people. This stuff just doesn't emit
harmful levels in the home. If 60 Minutes had aired "little Johnny" with no hair, a
respirator and a missing limb, Lumber Liquidators would be out of business before
Memorial Day; but that scenario won't occur. Ergo, there aren't any real damages.


So, if the regulators won't force Lumber Liquidators to shut down (I think we are both
in agreement about this) and the liability on the civil side is reasonably limited
because nobody has really been harmed, then why are you short the stock? Yes,
you may be right about a $15-20 valuation on $1.25-1.50 of earnings per share this
year, but once some of the legal risk is quantified, don't you think there's likely to be
multiple expansion?


The average Lumber Liquidators customer isn't very bright because a quick Google
search reveals endless terrible reviews and complaints. So this company is
accustomed to navigating a jungle of negative headwinds every single day.
Eventually people will forget this and these guys will survive.


Listen, I hate these guys... (but) the risk/reward seems to be on the side of reward...


I replied:


If you are right that Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate "just doesn't emit
harmful levels (of formaldehyde) in the home" and thus "there won't be any sick
people," then I might agree that Lumber Liquidators' stock is not a good short. But, I
don't think you are.


Adverse Health Effects Associated With Formaldehyde Exposure


Let's start with a general overview of the adverse health effects associated with exposure
to high levels of formaldehyde. Here's what I wrote in my article, A Response to Lumber
Liquidators:


For starters, read what the National Cancer Institute and the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention have to say about formaldehyde: it can cause "watery eyes;
burning sensations in the eyes, nose, and throat; coughing; wheezing; nausea; and
skin irritation," "upper respiratory tract irritation (that) can potentially exacerbate
asthma symptoms and other respiratory illnesses," "chronic runny nose, chronic
bronchitis, and obstructive lung disease," and is a "known human carcinogen"
associated with "several cancers, including nasopharyngeal cancer and leukemia."



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2996156-a-response-to-lumber-liquidators

http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/causes-prevention/risk-factors/cancer-causing-substances/formaldehyde/formaldehyde-fact-sheet

http://bit.ly/1E8j8gg
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators, Formaldehyde And Asbestos - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3059966-lumber-liquidators-formaldehyde-and-asbestos 3/34


This chart, in a report by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, summarizes it nicely:


To be clear however: my friend isn't disputing the adverse health effects associated with
exposure to high levels of formaldehyde (nor, I suspect, the results of the deconstructive
tests that I, 60 Minutes and others have commissioned). Rather, he's saying "This stuff
(Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate) just doesn't emit harmful levels in the
home."


Does Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-Made Laminate Emit Harmful Levels of
Formaldehyde in the Home?


His assertion, however, isn't supported by the only evidence we have: the three emissions
tests 60 Minutes commissioned, evaluating the formaldehyde level in a typical home with
Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate flooring, which revealed formaldehyde levels
of 57, 93 and 268 ppb - all of which are "massively higher than the limits regulators have
set to protect everyone, including children," as I documented in my article, Answering
Questions About Lumber Liquidators.


When 60 Minutes showed the results of these tests to Dr. Philip Landrigan, one of the
world's leading experts on exposure to toxic chemicals, here's what he said:



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3038656-answering-questions-about-lumber-liquidators

http://www.mountsinai.org/profiles/philip-j-landrigan

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/4/9/saupload_tilson.png
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators, Formaldehyde And Asbestos - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3059966-lumber-liquidators-formaldehyde-and-asbestos 4/34


I would say long-term exposure at that level would be risky because it would
increase the risk for chronic respiratory irritation, change in a person's lung function,
increased risk of asthma. It's not going to produce symptoms in everyone but
children will be the people most likely to show symptoms at that sort of level.


Moving from the theoretical to the actual, while this is anecdotal, here are some of the
awful symptoms that have been reported on a single web site by Lumber Liquidators'
customers (as I first reported in my article, Lumber Liquidators is Evil):


…our dogs have developed allergies and my youngest daughter who will be 4 in
August has been running a fever like an off and on switch every few weeks... she runs
a high fever for a couple of days then she's OK until the next episode. I'm not sure if
this has to do with the flooring. I'm almost speechless on one hand. I want to rip the
floor out on the other hand we don't have the money to put flooring back in... So at this
point I'm not sure what to do.
I had head and chest congestion the whole time we were installing the floor. My friends
teased me that maybe I was allergic to the floor. I was at the doctors so many times
that he sent me to an allergist. Severe symptoms subsided when we finished putting
down the floor. But I still use an inhaler when I exercise.
My symptoms are burning eyes and nose and coughing up phlem at night. Also have
itchy skin. My two dogs also cough. I thought they had kennel cough, but now think it is
the flooring… Open your windows and air the place out frequently, especially before
bed. Then pray this gets settled soon as I read that the off gassing can last 10 years.
I was doing some reading of scientific papers on this formaldehyde effects, wondering
two things. 1. Could my tremors that I have had for the past few months be related to
this? Sadly, yes. It also causes neurological damage. 2. How long does outgasing go
on with a product like laminate flooring. Bad news again. It was estimated to be in the
10-year range.
…we have had boughts of sore throats, burning eyes and my son and I always have
stuffy, runny noses.
…the itching was so severe I literally had scratches all over my body - it was insane…
…my husband…has had MAJOR skin issues…
…our children and dogs and I have had multiple issues…
My husband has had major skin issues since installation (he installed it).
We both have runny noses and burning eyes.
Has anyone else had a 24/7 headache that started soon after installing their floors?
Yes and runny nose cough. Very nasty.



http://www.classaction.org/blog/lumber-liquidators-lawsuits-filed-following-60-minutes-report

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3019166-lumber-liquidators-is-evil
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators, Formaldehyde And Asbestos - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3059966-lumber-liquidators-formaldehyde-and-asbestos 5/34


Thus, I think the evidence - both from tests and anecdotally - contradicts my friend's
assertion that "This stuff just doesn't emit harmful levels in the home" and thus "there
won't be any sick people."


Dr. Philip Landrigan's Comments


I had the pleasure of meeting Dr. Landrigan last week and he answered many of my
questions. First, I showed him the symptoms described by the 12 Lumber Liquidators
customers above, and asked if they were consistent with exposure to elevated levels of
formaldehyde. He replied:


Yes, they are consistent, but causation can't be proved when an individual person
reports a symptom in relation to an exposure. Usually the only way to determine
causality in those cases is to put the case before a jury.


I also asked him how long it might take for laminate with formaldehyde at the levels shown
by the 60 Minutes' testing to "off-gas" down to safe levels. He estimated "three to six
months." (The Consumer Product Safety Commission is in the same ballpark, noting that
"Emissions (from pressed wood and wood-based products) decrease 6-10 months after
initial testing").


Finally, I asked him: "Even after the exposure ends and the symptoms go away, can there
be long-lasting effects from formaldehyde exposure at the levels shown by 60 Minutes'
testing?" His answer:


It's unclear. One study showed that children exposed to highly polluted air in Los
Angeles, even after the air quality improved, had permanently smaller lung capacity
and greater likelihood of certain diseases later in life, so I would say that there's
certainly the possibility of long-term effects, but this won't be known for sure for
decades.


In summary, if the testing that I, 60 Minutes and others have done is correct, then Lumber
Liquidators is poisoning its customers and installers with a dangerous chemical and
known carcinogen that's likely causing many of them a range of adverse health effects,
some even debilitating and requiring medical attention, with possible long-lasting effects.


Partially offsetting this, however, are three mitigating factors: a) formaldehyde, at the
levels and length of exposure at issue here, is unlikely to cause cancer; b) the most
common symptoms can be caused by many things, not just formaldehyde, so in court the



http://bit.ly/1apZg0r
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators, Formaldehyde And Asbestos - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3059966-lumber-liquidators-formaldehyde-and-asbestos 6/34


company will surely claim other causes for its customers' ailments; and c) formaldehyde
dissipates ("off-gasses") in 3-10 months.


Similarities and Differences with Asbestos


Thus, for these three reasons, Lumber Liquidators' problem, while serious, isn't as serious
as asbestos because: a) exposure to asbestos can cause a much more serious illness:
mesothelioma, an often-deadly form of cancer; b) asbestos exposure is pretty much the
only way to get mesothelioma; and, c) asbestos doesn't off-gas in the environment, nor
does it dissipate in the body.


This is all great news for Lumber Liquidators and its customers and installers, but it
doesn't mean the company is off the hook. Many, many people - perhaps tens of
thousands, maybe more - have likely been harmed and suffered many of the symptoms
outlined above, which range from unpleasant to debilitating.


But in one critical way, things may be much worse for Lumber Liquidators than for the
companies associated with asbestos. Asbestos wasn't known to be a dangerous product
when most of these companies were mining, using and/or installing it, so they could
honestly claim that they had no idea they were endangering their employees and
customers.


In contrast, as I wrote in my latest article, Did Lumber Liquidators Know It Was Selling
Toxic Laminate?, I think it's highly likely that the senior managers of Lumber Liquidators
knew that they were buying toxic, formaldehyde-drenched, non-CARB compliant laminate
from their Chinese suppliers, knowingly putting untold numbers of American families at
risk.


If they knew - and this information becomes public - the result could be not only an
implosion of the company but also big financial penalties and even criminal charges
against the company and its executives.


PS - I no longer read the message boards for the articles I publish. I do, however, want to
hear thoughtful comments and questions so I invite my readers to communicate with me
via Seeking Alpha messaging and I will post my answers on the message board.


Disclosure: The author is short LL.


The author wrote this article themselves, and it expresses their own opinions. The author
is not receiving compensation for it. The author has no business relationship with any
company whose stock is mentioned in this article.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3057456-did-lumber-liquidators-know-it-was-selling-toxic-laminate
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators, Formaldehyde And Asbestos - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3059966-lumber-liquidators-formaldehyde-and-asbestos 7/34


