5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators Has Failed To Disclose That Its Chief Compliance Officer Has Left The Company - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3230456-lumber-liquidators-has-failed-to-disclose-that-its-chief-compliance-officer-has-left-the-company 1/12


Lumber Liquidators Has Failed To Disclose That Its Chief Compliance
Officer Has Left The Company
Jun. 2, 2015 2:24 PM ET50 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Ray Cotton has, according to his own LinkedIn page, left the company, but the
company has failed to disclose this.


Given that Lumber Liquidators is under investigation by numerous state and federal
agencies and is facing more than 100 lawsuits, Cotton’s departure is highly material
information.


The company’s failure to disclose this information strikes me as a serious breach of
disclosure rules.


At best, this is further evidence of a company in chaos and, at worst, one that is
trying to hide something.


Yesterday an acquaintance emailed me the link to the LinkedIn page of Ray Cotton,
Lumber Liquidators’ Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance and Sustainability Officer, in
which he makes it abundantly clear, for four reasons I outline below, that he no longer
works for Lumber Liquidators.


I was stunned to see this, not because of his departure – I saw the writing on the wall long
ago – but rather because the company hasn’t yet disclosed his departure to investors,
analysts, the media and regulators. (Editor's Note: Following a discussion with a former
senior executive at Lumber Liquidators, the author has updated this section, based on
information provided to him that changed his view of Mr. Cotton's role.)


Given that Lumber Liquidators is under investigation by numerous state and federal
agencies and is facing more than 100 lawsuits, all related to compliance issues (namely,
sourcing illegally harvested hardwoods and toxic, formaldehyde-drenched laminate from
China), Cotton’s departure is highly material information and the failure to disclose it
strikes me as a serious breach of disclosure rules.


Comparing Cotton’s LinkedIn Page Today With His Prior One


Here are screenshots of Cotton’s current LinkedIn page and his LinkedIn page on March
10 :th



https://www.linkedin.com/in/raycotton
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators Has Failed To Disclose That Its Chief Compliance Officer Has Left The Company - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3230456-lumber-liquidators-has-failed-to-disclose-that-its-chief-compliance-officer-has-left-the-company 2/12


Current LinkedIn Page


LinkedIn Page on March 10th
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators Has Failed To Disclose That Its Chief Compliance Officer Has Left The Company - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3230456-lumber-liquidators-has-failed-to-disclose-that-its-chief-compliance-officer-has-left-the-company 3/12


When you compare these two pages, it’s clear that Cotton has left Lumber Liquidators, for
the following four reasons:


1. In March, he listed Lumber Liquidators as his “Current” employer vs. a “Previous”
employer now.


2. In the second line under his name, it used to say “SVP and Chief Compliance Officer at
Lumber Liquidators” whereas now it simply says “SVP and CCO”.
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators Has Failed To Disclose That Its Chief Compliance Officer Has Left The Company - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. …


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3230456-lumber-liquidators-has-failed-to-disclose-that-its-chief-compliance-officer-has-left-the-company 4/12


