5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 1/24


More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core
Oct. 5, 2015 2:50 AM ET67 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Two former installers for Lumber Liquidators told me that the company has major
quality problems across many of its product lines, especially bamboo flooring.


They said that the company is aware of this, yet rather than improving quality, it
instead has set up a rigged inspection system that results in the company rarely
standing behind its highly publicized warranty.


I added to my short position at numerous points on the way down and, though I’ve
taken a bit of profits around today’s prices, LL remains a substantial short position in
the funds I manage.


Soon after the 60 Minutes story on Lumber Liquidators first aired on March 1st, I heard
from numerous people in the industry, including a number of the company's current and
former employees and contractors. Without exception, told me that Lumber Liquidators
(NYSE:LL) is a notorious bad actor: that it cuts corners at every opportunity, sells very low-
quality products, treats customers, installers and employees badly, and, worst of all, is not
serious about compliance.


Since then, I (and customers, the media and regulators) have been primarily focused on
the most important and damning charge: that Lumber Liquidators sold its American
customers hundreds of millions of square feet of laminate flooring sourced in China that
contained high levels of formaldehyde, a dangerous chemical and known carcinogen - and
that senior executives knew (or should have known) this.


I don't have any new information on this topic - we're all waiting for the Consumer Product
Safety Commission and other regulators to complete their investigations and take action -
so in this article I'd like to share what I heard from two former installers for Lumber
Liquidators, who told me that:


The company has major quality problems across many of its product lines, especially
bamboo flooring, which is consistent with the widespread quality and customer service
problems highlighted on many review websites - see here, here, here, here and here;



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

http://www.consumeraffairs.com/homeowners/lumber_liquidators.html

http://mythreecents.com/reviews/lumber-liquidators

http://lumber-liquidators.pissedconsumer.com/

http://www.resellerratings.com/store/Lumber_Liquidators

http://www.glassdoor.com/Overview/Working-at-Lumber-Liquidators-EI_IE38603.11,29.htm
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 2/24


The company is aware of this, yet rather than improving quality (which would raise
costs and lower profits), it instead has set up a rigged inspection system that results in
the company rarely standing behind its highly publicized warranty.


I was reminded of these issues when I read this recent article about a Canadian customer
who bought Lumber Liquidators' bamboo flooring that, soon after it was installed, was
gapping, squeaking and buckling - yet a year later, the company still hasn't fixed the
problem.


This family's tale of woe is very common among Lumber Liquidators' customers based on
everything I've heard and read, including what these two installers told me.


Installer #1


The first story I heard was from someone (let's call him Jim) who's been in the flooring
installation business for decades and for four years from 2011-2014 installed thousands of
floors exclusively for Lumber Liquidators. While installing laminate flooring was the largest
part of his business (he guessed 40%), bamboo was a close second, in the 30-40%
range.


Jim told me that Lumber Liquidators' flooring had quality problems across the entire
product line, which had been the case since the company was founded:


Lumber Liquidators is a pretty miserable company. Tom Sullivan founded it in the
early 1990s by buying for ten cents on the dollar excess flooring that had often been
sitting in warehouses for years and then reselling this junk for 20 cents. But that
wasn't a scalable or sustainable business model, so that's when he started buying in
China. But they're still applying the same principles.


Lumber Liquidators' products have huge warranty issues. The company had a
production problem [when sales were booming in 2012 and 2013]: they couldn't find
enough cheapo product to sell, so they pushed their manufacturers to put out
quantities of product that led to big quality problems.


[All of the quotes in this article are from my notes, not a recording, so I verified them with
the two sources.]


Jim explained that it had to do with the moisture content of the flooring:



http://globalnews.ca/news/2248797/lumber-liquidators-customer-having-hard-time-with-installation/
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 3/24


It's really important that the moisture content of the flooring is in the 6-9% range
because if it's higher, then the flooring will dry out and buckle and gap when the
humidity in the home declines, as it typically does in the winter.


Thus, the manufacturer is supposed to season the product for months: take the
rough cut, then put in a big room or an oven to decrease the moisture content down
to 6%, then put it through the finishing process.


But Lumber Liquidators pushed its manufacturers so hard that all of the company's
products were coming in wet: 20-28% moisture content. Thus, it contracts after it's
installed, causing it to look terrible.


Lumber Liquidators tries to deal with this problem by telling their customers to leave
the flooring in their homes for a week before installing it, but this isn't enough time. In
a week, the moisture content only declines by 4-8%.


Jim said this is a particularly acute problem for bamboo flooring, especially when they
switched to a water-based resin from a formaldehyde-based one:


The process of making bamboo flooring involves injecting resin into it to strengthen
it. For years, the resin had formaldehyde, which produced a good product, but
suddenly in early 2014 I started getting huge numbers of warranty calls from
customers in whose homes I'd installed Lumber Liquidators' bamboo flooring - it was
insane.


I complained to a Senior VP at the company, and he was completely honest with me:
he explained that they knew they had a formaldehyde problem with the bamboo line,
so around the end of 2013, they told their manufacturers to switch to a water-based
resin. But this resin is inferior, so the bamboo flooring was contracting and
separating - just look online and you'll find huge numbers of complaints about this
problem.


If true, this is a stunning revelation: that Lumber Liquidators' senior management was
aware of a formaldehyde problem years ago and were so concerned that they instructed
their suppliers to switch resins, even knowing that the new product was of terrible quality
and would fail at high rates. In light of this (again, if true), it's equally stunning that they
didn't deal with the formaldehyde problem in their laminate product lines.
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 4/24


[I cannot verify that Lumber Liquidators' bamboo flooring had high levels of formaldehyde
prior to 2014 because neither I nor the lab I hired was able to find any old product to test.
But even if we had, I suspect that we wouldn't have found high levels of formaldehyde
today due to off-gassing (though it still might have been highly toxic at the time it was
installed). As for the company's current bamboo flooring, I've had numerous samples
tested, none of which had any meaningful levels of formaldehyde. Thus, Lumber
Liquidators' customers who have bought this product likely only have to worry about lousy
quality, not being poisoned.]


Jim told a damning story of how Lumber Liquidators handled customer complaints when
its products failed:


When Lumber Liquidators' flooring fails, they send in an inspector using a nationwide
company called Inspect Solutions. This person is just a hired gun. The inspector can
say the product failed for three reasons: a product-related reason (which is Lumber
Liquidators' problem), an installation issue (the installer's problem), or a site problem
(too much or not enough moisture in the air, etc., which the inspector will say is the
homeowner's fault). Guess what they determine? The inspector nearly always
blames either the homeowners or installers. It's a joke.


They know they're sending product into customers' homes that's not been
manufactured right. Then in the winter, when it gets dry, the flooring gaps. Then the
inspector comes in with a moisture meter, says it's too dry in the home, and blames
the homeowner and refuses to fix the problem.


Or else they blame me, even though I always take all of the precautions and
necessary steps. I'm a third-generation floor installer. I put down 6,000-8,000 floors
prior to installing for Lumber Liquidators and didn't have a single warranty claim. But
in four years with Lumber Liquidators, I had warranty claims on 8-10% of my
installations. It got to the point I couldn't make any money.


Jim concluded:
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 5/24


I quit because of ethical issues - I couldn't keep installing such a poor quality
product.


Lumber Liquidators is a terrible, greedy company. Everything they do operationally
relates to their bottom line: the way they source product, treat installers and treat
customers. It's a dirty, rotten company. I hate the company and what they stand for.
They're taking advantage of everybody.


Installer/Inspector #2


The second person I spoke with (let's call him Steve) was an installer for Lumber
Liquidators (also for four years) and then became an inspector. He told a similar story:


Only 1% of the oak floors I install fail, whereas 20% of the bamboo floors do. Most
bamboo on the market is a low-end product - but Lumber Liquidators' is the worst.


The moisture level in the bamboo flooring has to be in the 6-12% range before it can
be installed, but it typically takes two months for it to reach this level and neither
homeowners nor installers are willing to wait this long. If you told customers how
long they should wait, they'd never buy it so Lumber Liquidators' salespeople don't
say anything. And then once it's installed, the company doesn't want to deal with it.


I use a moisture meter, but it's only good for the specific product it's calibrated to, so
I called all of the meter manufacturers and asked if their meter was calibrated for
Lumber Liquidators' strand bamboo. They all said no, that it's impossible to
accurately measure it [the moisture content in Lumber Liquidators' bamboo flooring].


Nobody would say it, but it's because Lumber Liquidators doesn't control the
sourcing of the bamboo stalks - they get bamboo from three different plants, which is
all mixed into one batch. Each supplier has its own construction process, with
different levels of formaldehyde (a lot of the issues with moisture in bamboo flooring
is related to the resin used). To cut costs, the suppliers use cheap resin with lots of
formaldehyde.


There is no meter that can read the moisture - and Lumber Liquidators knows this.
I've talked to their head of tech services.


As a result, I stopped installing all bamboo flooring in the southeast - the hot, humid
climate is bad for it. I also told customers to return the bamboo flooring they'd bought
- that was the end of Lumber Liquidators sending me any business…
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 6/24


Steve's comments about the inspection process also echoed Jim's:


Overall, Lumber Liquidators' products are crap, but when customers complain the
company hires the worst inspectors who blame the customer or the installer - never
the company. The inspectors, many of whom are low quality and unscrupulous, side
with whoever pays them.


In one inspection I did, I determined that the problem was defective flooring, but
when I submitted my report to The Home Service Store, Lumber Liquidators'
installation "partner", they told me to amend it and blame the customer. When I said
no, they backed down - but have never hired me again (and instead blamed the
installer and made him eat the cost of fixing it).


Steve mostly blames Lumber Liquidators, but also its customers:


The American consumer is so dumb. People buy in droves from Lumber Liquidators
because it's so cheap. Their wood products are as inexpensive as carpet. Lumber
Liquidators' salespeople convince them it's high quality, but it's not. You don't buy
ground chuck and expect a fillet dinner.


Conclusion


Normally after a stock declines more than 80% from the price at which I first shorted it, I
declare victory, cover the position, and move on. But in the case of Lumber Liquidators, I
haven't: I added to my short position at numerous points on the way down and, though I've
taken a bit of profits around today's prices, it remains a substantial short position in the
funds I manage.


The primary reason for this is that I don't think this is a case of a good company
encountering temporary, isolated and fixable problems. Rather, everything I've heard, read
and observed leads me to believe that Lumber Liquidators is rotten to the core. Tom
Sullivan says, "Our goal is to sell a good product at a good price." While the company's
prices are indeed low, all of the research I've done leads me to believe that this is more
than offset by product quality that ranges from mediocre to outright defective (not to
mention, in the past, illegally sourced or poisonous!). Worse yet, if the flooring fails,
Lumber Liquidators is unlikely to stand behind it.


This business model isn't sustainable in my opinion - and bringing back its architect, Tom
Sullivan, only makes things worse.
5/23/2018 More Evidence That Lumber Liquidators Is Rotten To The Core - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3549946-evidence-lumber-liquidators-rotten-core 7/24


