5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 1/42


Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its
Claims About Deconstructive Testing
Mar. 15, 2015 6:45 AM ET153 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Lumber Liquidators is desperately pursuing a reckless deny-and-attack strategy.


Though the company knows that at least some of its Chinese-made laminate has
formaldehyde that exceeds CARB 2 standards, it continues to sell the product.


The company's attempts to muddy the waters around "deconstructive" testing have
no grounding in fact, and should be ignored.


When I first discovered compelling evidence nearly a year ago that Lumber Liquidators
was selling its American customers hundreds of millions of square feet of laminate flooring
sourced in China that contained high levels of formaldehyde, a dangerous chemical and
known carcinogen, I assumed that once this information became public, the company
would follow the standard playbook: apologize, immediately suspend sales of the toxic
product, fix the underlying problem, claim (however improbably) that the Chinese suppliers
duped it, and make amends to its customers.


Instead, the company has denied that there's any problem whatsoever and adopted a no-
holds-barred attack on its critics (not only me, which I expected, but also 60 Minutes, one
of the most respected news programs in the world, which it accuses of "making up this
story"). Most shockingly, the company is continuing to sell its Chinese-made laminate to its
customers, assuring them that it's "100% safe," despite overwhelming evidence to the
contrary. In fact, CEO Robert Lynch admitted on the conference call last Thursday that it
had failed tests done by the California Air Resources Board (CARB):


CARB has "deconstructed" our products in routine inspections, as well as we believe
others in the industry, in order to try to determine if the core materials complied. In
CARB's preliminary findings, some of our samples they deconstructed and tested
(due to the variability of the test) exceeded the limits for raw cores.


Even if management genuinely believes its Chinese-made laminate is safe (people have
believed more unlikely things, I suppose, especially when their self-interest depends on it),
why not simply suspend sales for a month or two until CARB can do its own investigation



http://investors.lumberliquidators.com/index.php?s=19&item=27
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 2/42


and weigh in? It's not like it's a perishable product that will go bad. Instead, however,
Lumber Liquidators' chairman and founder, Tom Sullivan, on national television on Friday,
defiantly said the company would continue selling the laminate because "we will sell what
customers want."


What could explain this obviously foolish and reckless behavior? I suspect it's because the
company wasn't duped by its suppliers at all. Rather, I have good reason to believe that
it's known for quite some time exactly what it was doing: going to China and buying
laminate flooring (and perhaps other types of flooring as well - stay tuned, as I'm running
more tests) that doesn't comply with CARB 2 standards, and thus, may have dangerous
levels of formaldehyde.


Why would the company do something so immoral and potentially destructive? The oldest
reason in the universe: greed. Non-CARB-compliant laminate is ~10% cheaper, so the
company saved a lot of money on sourcing costs (not a few pennies, as Sullivan claims),
which I think was a major contributor to a quick doubling of margins - which, in turn,
helped send the stock price up eight times from $15 to $119 in less than two years.
Sullivan and Lynch recognized a golden opportunity when they saw it, dumping $37 million
worth of stock at prices more than double today's level in early- to mid-2013.


If I'm right that the company has been knowingly putting untold numbers of American
families at risk, now that it's been caught red-handed, it must surely be feeling truly
desperate, as this is the kind of thing that could not only result in an implosion of the
company, but also big financial penalties and even criminal charges against senior
executives. Consequently, seen through management's lens, their current strategy
actually might be logical in a twisted sort of way: deny everything, take advantage of the
uncertainty about the testing methods and the harm formaldehyde causes to muddy the
waters as much as possible, bully critics and regulators, and hope the storm passes.
Under this strategy, in which they claim that all of their flooring is 100% safe, they can't
stop selling any of it or it might raise doubts.


While for the health and safety of Lumber Liquidators' customers I wish the company
would stop selling what I believe is a dangerous product, as someone who is short the
stock, I'm delighted that the company has adopted a strategy that I think is truly insane for
two reasons. First, management's credibility is plunging every day they continue to make
the preposterous claim that there's no problem at all. Perhaps the problem is minor, but
there's definitely a problem. Secondly, when untold number of lawsuits start reaching



http://www.cnbc.com/id/102503331
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 3/42


courtrooms, the fact that the company continued to sell tainted wood after the 60 Minutes
segment aired will look very bad. Rather than perhaps earning some sympathy by
claiming they were duped by lying Chinese mills, they will instead look like rogue actors.


Rebutting Lumber Liquidators' Claims About Deconstructive Testing


The key pillar of the company's argument that its Chinese-made laminate is, in fact, safe
and complies with CARB 2 standards is that the testing I, 60 Minutes and others did is
"improper," because we "deconstructed" the laminate (i.e., sanded off the outer layer to
get a good measurement of the formaldehyde in the MDF core; here's a video of the
process).


This argument is so critical to the company's defense that it was the opening paragraph in
a court filing the company made this past week:


Imagine taking a new car fresh off the assembly line, disabling its catalytic system,
and measuring the tail pipe emissions. If it flunked EPA emissions standards, it
would not mean the car's emission system was non-compliant. No one would alter a
product, measure its performance, then file a lawsuit pretending that the results are
comparable to emission readings taken from an un-tampered product. Yet, that is
exactly what Plaintiffs have done.


Unfortunately for Lumber Liquidators, this is a spurious analogy. A proper analogy would
be if the EPA set emissions standards for car engines and required testing prior to the
engines being installed in cars. If someone chose to test actual car emissions (which isn't
required), the testing must be of the emissions directly from the engine, before going
through the catalytic system.


In the case of laminate, it's true that CARB does not require testing finished products -
only the MDF core prior to being processed into laminate. But many companies that sell
laminate (including Lumber Liquidators), to their credit, also test the finished product for
the logical reason that, especially when you're dealing with Chinese manufacturers, it's
important to trust but verify.


CARB Requires Deconstruction Before Testing


But if one is to test finished laminate, CARB is very clear that it must first be
deconstructed. While plenty of people and companies (including, of course, Lumber
Liquidators) question whether this is the right way to do the testing, there's no question



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94EfKU3jZ1I
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 4/42


that CARB requires it - it's under the Frequently Asked Questions section of their web site
(emphasis added):


42. How will CARB test pre-assembled case goods made of composite wood
products (e.g., a small table) that are painted, with no edges unsealed? CARB
will purchase case goods, deconstruct them, remove the paint, and test the exposed
composite wood product surface using our enforcement test method. CARB staff has
developed the sample preparation protocol to be followed to remove the layer of
paint or laminate, and then will determine if the composite wood product in the case
good complies with applicable standards or not.


Contrary to Lumber Liquidators' claims, deconstruction isn't a new or unproven test
method. Rather, it was developed over several years, with industry consultation and peer
review, and was finally published in 2013. For more on this, see CARB's Standard
Operating Procedures (SOP) here and its Final Statement of Reasons (FSOR) here -
which, on page 42, states:


Agency Response [24-Landry-070423-CWIC]: Yes it is correct that finished products
must be deconstructed to test for compliance. But, we disagree that there is great
uncertainty in the enforcement program. Deconstructive testing is needed for
finished goods to verify compliance with the emission standards.


And on page 231, it states:


Agency Response [20.4-Bradway-080215-Mannington]: …To determine if compliant
materials are being used to make finished goods, we must deconstruct the finished
good and test its component parts...


To summarize, the regulation and the official legislative history make clear that finished
composite wood products should be tested through deconstructive testing, and that CARB
would be developing a sample preparation method for such testing. That method is the
SOP. The SOP is an official CARB agency guidance document that is consistent with the
regulation, and therefore, has the force of law and is entitled to deference. Lumber
Liquidators' argument that the SOP is to be ignored makes no sense and ignores black-
letter legal principles. Instead, the SOP is an official CARB agency document entitled to
great deference.


Trying to Muddy the Waters



http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/compwood/implementation/faq.htm

http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/compwood/outreach/testmethods.htm

http://www.arb.ca.gov/regact/2007/compwood07/fsorcompwood07.pdf
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 5/42


Yet, Lumber Liquidators, while claiming that its laminate is CARB 2-compliant on its
product packaging, its web site and in SEC filings, is simultaneously thumbing its nose at
CARB, doing its best to discredit the deconstructive test method CARB has mandated. For
example, on the conference call last week, CEO Lynch, after acknowledging that "some"
of Lumber Liquidators laminate failed the CARB 2 standard, said:


We have been engaged with CARB over many months, provided them with
additional information and, like others in the industry, have expressed our concerns
on the validity and applicability of the deconstructive testing method.


In addition, this is slide 30 of the slide presentation accompanying the company's
conference call last Thursday:


I understand why Lumber Liquidators is trying to save its skin by muddying the waters
about deconstructive testing and the damning results it shows, but what amazes me is
how many people are falling for the company's tricks. For example, here are excerpts from
four analyst reports after the conference call last week:



http://investors.lumberliquidators.com/index.php?s=19&item=27

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/16/saupload_saupload_Screen_shot_2015-03-15_at_12.30.26_PM_thumb1.png
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 6/42


Goldman Sachs: The firm... presented challenges to the test methodology used by
60 Minutes that were consistent with views of other industry participants we have
engaged.


Morgan Stanley: We thought management clearly explained deconstructive testing;
how it can distort formaldehyde emissions and that it is not a required test under
CARB, Prop 65 or the EPA.


SunTrust: This type of testing seems to fall into some type of gray area. The process
disrupts the product construction but it is unclear how good a measure it is for
product safety.


Jeffries: ...LL may ultimately win the debate around this confusing topic and may
technically be compliant...


While some of the analysts may be fooled, you shouldn't be. What Lumber Liquidators is
really saying here is: CARB has already inspected us and determined that "some of our
samples... exceeded the limits" - but don't worry, move along, nothing to see here,
because we "engaged with CARB... provided them with additional information [and]
expressed our concerns on the validity and applicability of the deconstructive testing
method."


To use another car analogy, Lumber Liquidators got caught driving 100 mph in a 25 mph
zone. To try to avoid the severe penalties that would result from a conviction, the company
hires fancy lawyers and PR flacks to raise questions about the accuracy of the police
officer's radar gun, whether it had been properly calibrated that morning, etc. - in other
words, make bogus arguments to try to get off on a technicality - and, worst of all, still
continuing to drive 100 mph while fighting the charges!


(To continue the analogy, many of the company's defenders are claiming that, even if it
was going 100 mph, no harm has resulted because it hasn't crashed and killed anyone
yet, so it's no big deal. I'll respond to this nonsensical argument in a future article,
perhaps.)


Conclusion


Lumber Liquidators doesn't like CARB's testing method for the obvious reason that it
reveals that the company is selling Chinese-made laminate drenched in formaldehyde - on
average 6-7 times the CARB limit. But rather than doing what any ethical and rational
company would do - acknowledge that CARB's SOP, however much it doesn't like it, is the
5/23/2018 Explaining Lumber Liquidators' Reckless Strategy, And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing - Lumber Liquidators Holdings,…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing 7/42


