5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 1/36


Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception
Mar. 10, 2015 7:45 PM ET115 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


For most customers and investors, it really boils down to a simple question of
credibility: whom are you going to believe?


One might not agree with my analysis or conclusions, but know that my beliefs are
genuinely held.


My short position simply reflects my best assessment of the many possible
outcomes and the probabilities I assign to each.


In what appears to be a desperate attempt to distract customers, employees, investors,
regulators and the media from the charge that it may have been poisoning its customers
with dangerous levels of formaldehyde (which, if proven, I believe could eventually lead to
the company filing for bankruptcy), Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) is pulling out all the
stops. On a new web page the company created, it declares unequivocally that "all of our
products are 100% safe" and smears its critics (like me) as "a small group of short-selling
investors who are working together for the sole purpose of making money by lowering our
stock price." Management will no doubt repeat these points on its conference call
scheduled for Thursday morning.


I believe that both of Lumber Liquidators' assertions are false for reasons I will detail in a
moment. But before doing so, allow me to share some thoughts about credibility, because
in many ways that's what this battle is about. Most people don't have the time, money or
expertise to test the company's products themselves, weigh the competing arguments
about testing methodologies, evaluate how dangerous formaldehyde is, how many
Lumber Liquidators customers and installers were exposed to how much of it, what harm
might it have caused them, etc.


So for most customers and investors, it really boils down to a simple question of credibility:
whom are you going to believe? 60 Minutes, one of the most long-standing and respected
news programs in the world, whose lawyers no doubt went through every word of the
segment with a fine-toothed comb before it aired, or a company with every reason to lie, a
terrible reputation (see here, here, here, here and here), and Chinese sourcing questions



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations/

http://www.consumeraffairs.com/homeowners/lumber_liquidators.html

http://mythreecents.com/reviews/lumber-liquidators

http://lumber-liquidators.pissedconsumer.com/

http://www.resellerratings.com/store/Lumber_Liquidators

http://www.glassdoor.com/Overview/Working-at-Lumber-Liquidators-EI_IE38603.11,29.htm
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 2/36


hanging over it that are so credible that Federal agents raided its headquarters in
September 2013, which (as the company recently disclosed in its 10-K) could result in
criminal charges?


The question sort of answers itself, doesn't it?


An Improper Test Method?


Lumber Liquidators claims that "60 Minutes used an improper test method in its reporting
that is not included in California's regulations and does not measure a product according
to how it is actually used by consumers." To support this statement and demonstrate how
safe the company's laminate is, the new web page has two impressive-looking charts. The
first shows the results from tests of the fiberboard cores before they are processed to
produce laminate flooring and concludes that "test results over the last three years fall well
below the accepted California standard for fiberboard (MDF) cores." The second tests the
"products that have fiberboard cores in their finished state (i.e., laminate flooring), which is
how our products are sold and used in our customers' homes." The company goes on to
state that, "These tests also fall well below the California standard for fiberboard (MDF)
cores."


Before I dive into the weeds on this issue (which is in reality quite simple, though the
company is furiously trying to muddy the waters), just apply common sense and ask
yourself this simple question: if 60 Minutes' testing (all of which is posted here) was
improper, why did the same testing methodology and labs that found that 30 out of 31
samples of Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate had formaldehyde levels
averaging 6-7 times the CARB 2 (California Air Resources Board) limit also show
formaldehyde levels below the CARB 2 limit for every sample of laminate flooring from
Home Depot, Lowe's and even Lumber Liquidators' own flooring sourced from U.S. mills?


Again, the question answers itself.


If you're interested in the details of exactly why Lumber Liquidators' claim that 60 Minutes
(and others') testing is "improper" is wrong - it's their testing that's questionable and/or
improper - I suggest reading my article, Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't
Comply With CARB, and this one: GeoInvesting Concurs With Tilson And 60 Minutes: Our
Take On Testing Methods Used For Lumber Liquidators Study.


Then why, you might ask, do the two charts on Lumber Liquidators' new web page show
that its products are, in fact, CARB 2-compliant? The answer is different for each chart.


Test 1



http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/more-on-tests-used-to-investigate-lumber-liquidators/

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972256-geoinvesting-concurs-with-tilson-and-60-minutes-our-take-on-testing-methods-used-for-lumber-liquidators-study

http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 3/36


Let's first examine the one on the left, reproduced here:


This chart shows the results of tests of the medium-density fiberboard (MDF), which is the
core of laminate flooring.


Before discussing the test results, allow me to give a little background on MDF. According
to Wikipedia, it is:


"an engineered wood product made by breaking down hardwood or softwood
residuals into wood fibers, often in a defibrator, combining it with wax and a resin
binder, and forming panels by applying high temperature and pressure…


…Formaldehyde resins are commonly used to bind together the fibers in MDF, and
testing has consistently revealed that MDF products emit free formaldehyde and
other volatile organic compounds that pose health risks at concentrations considered
unsafe, for at least several months after manufacture."



http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medium-density_fibreboard

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/12/8/saupload_saupload_witney1.png
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 4/36


In light of the formaldehyde risk, it's critical to test the MDF to make sure levels are below
acceptable limits, which, as shown in the chart above, CARB has set at 0.11 and 0.13
ppm for MDF Core and Thin-MDF Core, respectively.


My quarrel with this chart isn't the testing methodology, but rather I don't believe the
results shown. Why? Because based on my conversations with a number of experts, I
don't think it's possible for formaldehyde levels of the finished product that 60 Minutes,
Drury and I all independently tested to be as high as they were - 6-7 times CARB 2 limits -
if the MDF cores had low levels of formaldehyde. Thus, I can only conclude that the test
results must be bogus.


If so, I can only speculate how the tests have been rigged. One way would be for the
Chinese laminate mill to buy a small amount of safe MDF to give to the labs, while actually
producing the laminate with tainted, cheaper MDF. Another way, as told to me by an
industry insider with first-hand knowledge of many mills that Lumber Liquidators buys
from, is to use corrupt and/or conflicted inspectors:


"What even LL does not know is their own QC (quality control) inspector is paid a
commission by the factories. This inspector knows there's no way to make CARB2
compliant product at the prices LL demands, especially after he takes his cut of the price."


I have no way to verify this statement, but: a) I believe the person is credible; and b) It's
consistent with what I know about China - namely, that creating phony documents is very
common.


Test 2


Here's the other chart that Lumber Liquidators shows on its new web page:



http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 5/36


This chart shows the results of tests done in the United States of finished laminate
flooring. I have identified two problems with it:


1) CARB doesn't require testing of finished laminate at all (only the initial MDF), but if it's
done, it specifies clearly how to do it - and Lumber Liquidators is doing it wrong, as I
discussed in my article last week, Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply
With CARB:


I, 60 Minutes and others used the correct CARB testing protocols, and it's LL that's using
its own made-up tests. It's a complex story, but briefly, the generally accepted and used
test is to sand off the outer layer of the laminate and then test it. This allows for an
accurate reading of the formaldehyde that's embedded in the product. LL, in contrast,
tests the laminate without sanding it, which is, in fact, how the product "is actually used."
But:


a) CARB, scientists, etc. all do it the other way; they could do it LL's way, but then
they'd set a much lower exposure/detection threshold - pick your poison (pun intended)
but it's incumbent upon LL to do the tests the way the regulators do or the results are



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/12/8/saupload_saupload_witney2.png
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 6/36


meaningless (as are the claims LL makes that their products are all CARB 2 compliant,
blah, blah, blah; in short, you can't do the tests a different way than CARB - which
minimizes the amount of formaldehyde detected - and then proclaim that your flooring
complies with CARB standards); and
b) just because the formaldehyde is somewhat "sealed" into the laminated wood by the
outer layer doesn't mean LL's customers aren't being poisoned - it just means that the
formaldehyde leaks out slowly over a long time, along the edges, as the floor wears,
etc.


Since I published this article, Lumber Liquidators has posted the following statement:


60 Minutes used a "deconstructive test," which would be like testing the emissions of
a car by removing the catalytic converter and muffler.


This is a spurious analogy. A correct one would be if the emissions standard for cars was
set by regulators based on a test in which the catalytic converter and muffler were
removed, and then a company rigged the test by not removing them - and then (falsely)
reported that its cars met the standard.


For more color on this, I spoke with Kip Howlett, the President of HPVA, which operates
HPVA Laboratories, a CARB-certified lab that I hired to test samples of Lumber
Liquidators' laminate. When I asked him about the charts the company posted on its web
site, he first pointed out that the number of tests the company has done over the past 18
months "is laughable - so few samples for such a huge volume of products."


When I asked about Lumber Liquidators' assertion that his lab, by removing the outer
layer of the laminate, was doing the test improperly, he replied:
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 7/36


CARB has an SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) where you take the surface
layer off to test the formaldehyde level in the core. So when you have five labs follow
the SOP and remove the surface layer - and all show levels of formaldehyde higher
than the CARB 2 standard, you have a problem. And when it's 1,000% higher, you
have a big problem!


When you have five labs all doing it the same way and getting the same results, it
isn't about the test method. The company either didn't understand the SOP, or did
understand it and did a work-around. They're either stupid or they're lying - which is
it?


Another problem they have is that if you stamp the box CARB compliant, you had
damn well better be CARB compliant.


It's telling that the American-made laminate was all compliant, but every sample from
China wasn't. The Chinese producers are completely and totally unfairly competing
with American and Canadian companies who abide by the law and produce safe
laminate.


I can't say it any better than this.


2) Lumber Liquidators claims that its tests "measure a product according to how it is
actually used by consumers." Again, this is highly misleading and deceptive because its
tests only measure the formaldehyde that's present in the test chamber, not what people
are actually exposed to in a home, school or workplace.


To determine the latter, one must follow rigorous protocols established by the California
Department of Public Health ((CDPH), including making assumptions that are widely
accepted and scientifically based regarding various factors such as how much
formaldehyde is seeping through the veneer of the laminate, the ventilation in the home,
school or workplace, etc. Such testing is expensive, but obviously necessary - yet Lumber
Liquidators didn't do it. Why? Maybe they're just cheapskates - but I would also bet it's
because this more rigorous methodology would have shown troubling levels of
formaldehyde in a true real-world setting.


Unlike Lumber Liquidators, 60 Minutes did the full CDPH testing, not once but twice
(again, all of its results are posted here), and presented the results to Dr. Philip Landrigan
during the segment:



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/more-on-tests-used-to-investigate-lumber-liquidators/

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 8/36


Dr. Philip Landrigan: It's not a safe level, it's a level that the US EPA calls polluted
indoor conditions.


Anderson Cooper: Would you want that in your home?


Dr. Philip Landrigan: No.


Dr. Philip Landrigan of N.Y.'s Mt. Sinai Hospital, specializes in environmental
pediatrics and exposure to toxic chemicals. He's talking about the results of another
kind of test Drury and Larson conducted measuring the concentration of
formaldehyde emissions coming off the laminates into the air of a typical home.


Dr. Philip Landrigan: I would say long-term exposure at that level would be risky
because it would increase the risk for chronic respiratory irritation, change in a
person's lung function, increased risk of asthma. It's not going to produce symptoms
in everyone but children will be the people most likely to show symptoms at that sort
of level.


In light of these frightening risks, especially to children, it's little wonder why Lumber
Liquidators didn't do the proper tests to determine its customers' actual exposure to
formaldehyde.


A Short-and-Distort Campaign?


Lastly, Lumber Liquidators writes:


These attacks are driven by a small group of short-selling investors who are working
together for the sole purpose of making money by lowering our stock price. They are
using any means to try and scare our customers with inaccurate allegations. Their
motives and methods are wrong and we will fight these false attacks on all fronts.


It's almost not worth responding to the usual trope about we're-the-victim-of-a-conspiracy-
of-nefarious-self-serving-short-sellers, but a few points are in order.


I've spent my entire life building a good reputation. Of course I have an interest in making
money - that's my job - but the idea that I would destroy my reputation by inventing a story
to smear an innocent company to benefit a ~3-4% position in my portfolio is beyond
absurd. One might not agree with my analysis or conclusions, but know that my beliefs are
genuinely held.
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 9/36


I believe that Lumber Liquidators' stock remains significantly overvalued, even though it
has fallen ~70% from when I first shorted it above $100 (and, shortly thereafter, shared my
analysis with the public). In fact, I think there's a not-immaterial chance that the company
eventually collapses into bankruptcy amidst a wave of lawsuits and the stock goes to zero.
And even if it doesn't, I think it has meaningful downside from here, as I explained in my
article last week, Why I Significantly Increased My Lumber Liquidators Short Position In
The Last Two Days. My short position simply reflects my best assessment of the many
possible outcomes and the probabilities I assign to each.


Regarding the conspiracy-of-short-sellers charge, I'm certainly not aware of one. While
I've of course discussed my research and analysis with numerous people over time, I
reached my conclusions and have acted independently. What I suspect is really going on
is that Lumber Liquidators' misdeeds are so broad, deep and long-standing that, over
time, numerous people were able to figure out at least pieces of what the company was
doing.


Rather than having a conflict of interest, I believe I have a confluence of interest: in
speaking out, I am both doing my job and also serving the public interest by warning
others about the possible dangers posed by certain Lumber Liquidators' products.


I find it quite ironic that the company is accusing me of distorting the truth for my own
financial gain when it is, in fact, the senior executives of the company who have far
greater incentives to do so than I. This is one of two dozen positions in my fund (only six
of which are shorts), so it's not going to make or break me one way or another. In contrast,
the outcome of this battle means everything to founder and Chairman Tom Sullivan and
CEO Robert Lynch, both reputationally and financially. Sullivan currently owns 608,998
shares - still worth a pretty penny - and both were heavy sellers in mid-2013, after the
stock had soared, pocketing $26.7 million and $10.6 million, respectively.


This $37 million jackpot helps answer the question I'm often asked: "Why would the senior
management of Lumber Liquidators knowingly (or at least willfully ignorantly) sell toxic
products when, if discovered, it could destroy their reputations - and the company?" This
question could, in fact, be asked of all sorts of bad behavior and the answer is generally
the same: the short-term rewards are wonderful/profitable and immediate, and the long-
term costs, even if much greater, are deferred and uncertain (after all, nobody ever
expects to be caught).



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LL.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2980746-why-i-significantly-increased-my-lumber-liquidators-short-position-in-the-last-two-days
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception 10/36


