Muddy Waters Capital, LLC 


 info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research:  Carson C. Block, Esq.	
  








 
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA Corporate Sales Call, Q4 2015 Date: January 14, 
2016/7:30am GMT Analysis conducted by a former CIA polygrapher 
Q&A Analysis 
Cedric Lecasble – Raymond James 
“And the second one on your guidance for French EBIT in 2016, I know it's a sales conference 
call but you give some guidance on earnings in France next year. So I have an easy question, 
how can you split the improvement between purchasing and OpEx efficiency? Thank you.” 
 
Antoine Giscard d’Estaing - Casino CFO 
“On your question on the French EBIT, you know our business model. You see that when you 
have a ….operational leverage generated by good volume growth you get technically an 
improvement.” 
 
Giscard d’Estaing’s response offers three indicators of deception. First, his remarks provide what 
is essentially a combination of a non-answer statement and a referral statement (1) in the phrase 
“you know our business model.” Traditionally, non-answer statements are designed to imply 
group knowledge of a subject, in essence implying the question is ignorant or the asker should 
already know the answer. It is also a reference to previously discussed information (referral 
statement), which is employed to avoid providing detailed information again. A better way to 
think of this is to pluck it from its larger context. If Lecasble asked Giscard d’Estaing, “How can 
you split the improvement between purchasing and OpEx efficiency?” and he responded, “You 
know our business model.”, you would see the avoidance of providing detailed information 
specific to the question presented. He does eventually provide an answer, but it is buried in a 
larger response. This very well may present a third indicator, referred to as an Isolated Delivery 
of Denial or even an Overly Specific Answer. Both of these are designed to cloud a response in 
irrelevant debris to confuse the listener. It’s the linguistic equivalent of a smoke screen. And 
finally, the second indicator is a fairly straightforward exclusionary qualifier (2), found in the 


Page 7 of 14
word “technically”. Exclusionary qualifiers are added to leave open the possibility, or in fact the 
probability, that the conclusion being asserted is false, partially false, or incomplete. I’m not sure 
Casino’s investors are interested in “technical” growth but actual growth. Interestingly, this may 
be a subconscious indicator of the kind of “growth” Giscard d’Estaing intends to “produce” in 
coming quarters.  
 
 
Fabienne Caron - Kepler Cheuvreux – Analyst 
 
Yes, good morning Antoine, Regine. Three quick questions from me. The first one, Antoine, I'm 
sorry, I missed what you said on the French hypermarkets so can you give a bit more color on 
food, non-food as well as traffic. 
 
The second question is regarding the French EBIT, so you're happy with consensus 2015 of 
EUR340m? Can you tell us, although you had a good H2, which banners maybe didn't deliver as 
fast as you expected, because I know that originally you were going for roughly EUR400m and 
I've seen as well that you've done only four hypermarkets (inaudible) in H2 compared to eight, 
so I was wondering if it was one of the reasons maybe? 
 
And the last question would be can you tell us if you are on track regarding delivering the 
EUR2b deleverage at the holding since the announcement mid-December? Thank you. 
 
Giscard d’Estaing’s response to the first question is essentially that because traffic is up and 
holiday sales were up in food, despite still-falling non-food performance, the outlook is good for 
2016. This seems like a weak foundation for such optimism, but these remarks do not reveal 
many indicators of deception. This is primarily because the question was entirely open-ended (… 
“give a bit more color”...), which essentially gives the responder license to take his answer in any 
direction he chooses. His response to the next question, again pertaining to French performance, 
does reveal indicators of deception. 
 
“I think your second question was on our final landing for 2015 and versus what could have 
been a previous assumption around the middle of the year. I think what is true is that the mild 
conditions in the fall have been negative for all the textile sales that we have in some of our 
stores. Our vision is nevertheless that we performed better than specialized retailers in textile. 
You probably have more data than us on that front and you might have heard that most of the 
specialized textile retailers have had a very tough time. But we did a little below our initial 
expectation.” 
 
First, Giscard d’Estaing’s use of the phrase “could have” in reference to his own statement made 
in Q3 2015 is peculiar. Is it realistic that he would not recall his own forecast, made only a few 
months before and released publicly on the Q3 call? Or worse, does he simply throw out 
arbitrary figures to the market that are not the result of thorough research and planning? What is 
more likely is that he is trying to distance himself from his previous statements that now have 
proven false. This type of behavior is referred to as an Inappropriate Level of Concern (1). This 
behavior is seen when individuals are cornered and resort to minimizing the importance of the 
process or downplaying their involvement or responsibility. Giscard’s word choice is meant to 


Page 8 of 14
convey that his previous statements are flippant or casual – not that big a deal, when, in fact, his 
statements incur a massive influence over the financial future of his investors. He is also clearly 
embarrassed at being called to the carpet. A second indicator is his peculiar use of the phrase 
“what is true”; a potent exclusionary qualifier (2). This leaves open the possibility that previous 
statements made by Giscard d’Estaing were not true or not entirely true. While some do use 
phrases like this in routine language, the context suggests an attempt to convince rather than 
convey - the primary indicator of deception. It is also designed to narrow the focus of the hearer 
onto those points Giscard d’Estaing wants to emphasis. If “it is true” that warmer weather is truly 
to blame for a shortage of nearly EUR 60 million, then the facts conveyed would do the 
convincing. This suggests to me the possibility that the EUR 60 million shortage is not entirely 
the result of warmer weather. If so, this is a fact Giscard d’Estaing does not want to emphasize, 
as it would juxtapose his assertion that a recovery has taken place. It is also curious to note that 
within the same sentence Giscard d’Estaing states that their “vision” is to outperform specialized 
retailers in the textile space, and yet admits to having limited data regarding their performance. 
This statement seems inconsistent at least, self-incriminating at most. Inconsistent Statements, 
such as these, are considered diagnostic indicators of deception (3). Giscard d’Estaing eventually 
admits, “we did a little below our initial expectation.” This admission has, of course, been buried 
beneath an excuse (warmer weather), a minimization (EUR 60 M as “a little”), and a reference to 
another sector doing worse than Casino. An important acronym to remember in deception 
detection is RPM = Rationalize, Project, Minimize. All liars engage in RPM. In this statement 
Giscard d’Estaing has engaged in all three. And the final indicator is a Failure to Answer. Recall 
that the original question was “are you happy with a consensus of EUR 340 M?” Clearly, 
Giscard d’Estaing is not “happy” with a shortage of EUR 60 M, but to answer that question in 
the negative would be an expression of pessimism that would be inconsistent with the “case for 
‘16” he is trying to make.  
 
The second half of Giscard d’Estaing’s rather long response (a possible indicator itself) is 
chopped into more readable portions. 
 
On the EUR2b deleveraging plan, it's a top priority for the Group. It's a subject which we take 
very seriously. We are very confident. 
 
This plan is here to deliver value for shareholders. It's a commitment of the Company to really 
deleverage. 
 
As we did in the past we intend to execute it swiftly. We've always delivered on deleveraging 
plans in the past; this will be the case again. 
 
All of the above statements are referred to as Convincing Statements and are strongly correlated 
to deception. Giscard d’Estaing demonstrates the greatest concentration of deceptive behaviors 
when asked about the deleveraging plan. He also incorporates what are referred to as “clipped 
words”; sharp, succinct, highly emphasized language in succession. Remember President 
Clinton, “I….did not…have sexual relations….with that woman.” We all know how that turned 
out. These words are being emphasized in feigned sincerity to convince the listener of the 
authenticity of the speaker. The liar unknowingly tips his hand by doing so, as he signals the 
active listener to the topic at hand as one in which we should have little confidence.  


Page 9 of 14
Nicolas Champ - Barclays Capital – Analyst 
 
“Yes, good morning, everyone. Sorry to follow up on Fabienne's question regarding the French 
EBIT for 2015, but you reiterated at your third-quarter sales conference call last October a 
guidance of EUR400m for French EBIT last year, broadly stable compared with 2014. Can you 
explain again, sorry to come back on this but you came up with finally a French EBIT number 
which is 15% lower, or EUR60m, despite a relatively satisfying number in Q4.” 
“The second question is about your guidance of a French EBITDA of around EUR900m for this 
year. Sorry to ask a stupid question but how much is to be expected to be generated by property 
disposals out of this EUR900m of French EBITDA for 2016.” 
 
 
Antoine Giscard d’Estaing - Casino CFO 
“I think your last question was on how we see 2016, I think I answered already what we expect 
to get. The message I can add to what I already said is we do not anticipate for 2016 a higher 
contribution of real estate development projects than in 2015. So to be very clear, again in 2016 
as in the second half of 2015, the improvement of our profitability will be only generated by our 
food retail operations with the elements that I mentioned around top-line productivity, 
purchasing productivity and operational productivity.” 
 
I have taken Giscard d’Estaing’s answers out of his order to match them with the questions 
presented. The above answer offers multiple indicators of deception. First, he starts with a classic 
Referral Statement (1) stating “I think I answered that already”. He also side-stepped the original 
question by re-stating it very narrowly to “how we see 2016”, when the original question had 
considerably more substance to it. The second indicator is the Exclusionary Qualifier “The 
message I can add…”, which is a broad answer to a specific question, excluding the hard number 
Champ requested (2). Champ did not ask for a generalized “message” but a specific answer. 
Giscard d’Estaing’s assertion that 2016 earnings will contain no more contribution from R/E 
transactions as in 2015, and his insistence (repeated) that gains will “only” be generated by 
French food operations, is an avoidance of the original question regarding the modified French 
EBIT forecast. This would constitute a Failure-to-Answer (3), as well as an attempt to avoid 
trying to explain how the “recovery” and “momentum” of the “relatively satisfying Q4” could 
lead to a downgrade in expectation. 
 
Giscard d’Estaing has repeatedly emphasized the importance of France. Interestingly, Banque de 
France data revealed the food retail market was positive in October and dipped in November, 
leaving only one month of growth as the source of their “confidence” in this sector. I believe it is 
fairly universal for December to be a good retail month. They’ve further conveyed that Textiles 
are down and Nicolas Champ of Barclays PLC pointed out that French Convenience had a 
mediocre Q4. These factors seem inconsistent with the “recovery” being touted.  
 
It should also be noted that Giscard d’Estaing placed considerable emphasis on the assertion 
“that we do not anticipate for 2016 a higher contribution of real estate development projects 
than in 2015.” With little back and forth on this to dissect the issue further, and with no 


Page 10 of 14
knowledge of what degree those projects contributed in 2015, it is hard for me to ascertain the 
significance of these statements. The extent to which he stresses this point, however, given the 
backdrop of the Muddy Waters papers, indicates his desire to convince the market that 
improvement in earnings will not be correlated to real estate generated monies. Yet, at the same 
time, his use of the word “higher” suggests that whatever “contribution” has been made in 2015 
will continue. This appears to me to be more convince than convey, and is for that reason likely 
an indicator of deception.  
 
 
Reaction of Casino Group to the report of Muddy Waters, December 16, 2015 
 
 
“Casino has become aware, through a press agency wire, of a report issued by Muddy Waters 
Capital on December 16, 2015, with the obvious intent to harm Casino, its employees and its 
shareholders.  
This accusatory report contains grossly erroneous allegations that the Group will answer in 
detail.  
 
In light of this dissemination of misleading information, Casino Group has filed a claim with the 
Autorité des Marchés Financiers and reserves the possibility to exercise its rights before 
national courts, including criminal courts.” 
 
This short response contains multiple examples of Attacking Behavior (1). The purpose behind 
attacking behavior is to impeach the credibility of the accuser in the eyes of the public. The 
expeditious involvement of the authorities, while not deceptive in itself, is a form of saber-
rattling and posturing designed to exude confidence and ward off the accuser.  
 
 
Casino Group affirms the strength of its business model, strategic plans and financial 
structure, December 21, 2015 
 
“Muddy Waters Capital’s report contains a number of false and misleading allegations, 
intended to negatively impact the trading prices of Casino’s stock and debt, for the benefit of the 
report’s author who, in his own words, should be assumed to have “a short position in all stocks 
(…) and bonds covered [in the report], and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the 
event that the price of either declines.” 
This paragraph contains Attacking Behavior (1) designed to incriminate MWR’s motives. 
Bringing ones motives into question is a form of impeachment designed to erode the credibility 
of the source, therefore undercutting the reliability of the accusations.  
The following constitutes Casino’s “response” to MWC’s report of December 16, 2015. .  
 
1. Casino Group has solid business dynamics, with its performance driven in particular by the 
accelerating recovery of its French operations  
2. Commercial Real Estate development and monetization is a structural, value-creating 
component of Casino Group’s operations  
3. Casino Group’s deleveraging plan is entirely consistent with its long-term strategy  


Page 11 of 14
4. Casino’s liquidity is strong and comfortably covers all its upcoming debt repayments beyond 
2017  
5. Casino Group’s financial structure is solid; S&P and Fitch very recently reiterated Casino’s 
investment grade status  
6. S&P's rating methodology relies on analyses and adjustments commonly applied to all issuers  
7. Casino Group strictly applies international accounting standards and the Group’s financial 
accounts are certified by its external auditors. In addition most of its large subsidiaries are listed 
with additional scrutiny from their respective regulators and market authorities  
8. Casino Group's policy is not to issue opinions on external valuations of its stock. However, 
Casino notes that the average target price derived from the consensus of 23 analysts covering 
Casino amounts to €55 per share as of December 18th, 2015  
 
As a group these items share a few noteworthy characteristics. First, they are an extremely broad 
and wide response to very specific allegations. This is a form of avoidance and a selectivity that 
highlights areas of concern by their omission. The following are additional deceptive behaviors 
identified within the group.  First, a Failure to Answer (1). Specific questions require specific 
answers. Replying to a specific question with a broad answer, provided that the answer is 
knowable to the one being asked, indicates that the precise answer is one the speaker does not 
want to provide. These highly generalized responses also constitute a Non-Specific Denial (2) 
and Convincing Statements (3). The reader is to assume that these eight points are declarations of 
innocence, but in fact do not contain any direct denial of any wrongdoing. For example, the 
statement “Casino Group’s deleveraging plan is entirely consistent with its long-term strategy” is 
meant to imply that there is nothing nefarious about the plan, yet doesn’t answer the obvious 
question posed by MWC: Is your long term strategy to fool investors? This reminds me of a case 
I had once when I asked a young man “Have you ever used illegal drugs?” to which he replied 
“My entire life my goal has been to not use drugs”. Yeah…but did you? Of course he later 
admitted to doing so. These responses all constitute a Reluctance/Refusal to Answer (4). In this 
context, Casino attempted to redirect the focus of the conversation onto points they want the 
market to concentrate on and away from those addressed by MWC, while still appearing to have 
complied with their promise of December 16 to answer MWC’s allegations “in detail”. Such an 
opportunity to pick apart false allegations could not be resisted by the truthful person. When 
called to the carpet, the deceptive person will always hide in obscurity, while attempting to save 
face in the process.   
 
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA Corporate Sales Call, Q4 2015. Date: January 14, 
2016/7:30am GMT 
“Lastly and before I move to your questions, I would like to mention that a list of questions 
concerning Casino has been brought to our knowledge yesterday. Most of them are a reiteration 
of subjects raised in December, to which we already answered. We note that the real concern in 
yesterday’s letter is whether there is a true recovery in our French retail operations. As 
illustrated by the trading we’ve just published for Q4, 2015, we are very confident that it has 
taken place and that our commercial strategies will continue to deliver strong results in 2016.” 
This paragraph from Giscard d’Estaing’s opening comments contain a Referral Statement (1), 
but is potentially more revealing due to its significant change in tone from the attacking behavior 
identified in Casino’s “Reaction” of December 16, 2015 and “Affirm…” from December 21, 
2015. This shift in strategy towards the allegations of MWC represents a tactical change from the 


Page 12 of 14
defensive to the dismissive on behalf of Casino’s management. A dismissive posture is intended 
to minimize the significance of the allegations. Such a posture would constitute an Inappropriate 
Level of Concern (2) and should be considered diagnostic.  
 
Update on recent S&P’s announcement, January 18, 2016 
 
Due to the abbreviated, bulleted nature of their responses, effectively stripping linguistic context 
I rely on heavily for my analysis, few of the responses offered material indicators of deception. 
This is not to say the responses are true, but when removed from conversational context any 
analysis becomes significantly less reliable. Below are those few portions I feel are noteworthy.  
 
2) What has triggered the Credit Watch in your view? 
 
“In our view, the Credit Watch has been triggered by the following recent developments that 
may 
have an impact on Casino’s credit profile  
 
S&P’s Credit Watch review occurred after the publication of our Q4 2015 sales, in a context of 
rising concerns over the macroeconomic situation in emerging markets and the recession in 
Brazil. 
Casino also announced last week the launch of the sale process for its operations in Thailand 
after having received strong indications of interest 
 
Independently from short-term market volatility, S&P’s credit rating generally relies on the 
review 
of a company’s Business Risk and Financial Risk profile, factoring long-term strategic drivers 
and 
financial trends” 
 
S&P placed the Group’s BBB- rating under CreditWatch Negative on 15 January, a full month 
after MWC released its original report and two days after it released it’s second. I feel that their 
failure to mention this report as a possible contributor to the S&P decision is conspicuous but to 
be expected. Any illusion to it as a catalyst for S&P consideration would give it a credibility they 
can’t afford. The fact that Casino highlights the “very recent” reiteration of Casino’s investment 
grade status in item #5 of their “Casino Group Affirms…” document released on 21 December, 
acknowledges the significance of S&P’s prompt re-examination of Casino’s credit worthiness. If 
it’s a big deal when they say you’re good in mid-December, then it’s an equally big deal when 
they downgrade you a month later. 
 
3) Do you share S&P’s concerns on Brazil? 
 
“As a reminder, S&P downgraded Brazil’s sovereign credit rating to sub-Investment Grade on 9 
September 2015 
 
As we pointed out during our recent Q4 2015 sales update, our Brazilian operations continue to 


Page 13 of 14
deliver a good performance in food retail, with market share gains in cash & carry, 
supermarkets 
and convenience stores; we are confident in GPA’s ability to deliver a good performance in 
2016 
 
Regarding non-food activities, our sales have declined in the context of soft discretionary 
spending by Brazilian households. Nevertheless, we succeeded in limiting the decline in sales of 
Via Varejo in Q4 2015 compared to previous quarters, thanks to targeted action plans aimed at 
finding a better price positioning, particularly through more effective promotions. 
 
As in 2015, our priority for 2016 is to maintain a positive operating FCF for all our Brazilian 
Activities” 
 
This response doesn’t address the macroeconomic concern of S&P or provide specific data 
regarding the declining sales, and effectively constitutes a Non-Answer (1). It further highlights 
the “limited decline” of Via Varejo, attempting to Color a Negative as a Positive (2). The bottom 
line is the market is weak and they are trying to prop up sentiment. Less of a loss is still a loss. A 
limited decline is still a decline. These are expressions of hope more than data-rich facts one 
could cite to support a positive outlook. All the confidence in the world will not change hard 
economic data.  
 
 
 
Summary 
 
This analysis has identified multiple clusters of deceptive behavior. My findings strongly suggest 
that Casino is not being completely revelatory concerning their deleveraging plan, their 
accounting practices, the French “recovery”, Brazil, and their fears surrounding the S&P re-
evaluation of their credit worthiness. Some areas yield more deceptive clusters than others and it 
is unlikely they are all equal in regard to their significance to Casino’s management. It is beyond 
the scope of this analysis to estimate the impact this deception will have on the future 
performance of the stock, or speak to the accuracy of the allegations made against them. This 
analysis does lend support to the following conclusions: 
 


• Casino intends to continue its use of Real Estate transactions to bolster earnings 
• Casino will continue to rely heavily on its use of credit 
• Casino does not intend to be completely transparent about the details of the deleveraging 


plan 
• There is ample reason to be pessimistic regarding the long-term benefit of the 


deleveraging plan to shareholders, specifically its ability to increase free cash flow 
• There is little reason to trust that a meaningful recovery has been achieved in France 
• There is ample reason to be pessimistic regarding short term earnings potential in Brazil 
• Methodology specifics aside, there is reason to assume Casino fears an S&P downgrade 


Page 14 of 14
