Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








Terms of Service: 


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service.  You agree that use of Muddy 
Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect 
trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.  You represent to Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment 
sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site.  You further agree that you will not communicate the 
contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  If you download or 
receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and 
bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to 
continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be 
long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from 
any person through this site or reports on this site.  Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of:  (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) 
high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through our due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion.  All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the 
information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the 
downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any manner other than by download from 
that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute 
arising from your use of this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the 
personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction 
or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right 
or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is 
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the 
parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in 
particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or 
cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or 
cause of action arose or be forever barred. 
  


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 5
Muddy Waters, LLC 
NQ: Maintaining Fraud Rating 


July 6, 2014 
 


NQ: Oops 
 
NQ’s July 3rd announcement vindicates short sellers, but was likely delayed in order to give 
China side insiders a chance to illegally dump stock.  The announcement also puts lipstick on the 
state of NQ’s doomed audit.  Only hours before the long July 4th holiday weekend began, NQ 
announced that Ms. Ying Han, who was the chairwoman of its audit committee, had resigned 
from the board.  NQ also announced that PwC Zhongtian (“PWC”), whose audit opinion was 
already more than two months late, had requested a broader audit scope.  While both admissions 
are hugely vindicating for short sellers of NQ, we strongly suspect that: 
 


• NQ deliberately held back both admissions so that NQ China insiders and their proxies 
could illegally dump more shares at existing shareholders’ expense, and 


• NQ is again misrepresenting the true state of its audit and relationship with PwC 
Zhongtian (“PwC”).  NQ’s prior statements and actions make clear that it has understood 
for some time that PwC will never issue an unqualified audit opinion for 2013.  The 
language about PwC requesting a larger audit scope is a misrepresentation designed to 
keep the passengers on the sinking NQ ship (so that NQ insiders can keep the lifeboats 
for themselves).  


 
We believe that by June 25th a) Ms. Han had already informed NQ she was resigning, and b) NQ 
had accepted that PwC will never issue an unqualified audit opinion.  In delaying the day of 
reckoning by at least a week, NQ likely provided an opportunity for insiders to dump shares.  We 
base our belief on the trading pattern that shows NQ stock dropping 5.3% on June 25th with no 
news, followed by consecutive declines of 4.5% and 4.7% on each of the next two trading days.  
Volume was substantially elevated during this period with the ADSes trading an average of 9.8 
million shares per day, compared to 5.2 million shares per day on average prior to June 25, 
2014.1  The table below shows the drastic selling that began on June 25th. 
 


 
 
By delaying releasing this information, we believe NQ China side insiders were able to dump 
significant amounts of stock before NQ made the announcement. 
 
  


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 90-day average. 


Page 2 of 5
Ms. Han’s resignation lays bare the corrupt nature of the “independent” investigation NQ’s 
directors conducted.  While NQ claims that Ms. Han resigned for “personal reasons”, it is 
obvious she resigned because of problems with NQ itself.  To further illustrate that point, Ms. 
Han still chairs the audit committee of Wuxi PharmaTech (NYSE: WX).  Just weeks earlier, Ms. 
Han was one of four directors whose investigation, we were told, “did not find evidence” that 
NQ is a fraud.  The investigation did, however, find widespread evidence tampering.  (We 
warned investors about the frequent corruption of these investigations in our December 19, 2013 
open letter to NQ’s independent committee.  In the letter, we cited eight other China companies 
whose shareholders suffered significant losses after purportedly independent committees 
exonerated their management friends of wrongdoing.)   
 
It has been clear for some time that PwC will never issue an unqualified audit opinion.  NQ’s 
statement that PwC has requested a broader audit scope is a misrepresentation.  It simply does 
not hold water to say that PwC requested a broader audit scope when NQ’s 20-F was already 64 
days past due.  This timeline illustrates the events detailed below that support our conclusion. 
 





• PwC would have planned for and requested an expanded audit scope months ago, rather 
than bringing it up recently.  We published our initial report on October 24, 2013, which 
was more than two months before PwC began the audit.  Were we to have published our 
initial report when PwC was already well into the audit, it would be understandable if 
PwC subsequently requested an increased scope and had to delay the audit opinion.  
However, we released our initial report at a point that gave PwC ample time to adjust its 
audit plan and procedures before it began the audit.  If PwC wanted to expand the scope 
of the audit, that request would have been made a long time ago.  


• It was clear by mid-February that the audit was troubled.  In prior years, NQ announced 
its date of Q4 earnings release in mid-February.2  In both prior years, the Q4 earnings 
release date was March 6th.  NQ’s 2013 results would be a very different matter though.  
The company did not announce the date of release until March 25th, more than one month 
later than normal.  This year’s announcement of the date of release appeared to be a 
reaction to a research report, rather than a well-planned announcement made with PwC’s 
blessing.  Only hours before NQ’s announcement, J Capital Research published a report 
titled “Time to Quit” that highlighted NQ’s failure to provide a date of earnings release as 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
2 February 16, 2012 and February 20, 2013. 


Page 3 of 5
an indication that something was going awry.  Ultimately, NQ released its Q4 earnings on 
April 10, 2014.  NQ’s failure to announce a date of earnings release until it was 
challenged by the J Capital report shows it did not have PwC’s buy-in to announce results 
because the audit was troubled.  


• NQ’s June 4th release of the investigation results shows that by early June, NQ felt 
strongly it would not ultimately receive an unqualified audit opinion.  NQ had stated on 
April 10th, and reiterated on April 30th, that it was going to release the final results of the 
independent committee’s investigation in the 20-F.  However, NQ ultimately did not wait 
until the 20-F to release the results.  On June 4th, NQ issued a press release touting the 
final results of the investigation.  This change of plan was a clear indicator that NQ felt 
strongly that it would not receive an unqualified audit opinion.  (The positive release also 
pushed the stock up 30.9% on the day, likely giving insiders another opportunity to dump 
stock.) 


 
This latest deception is just another in a string of misrepresentations about the state of NQ’s 
audit.  
 


• By releasing Q4 results and hosting a conference call, NQ was sending a strong signal 
that an unqualified audit opinion was fait accompli.  It is highly unusual for a 
company to release its full year results when there is even a reasonable doubt about 
whether it will receive an unqualified opinion.   


• On the April 10th call, Mr. Khan twice stated that he expected NQ to file its 20-F on 
or by April 30th.  To quote Mr. Khan “…based on the current [audit] schedule, the 
fully integrated schedule that all the parties that are associated with the process are 
working from, we're planning on – we're currently planning on meeting the statutory 
deadline for the 20F which is April 30.” 


• After NQ missed the second filing deadline of May 15th, Matt Mathison privately 
reassured investors that the audit opinion was “on the goal line”, and that PwC merely 
needed to perform some more compliance procedures.   


 
What Now? 
 
We believe NQ’s misleading statement that PwC wants to expand the scope of the audit, and that 
the board is reviewing the request, is merely to create a pretext for NQ to change auditors.  In 
other words, NQ has likely already decided to fire PwC, or PwC has already informed NQ it is 
resigning.  It is highly unlikely that another affiliate of a Big Four (or BDO for that matter) 
would touch NQ with a 10-foot pole.  While the long-term game for NQ is to avoid becoming 
another tombstone in the graveyard of China frauds, we expect that insiders will continue to 
make more acquisitions in order to drain the company of value.   
 
At these stock price levels, we would not be surprised to see the consideration mix for 
acquisitions go toward cash, given that there should be real cash in the company from the 
October 2013 convertible bond offering.  At the same time, NQ will likely issue more bullish 
press releases about “partnerships” with big names (and no disclosed economics), report more 
terrific but fake financials, and enter into more (likely corrupt) partial sales of subsidiaries that 


Page 4 of 5
make NQ’s market cap seem enticingly small.  If NQ does manage to pump its stock price up 
again, we then expect more share issuances and illegal insider sales.   
 
We base these assumptions on NQ’s past reptilian pumping behavior, two recent examples of 
which are below. 
 


• On April 30th, when it missed the 20-F filing deadline, NQ issued an uber-bullish 
press release that touted unofficial “no evidence found” results of the independent 
committee investigation, which pushed the stock up by 10.8% on the day to $12.36 
(which is 2.7x NQ’s closing price this past Friday of $4.58).   


• On May 30th, when the 20-F was one month overdue, NQ had the temerity to increase 
Q1 guidance and issue Q2 revenue YoY growth guidance of over 100%.  On the same 
day, it also announced (an almost certainly corrupt) sale of a minority interest in FL 
Mobile that gave the subsidiary an implied valuation equal to NQ’s market 
capitalization.  NQ did not even acknowledge its past due 20-F in either release.  
These announcements pushed the stock up 11.8% to $7.59.   





Page 5 of 5
