Citron Updates Textura Corp.                          January 13, 2014 Page 1 of 4 
 


 
January 13, 2014 


 
Citron Presents the Smoking Gun on Textura CEO’s History 


For all of you Analysts who are “Hard of Reading”: 
The Picture Worth a Thousand Words. 


 
Citron has been writing about companies with management “issues” for over 13 years.  We’ve 
survived to witness over 50 of the stocks we’ve covered suffer regulatory intervention, at the 
ultimate expense of shareholders who doggedly believed management rather than the facts.  
Management and analyst responses to inconvenient truths are very revealing of their 
trustworthiness. 
 
Textura’s (NYSE:TXTR) only response to the two Citron reports was a simple blanket denial of 
everything.   They offered not one single data point to refute any of the numerous troubling 
points related to its IPO and follow-on offerings, referenced from their own filings. 
 
Furthermore every analyst whose firms underwrote the IPO and follow-on offerings for Textura 
have weighed in.  That would be no less than: 


 William Blair (*) 


 Barrington Securities (*) 


 Credit Suisse 


 Oppenheimer 


 JMP Securities 
 


Meanwhile, the analyst firms, at least two of which Citron has pointed out have conflicted 
relationships with Textura through senior members holding insider stock prior to IPO (*), have 
stood by their shoddy work and complicity. Every single one of them shrugs off their own 
failure to disclose Patrick Allin’s active role in the stock fraud that was Patron Systems, which 
occurred in the 2002 – 2004 timeframe, immediately before his co-founding Textura.  Instead, 
we’ve been called “rogue”, they’ve claimed the information we published is of no efficacy 
because “we only found it on the internet”, we’ve created a “buying opportunity”, and best of 
all was the Oppenheimer analyst who called the gross omission of Patrick Allin’s role in Patron 
Systems bio a “glitch”. 
 
Citron wishes to remind readers that it is not an anonymous post that “publishes anything”.  
Citron’s editor personally stands the scrutiny of US civil and Securities laws for every statement 
of fact posted on the Citron blog.
Citron Updates Textura Corp.                          January 13, 2014 Page 2 of 4 
 


The Pictures that No Excuse Can Explain Away 
 


Remember Paul Harary?  He is in federal prison for stock fraud, while every analyst acts as if 
Patrick Allin had nothing to do with him.  Look at the two names on these certificates: 


   
… and this one … to Paris McKenzie, who was Paul Harary’s spouse.    


 



http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Brekford_International_(BFDI)/Tactical_Solution_Partners_Inc_Harary
Citron Updates Textura Corp.                          January 13, 2014 Page 3 of 4 
 


What makes this worse is the stated reason that Patrick Allin gave this stock to Harary.   The claimed 
purpose of this stock grant, worth over $7.3 million as of the date of the filing, is stated as:   
 





http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1075043/000095013703002026/c76029a1sv8pos.txt 
 
This S-8 signed is by Patrick J, Allin as CEO, filed April 9, 2003.  (Of course, M. Rashid Qajar, the other 
stock grantee in this S-8 bonanza, has also left a tawdry trail of small-time securities fraud on two 
continents.  See here and here.)   
 


What makes this worse is that the reason given for Harary and Qajar’s stock grant is a lie.  This 
is a clear example of deceit in an SEC filing.   
 
So instead of discussing management credibility or how Textura has been operating for 10 
years, and has booked losses of over $185 million, they would rather rely on such meaningless 
phrases as “total addressable market”.  Shit, if that’s the case they might as well open a pizza 
shop … everyone loves pizza … the total addressable market is huge! 
 
This company is a joke.  Management has lied to investors about its past and will continue to lie 
about its future prospects.  As an investment thesis, with nothing but losses and rapidly 
expanding expenses in its operating history, all we really have to rely on is the credibility of 
management.  Textura’s CPM is a single-purpose utility with a small revenue base and no 
likelihood of becoming a comprehensive enterprise software platform for the construction 
industry.  Its acquired products are a hodge-podge of poorly integrated solutions, of marginal 
standalone functionality, each of which was losing money when acquired.  These acquisitions 
are being made for appearances, not as part of a credible strategy to ascend to leadership as a 
leading enterprise software provider to the construction industry.   


These services, which will be performed for a period of 


two years from March 31, 2003, will enable our Company 


to use one of our consultants for general business 


matters including, but not limited to, development of an 


international business strategy, the evaluation and 


analysis of management needs and identifying and 


introducing the Company to prospective merger, asset, 


business or other acquisition candidates. Our other 


consultant will seek and identify potential candidates 


in the enterprise security and technology fields for 


acquisition by the Company. 


 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1075043/000095013703002026/c76029a1sv8pos.txt

http://insolvency.presscentre.com/Press-Releases/Ten-year-ban-for-directors-who-lost-600k-of-Cambridge-festival-money-68411.aspx

http://www.securities.utah.gov/dockets/cr0035101.pdf
Citron Updates Textura Corp.                          January 13, 2014 Page 4 of 4 
 


   Conclusion 
 


Citron has spoken to the victims of the Patron Systems debacle.  We got a copy of these 
certificates from someone who was personally “sold a bill of goods” by Patrick Allin.  Before you 
invest based on the representations of Patrick Allin, do not forget, this is the consultant he 
hired for enterprise security software … the year before he founded Textura.  
 


 
Paul Harary 


 
In the context of his disclosure failures, which can now be viewed as willful and intentional, isn’t 
it ironic that Patrick J. Allin served as “Audit Partner” for PriceWaterHouse ?   
 
This continues to astound us … but then again, Bernie Madoff was Chairman of NASDAQ.   
Somehow, that wasn’t a problem either, until the day it was a problem.  
 


   Cautious Investing to All   



http://investing.businessweek.com/research/stocks/private/person.asp?personId=8120317&privcapId=98349387
