1 
 





This research report expresses soley our opinions.  Use Soapbox Research opinions at your own risk.  In no event should Soapbox Research be 


liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information contained in this report.  We have a short interest in Ultimate 


Software Group’s stock and therefore stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock declines.  Please refer to our full 


disclaimer located on the last page of this report.  





Ultimate Software Group (“Ultimate”, “ULTI” or “the Company”), is a HCM 


(human capital management) provider.  The company offers cloud-based 


software that helps clients streamline talent management, HR and payroll 


processes within their companies.  


Sell side firms tout that ULTI has the “best margins in SaaS” and that its 


“resilient business model” and “improving free cash flows” make it a 


resounding Buy.    Company management boasts about their ability to grow 


recurring revenue by ~ 30% and double total company revenue in five 


year’s time.  A closer examination of the company’s financials, however, 


reveals these claims to be questionable at best.  


In stark contrast to the consensus views above, our analysis revealed the 


following: 


1. Aggressive capitalization inflates operating margins by more than double 


and appears to be a backdoor way for ULTI to capitalize product 


development costs.  


2. Disclosures about revenue and customers do not add up and suggest that 


ULTI has been grossly overstating numbers to investors.   


3. Revenue exaggeration and accounting chicanery at ULTI should come as no 


surprise given that the Chairman (Robert Yanover) of ULTI’s Audit 


Committee was the Founder and Chairman of Lason, Inc, a company that 


was charged with accounting fraud (including falsifying revenues) in 2007.  


4. Stock-based compensation has grown at an accelerating pace. This has 


resulted in significant cash spend on share repurchases to settle employee 


tax liabilities and offset dilution which, when taken out of OCF, reveals that 


OCF and FCF is actually falling precipitously.  


5. The Scherr family and unrelated ULTI executives are unjustifiably enriched 


at the expense of shareholders. 


We believe that once investors realize the magnitude of ULTI’s exaggerated 


claims, the company should trade down to its fair value of $101.15, 


implying a downside in excess of 50%.
1
 


                                                           
1
 As of 8/16/2016 


Summary 








Company: 


Ultimate 


Software Group 


Ticker: ULTI 


Industry: 


Information 


Technology 


Stock Price as of 


8/16/2016: 


$212.94 


Market 


Cap:$6.16bn 


Daily Volume: 


220,924 (3 month 


avg.) 


Price Target: 


$101.15
2 
 





Briefly stepping away from the market hype surrounding Ultimate Software to examine the Company’s 


historical financials reveals that ULTI’s claims regarding its financial performance have become 


exceedingly aggressive and promotional. Over the years, Ultimate’s touting has become so egregious 


and their accounting so aggressive, that operating margins discussed by management are in some 


cases more than double what they should be in reality! 


One of the ways in which Ultimate manipulates margins is through aggressive capitalization of research 


and development expenses. As the Company started to feel greater pressure on margins, Management 


responded by simply capitalizing R&D instead of expensing it.  This approach is reminiscent of the trick 


used in the early 2000’s by WorldCom – aka one of the biggest accounting scandals in history.  As a way 


to improve the company’s financial performance following the dot-com crash, WorldCom executives 


simply began to characterize line costs as a capital asset instead of properly recognizing them as an 


operating expense.  While this initially worked out well for WorldCom, once the fraud was uncovered, 


the company filed for bankruptcy, its stock collapsed, and its executives were found guilty of fraud and 


conspiracy.  


As it relates to Ultimate, it can be seen from Figure 1 below that capitalized R&D as a portion of total 


R&D has skyrocketed from 0% in Q12012 to 24% in Q22016.   





To justify this aggressive capitalization, Ultimate notes that it is related to an internal-use development 


project to be sold in the future and thus warrants capitalization.
2
 This is where management seems to 


be confused. The accounting standards under GAAP specify two distinct types of software: 1) software 


for internal use and 2) software to be sold, leased, or marketed.  The standards provide specific AND 


differing accounting treatment for each type of software.  For internal use software, capitalization can 


begin at the onset of development. For software that is going to be sold, leased, or marketed, however, 


                                                           
2
 P.34 of 2013 10K, p. 10 of 2014 10K, p.11 2015 10K 


Aggressive  (and Erroneous) Capitalization Inflates Operating Margin
3 
 


capitalization can only begin once technological feasibility is reached, i.e. later than for internal use 


software.  From Ultimate’s disclosures, it appears that management wants the best of both worlds: they 


want to develop software that they can eventually sell and profit from but they also don’t want to bear 


the development cost it takes to reach technological feasibility so they capitalize it instead. Although 


this approach is indeed very convenient and quite clever, unfortunately for Ultimate, it does not 


conform to GAAP.  In fact, as can be seen in figure 2, if we accurately account for capitalized R&D, 


margins would be more than 50% lower than those currently reported by ULTI.  Also alarming is that 


these margins actually turned negative for the first time in Q22016! 





Not only does ULTI inappropropratly rely on the aforementioned internal-use development project to 


avoid recognizing R&D expense, but in the most recent quarter the company also cited the same project  


as a reason to delay amortization associated with the Vestrics Acquisition: 


“Since the developed predictive technology acquired pursuant to the Vestrics Acquisition will be 


included in the development project currently being capitalized as internal-use software to be 


offered as a cloud product in the future, amortization of the Vestrics developed technology will 


begin when it is ready for its intended use” (Ultimate Software 2Q2016 10Q, p. 7).  


This rationalization appears highly suspect, and we believe that this development project is being used 


as a catch all account by ULTI to prevent both R&D and amortization expenses from impacting the 


bottom line.  





In addition to presenting inflated margins in their financial statements, ULTI’s earnings calls and 
conference presentations are filled with promotional claims about their revenue generating abilities.  On 
the Q12016 earnings call, Scott Scherr, the Founder, Chairman and CEO of Ultimate software talked 
about the Company’s recurring revenue growth: 


Revenue Disclosures are Questionable
4 
 


 
 “I mean we basically over we've gone 14 years at 25% recurring revenue growth. I think one 
year we were at, like, 23% and so I just think it's the growth of the company, the growth of the 
sales organization, maintaining 97% client base, retention of our client base. Having a 95% 
reference level client base.” 


 
At the Roth Growth Conference in early 2016, Scott was back at it, boasting about growing top line: 
 


 “Now, anyone who knows us, there's no one who doesn't think we're going to blow through $1 
billion in 2018. So then it becomes what's next after that. So obviously it's $2 billion, and 
hopefully we think we can, if everything stays, as we are, we think, we should hit that in 2022.” 


 
The only thing more ridiculous than forecasting $2bn in revenue seven years out (which, by the way, 
implies a CAGR in excess of 18%), is that ULTI has managed to successfully convince the sell side that 
these growth figures are accurate and justify a premium multiple to peers. 
 


Deutsche Bank report dated 4/27/2016:   
“Our $215 PT implies a CY17 EV/S of 6.6x, a premium to peers due to a superior combination of 
growth and profitability” 
 
Credit Suisse report dated 4/26/2016:  
“ULTI currently trades at a 2016E EV/Sales multiple of 7.5x, a 88% premium to the peer group of 
4.0x, which we believe is warranted given the company's track record and high degree of 
visibility into future operating results (mgmt. has ~99% visibility into 2016 recurring revenue 
growth guide.” 
 
UBS report dated 4/19/2016 


“The multiple is at a premium to the SaaS comp group mean EV/S, which we believe is justified 


given above average rev & earnings growth (+ predictability) and superior mgns.” 


While ULTI’s Management believes they are extremely transparent with investors, “But I am just saying, 


again, people -- I think as a Company, we are fairly transparent with investors. We tell you 


everything. Maybe sometimes we tell you too much, but, no, but we think it builds credibility that way. 


(Mitch Dauerman, 3/1/16), they actually do not provide sufficient information for investors to assess the 


validity of their claims about revenue or recurring revenue.  However, by piecing together publicly 


available information, we found gross inconsistencies in ULTI’s earnings calls and SEC filings, which 


lead us to question the overall credibility of ULTI’s management and the veracity of their claims. 


Ultimate Software segments its 3,200 customers into three categories: Strategic (companies with 100-


499 employees), Midmarket (companies with 500-1,500 employees) and Enterprise (companies with 


1,500 or more employees).
3
  Management has stated that Strategic customers employ an average of 400 


employees, Midmarket, an average of 600 to 700 employees and Enterprise, around 5,000.
4 


In 


                                                           
3
 Page 2 of 2015 10K 


4
 3/15/2016 Roth Conference
5 
 


Midmarket and Strategic, Ultimate earns an average of $22 per employee per month.
5 


In Enterprise, the 


Company averages about $14 per employee per month because customers with more than 5,000 


employees receive costs breaks from Ultimate.
6
  A summary of this data, along with a calculation of 


average revenue per customer per year is presented in Figure 3.  





The Company does not disclose how many of its 3,200 customers fall into each of the three segments.  


We know that historically, Ultimate has been focused on Midmarket so the majority of its customers are 


likely to fall into that bucket.  The Strategic segment is a new category for Ultimate started in 2015, and 


as such, is likely to be responsible for only a small percentage of Ultimate’s customer base. Thus, as a 


starting point, we assumed a 30%/60%/10% revenue split among the Enterprise, Midmarket and 


Strategic tiers, respectively.  Operating under these assumptions, we tried to determine the revenue 


derived from each category as well as the total revenue that Ultimate earns as presented in Figure 4.  








Our results were surprising in that the total revenue in figure 4 which was calculated based on 


statements made by ULTI Management is nearly 89% higher than the total revenue that the company 


reported for that same period in its 2015 10K presented below: 


                                                           
5
 6/9/2015 William Blair Annual Growth Stock Conference 


6
 Q2 2015 Earnings Call
6 
 





Even if the Percentage of Customers assumption is changed between the three segments, in every 


feasible case there still existed a large discrepancy between the revenue reported in the Company’s 10K 


and the revenue implied in its earnings call disclosures as demonstrated by our analysis in Figure 5.  








We question how investors and sell side analysts can take ULTI’s promotional earnings calls and seven 


year forecasts seriously and use them for justifying a premium multiple when there is clear evidence 


that the Company is either blatantly lying or too incompetent to accurately convey UTLI’s true 


performance to the market??? 





Robert Yanover, 79, has served on Ultimate Software’s Board since January 1997 and is Chairman of the 


Audit Committee and a member of the Compensation Committee. Prior to joining ULTI’s Board, Yanover 


founded Lason Inc, a Michigan-based imaging company. Yanover served as Chairman of Lason’s Board 


from its inception until 1998 and again from 2000 until 2001. He was also Director of Lason from its 


inception until 2001.  Yanover announced his resignation from Lason’s Board on February 21, 2001 citing 


health reasons, all the while continuing to serve on ULTI’s board.  


Chairman of ULTI’s Audit Committee Involved with Lason Fraud
7 
 


During Yanover’s reign as Chairman, Lason was a Wall Street darling.  It reported significant annual 


revenue growth and expanding EBITDA margins while its stock appreciated 185% in the course of two 


years – a narrative very similar to that of ULTI.  However, things disintegrated quickly for Lason as it 


was found to be cooking the books, in what was at the time referred to as “one of the worst 


accounting frauds ever.”
7
  ULTI does not disclose Yanover’s checkered past to shareholders.  


Prosecutors alleged that from approximately 1997 through early 2000 (during Yanover’s tenure), Lason’s 


success was largely due to accounting shenanigans which was primarily orchestrated by William 


Rauwerdink, Lason’s CFO, who was hired by the Board in 1996 (also during Yanover’s tenure) just 


months after he had been sanctioned and fined by the SEC over insider trading allegations at his 


previous employer. The scheme at Lason initially relied on manipulating financials from newly acquired 


companies to inflate Lason earnings. However, as acquisitions slowed, this trick alone was not sufficient 


to meet Wall Street estimates, so Lason simply made up revenues from work that wasn’t real and then 


bragged about their amazing results to investors.  


While Yanover was not one of the three executives formally charged at Lason, this raises serious 


questions about Yanover’s oversight abilities, as three executives at his company successfully 


perpetrated fraud right under his nose.  Additionally, considering that he resigned from Lason’s board 


over 15 years ago due to health reasons, we find it questionable that ULTI Management continues to 


find him fit to serve on their Board.  


Perhaps an explanation for Yanover’s appointment is that Scott Scherr is just simply too distracted to 


properly vet his board members.  A search for companies registered to Ultimate’s address revealed 


various outside entities with which Scott Scherr and Ultimate Software are associated – none of which 


are disclosed to investors. First up is Casey Taryn, LLC that in 2015 was managed by Casey and Scott 


Scherr.  In 2015, this same entity (and its associated company Ass Armor) were accused of trademark 


infringement, trademark dilution, unfair competition and cybersquatting by Under Armour.  See the 


filing from the Florida Department of State below and excerpts from the complaint on the following 


page. 


                                                           
7
 http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2014-01-20/news/ct-rauner-lason-met-20140120_1_bruce-rauner-gtcr-firm
8
9 
 





In addition to Casey Taryn LLC, Scott Scherr managed SV World LLC until 2012.  Then, the business was 


dually managed by Scott Scherr and Vivian Maza before Vivian took over as the sole manager in 2015.  


Vivian’s involvement is especially interesting since she is also listed as the Chief People Officer and 


Company Secretary of ULTI, and also appears to be part of Scott Scherr’s family (more on this on page 12 


of this report).
10 
 





Finally, Scott also manages MJDCL Management LLC.  Unfortunately for us, disclosure on MJDCL is 


limited and the company does not seem to be involved in any lawsuits with multi-billion companies so 


its actual business activities remain a mystery.  





With all of these outside business activities to manage, it is no surprise that Ultimate must rely on 


financial trickery rather than sound management to run its business.    





In addition to shady revenue disclosures and contentious capitalization methods, Ultimate also relies 


heavily on stock based compensation (“SBC”) and related share repurchases to help it further embellish 


its financials and simultaneously enrich management.  As can be seen from figure 6, stock based 


compensation as a percentage of revenue has increased significantly from 5.6% of revenue in Q12012 to 


15.4% of revenue in Q22016.   


Stock Based Compensation Used to Enrich Management and Trick Investors
11 
 





ULTI management adds back stock based compensation when it talks about its “impressive and 


growing” non-GAAP operating margin (which is unsurprisingly the only operating margin we ever found 


mentioned on calls and presentations).  However, if we adjust this supposedly amazing margin for 


abnormal SBC (NB: in our analysis we assume that any SBC in excess of 5.6% of sales should be 


subtracted to allow for a like-for-like comparison from 2012 to present) and the aggressive capitalization 


we discussed earlier, we see that actually, ULTI’s margins are in a rapid decline and significantly worse 


than those promoted by management.  See figure 7 below:  





As a result of ULTI’s exorbitant stock based compensation, the company has to continually spend cash to 


settle employee tax liabilities and offset dilution resulting from stock rewards.  While this cash outflow is 


tied to employee compensation which is by all accounting standards an operating expense, ULTI chooses 


to instead classify the related cash outflows as cash flow from financing. Let’s not forget this is under the
12 
 


watchful eye of a man who has already failed to identify a fraud in the past. Consequently, ULTI’s cash 


flow from operations and free cash flow (“FCF”) figures are inflated.  Correctly adjusting for this shows 


that ULTI’s operating and free cash flow have been in rapid decline for the past two years (Figure 8 and 


9).  














One would expect that in a company with shrinking margins and deteriorating cash flows, 


management’s compensation would be modest and in step with performance metrics.  At ULTI, 


however, we find just the opposite to be true.  As disclosed in Ultimate Software’s 2015 Proxy (and 


replicated in Figure 10, Scott Scherr’s total compensation more than tripled from 2014 to 2015 while the 


rest of management saw their compensation double! 


($ in 000’s) 


Company Performance Does Not Warrant Executive Compensation
13 
 








To put this excess in perspective, in 2015 Scott Scherr’s total compensation exceeded the entire net 


income of the Company, and the Scherr family (Marc and Scott are brothers and Adam Rogers is Scott’s 


son-in-law) received a total compensation significantly in excess of the total operating income that ULTI 


reported that year! 


We point out that the Scherr family’s exorbitant compensation would be even higher if we included 


Vivian Maza in the calculation.  Vivian is the Chief People Officer and Company Secretary at Ultimate. 


While Ultimate does not disclose Vivian’s Scherr family ties, deed records filed with Broward County 


show a number of property transactions classified as intrafamily transfers that took place between Scott 


and Vivian.  Additionally, various public record searches reveal that the two lived at the same address 


leading us to conclude that Scott and Vivian are family. 


You would think that a company which deems itself to be overly transparent with its investors would’ve 


mentioned that one of its key employees has familial ties to the CEO.   





We believe that once ULTI’s exaggerated claims and financial trickery come to light, ULTI’s stock should 


fall by more than 50% from its current valuation
8
 to $101.15  


We based our valuation on median 2016, 2017, and 2018 EBITDA and FCF multiples of comparable SaaS 


companies
9
 as well as two additional prominent HCM providers: Automatic Data Processing Inc and 


Paychex.  


To forecast EBITDA, we started with Bloomberg consensus estimates for EBIT.  Then, based on our 


earlier discussion of ULTI’s wrongful capitalization of R&D on pages 2-3 of this report, we adjusted 


consensus EBIT downward to correctly expense instead of capitalize R&D. We then added back the 


                                                           
8
 Current as of 8/16/2016  


9
 SaaS comparables consist of: Cornerstone Ondemand, Paycom, Paylocity, Salesforce.Com, and Workday  


Valuation
14 
 


forecasted depreciation and amortization implied by the difference in sell side EBITDA and EBIT 


estimates to arrive at 2016, 2017 and 2018 EBITDA estimates. To these estimates, we applied the comp 


group’s median 2016, 2017 and 2018 EV / EBITDA multiples of 36.3x, 28.1x, and 25.1x, respectively, 


which we might add are significantly higher than ULTI’s respective multiples of 31.3x, 24.9x and 20.1x, 


highlighting the conservative nature of our approach. 


To forecast free cash flow, we started by looking at historic and forward estimates of ULTI’s free cash 


flow, based on Bloomberg consensus.  We then compared the historic free cash flow numbers to the 


true historic FCF we derived in our discussion on pages 11-12 of this report going back to 2012.  We 


found that on average, ULTI’s true free cash flows were 56% of the reported numbers in 2012-2016.  As 


such, we applied this same factor to the 2016, 2017 and 2018 Bloomberg consensus free cash flow 


estimates to derive what we believe to be true free cash flow. We then applied the FCF median yield of 


the comp group to our estimates to come up with a target share price.  


Finally, we averaged all the derived target share prices to come up with our target of $101.15  Figure 11 


more clearly illustrates our process.  





 
Conclusion
15 
 


This report presents a preponderance of evidence to support our less than underwhelming opinion of 


Ultimate Software and a $101.15 price target.    


Since 2012, the company has grown more reliant on a number of questionable accounting techniques 


(aggressive capitalization, cash flow inflation) and exaggerated claims to mask its deteriorating 


performance. Its audit board is chaired by a man who was the founder and Chairman of a company that 


was deemed to be one of the worst ever accounting frauds, and its management, despite claiming to be 


overly transparent has not been upfront with the investment community. All of these factors, make ULTI 


an ultimate sell.
16 
 


Disclaimer: 


You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Ultimate Software 


Group declines. This report and all statements contained herein are the opinion of Soapbox Research, and are not 


statements of fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, 


which we set out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on 


public information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can 


publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically 


about our report and do your own homework before making any investment decisions.  


As of the publication date of this report, Soapbox Research along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or 


indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize 


gains in the event that the price of Ultimate Software Group’s stock declines. Use Soapbox Research at your own 


risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to 


the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be 


construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we 


may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a 


solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 


jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our 


ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public 


sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock 


covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident 


by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure 


that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and 


completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such 


information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Soapbox Research 


materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value 


trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or 


international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  


This report should only be considered in its entirety. Each section should be read in the context of the entire 


report, and no section, paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its author to stand alone or to be 


interpreted in isolation without reference to the rest of the report. The section headings contained in this report 


are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in reference to the detailed statements of opinions in 


their respective sections.  


Soapbox Research makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 


any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Soapbox Research does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this 


report or any of the information contained herein.
