Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








Terms of Service: 


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service.  You agree that use of Muddy 
Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect 
trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.  You represent to Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment 
sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site.  You further agree that you will not communicate the 
contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  If you download or 
receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and 
bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to 
continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be 
long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from 
any person through this site or reports on this site.  Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of:  (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) 
high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through our due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion.  All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the 
information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the 
downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any manner other than by download from 
that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute 
arising from your use of this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the 
personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction 
or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right 
or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is 
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the 
parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in 
particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or 
cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or 
cause of action arose or be forever barred. 
  


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 7
Muddy Waters, LLC 
NQ: You Can’t Fool All of the People All of the Time 
April 13, 2014 
 
 
PwC’s Additional Scrutiny Ensured NQ Reported a 
Q4 Loss and Negative Operating Cash Flow 
 
Based on NQ’s disappointing Q4 results, including its 
surprising GAAP loss and negative operating cash flow, 
we strongly believe that NQ’s auditor, 
PriceWaterhouseCoopers Zhongtian (“PwC Zhongtian”),  
bolstered its level of due diligence during its 2013 audit 
of the company.  Our view is supported by the fact that 
NQ took an extra month to release its Q4 earnings 
compared to last year.   
 
NQ surprised investors by reporting a reduction in gross margin and negative operating cash 
flow in its Q4 results.  This indicates to us that PwC was doing its job in a more robust manner 
than in prior years, although we expect NQ to receive an unqualified audit opinion before the end 
of the month.  As long as NQ has excuses for cash not flowing into its accounts (i.e., its negative 
operating cash flow), it can essentially report whatever revenue amount it wants. We saw these 
same shenanigans in our investigation of Sino-Forest, which was subsequently confirmed during 
the company’s bankruptcy proceedings. Sino-Forest’s bankruptcy monitor reported that over 
95% of its reported gross profit never actually showed up in its bank accounts. Sino-Forest’s 
auditor was aware of this, but, like NQ, Sino-Forest was able to tell its auditor that it used the 
cash in its operations.  Without needing to show cash in its bank accounts, there was nothing to 
stop Sino-Forest from overstating revenue and assets by billions of dollars.   
 
In its Q4 results, NQ’s uses a massive increase in prepayments to vendors and a big pay down in 
accounts payable as an excuse for not showing an increase in cash.  As always, NQ’s accounts 
receivable Days Sales Outstanding remained implausibly high.  Had we released our initial 
report during NQ’s audit (i.e., after December 31st), we believe that NQ would not have had time 
to adequately prepare its defenses and excuses against a more robust audit.   
 
To understand why NQ’s results were much worse than expected, investors need to realize that 
prior audits of the company were likely not as rigorous, and the extra scrutiny made it harder to 
fake profits and cash flow in Q4.   
 
As we have said multiple times before, audits of public companies are not designed to detect 
fraud.  Auditing standards presume that company documents are genuine and management does 
not make misrepresentations about their numbers.  Audits are generally performed from pre-
constructed checklists that are used in thousands of public company audits throughout the world.  


Page 2 of 7
These checklists incorporate the standard presumption of honesty.  As a result, auditors are not 
visiting a company’s customers to make sure revenue is accurate nor are they visiting suppliers 
to confirm whether the company’s volumes match up with the financials they are reporting. 
Auditors also do not review government files to confirm that a company’s filings with the 
government are the same as what they report on their financial statements.    
 
Auditors don’t view themselves as fraud detectors, which is why an audit has been one of the 
least likely ways to uncover wrongdoing.  
 
Instead, auditors follow their checklists. These can be made somewhat more robust when there 
are potential fraud concerns; but even so, the only anti-fraud measure in an auditor’s checklist is 
the cash confirmation procedure.  Unfortunately, investors are never told whether an auditor 
confirmed cash merely by looking at the static balance as of December 31st, or whether it 
checked the balance on other dates and reviewed inflow and outflow transactions.   
 
NQ Continued its Pattern of Overpaying for Acquisitions in Order to Roundtrip Revenue 
 
NQ announced that it yet again spent a lot of money on what is likely a little company called 
Tianjin HuaYong Wireless Technology Ltd. (vLife).  (vLife had only raised a total of $500,000 
since inception in 2006, and appears to have previously operated a dating website.)  NQ 
announced that it bought 58% of this company for approximately $80 million.  Most of the 
acquisition consideration was in shares and U.S. dollars.  NQ’s acquisition pattern is atypical for 
U.S.-listed Chinese companies (and frauds) in that it pays for much of its acquisitions in shares.  
This is especially strange considering that NQ has said it is preserving cash raised through its 
IPO and other share offerings.  We believe the real reason NQ relies so heavily on share 
issuances is that it reports a significant level of fraudulent revenue from outside of China.  (Note 
that it seems very little of NQ’s non-China revenue comes from the U.S. or other developed 
markets.)  Because of China’s capital controls, NQ needs to have offshore cash in order to fake 
its non-China revenue.  It is highly likely that much of the monetized stock issued for the 
acquisition will be recorded on the books as international “revenue” in the future.   
 
NQ’s Revenue Growth is a Desperate Attempt to Keep a Floor under the Stock Price 
 
NQ’s larger than expected revenue growth and increased guidance are the only tools it has as it 
attempts to keep its stock price up.  However, NQ had to do some back flips in order to report 
this inflated revenue, including reporting a mix of revenue that was not in accordance with its 
previous guidance.  In Q4 2013, advertising revenue was much larger than NQ had led investors 
to expect.   
 
Some types of revenue are easier to fake than others.  Our observation is that advertising 
revenue-based frauds in China are among the easiest to commit.  Legitimate operators in the 
advertising industry deal with numerous intermediaries, and pricing structures are among the 
most opaque of any industry.  For a fraudster, it’s easy pickings.  In NQ’s case, its advertising 


Page 3 of 7
revenue comes from almost impossible to verify channels such as “third party application 
referrals through our mobile security products, mobile game and our advertising network 
platform”.1 
 
If just one year ago, an investor predicted that NQ would generate any advertising revenue in 
2013 – let alone $16.7 million in Q4 – they would have been easily dismissed.  NQ founder and 
chairman Yu Lin even made this statement in January 2013: 
 


“Why don’t we take ads? I think the format of ads on mobile phones is not mature yet.  
Furthermore, there is a fundamental conflict between our safety service, by its very  
nature, and the advertising model. If you want to target ads accurately, there will be  
privacy issues.”2 


 
Co-CEO Omar Khan indicated that Q1 2014 results will also be heavily reliant on advertising 
revenue.  If NQ reports strong Q1 2014 advertising revenue, as Mr. Khan indicates, it would be 
absurd given the contradiction in Mr. Khan’s own comment: “Q1 is typically seasonally lower in 
enterprise and advertising. Yet we are seeing continued strength in these businesses, 
sequentially.”3  Because NQ’s numbers are not real, NQ exhibits strange changes in revenue 
contributions that would never occur with a real business. 


  
Investors Should Not be Surprised by the Q4 Loss 
 
Investors might feel caught off-guard by NQ’s disappointing Q4, given that some long-holders 
claimed to have conducted due diligence following our initial report.  Frankly, we are puzzled 
that any investor would put so much faith in due diligence meetings that were held after our 
report came out. Like a child outside of the principal’s, NQ, its suppliers and customers have had 
the time to get their stories straight to avoid detention – or in this case to continue defrauding 
investors out of hundreds of millions of dollars. 
 
Making that belief even more misplaced is that these meetings are occurring in China – not 
Kansas City.  Seasoned China businesspeople can frequently recount staged meetings that have 
taken place at state-owned banks, other state-owned enterprises, and government ministries.  To 
have a staged meeting at a private company is a slam dunk – it’s not uncommon to be able to 
borrow another company’s factory, changing the sign and the workers’ uniforms just for the day 
in order to fool investors. We’ve seen this a number of times in our investigations and in China 
there are even companies that arrange for frauds to rent employees, inventory, computers and 
other equipment for the day to enable the companies to get through investor due diligence visits. 
.       
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 K.B. Teo, Q4 2013 conference call. 
2 http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/nq-mobiles-henry-lin-we-have-been-a-global-company-from-day-one/  
3 Omar Sharif Khan, Q4 2013 conference call. 


Page 4 of 7
Investors should remember that in NQ’s stock fraud, there are hundreds of millions of dollars in 
illicit profits at stake, and roughly zero chance that anybody on the China side who colludes with 
management will ever be punished.  Making such due diligence even more pointless is the PRC 
government’s open antipathy toward short-sellers, particularly Muddy Waters.  (As has been 
reported, we have been hunted by China’s internal espionage agency, the Ministry of State 
Security.4) 
 
But didn’t investors confirm NQ’s cash balances? 
 
In our initial report, we failed to mention that NQ’s purported cash balance was exactly the same 
as the amount of money it has raised since inception. In other words, its cash balance shows 
nothing about the veracity of its reported revenues.  Even so, NQ’s cash balance cannot be 
legitimate because the money it claims to have in the PRC could not have made it into the 
country in the way NQ claims, given China’s capital controls.   
 
Did NQ really post $103 million in cash in its Beijing Standard Chartered account in November 
2013?  We cannot say for sure because NQ has refused to allow us to verify the balance in that 
account, but it wouldn’t surprise us if it actually did post the cash.  China has a massive gray 
market for lending money - the so-called “shadow banking system” - that has grown to over $2 
trillion in annual lending.5  Many of these loans are made to highly risky mining and real estate 
borrowers, but a two-month loan to a company like NQ, which only uses it to show that it has 
cash in its bank account is a pretty attractive bet – especially when secured by a pledge of shares.  
We weren’t that surprised when NQ approved an amendment to the articles of association on 
Dec. 23, 2013 that made it easier for Chairman Lin to pledge his shares.6   
 
NQ Management Sent a Clear Signal that it Lacks Confidence in NQ’s Future 
 
In Q4, NQ insiders made clear they lack of confidence in the future of the company.  In response 
to our initial report, NQ announced that senior management would demonstrate its “strong 
confidence in the company” by buying (a token amount of) shares in the open market.  Buried in 
the middle of NQ’s verbose Q4 press release, we learned that NQ’s management failed to 
purchase even a single share of stock with their personal funds despite the supposedly low prices 
at which the stock was trading and its promise to do so. 
 
On November 12, 2013, NQ issued a press release titled “NQ Mobile Announces Senior 
Manager Share Purchase Plan,” which told investors that senior management was willing to 
commit an aggregate of $3 million to buy shares.  The following excerpt from the press release 
explains the logic: 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
4 http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/carson-block-goes-short-unafraid-as-gangsters-in-china-chase-
him.html 
5 http://www.forbes.com/sites/afontevecchia/2013/06/17/china-massive-credit-bubbled-fueled-by-shadow-banking-
and-securitization-could-collapse-banks/ 
6 http://www.valuewalk.com/2013/12/nq-mobile-now-pledge-shares-for-loans/ 


Page 5 of 7
"We consider the recent drop in NQ Mobile's share price to be artificially created by false 
allegations and we believe our stock to be currently undervalued," commented Dr. Henry 
Lin, Chairman and Co-CEO of NQ Mobile. "The plan to purchase NQ Mobile shares by the 
NQ Mobile senior management team demonstrates our strong confidence in the company and 
reflects our commitment to executing our business plan and delivering shareholder value." 


 
To call a spade a spade, $3 million is a token amount.  But even we are surprised that 
management did not spend a single dollar buying shares in Q4 – particularly considering that 
during much of December, the stock was trading in the $11 range.  NQ’s “excuse” can be found 
in deep in the Q4 press release: 
 


“To comply with on the applicable laws and the Company's securities trading policies, 
the Senior Management team was unable to purchase shares on the open market during 
Q4 2013.” 


 
When a company craps out new shares the way NQ does, it’s hard to believe there is a draconian 
– let alone merely responsible – share trading policy in place.  So, if formulating a plan to 
purchase up to $3 million of shares “demonstrates [their] strong confidence in the company”, 
then what does the failure to spend one dollar demonstrate? 


 
What Role Would Omar Khan Have at a Real Company? 
 
It is not lost on us that if NQ were a real company, Omar Khan would have been fired long ago.  
Mr. Khan’s stock compensation package has been worth approximately $100 million.  Yet, he 
has delivered little more than press releases.  It is clear that almost all of NQ’s reported revenue 
comes from the book that Henry Lin manages.  Mr. Lin is apparently a wizard at generating 
millions of dollars in annual revenue from countries where NQ lacks even a basic website.  (We 
discuss the phenomenon of NQ’s investment-less emerging markets revenue in detail in our 
letter to PwC available at: https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/1008238-mw-letter.html.)  
Taken at face value, Chairman Lin is one of the most successful salesman in modern history.  In 
contrast, all NQ manages to do in the U.S. is pump out press releases with names of “partners”, 
but produce no meaningful revenue – despite having a prodigious “energy, excitement level and 
vision” in the U.S. operation.7  (We challenge NQ to release its 2012 and 2013 U.S. revenue if it 
takes issue with us on this point.)   
 
Any real company would never keep such a highly paid and poorly performing Co-CEO as Omar 
Khan – particularly when the other Co-CEO is diluting his holdings to keep Mr. Khan around. 
 
In reality, Mr. Khan is merely a $100 million sock puppet.  His true value to Chairman Lin, 
beyond his ability to speak a dialect of English known as Consultant Speak, is to spew 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
7 Omar Sharif Khan, Q4 2013 conference call. 


Page 6 of 7
meaningless drivel such as: “We have more tools at our disposal that make us more relevant to a 
broader set of constituents than the days when I was at Samsung or Motorola.”8  (Samsung’s 
2013 revenue was $220 billion.)  
 
Second Straight Filibustered Conference Call 
 
NQ has stressed in response to our reports that it is “transparent”.  However, its two filibustered 
earnings calls since our report belie that claim.  For the recent call, it was Mr. Khan’s turn to run 
out the clock (Chairman Lin did an excellent job of that last time).  The result was that NQ only 
had to take questions from the four sell-side analysts covering the stock, all of whom presently 
rate it a Buy.  We have noted that China frauds generally try to avoid calling on buy-side 
questioners because their views are not as easy for management to gauge ahead of time.  The 
strange thing about the dynamic during this particular Q&A is that each of the sell-side analysts 
asked numerous questions without shame, eschewing the usual courtesy shown to other 
questioners of asking only one to two questions.  Did NQ arrange for these analysts to provide an 
assist in running out the clock? We don’t know, but NQ certainly seems to have a different 
definition of transparency.    
 
Be Cautious of Independent Committee Investigations 
 
As we wrote in an op-ed in the Financial Times that ran one week after NQ’s “flash crash”, 
internal investigations conducted by supposedly independent directors are fraught with conflicts 
of interest and are frequently worthless endeavors that lead to more pain for investors.9  For these 
reasons, it is unfortunate that NQ denied investors the transparency that would have been 
provided by accepting our offer to have Plante & Moran PLLC review the committee’s findings.   
 
Regardless, if NQ’s independent committee reports that there is no evidence of significant 
wrongdoing, this will be an attempt at a whitewash.   


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
8 Omar Sharif Khan, Q4 2013 conference call. 
9 http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/813828da-9fe1-11e3-9c65-00144feab7de.html?siteedition=uk#axzz2ynM05x9t  


Page 7 of 7
