Muddy Waters, LLC 


(d/b/a Muddy Waters Research) 
info@muddywatersresearch.com 


Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 
 
 


These Terms of Use govern current reports published by Muddy Waters Research and supersede any prior Terms of Use for older reports of Muddy Waters 
Research, which you may download from the Muddy Waters Research’s website. 


The reports on this website have been prepared by Muddy Waters, LLC (“Muddy Waters Research”) and are for informational purposes only.  Under no circumstances 
should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other 
financial instruments.  


Muddy Waters Research is an online research publication that produces due diligence-based reports on publicly traded securities.  The reports contained herein are 
published by and the property of Muddy Waters Research, and this website is owned by Muddy Waters Research.  The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are 
solely attributable to Muddy Waters Research and are not attributable to any Muddy Waters Related Person (defined below) (other than Muddy Waters Research). 


By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Use.  You agree that use of the research on this website is at your own risk.  
You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold harmless Muddy Waters Research, and its affiliates and related parties, including, but not limited to any 
principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Muddy Waters Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect 
losses (including trading losses) attributable to any information on this website or in a research report.  You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before 
making any investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments that reference the 
Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer.  You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis 
and opinion on this website.  You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person 
has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use.  If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website on your own behalf, 
you agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use.  If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website as an agent 
for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Use. 
 
You should assume that, as of the publication date of Muddy Waters Research’s reports and research, Muddy Waters Related Persons  (possibly along with or through its 
members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants), Muddy Waters Related Persons’s clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors have a position 
(long or short) in one or more of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to one or more of these securities), and therefore 
stand to realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of a Covered Issuer decline or appreciate.  Muddy Waters Research and/or the 
Muddy Waters Related Persons intend to continue transacting in the securities of Covered Issuers for an indefinite period after an initial report on a Covered Person, and 
such person may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position and views as stated in the research report published by Muddy Waters 
Research.  Muddy Waters Research will not update any report or information on its website to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Muddy Waters Related 
Person. 
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security.  Neither Muddy Waters Research nor any Muddy Waters Related Person are offering, selling or 
buying any security to or from any person through this website or reports on this website.  Muddy Waters Research is affiliated with Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“MWC”).  
MWC [is a registered investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and] is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction.  MWC 
does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing.  You understand and agree that 
MWC does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you.  Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial 
situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and MWC has no such knowledge about you. 
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Muddy Waters Research’s research and reports express its opinions, which Muddy Waters Research has based upon generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through Muddy Waters Research’s due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of its ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that Muddy Waters Research believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected 
persons of the Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly).  However, 
such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied.  Muddy Waters Research makes no representation, express or implied, as to 
the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  Further, any report on this site contains a very 
large measure of analysis and opinion.  All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters Research does not undertake to update or 
supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
In no event shall Muddy Waters Research or any Muddy Waters Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any information on this website.  This limitation of liability 
applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Muddy Waters Research or any Muddy Waters Related Persons.  You accept all risks in relying on the 
information on this website.  
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / 
reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/.  If you have obtained 
Muddy Waters Research’s research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the 
Terms of Use. You further agree that any dispute between you and Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters 
Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions.  You knowingly 
and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California and waive your right to any 
other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters Research is based in San Francisco, California. The failure of Muddy Waters Research to exercise or enforce 
any right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision.  You agree that each Muddy Waters Related Person is a third party 
beneficiary to these Terms of Use.  If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the 
court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and 
effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising 
out of or related to this website or the material on this website must be filed within one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause 
of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred. 


Page 1 of 19
OSIS: Rotten to the Core 
 
	
Report	Date:	December	6,	2017	
	
Company:		
OSI	Systems,	Inc.		
	
Ticker:		
OSIS	
(NASDAQ:	OSIS)	
	
Industry:	Electronic	Equipment	and	
Instruments,	Security	
	


	
Stock	Price:	$84.07	
	
Market	Cap:	$1.6	billion		
	
Float:	95%	
	
Average	Daily	Volume	(90-day):	$13.5	million		
	
	


 
We are short OSI Systems, Inc. (OSIS.US) because we think it is rotten to the core.  We believe 
it obtained a major turnkey contract in Albania through corruption.  It is likely that OSIS’s 
accounts are misstated as a result.  We believe the pricing of its Mexico turnkey contract does 
not stand up to scrutiny.  We estimate that the contract is so rich, it accounted for more than 50% 
of OSIS’s FY2017 EBITDA, despite being only 15% of revenue.  Put another way, we estimate 
the Mexico contract’s EBITDA margin is approximately 55%, which would mean the rest of 
OSIS has an EBITDA margin of a paltry 7.5%.  This contract is up for renewal in 2018, and non-
renewal would seemingly have an enormous impact on OSIS’s profits.  It also implies that there 
is significant room for price adjustment downward, which could have a material impact on 
profits.  Former employees’ statements support our view that OSIS is rotting from the inside.  
 
Corruption in the 2013 award of OSIS’s Albania concession is more obvious than a three-liter 
bottle of shampoo in your carryon luggage.  The concession has an estimated top line lifetime 
value of $150 million to $250 million.1  However, OSIS either appears to value the total 
concession at $9.00 (yes, nine dollars), or they likely bribed somebody by giving half of it away 
for $4.50.  There was an unannounced transfer of 49% of OSIS’s project company, S2 Albania 
SHPK, to a holding company owned by an Albanian doctor, for consideration of less than $5.00.  
To be clear, this company (S2 Albania SHPK) is the company to which all rights and obligations 
under the turnkey contract award belong, so 49% of the company is presumably worth many 
millions of dollars.  It appears to us that OSIS’s accounts do not reflect the transfer – there are no 
deductions for non-controlling interests in the income statement, and February 2017 bond 
offering documents appear to show the subsidiary as 100% owned by OSIS. 
 
There have been numerous news reports in Albania accusing OSIS of corruptly obtaining the 
concession, and a senior member of parliament has called the award corrupt on the record.  
Amazingly, U.S. investors appear to have no inkling of these allegations. 
 


																																																								
1 http://investors.osi-systems.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=786552 


Page 2 of 19
Turnkey contracts seem particularly well-suited to corruption.  If a government is only 
purchasing scanning equipment, it is relatively easy for an internal auditor to spot an 
overpayment because the equipment is somewhat commoditized.  However, when bundling in 
various bespoke services, the pricing suddenly becomes much more opaque.  Given this reality, 
it is perhaps not surprising that the turnkey contracts to date are in jurisdictions not known for 
their strong governance.  
 
Beyond the turnkey contracts, investigators’ interviews with former employees yielded 
numerous anecdotes indicating OSIS is rotten to the core.  Former employees alleged a list of rot 
they experienced at Rapiscan, including their concern about possibly going to prison, knowledge 
of improper sales, cash payments to government officials, fraud in a significant contract, and that 
OSIS had narrowly avoided being debarred from doing business with the U.S. government.   
 
This corrupt behavior puts at significant risk OSIS’s Security Division contracts with U.S. and 
European government agencies.  The only former employee who, in our view, made 
unreservedly positive comments about OSIS’s compliance admitted that OSIS could lose 
significant government business if it engaged in corruption.  Although this senior executive was 
at OSIS when the transfer of 49% of S2 Albania occurred, he professed no knowledge of the 
transaction.  Either way, his professed lack of knowledge is telling – he was kept out of the loop, 
which we would not have expected given his role; or, he was not responding truthfully to the 
question.   
 
In addition, OSIS could face liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which 
could be in the many hundreds of millions of dollars.  The U.S. Department of Justice has been 
aggressive in prosecuting FCPA violations in both Republican and Democratic administrations.  
(FCPA settlements generate meaningful revenue generators for the federal government.)  In 
October 2015, we announced we were short Telia Company (TELIA SS) because we believed 
the corruption issues in its business were significantly larger than had been disclosed, and that it 
would likely settle at $1 billion or more.  Just three months ago (September 2017), Telia agreed 
to settle with the DOJ and assisting regulators for $966 million.  At these levels, there is room for 
a FCPA settlement that would equal a significant chunk of OSIS’s market cap. 
 
We have published a website at www.RapiscanRevealed.com (with a Spanish site at 
www.InvestigacionRapiscan.com) to connect with whistleblowers, and publish additional 
information about OSIS.  In addition, we have published a video report available on those sites. 
 


Albania – “Theft of the Century” & Transfer of Almost Half of the Concession for $4.50! 
 
Corruption in the award of OSIS’s Albania concession is an open secret.  The documents 
evidencing a giveaway of many millions of dollars to a highly suspicious counterparty are 
available online – and free of charge.  Media and at least one high profile Albanian politician 
have openly accused the former government and OSIS of engaging in corruption.  It appears 
OSIS’s accounts are misstated because they likely do not reflect the transfer of almost half of its 
Albanian subsidiary, S2 Albania SHPK.   
 


Page 3 of 19
Substantially all of the documents evidencing these acts is available at the Albanian government 
portal: http://www.qkr.gov.al/home/  
 
 





Heche: Why Albania? 
De Niro: Why not? 
Heche: What have they done to us? 
De Niro: What have they done FOR us? What do you know about them? 
Heche: Nothing. 
De Niro: See? They keep to themselves. Shifty. Untrustable. 
 


 
Albania awarded OSIS the concession for cargo scanning under a turnkey contract in August 
2013.2  The Albanian government required OSIS to form an Albanian subsidiary to own all 
rights and obligations of the concession.  OSIS formed S2 Albania SHPK on March 19, 2013.3  
OSIS used its wholly-owned subsidiary Rapiscan Systems, Inc. to hold its shares in S2 Albania 
SHPK.4,5,6   
 
  


																																																								
2 http://investors.osi-systems.com/releasedetail.cfm?releaseid=786552  
3 S2 Albania SHPK Historical Register 
4 100% ownership source: S&P CapitalIQ 
5 S2 Albania SHPK Historical Register 
6 Per the Historical Register, Rapiscan Systems, Inc. remains the shareholder for OSIS’s 51% entity in S2 Albania 
SHPK. 


Page 4 of 19
On September 19, 2013, OSIS completed the transfer of 49% of its ownership in S2 Albania:7 
 


 
 
The purchase price for the 49% stake was at the par value of the shares, ALL 490 – or only 
approximately US$4.50 (four dollars and fifty cents).  Below is the first page of the Purchase and 
Sale Agreement filed with the Commercial Registry: 
 


																																																								
7 The share capital of S2 Albania SHPK is ALL 1,000, of which OSIS transferred ALL 490. 


Page 5 of 19
Page 6 of 19
The Agreement was signed on behalf of OSIS / Rapiscan Systems, Inc. by an Albanian attorney 
named Endrit Shijaku under a power of attorney.  The POA was executed in Los Angeles on 
September 10, 2013, and was signed by OSIS director and then-president of Rapiscan Systems, 
Ajay Mehra.8  (We understand that Mr. Mehra is a family member of OSIS chairman and CEO 
Deepak Chopra.)  The POA expressly states that the sale price is ALL 490 (approximately 
US$4.50):9 
 


 
 
Below is Mr. Mehra’s signature on the POA: 
 


 
 
The recipient of the 49% of S2 Albania SHPK was a company owned by a doctor named Olti 
Peçini.  As shown in the Commercial Register, Mr. Peçini is the Administrator and owns 100% 
of the company with registration number K81902014E – which is the same registration number 
referenced on the first page of the Purchase and Sale Agreement shown above.   
 


 
																																																								
8 Sources: FY2013 and FY2014 10-K 
9 The POA was obtained through an in-person visit to the Commercial Registry. 


Page 7 of 19
Albanian media reports that Mr. Peçini is a doctor (the below is a Google translation of just one 
of the headlines):10 
 





																																																								
10 http://www.pamfleti.com/mafia-e-koncensionit-te-skanimit-si-bleu-mjeku-olti-pecini-49-te-aksioneve-te-nje-
koncesioni-me-vlere-316-milion-usd-per-490-leke-kush-fshihet-pas-icms-dhe-spitalit-salus  


Page 8 of 19
We could find little about Dr. Peçini other than he founded a hospital in Tirana: 
 


 
 
Troubled History of the Concession Award 
 
Early in OSIS’s bid for the concession (late 2011), former Prime Minister Berisha added a bonus 
of eight percentage points to OSIS’s bid, which obviously advantaged OSIS vis-à-vis 
competitors (translation by Google):11   
 


 
 
OSIS was awarded the concession in August 2013.  At the time Berisha was still prime minister, 
and his party (the Democratic Party), controlled government although his term was about to end.  
In June of that year, the opposition party (the Socialists) had won the largest share of seats in 
parliament.  The Socialists and their partners selected a new prime minister, and the old 
government left office in September 2013.  The approval of the transfer of 49% of S2 Albania’s 


																																																								
11 Official Notebook of the Republic of Albania, December 1, 2011. 


Page 9 of 19
shares occurred on the day Berisha’s finance minister left office (and the new one took office), 
September 13, 2013.12 
 
The concession appears to have been more lucrative than OSIS had originally proposed to make 
it.  OSIS reportedly initially proposed a scanning fee of US$32; however, when the concession 
was approved, the fee to be charged was €39 (or approximately US$50).13,14  There was 
significant backlash in the Albanian business community to the fees and the breadth of their 
imposition – the €39 was to be levied on all customs declarations – including on electricity, and 
goods transiting Albania.15  (In other words, the fee was levied regardless of whether the goods 
actually underwent scanning.)  Some referred to this as a “Super Tax”.16   
 
Upon taking power, the Socialists refused to implement the concession agreement, and urged 
OSIS to renegotiate it.  In 2014, OSIS filed for arbitration, calling for US$359 million in 
compensation. 
 
In Albania, there was ultimately a media firestorm over the controversial concession, with 
various media referring to the concession as a “theft”, the collusion behind the concession award 
a “mafia”, and repeatedly calling the award “corrupt”.  
 








																																																								
12 The new finance minister’s appointment became official upon publication of his appointment in the official 
gazette, which occurred on September 13, 2013.  
13 See p. 50 of https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:VfbFWG-
ot4sJ:https://www.parlament.al/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/proc_29_10_2015_  
14 Assuming EUR/USD 1.32. 
15 See p. 49 of https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:VfbFWG-
ot4sJ:https://www.parlament.al/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/proc_29_10_2015_  
16 See p. 49 of https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:VfbFWG-
ot4sJ:https://www.parlament.al/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/proc_29_10_2015_  


Page 10 of 19
The below TV news program calls the S2 Albania concession the “Theft of the Century”: 
 








Page 11 of 19
Yet, when asked about the delay in implementing the contract in Albania, management never 
spoke of the 49% share transfer for approximately $4.50; nor of the additional eight points 
former PM Berisha awarded; nor of the company’s physician joint venture partner; nor of the 
excessive scanning fees and the breadth of their imposition; and, they never attempted any 
explanation for what was fueling the new government’s challenge to the concession agreement.  
Instead, in the midst of all of this movement and chaos in Albania, management’s discussion of 
the problem evoked stillness:17 
 


“Last year, we announced a 15-year contract that we received from the government of 
Albania to provide turnkey cargo and vehicle screening services at various sites 
throughout the country of Albania. Unfortunately, we recently learned that the customer, 
the Albanian newly elected government, has halted further progress on the contract and 
put into doubt the continuation of the program. The program had been proceeding 
smoothly and ahead of schedule. We intend to strongly enforce our contractual rights and 
hope to reach an amicable outcome…You can understand that, under the circumstances, 
we cannot comment further at this time.”18 


 
OSIS obviously could have commented further, but simply chose not to because these 
transactions are, in our view, unjustifiable.  In 2015, the government and OSIS reached a 
settlement.  Interestingly, the Democrats (as an opposition party) voiced opposition to the 
settlement, which appears to be less lucrative for OSIS (and its joint venture partner).  Head of 
parliament’s economics commission Erion Brace gave a scathing critique of the award of the 
concession in parliament in 2015.19 
 
OSIS management still told the market nothing of the facts underlying this controversy – it was 
apparently back to business.  In recent conversations between an investor and OSIS, when asked, 
the company refused to provide details on any joint ventures it has in Albania.  OSIS’s failure at 
that time to disclose even the scantest fact that’s freely available on the Albanian corporate 
registry bolsters our opinion that these facts evidence corruption. 
 
S2 Albania Transfer Off the Books? 
 
OSIS’s accounts are likely misstated because they appear not to reflect the transfer of the stake in 
S2 Albania.  S2 Albania has not filed its required CY 2016 financial statements, so we are unsure 
of its profit; however, we assume that it is large enough that the portion of profits belonging to 
ICMS / Dr. Peçini (or their backers) should be deducted on the income statement in a line item 
called “Noncontrolling Interests” (or “Minority Interests”), which would be in between Net 
Income and Net Income to Common Shareholders.  Yet, there is no such line. 
 
Offering documents for OSIS’s 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2022 support our suspicion 
that the transfer has been kept off OSIS’s books.  In the Purchase Agreement with the 


																																																								
17 “In the midst of movement and chaos, keep stillness inside of you” – the other Deepak Chopra 
18 Deepak Chopra, Aug. 25, 2014 conference call. 
19 https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:VfbFWG-ot4sJ:https://www.parlament.al/wp-
content/uploads/2015/11/proc_29_10_2015_ 


Page 12 of 19
underwriters, OSIS warrants that except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and the 
Final Offering Memorandum, it owns all of the shares of each Subsidiary:20 
 


 
 
OSIS then includes S2 Albania SHPK in its list of Subsidiaries in Schedule D of the Agreement 
(see below).21  We have found no documents other than on the Albanian corporate registry that 
disclose the minority interest.   
 


 
 
The Albanians are Getting Paid Though 
 
While it could be unclear to an OSIS shareholder whether you own all, or part, of S2 Albania, it 
seems pretty clear in Albania that someone else owns 49%.  On December 7, 2013 – prior to 
ICMS even formally receiving its interest in S2 Albania – ICMS entered into a pledge agreement 
with National Commercial Bank for a €1.9 million loan.  Under the agreement, Dr. Peçini 
pledged his shares of ICMS as collateral for the loan.  However, we believe that ICMS’s only 
material asset is its ownership in S2 Albania.  In ICMS’s corporate registry file reads that “ICMS 
approves the obligation imposed by the Bank for the obtainment of the prior approval of the 
Bank in case ICMS decided to transfer its shares in S2 Albania.”  Rather than pledging the S2 
Albania shares, which it did not yet formally own and which would need Ministry of Finance 
approval to pledge, ICMS agreed to encumber any transfer in exchange for the loan.  It appears 
from ICMS’s financials that it has not received any dividends from S2 Albania through 
December 31, 2016; however, it was able to extract some initial value. 
 
																																																								
20 OSIS February 15, 2017 8-K, Exhibit 1.1, p. 5. 
21 OSIS February 15, 2017 8-K, Exhibit 1.1, Sch E-1. 


Page 13 of 19
Mexico – Inflated Pricing, Potentially at Risk Contract 
 
The original contract in Mexico appears to have been substantially overpriced and oversold in 
terms of capabilities.  We base these conclusions on i) an analysis showing the seemingly 
outsized profitability of the contract, and ii) conversations our investigators spoke with a former 
senior SAT official who had extensive knowledge of the contract, the machines, and their 
capabilities.  In the former official’s view, the contract price is greatly inflated, and was based on 
a false promise about the machines’ capabilities that he calls “a lie”.   
 
If our understanding of the overpricing is correct, it could have profound implications for OSIS’s 
attempt to renew the contract – possibly leading to less favorable terms or non-renewal.  Based 
on the assumptions and analysis that follows, we estimate that OSIS’s turnkey contract in 
Mexico generated approximately $65 million to $70 million of EBITDA in FY2017, which 
would have been more than 50% of total company EBITDA.  Given our estimate of the 
materiality of this contract, a non-renewal or a sizable downward adjustment in pricing would 
seemingly have a significant impact on OSIS’s financials. 
 
Mexico Turnkey EBITDA Estimate 
 
We estimate that the Mexico S2 turnkey contract generates about $65 million to $70 million of 
EBITDA annually, which is an EBITDA margin of approximately 55% to 59% (compared to 
that of the rest of the business, which would seem to generate an EBITDA margin of only about 
7.5%).  The Mexico turnkey contract therefore likely generates over half of OSIS’s total 
company EBITDA.  When an investor recently asked OSIS investor relations to comment on 
whether the estimate of EBITDA composition is reasonably accurate, the company refused to 
comment.   
 
Below is the Mexico segment by year from FY2012-FY2017.22  We assume substantially all 
Mexico revenue is from the turnkey contract.   
 





																																																								
22 FY2012-2014: FY2014 10-K, pp. F-34-F35; FY2015-2017: FY2017 10-K, pp. F43-F44. 


Page 14 of 19
The key to our estimate methodology is looking at changes between FY2012 (when the Mexico 
contract was negligible) to FY2014 (when the contract appears to have fully ramped).  As shown 
above, the company disclosed the Mexico segment revenue; but, we need to estimate its 
corresponding operating profit.  As shown below, we see that the security division operating 
profit margin was approximately 8%, which is roughly consistent with what it had been in 
FY2010 and 2011.  However, in FY2014, we see a jump in segment operating profit margin to 
13.5%, which we assume is due to the Mexico turnkey contract. 
 





The final task is to solve for the margin associated with the incremental revenue from Mexico.  
First, we note that outside of the Mexico turnkey contract, Security Division revenue declined 
between FY2012 and FY2013.  We use the decrease in comp revenue to estimate the incremental 
operating profit from Mexico in 2013. 
 


 
 
We assume that the lost $81.5 million of comp revenue in FY2013 had an operating profit 
margin of 8.0%.  Taking that, we estimate how much operating profit the Security Division lost 
with the decrease of comp revenue ($6.5 million).  The increase in FY2013 Security Division 
operating profit should therefore be due to the incremental revenue under the Mexico turnkey 
contract.  Once we calculate the incremental operating profit from the Mexico turnkey contract, 
we divide it by the incremental revenue from the contract.  The result is an operating profit 
margin of 31.9%: 
 





Page 15 of 19
The same methodology in FY2014 produces an operating profit margin of 27.9%: 
 





Comparing the change between FY2012 and FY2014, we estimate a Mexico operating profit 
margin of 30.1%: 
 


 
 
Applying a 30.0% operating profit margin to FY2017 Mexico revenue of $119.9 million yields 
an estimated operating profit of $36.0 million (excluding the impairment, which has no impact 
on the EBITDA calculation).  We believe a depreciation and amortization estimate of $30.0 
million to $35.0 million per year is reasonable for Mexico, which is based on: 
 


• Security Division D&A increased by $32.8 million between FY2012 and FY2014, which 
is the year after Mexico fixed assets should reached their peak values.  


• If we assume that YoY changes in Mexico long lived assets beginning in FY2015 are due 
to depreciation, we get respective annual depreciation expense in FY2015-FY2016 of 
$36.6 million and $38.9 million (including impairments). 


• Mexico turnkey capex appears to total approximately $225 million.  If we assume a 10% 
residual value and a six-year depreciation schedule (to match the contract life), annual 
depreciation would have averaged $33.8 million. 


 
In this way, we estimate that FY2017 EBITDA from Mexico was approximately $66 million to 
$71 million.  We use an EBITDA denominator of $128.4 million, as we do not add back 
restructuring and M&A charges (which seem to be a recurring expense for OSIS).  Using these 
estimates and assumptions produces a range of contribution to FY2017 overall company 
EBITDA of 51.4% to 55.3%.   
 
The outsize profitability of the Mexico turnkey contract supports our assessment that contract 
pricing is greatly inflated.  It seems SAT could have saved a great deal of money by purchasing 
only the machines.  While OSIS might trumpet the value of the “services” that come with the 
contract, there is good reason to doubt there is much value in those. 
 
  


Page 16 of 19
Former SAT Official Calls Services “a Lie” 
 
Our investigators spoke with a former senior SAT official who had in-depth knowledge of 
OSIS’s contract with SAT and the machines’ capabilities.  Below are some of his relevant 
quotes: 
 


“This last contract with Rapiscan was a big kind of fallacy…They were selling something 
that this equipment can’t do. They were supposed to substitute what a man should do on 
the field. That is identifying quantities, country of origin and many other things that these 
machines can’t do. That’s why they set a pretty high-priced service, which is unreal. This 
is one of the main reasons that I’m pretty sure this Rapiscan contract with the Mexican 
government will not be renewed in any way.” 
“They are selling that they will tell the government if the goods that are passing through 
customs are legal or not, if they paid the correct duties or not, a lot of things that these 
machines can’t do.” 
 
“[The Rapiscan scanners] are just an average machine like any other on the market. The 
only thing that they are selling is this big, fat contract and that they’re supposed to give a 
service that has nothing to do with these x-ray machines and they are actually not giving. 
This has nothing to do with the machine’s capabilities. These machines can do one thing: 
scan goods or scan vehicles. That’s all that they do and there are so many other brands on 
the market that do exactly the same. What they are selling is like a complete service with 
infrastructure that connects these machines to the systems of the Mexican government 
and gives you, in an automated way, the image and they have a previous filter that tells 
you if that scan complies with all of the legislation and all of the foreign trade rules that 
Mexico has. This supposed added value that they are selling is something that no one can 
do. There is no way that you could know if those goods are paying the correct taxes, if 
they are of the country of origin that they are saying on papers, but there’s no way that 
this x-ray machine could complete the job of the humans that actually works on custom 
houses. And this is what they sell, not just the x-ray machine service. They sell the x-ray 
machine service with all the other components that the Mexican government needs to 
verify everything about goods on custom houses. They say ‘You don’t need humans 
anymore. With my machines, you will not have to have people there. I will give you the 
answers and I will give you if everything is correct or if there is something incorrect,’ and 
that’s a lie. This is the red point on this contract.”   
 
“They just scan. They give you an image, but you don’t know exactly the composition of 
the goods that are in there. You just can’t imagine if there is something that is out of the 
pattern and then physically, you need to open the container and look at what is there. 
Actually, it doesn’t even tell you if that thing that doesn’t match with the pattern of all the 
goods is an illegal good, if they are guns or if they are drugs. These machines don’t tell 
you that. They just give you an image, just like an x-ray shows you the bone but it 
doesn’t tell you anymore. You just see the image of the bone and you can see if there is a 
fracture or not. It doesn’t tell you more details. These guys are selling that. There is no 
technology in the world that could give you what they sell. This was the main reason for 
the cost increase because they are selling this unbelievable high. It’s a contract that 


Page 17 of 19
doesn’t have any reason for being that high.” 
 


Former Employees Paint a Picture of Thorough Internal Rot 
 
Our investigators spoke with former employees of the Rapiscan business.  Several of their 
comments are enlightening about the extent of rot at the company. 
 


• One former employee stated that s/he brought significant accounting problems in a 
contract in Iraq to the attention of senior management, but that his concerns were 
dismissed.  The source said s/he “found two things that could put me in prison if I had not 
done anything about it.”  The source also reported being told to withdraw cash from a 
company account to be put into brown envelopes for visiting foreign government officials 
to use as walking around money. 


• One former employee refused to speak with our investigators stating only “I would rather 
not discuss this business as I felt I had to resign to avoid future risks to my professional 
credibility and future as a company director.” 


• Another source described an important overseas Rapiscan distributor as “shady” and 
stated it was assumed within Rapiscan the distributor was tied to organized crime.  This 
source indicated s/he also had concerns at times while at Rapiscan about whether s/he 
was being forced to break the law. 


• One former employee stated that Rapiscan shipped machines out regardless of whether 
they were finished or not in order to meet monthly sales quotas.  The source refereed to 
these machines as “half-built”.  


• Two sources said Rapiscan had almost been debarred from doing business from the U.S. 
government.  One of those sources stated that had actually been the case twice. 


 
One former senior employee spoke in glowing terms about OSIS’s culture of compliance: 
 


“Let me put it this way. The entire time I was there, one of my roles at OSI was 
[redacted]. And OSI was doctrinaire, exceedingly exacting, for all of its subsidiaries 
including Rapiscan and S2 and everyone else about compliance with the anti-bribery act 
in the U.K., the EU bribery rules, and of course the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the 
United States being that it’s a U.S. corporation with subsidiaries around the world.  
It has never had any instance, question, violation – primarily because not only is it 
morally wrong, but from a corporate governance standpoint, any violation of those, even 
minimal violation of those acts are criminal for the executives, so executives can go to 
jail. But you also potentially ruin your U.S. government business and European 
government business, and a huge portion of the revenues of Rapiscan and OSI are with 
government business.” 
 


However, when he was asked to comment on the transfer of 49% of S2 Albania for $4, which 
occurred while he was there, he replied “I don’t know anything about that.”  Given his senior 
roles at OSIS, we are surprised that he does not know about the Albanian joint venture partner – 
either way, the transfer was kept tellingly close to the vest, or the source lied about his 
knowledge of the transfer. 
 


Page 18 of 19
Conclusion 
 
It is ironic that a company integral to enforcing the most ticky-tack of rules at security 
checkpoints seems to pay so little heed to the rules (ahem…laws) governing its conduct of 
business.  We believe the Albania contract resulted from a massive bribe of half the concession 
value.  We believe OSIS’s accounts are misstated as a result of this apparent bribe.  Mexico 
looks to be egregiously priced, which certainly raises questions.  Former employees painted a 
reasonably consistent picture of a company operating with disregard for the law.  We are 
therefore short because this way of doing business just doesn’t seem sustainable.   


Page 19 of 19
