Mitsubishi Tanabe is making a huge mistake:   
Why we believe that Neuroderm is a lemon 
 


We believe that Mitsubishi Tanabe and its board need to immediately put a hold on the Neuroderm 


acquisition.  We don’t know what representations have been made to Mitsubishi Tanabe by 


Neuroderm or others pushing this acquisition, but our research findings demonstrate the following: 


▪ Neuroderm has misrepresented the SIZE of the market, the RELEVANCE of their clinical study, 


and the EFFECTIVENESS of their ND0612 pump-delivered drug. 


▪ AbbVie’s Duopa/Duodopa pump is already ESTABLISHED in the market, has a SUBSTANTIALLY 


LOWER adverse effect rate, conducted its trials on an APPROPRIATE subject pool, and did not 


rely on SUPPLEMENTARY oral levodopa or entacapone, to boost its clinical trial results, unlike 


Neuroderm. 


▪ Neuroderm claims the size of ND0612’s target market across the USA and EU is ~350,000 


patients. AbbVie’s superior pump has targeted the SAME market, only capturing ~3,500 


patients. 


▪ The ND0612 drug is marketed towards ADVANCED stage Parkinson’s sufferers, however the 


efficacy study for the drug was conducted on EARLY stage Parkinson’s sufferers, which require 


substantially lower doses of the active drug component in order to be effective. We believe 


the FDA will closely review the stage 3 trials to ensure ND0612 is tested on an APPROPRIATE 


and RELEVANT subject pool. 


▪ Neuroderm’s ND0612 delivery pump is made up of GENERIC COMPONENTS and presents 


ZERO R&D proprietary value. 


▪ ND0612 is now only being tested for bioequivalence, not efficacy. While this may lead to a 


speedier FDA approved drug, Mitsubishi Tanabe is meant to be buying Neuroderm for its 


TECHNOLOGY. We see this concession as further evidence of Neuroderm’s weak R&D value, 


which Mitsubishi Tanabe thought it was buying with this acquisition.  


We believe that it is important for Japanese businesses, post Toshiba’s horrific acquisitions abroad, as 


well as Mori Seki, and Lixil, to conduct more extensive due diligence in order not to lose investor 


confidence and capital. We believe that Mitsubishi Tanabe’s acquisition of Neuroderm will be 


regrettable, and the board will have a lot to answer for including regulatory and legal claims.  


Viceroy encourages Mitsubishi Tanabe’s board, investors and financiers to immediately re-evaluate 


its proposal to acquire Neuroderm, as we believe its product is un-investible and will lead to a 


complete write-off.  


Viceroy values Neuroderm’s at its most recent book value of 


~$4.87 per share, representing an EV of $0.
Contents 
Important Disclaimer – Please Read Before Continuing ......................................................................... 2 


Summary ................................................................................................................................................. 4 


Background ............................................................................................................................................. 5 


Clinical test result analysis ...................................................................................................................... 6 


ND0612’s target market........................................................................................................................ 18 


Lack of proprietary technology ............................................................................................................. 20 


Mitsubishi Tanabe is making a huge mistake ....................................................................................... 21 





Important Disclaimer – Please Read Before Continuing 
 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report 


and any statements made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based 


upon publicly available facts, field research, information, and analysis through our due diligence 


process, and are not statements of fact.   All expressions of opinion are subject to change without 


notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them.   We believe that the publication of our opinions about public 


companies that we research is in the public interest.   We are entitled to our opinions and to the right 


to express such opinions in a public forum.  You can access any information or evidence cited in this 


report or that we relied on to write this report from information in the public domain.   


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has 


been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders 


or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or 


duty of confidentiality to the issuer.  We have a good-faith belief in everything we write; however, all 


such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.   


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information 


available on this report.  Think critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis 


before making any investment decisions. We are not registered as an investment advisor in any 


jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to do your own 


research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed 


herein, and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to 


critically assess the information, analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a 


security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an 


offer, invitation, marketing of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of 


any kind, nor as investment advice or a recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to 


make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits or otherwise of any particular investment 


or investment strategy.
Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended 


for illustrative and educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future 


performance or the chances of success of any particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect 


interest/position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the 


stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the 


price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on 


this report for an indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless 


of their initial recommendation.
Summary 
On 24 July 2017, Neuroderm entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Mitsubishi Tanabe 


Pharma Corporation for $39 per share, totaling ~$1.1b, in cash. This is approximately all of Mitsubishi 


Tanabe’s $800m cash balance and all or most of its expected free cash flow for 2017. Viceroy believes 


this is a terrible acquisition for Mitsubishi Tanabe. 


Viceroy values Neuroderm at its most recent book value of ~$130m or $4.87 a 


share, which is representative of Neuroderm’s cash on hand. This represents a $0 


EV and an 88% discount to Mitsubishi Tanabe’s proposed acquisition price. 


Mitsubishi Tanabe, its shareholders and its financiers should walk away from this deal. Viceroy 


believes that Neuroderm’s drug is un-investable – an acquisition will not net any return on investment 


for Mitsubishi Tanabe. We liken this poor due diligence deal to Toshiba’s Westinghouse unit’s 


acquisition of CB&I Stone & Webster, which resulted in a write-down of $6.1b. 


Neuroderm (NASDAQ: NDRM) is a clinical stage pharmaceutical company primarily involved in 


development of treatment for the symptoms of Parkinson's disease; specifically the ND0612 product 


line. 


According to clinical trials and medical data; neither ND0612H nor ND0612L can 


provide sufficient levodopa to function as a standalone treatment for Parkinson’s 


disease.  


Both products require entacapone to augment plasma levodopa levels and the concurrent use of oral 


levodopa. Entacapone and oral LC/CD is marketed by NDRM's competitor Novartis. 


ND0612’s phase 2 clinical trials showed significant issues: 


1. High incidence rate of adverse effects associated with the ND0612 delivery system. 


2. Clinical trial subjects were at an earlier stage of Parkinson’s Disease than that of Neuroderm’s 


target market, thus leading to favorable clinical trial results. 


3. Oral levodopa was used as needed in the efficacy trial, raising questions as to whether the 


trial efficacy results are useful at all. 


4. 16 hour out-patient results are extrapolated from 8-hour in-patient results, raising concerns 


as to other possibly data-mined outcomes. 


5. There was no true blind test. 


In light of the above, Neuroderm's post phase 2 clinical trial meeting with the FDA resulted in a change 


of approach from efficacy to bioavailability/bioequivalence, meaning the ND0612 drug must now be 


shown to be “as good as” and not “better than” current available treatments. Viceroy finds it obscure 


that ND0612 must be ‘as good as’ the oral LC/CD alternative which was used ‘as needed’ by ND0612 


patients.
Further, ND0612’s direct competitor, AbbVie’s Duodopa (marketed as Duopa in the US) appears to be 


a safer and more effective product based on clinical trial data as well as already being in the market. 


In any case, Neuroderm's target market is substantially smaller than sell-side 


analysts predict as not all stages of Parkinson's would require the ND0612 


product. 


Viceroy believes: 


1. Medical professionals and Parkinson's sufferers may be hesitant to prescribe or use the 


implant given the redundant nature of the drug, high costs, and high incident rate of adverse 


effects. 


2. Neuroderm's product may struggle to obtain FDA approval. 


3. Neuroderm's product may struggle to generate sales in a market where oral LD/CD product 


must be used in conjunction with their own product to show bioequivalency to the very same 


competitor’s product. The proposition is nonsensical. 


4. Neuroderm’s product may struggle to outperform its direct competition. 


Mitsubishi should pursue its growth targets elsewhere and conduct more extensive due diligence. We 


base our opinion and target price on Neuroderm’s available clinical and financial data and have 


consulted extensively with specialists in the field. 





Background 
Neuroderm (NASDAQ: NDRM) is a clinical stage pharmaceutical company primarily involved in 


development of treatment for the symptoms of Parkinson's disorder. These products are ND0612H 


and ND0612L, (H and L denoting high and low dosages respectively). While their product pipeline 


includes other products, these are largely immaterial to Neuroderm’s implied value.  


Neuroderm's success and survival is largely dependent on the performance of the 


ND0612 product. 


ND0612 is a liquid formulation of Levodopa/Carbidopa (LD/CD), an existing compound of L-DOPA 


amino acid and carbidopa used to treat the symptoms of Parkinson's disease – namely; loss of 


coordination, trembling of extremities, trembling of the face and slowness of movement. This is 


referred to as OFF time. ND0612 is administered intravenously through a patch-pump or small belt 


pump that releases LD/CD to the bloodstream.  


Levodopa’s use in Parkinson’s Disease symptom management is well established however 


administration of levodopa through the duodenum is relatively novel. Administering compounds 


through the duodenum brings into play risk of infection and complication both in the initial surgery 


and during ongoing use. ND0612’s competitor in the field is AbbVie’s Duopa/Duodopa which received 


marketing approval and orphan drug status from the FDA in 2015.
Clinical test result analysis 
Neuroderm’s clinical phase 2 trial results are underwhelming especially when compared to oral LD/CD 


and other products in the field. Our main concerns around the phase 2 trials are: 


1. Trial subjects were at an earlier stage of Parkinson’s disease than Neuroderm’s target market 


of ‘Severe Parkinson’s Disease Patients’, thus requiring lower doses to reduce OFF time. 


2. Inadequate stand-alone dosage – Only high dosage ND0612 combined with entacapone sold 


under the name Comtan performs better than oral LD/CD, and only on patients at an earlier 


stage of Parkinson’s disease than Neuroderm’s target market. 


3. Significantly higher incidence of adverse effects compared to competitor AbbVie’s 


Duopa/Duodopa pump. 


4. Continued dependence on oral LD/CD as needed to produce favorable OFF time. 


5. Lack of placebo and double blind. 





Inadequate stand-alone dosage 


Plasma-levodopa concentration of subjects using either of Neuroderm's products 


alone (both ND0612L and ND0612H) are far below the dose required to 


adequately treat the symptoms of Parkinson's disease better than the existing 


treatment. Generic oral LD/CD treatment is already widely used and accepted.  


Neuroderm’s clinical trial results clearly demonstrate that ND0612 produces inferior results when 


compared to oral LD/CD. Levodopa treatment efficiency is assessed through the concentration of 


levodopa in the blood plasma of a subject and decrease in OFF time.  


As the disease progresses, higher levels of levodopa are required to manage dyskinesia symptoms 


in check over periods of time.1 


This is supported by both Neuroderm's test results and existing literature on Parkinson's disease 


treatment with levodopa: 





                                                           
1 Wearing Off 
https://www.parkinsonswa.org.au/what-is-parkinsons/wearing-off/
1. Neither ND0612 product achieves the plasma-levodopa levels of the baseline oral 


LD/CD treatment, the current generic competitor. 


 
Figure 1 – Mean Levodopa Pharmacokinetic Parameters (ND0612) 2 


Note: Cmax - maximum (or peak) serum concentration that a drug achieves in a specified test area of the body 


after the drug has been administrated.3 In this case it refers to the plasma-levodopa concentration. 


AUC - a summary or index measure of cumulative response to treatment over the observation period.4 





                                                           
2 Stable levodopa plasma levels with ND0612 (levodopa/carbidopa for subcutaneous infusion) in patients with 
Parkinson’s Disease with motor fluctuations 
http://neuroderm.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/09/03 Poster presented at the World Parkinsons Congress Oregon 2016 ND0612


003.pdf  
3 Tracy TS (2004). "Pharmacokinetics". In Stitzel RE, Craig CF. Modern pharmacology with clinical applications. 
Hagerstwon, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. p. 49. ISBN 0-7817-3762-1. 
4 Area Under the Curve Analysis and Other Analysis Strategies for Repeated Measures Clinical Trials 
http://www.stat.ncsu.edu/information/library/mimeo.archive/isms 1983 1453.pdf
2. CURS test results significantly improve past plasma-levodopa levels of ~1024ng/ml for 


patients in stages 3-4 of Parkinson’s Disease. 
 


 
Figure 2 – Plasma / drug concentration-effect relationship (ND0612) 5 


Note: CURS is a test measuring the severity of dyskinesia produced by Parkinson's disease. Lower scores 


indicate a lesser intensity of dyskinesia. 


As visualized above, Parkinson’s Disease related dyskinesia symptoms drop off significantly after 


reaching a threshold plasma/levodopa level.  


                                                           
5 Concentration-effect relationship of levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease after oral administration of 
an immediate release and a controlled release formulation 
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-2125.1995.tb04407.x/pdf
3. ND0612L plasma-levodopa levels stabilize below minimum levels required to incite a 


reduction in Parkinson's related dyskinesia in advanced stage Parkinson’s disease. 


 
Figure 3 – Levodopa plasma concentration over time – comparative results6 


Note: Benserazide is not used in the USA, Carbidopa is used instead.7 


ND0612L and ND0612H were only able to achieve 487ng/mL and 1454ng/ml plasma respectively 


compared to 1820ng/ml and 2262ng/ml baseline oral LD/CD. Thus, only ND0612H is able to maintain 


equivalent plasma-levodopa levels to significantly affect Parkinson's symptoms and only through the 


use of entacapone. 


Entacapone is sold under the name Comtan and is marketed by Swiss brand Novartis Pharmaceutical 


Corporation8, the same company that markets Stalevo9, an oral LD/CD product.  


For Neuroderm's products to achieve comparable results to their competitor they 


must be used in conjunction with that same competitor's product. 


                                                           
6 ND0612 (levodopa/carbidopa for subcutaneous infusion) achieves stable levodopa plasma levels 
http://neuroderm.com/PDF/Poster-presented-at-theMDS-Vancouver-2017-ND0612-003-004.pdf  
7 Parkinson’s disease: carbidopa, nausea, and dyskinesia 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4238750/  
8 Comtan® (Entacapone) 
https://www.pharma.us.novartis.com/sites/www.pharma.us.novartis.com/files/comtan.pdf  
9 STALEVO- carbidopa, levodopa and entacapone tablet, film coated - Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation 
http://medlibrary.org/lib/rx/meds/stalevo-1/
In light of the above we believe: 


1. ND0612L may not achieve plasma-levodopa levels high enough to produce results 


meaningful enough to justify cost and switch from oral LD/CD. 


2. Neither ND0612L nor ND0612H are capable of reaching similar levodopa levels or efficacy 


of treatment as the existing treatment when used alone. 


We question whether medical professionals and patients would elect for a treatment requiring 


significant additional discomfort and cost when the current oral generic is available. 


We question the usefulness of the ND0612L line of products which may not result in significant change 


in levodopa levels.  





Phase 2 efficacy study performed on irrelevant test group 
Severity of Parkinson’s and its symptoms are characterized into progressive stages by using the Hoehn 


& Yahr scale; from 1 to 5 with 5 being the most severe and 1 being the least. For context, sufferers 


diagnosed as being past stage 3 are generally no longer independent.10  


Neuroderm’s phase 2 efficacy study was conducted on 38 individuals, not a single one of which had a 


Hoehn & Yahr stage past stage 3.  In fact, such subjects were intentionally excluded from the study! 


 
Figure 4 –ND0612 subject baseline characteristics – phase 2 trials 


                                                           
10 The FIVE Stages of Parkinson’s Disease 
http://parkinsonsresource.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/The-FIVE-Stages-of-Parkinsons-Disease.pdf
Figure 5 –ND0612 subject inclusion criteria – phase 2 trials 11 


In fact, most subjects (63.2%) were in the second stage of the disease. Most patients in phases 1 to 3 


are generally on oral LD/CD and would be reluctant to incur the cost and risk of the ND0612 device. 


We believe that this choice of subjects skews the results positively as progressively greater amounts 


of levodopa are required to mitigate Parkinson’s symptoms as the disease progresses through the 


stages, this is known as the wearing off effect.12 


Neuroderm’s stated target market is patients suffering severe or advanced Parkinson’s symptoms.13 


How can the efficacy of the product in that regard be analyzed based on subjects who are not at that 


stage of the disease? 


Adverse events 
We draw your attention to the following table detailing adverse effects of ND0612 during phase 2 


clinical trials. 


 
Figure 6 – Incidence of adverse effects with ND0612 14 


                                                           
11 Baseline characteristics of the population  
http://neuroderm.com/PDF/Poster-presented-at-the-MDS-Vancouver-2017-ND0612-006-Baseline-
characteristics.pdf    
12 Wearing Off 
https://www.parkinsonswa.org.au/what-is-parkinsons/wearing-off/  
13 Neuroderm presentation – Jefferies 2015 Global Healthcare Conference 
http://www.jefferies.com/CMSFiles/Jefferies.com/files/NeuroDerm%20revised%20V4.pdf  
14 Safety, efficacy, and tolerability of continuous SC LD/CD (ND0612H) infusion in PD patients with motor 
fluctuations 
http://neuroderm.com/PDF/Poster-presented-at-theMDS-Vancouver-2017-ND0612-006-results.pdf
76% of subjects experienced adverse effects with 11% experiencing serious 


adverse effects. At least 47% of subjects experienced adverse effects due to the 


infusion delivery method. 


Neuroderm’s clinical study results are inferior to that of direct competitor AbbVie’s Duodopa: 


 AbbVie Duodopa Neuroderm ND0612 


Infusion LD/CD Yes Yes 


Oral LD/CD No Yes 


Formulation Duodopa ND0612H 


Number of subjects 62 38 


AE (number, %) 53.2% 76% 


Mean decrease in OFF time -2.34 hours -3.50 hours 





While Duopa study results show an inferior mean decrease in OFF time, they did so: 


▪ Without the assistance of supplementary oral LD/CD OR entacapone. As discussed earlier, 


Neuroderm has not shown whether ND0612 has been able to produce results without 


supplementary oral LD/CD.  


▪ With subjects classified as having advanced stage Parkinson’s Disease. Neuroderm’s clinical 


study subjects were classified at an earlier, more mild stage of Parkinson’s Disease.  


The number of adverse effects is also a substantial 20 percentage points lower. We question whether 


a product marketed to improve quality of life will succeed against an established competitor with 


undoubtedly superior adverse effects.   


We remind our readers that this was a 28-day study; what sort of effects can be expected in long term 


treatment?  


Would patients opt for an auxiliary treatment with a higher risk of adverse effects 


compared to an existing product?
16-hour of results normalized from initial 8-hour measurements for a 24-hour drug 
The stated aim of the ND0612 product line is: 


 
Figure 7 –Neuroderm defined purpose of ND061215 


The January 2017 poster on the phase 2 results of ND0612H show that the OFF-time measurements 


for the trial were observed during an 8-hour in-patient period and then normalized over the remaining 


16 hours of the day. In effect, the results of these 8 hours were used to extrapolate the results of 


the following 16 hours.  





Note below that the R2 dosing regimen only uses a 14-hour infusion cycle.  


 
Figure 8 –ND0612 dosing regimen – phase 2 trials16 


This is contrary to the response of Parkinson's symptoms to LD/CD treatment. ND0612 is designed to 


provide continuous 24-hour levodopa therapy. To extrapolate 16 hours of results from an 8-hour 


observation period is consistent with the drug’s stated purpose and does not provide a full picture of 


its performance.  





                                                           
15 ND0612H for severe PD 
http://neuroderm.com/nd0650-for-severe-pd/  
16 Safety, efficacy and tolerability of continuous SC LD/CD (ND0612H) infusion in PD patients with motor 
fluctuations 
http://neuroderm.com/PDF/Poster-presented-at-theMDS-Vancouver-2017-ND0612-006-results.pdf
Further, we note from the above Figure 8 that:  


1. No placebo was administered for the efficacy analysis, contrary to other tests of prospective 


Parkinson's therapy clinical tests.17 


2. Given the lack of a placebo, the rater (the clinician who administers and records the effects of 


the drug) would have known that the patient was receiving treatment of some kind. 


With no placebo in place the rater could only have been blinded regarding the dosage of the therapy, 


not whether the therapy was being administered. In this sense, the study was practically open label. 


For reference, previous studies into the effects of Parkinson's symptom therapy incorporated both 


double blind and placebo methods (i.e. the rater and the subject do not know who is receiving the 


active/placebo drug).18 





Oral levodopa treatment still required  
Our concern over the phase 2 efficacy and tolerability trial results is from the following passages: 





 
Figure 9 – Safety, efficacy and tolerability of continuous SC LD/CD (ND0612H) 19 


As per our above section regarding clinical study subject selection, the subjects for the trial were 


chosen to be at or below phase 3 of Parkinson’s progression, in other words, not the intended market!  


Neuroderm’s product is marketed towards subjects with advanced Parkinson’s Disease, generally 


accepted to be stages 4 to stage 5.20 We question the use of ND0612H's clinical study as demonstration 


of its efficacy in light of the fact that supplemental oral LD/CD was used as needed throughout the 


trial. In the same poster, Neuroderm claims that 42% of subjects in one test arm achieved 0 hours of 


OFF time at the end of the 28 days, however oral levodopa use had not stopped but only decreased. 


Seen in this light, ND0612 is more appropriately a complementary therapy to oral LD/CD, albeit a 


costly one. 


Why would patients outlay substantial additional costs for a supplementary drug with a clinically 


proven disposition to adverse effects? 





                                                           
17 Levodopa—carbidopa intestinal gel in advanced Parkinson’s disease open-label study: Interim results 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23287001  
18 Levodopa and the Progression of Parkinson's Disease 
http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa033447  
19 Safety, efficacy and tolerability of continuous SC LD/CD (ND0612H) infusion in PD patients with motor 
fluctuations 
http://neuroderm.com/PDF/Poster-presented-at-theMDS-Vancouver-2017-ND0612-006-results.pdf  
20 Treatment of Advanced Parkinson’s Disease 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3038575/pdf/PD2010-480260.pdf
FDA advice for bioavailability/bioequivalence study in lieu of clinical efficacy 
Neuroderm mentioned the results of its end-of-phase 2 with the FDA. While the announcement was 


heralded as a success by Neuroderm and a signal of a positive relationship with the FDA, we believe 


otherwise. 


Key takeaways: 


1. Suspension of ongoing phase 3 trials for ND0612L, discontinued preparations to initiate phase 


3 clinical trials. 


2. Continuation of BeyoND clinical phase 2 trial with addition of 50 new participants.21 


3. Focus on a bioavailability/bio equivalency regulatory route instead of the previously pursued 


efficacy development route. 


NDRM announced its intent to pursue a comparative bioavailability regulatory path for ND0612H 


instead of pursuing an efficacy study. We draw your attention to the following: 


As defined by the FDA; Bioavailability: 


"the rate and extent to which the active ingredient or active moiety is absorbed from a drug product 


and becomes available at the site of action. For drug products that are not intended to be absorbed 


into the bloodstream, bioavailability may be assessed by measurements intended to reflect the rate 


and extent to which the active ingredient or active moiety becomes available at the site of action" 


Bioequivalence: 


"the absence of a significant difference in the rate and extent to which the active ingredient or active 


moiety in pharmaceutical equivalents or pharmaceutical alternatives becomes available at the site of 


drug action when administered at the same molar dose under similar conditions in an appropriately 


designed study" 


We believe that the shift from efficacy to bioavailability/bioequivalence is a 


conscious attempt to avoid head-to-head comparison of ND0612H to existing 


treatments.  





                                                           
21 Neuroderm (NDRM) to Discontinue ND0612H Phase III, Suspend iNDiGO After FDA Meeting 
http://www.biospace.com/News/neuroderm-to-discontinue-nd0612h-phase-iii-suspend/440861
A Parexel report into phase 3 clinical trial failures revealed that 50% of phase 3 clinical trial failures did 


so on the basis of lack of efficacy. 


 
Figure 10 –Reasons attributed to Phase 3 clinical trial failures22 


The evidence we listed above regarding inadequate dosage as well as the dependence of phase 2 trial 


results on ongoing usage of oral levodopa may explain the FDA's suggestion of a bioavailability/bio-


efficiency approach. 





                                                           
22 Phase 3 Trial Failures: Costly But Preventable 
https://www.parexel.com/files/5014/7274/5573/ACT Article.pdf
Key takeaways 


▪ Plasma-levodopa concentration of subjects using either of Neuroderm's ND0612 products taken 
alone (both ND0612L and ND0612H) are far below the dose required to adequately treat the 
symptoms of Parkinson's disease better than the existing treatment. Generic oral LD/CD 
treatment is already widely used, likely far cheaper and accepted.  


▪ 76% of subjects experienced adverse effects with 11% experiencing serious adverse effects. At 
least 47% of subjects experienced adverse effects due to the infusion delivery method. Would 
patients opt for an auxiliary treatment with almost guaranteed discomfort?  


▪ Phase 2 results were obtained from subjects at stages 1 to 3 of Parkinson’s disease. These subjects 
would not ordinarily fall under Neuroderm’s advance stage Parkinson’s Disease market segment 
target. Additionally, as earlier stage Parkinson’s Disease sufferers require lower levodopa levels to 
incite a reduction in OFF-time, Neuroderm’s clinical trial results would be significantly superior to 
real-world scenarios. 


▪ Phase 2 results of ND0612H show that the OFF-time measurements for the trial were observed 
during an 8-hour in-patient period and then extrapolated over the following 16 hours. This is 
contrary to the response of Parkinson's symptoms to LD/CD treatment. For a drug designed to 
reduce overall off time, this normalization of results taints the results and at worst invalidates 
them. 


▪ No placebo was administered, contrary to other tests of prospective Parkinson's therapy clinical 
tests. 


▪ Both products require entacapone to augment plasma levodopa levels and the concurrent use of 
oral levodopa. Entacapone and oral LC/CD (under the names Comtan™ & Stalevo™ respectively) 
are already accepted treatments marketed by NDRM's competitor Novartis. 


▪ Oral LD/CD was used as needed in the trial making it difficult to find the standalone efficacy of 
ND0612.
ND0612’s target market 
The following table is from a 2015 Neuroderm presentation at Jefferies Global Healthcare conference. 


It displays the estimated number of severe or advanced Parkinson’s Disease patients, the target 


market for both Neuroderm’s ND0612 and AbbVie’s Duopa/Duodopa.  





 Figure 11 –ND0612 customer base - Jefferies 2015 Global Healthcare Conference 23 


In 2015, Duodopa obtained FDA approval for marketing in the US as well as orphan drug status24, as 


the FDA believes that less than 200,000 people in the US are suffering from advanced Parkinson’s 


Disease. The adoption rate for AbbVie’s established Duopa/Duodopa pump is extremely low.  


According to our calculations (USA Duopa revenues / approximate wholesaler acquisition cost25), 


there were only an estimated 500 patients using Duopa in the USA in 2016 for a top-line figure of 


$37m. 


We presume that the causes of this reluctance are surgery requirements, adverse effects and cost. 


Unfortunately for Neuroderm, these are shared with ND0612.  


                                                           
23 Neuroderm presentation – Jefferies 2015 Global Healthcare Conference 
http://www.jefferies.com/CMSFiles/Jefferies.com/files/NeuroDerm%20revised%20V4.pdf  
24 AbbVie Announces U.S. FDA Approval of DUOPA 
http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/abbvie-announces-us-fda-approval-of-duopa-carbidopa-and-
levodopa-enteral-suspension-for-the-treatment-of-motor-fluctuations-in-patients-with-advanced-parkinsons-
disease-300018802.html  
25 In Brief: Duopa - A Carbidopa/Levodopa Enteral Suspension for Parkinson's Disease 
https://secure.medicalletter.org/w1474d
Neuroderm’s promotional materials often paint the company as 


a pioneer in the field and ND0612 as a revolutionary product in 


the field of Parkinson’s Disease symptom treatment. The facts 


say otherwise: ND0612’s concept of a portable continuous-


release LD/CD treatment is done better and safer by its 


competitor AbbVie. We find it hard to digest that patients will 


respond more favorably to ND0612 than Duopa/Duodopa in any 


market, US or international.
Mitsubishi Tanabe is making a huge mistake 
Viceroy values Neuroderm at its most recent book value of ~$130m. This represents an EV of $0. It 


also represents a ~88% discount to Mitsubishi Tanabe’s proposed acquisition price, and only so 


because NDRM has net cash on hand. 


Viceroy encourages Mitsubishi Tanabe, its shareholders and its financiers to reconsider an acquisition 


of Neuroderm.
