Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyreseach.org 


Viceroy comments on SARB statement 
Viceroy comments on information available to the South African Reserve Bank re garding 


Capitec 


In response to Viceroy’s recent report on Capitec (JSE:CPI), the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) decided to 


vouch for Capitec. Indeed, it decided to stake its reputation on the accuracy of the company’s accounts. Below 


is their statement in full: 


“The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) notes a report by a US based fund manager. As part of our 


mandate, we monitor the safety and soundness of all banks, including Capitec Bank Limited (Capitec). 


According to all the information available, Capitec is solvent, well capitalised and has adequate liquidity. 


The bank meets all prudential requirements.” 


The South African Reserve Bank makes this statement “according to all the information available”. We 


understand that the SARB has not yet performed an adequate regulatory inspection of Capitec – and expect they 


will do so in due course. 


For the moment Viceroy will respond to SARB limiting themselves to information contained in the most recent 


Capitec annual report. This is information readily available to the South African Reserve Bank. 


Viceroy’s allegation is that Capitec’s balance sheet, income and solvency numbers are not reliable – and that the 


mechanism of underrepresenting losses is to pretend that uncollectable loans are collectable and still accruing 


income. 


Viceroy suggests that at least ZAR 10bn of loans fall into this category. Moreover, these loans are largely in the 


long-dated loans on Capitec’s balance sheet, such as 49-to-60 month and 61 - 84-month month loans.  


This table – from page 26 of the last annual report notes that ZAR 10,832m and ZAR 13,689m of gross loans fall 


into these categories. This is just over half of Capitec’s ZAR 45,135m of gross loans outstanding.  


 
Figure 1 Extract from Capitec Annual Report 2017
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyreseach.org 





Capitec accounts provide enough information to assess the credit worthiness of these long-dated loans. 


To simplify the analysis, we will just focus on the ZAR 13,689m of 61 - 84-month month gross loans outstanding.  


On page 30 of their 2017 annual report Capitec provides a gross cumulative loss curve for various vintages of 


these loans: 


 
Figure 2 Extract from Capitec Annual Report 2017 


This is easy to read. It shows the cumulative loss (net of recoveries) as a percentage of the pool for loans 


originated in various quarters. The performance for these loans is – according to Capitec – following roughly 


similar paths irrespective of the pool. 


At M12 – i.e. after one year – roughly 1.5% of the loans have been written off. 


At M24 – i.e. after two years – roughly 3% of the loans have been written off. 


At M36 – i.e. after three years – roughly 4.5% of the loans are written off. 


You could of course extend this and follows that after 4 years about 6% of the loans will be written off. 


The loss rate on these pools is – as you can see – roughly 1.5% per annum. 


This is based on the numbers that Capitec provide us in their annual report. It is not hearsay from Viceroy. These 


are Capitec’s numbers. These numbers are astonishingly low. 1.5% is below the loss rate on US prime credit 


cards. Below is the summary consumer loss disclosures from Bank of America’s last annual reports: 


 
Figure 3 Extract from Bank of America annual report 2016
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyreseach.org 


Bank of America loses roughly 2.5% per annum on their US credit card business. Capitec is reporting losses on 


their book substantially below Bank of America’s US Prime Loan losses. Citigroup’s credit card business has 


similar losses per annum compared to Bank of America’s. Capitec’s long-dated unsecured lending business in 


South Africa is (on Capitec’s numbers) has lower losses than Citigroup’s prime credit card business. 


Capitec’s claims for the excellence of their long-dated lending business extend further than this. Capitec have 


an admirable formulaic provisioning policy. It is stated multiple times in the annual report and we will repeat it 


here from page 14 of the 2017 annual report: 


 
Figure 4 Extract from Capitec Annual Report 2017 


Capitec in the table on page 26 provide us gross and net loans by term of the loan. We repeat this data here: 


 
Figure 5 Extract from Capitec Annual Report 2017
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyreseach.org 


Note that there are ZAR 13,689m of gross 61 – 84-month loans outstanding at the end of the 2017 year. There 


are ZAR 12,511m of net 61 – 84-month loans outstanding. The provision is the difference – ZAR 1,178m.  


That provision is only 8.6% of outstanding gross 61 - 84-month loans. 


Recall that according to Capitec’s provision policy they provide 8% of current loans –  thus their provision for 


delinquent or rescheduled long-dated loans is 0.6% of outstanding 61 – 84-month loans. According to the 


formula they can have at most a 1.3% delinquency on these loans. 


Again, this number is astonishingly low. This delinquency is far below the delinquency rate of US prime loans. 


Indeed, the delinquency rate implied by Capitec on their unsecured loans is below the serious delinquency rate 


US prime mortgages.  


It seems – on the numbers provided by Capitec – the 61 - 84-month month book of loans is perhaps the best 


performing set of unsecured personal loans in the world. There is almost no delinquency and astonishingly low 


charge offs. 


Now SARB say – and we quote again:   


“According to all the information available, Capitec is solvent, well capitalised and has adequate 


liquidity.” 


The information includes loan pools Capitec claims perform better than the best unsecured credit pools in 


developed countries. They are – based on Capitec’s data – much better than prime. They are “superprime”. 


Capitec categorically state that not many of these loans have been restructured or deferred. If they were 


deferred Capitec – according to its own rules – must draw a large provision against them and no such provision 


is drawn. 


Viceroy has collected considerable anecdotal evidence that staff regularly roll these loans or restructure them 


so that no delinquency or losses are recorded. Indeed, Viceroy believes that is by far the best explanation for 


the astonishing performance of the long-dated Capitec loans. 


If Capitec’s loans are not in fact better than American prime credit cards then Capitec is misrepresenting in the 


information that it provides the market and in the information provided to the South African Reserve Bank. This 


seems to us the more likely outcome and is consistent with reams of anecdotal data we have collected on rolling 


loans. 


The South African Reserve Bank has a responsibility to determine whether the information provided to them – 


and on which they base their regulatory decisions is accurate. We do not think it is. 


The SARB has, at this point, a responsibility to perform a full regulatory inspection of Capitec. Viceroy remains 


firm in its belief that this will result in SARB placing Capitec into curatorship.
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyreseach.org 


Important Disclaimer  


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation.
