Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Capitec’s wholly inadequate response to Viceroy  
A perfect example of why Viceroy don’t “engage with management” –  they don’t answer our 


questions 


Viceroy issued an open letter to Capitec’s board of directors on 20 February 2018, responding to their invitation 


to engage with management and field our questions, a summary as follows: 


1. In the 12 months to August 2017, what was the actual value of loans that were cured out of arrears? 


2. Does Capitec believe extending new loans to consumers who were only one day prior in arrears both socially 


and financially sustainable? 


3. What amount of loans are made to clients who had cured arrears over the preceding month? 


4. Please elaborate on Capitec’s recently amended maximum customer loans policy 


5. Why did Capitec not previously have internal controls to enforce the maximum number of term loans per 


customer? 


6. How many loan accounts, on average, do Capitec consumers have? How has this grown over time? 


7. Please advise which financial regulators are in discussions with Capitec, if any, in relation to research 


prepared by Viceroy 


A full copy of our letter can be found here: 


www.viceroyresearch.files.wordpress.com/2018/02/letter-to-capitec-20-02-18.pdf 


Capitec replied to our letter on 22 February, 2018 via email, however provided no straightforward responses to 


any of our questions. At best, Viceroy received numerous largely insignificant statistics and tangential 


statements. 


Capitec’s full response to our letter is attached to this report as Annexure 1. 


Viceroy has been criticized for not engaging with management prior to publication of our reports. Capitec’s 


response is a prime example of why we choose not to. We maintain our recommendation that Capitec should 


be subject to an external, independent regulatory investigation, which we believe will result in Capitec being 


placed in curatorship in order to protect its consumers. 








 



http://www.viceroyresearch.files.wordpress.com/2018/02/letter-to-capitec-20-02-18.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation.
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


1. Actual value of loans that were cured out of arrears 


Without providing exact figures, Capitec insists their calculation of loans rescheduled out of arrears – which 


includes an estimate of “cured arears” –  is accurate. 


 
Figure 1 Capitec letter to Viceroy – 22 February 2018 





 
Figures 2 & 3 Calculations extract from Capitec’s response to Benguela Global Fund Mangers1  


If we assume the purported accuracy of this figure, we can completely discard Capitec’s prior assertion that 


Capitec’s average time-to-cure of two months is “conservative”. By Capitec’s own standards, this figure is 


accurate. 


 
Figure 4 Extract from Capitec’s response to Benguela Global Fund Mangers 





                                                                 
1 https://www.capitecbank.co.za/resources/Capitec_response_to_Benguela.pdf 



https://www.capitecbank.co.za/resources/Capitec_response_to_Benguela.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


Despite managements assertion, we had already pointed out a calculation error in Figure 2 above. Loans cured, 


written off or rescheduled in the 12 months leading to August 2017 would undoubtedly been partially comprised 


of the opening arrears balance of the period. Accordingly, the end of period loans in arrears balance included in 


the calculation should instead be the difference of loans in arrears between the start and end of the period to 


avoid double counting. 


This would bring the estimated rescheduling as percentage of arrears above 20%. We are perplexed as to how 


Capitec can justify that their information is accurate.  


We reiterate that, according to Capitec’s own numbers, a value equal to one-third of its gross loan book falls 


into arrears each year. We do not see logic with Capitec’s reasoning not to provide actual figures to stakeholders, 


opting for “accurate” estimates instead. 


2. Do Capitec believe extending new loans to consumers who were only one day prior in 


arrears is both socially and financially sustainable? 


In a long-winded statement defining its lending practices, Capitec acknowledged that they provide no cool-off 


period on delinquencies, and that arrears are recognized immediately past due date.  


Capitec’s statement appears to attribute its massive cured arrears rate and practices of lending to clients 


recently in arrears to intervals between when a consumer’s installment is due and delays in a consumer’s payroll 


or interbank transfers.  This is a ridiculous indirect proposition, as in Question 1 above, Capitec clearly portray 


that, on average, cured loans spend 2 months in arrears – clearly this is beyond a timing issue. 


Capitec further notes that it would be unaware if a consumer borrowed money from other credit providers to 


repay a loan for up to 48 hours, making it extremely viable for consumers who have just recently gone into 


arrears, or about to go into arrears, borrow from Peter to pay Paul. 


Management assert that 98% of such loan applications, if detected, are denied. However, management fail to 


mention if this applies to Capitec’s credit facilities, which they differentiate in future Questions. 


3. What amount of loans are made to clients who had cured arrears over the preceding 


month?  


We asked Capitec what amount of loans are made to clients who had cured arrears over the preceding month, 


week and day. Again, Capitec provided no answer to this very specific question. 


Capitec assert that a limited number of loans are issued to clients who meet these criteria, however again, this 


does not apply credit facilities, where clients can draw down more funds as long as they make-good on arrears. 


In fact, management state that they “cannot stop” a client drawing down on a credit facility if that client is 


immediately prior in arrears! 





Why even have questions on the ATM if Capitec cannot legally stop the client drawing down a credit facility 


installment? How is that financially and socially responsible?
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org 


4. Please elaborate on Capitec’s recently amended maximum customer loans policy 


Capitec responded that the amendment was prudent and has no impact on risk profiles. Management avoided 


commenting on the direction of the maximum loans limit. Here is the branch communication in question again: 


 
Figure 5 Extract from Capitec branch communications 


In the absence of a response, Viceroy maintain our opinion that the movement of Capitec’s maximum loans 


policy is critical to shareholder assessment. 


If the maximum number of loans per customer has increased, we believe this will drastically increase the risk of 


Capitec’s loan book and corroborates our thesis that overindebted customers finance existing loans by taking 


out fresh loans.  


If the maximum number of loans per customer has decreased, this suggests Capitec are actively curbing the 


underlying risk of their underrepresented delinquencies and corroborating our thesis that the loan book is 


unsustainable. This outcome, in our opinion, would represent a prudent step in minimizing the financial damage 


caused by underrepresented loan book risk. 


5. Branch level internal controls 


Following from Question 4 above, the last dot point on Figure 4 above states: 


“System changes will be done in future to alert employees granting credit that the maximum number of 


term loans have been exceeded” 


We asked why Capitec did not previously have internal controls in place to enforce the maximum number of 


term loans extended to a customer. The company again avoided answering the question, instead asserting that 


the above communication will assist employees to inform clients when the maximum number of loans had been 


reached.  


What is the difference? If this internal control was in place previously, the employee would already have a 


method of knowing whether the maximum number of loans had been reached and this can be communicated 


to the consumer. We suspect from the non-answer that this system was previously not in place and branches 


were not made aware of customer loan caps.
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org 


6. How many loan accounts, on average, do Capitec consumers have? How has this grown 


over time? 


We asked Capitec advise how many loans each customer has, on average, and how much this figure has grown 


over time since 2013 on quarterly basis? 


Capitec refused to answer our question, instead noting that this figure has never been above 1.5 per client. 


Capitec does not elaborate on whether the denominator client base includes all of its depositors or just clients 


who have taken out loans.  


7. Please advise which financial regulators are in discussions Capitec, if any, in relation to 


research prepared by Viceroy 


Local investors have asserted through media outlets that Capitec are in discussions with the SARB in relation to 


the research compiled by Viceroy and possible breaches of the National Credit Act: 


 
Figure 6 Extract from Independent Online – “Capitec will ignore Viceroy’s latest broadside”2 


We asked Capitec confirm or deny the accuracy of these assertions, and to please advise of any other financial 


regulators that are in discussions with Capitec, if any. 


Management refused to comment on their communications with regulators. 


More recently, South African media outlets have reported that Parliament, together with the Reserve Bank, FSB 


and Treasury, will be briefed by Capitec in relation to Viceroy’s report3. This briefing is due to occur on 20 March 


2018. 





8. Summary 


It is clear why Capitec has issued these responses solely to Viceroy. Contrary to management rhetoric of 


expanded transparency, it is clear that Capitec wants these communications kept private due to their weak and 


inconsequential responses to our questions. The company has failed to answer any of our questions or has done 


so in an evasive and tangential manner. 


As the bank has failed to answer our questions we reassert our opinion that Capitec Bank is fundamentally 


uninvestable and await the findings of a formal investigation.  








                                                                 
2 https://www.iol.co.za/business-report/companies/capitec-will-ignore-viceroys-latest-broadside-13294393  
3 https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/national/2018-03-02-parliament-to-be-briefed-by-capitec-over-viceroy-report/  



https://www.iol.co.za/business-report/companies/capitec-will-ignore-viceroys-latest-broadside-13294393

https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/national/2018-03-02-parliament-to-be-briefed-by-capitec-over-viceroy-report/
Viceroy Research Group 7 viceroyresearch.org 


Annexure 1: Capitec’s letter to shareholders
Viceroy Research Group 8 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 9 viceroyresearch.org
