Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyreseach.org 


20 February 2018 
 
 
The Board of Directors 
Capitec Bank 
PO Box 12451 
Die Boord, Stellenbosch 7613 
South Africa 
 
investorrelations@capitecbank.co.za 
 
 
Dear Board of Directors 
 
Viceroy open letter to Capitec 
 
Thank you for your open invitation to address our questions. We believe our reports have clearly conveyed our 


concerns with Capitec, but have happily condensed our research into questions if that is your preference. 


1. In the 12 months to August 2017, what was the actual value of loans that were cured out of arrears?  
Capitec provides an estimate of cured arrears for the year ending August 2017 in its response to concerns raised 


by Benguela Global Fund Managers dated 1 February 2018: 


 
Figure 1 Extract from Capitec’s response to Benguela Global Fund Mangers1  


Capitec advises that a time-to-cure estimate of 2 months is “conservative” as the highest cure rates are observed 


on clients that are one month in arrears: 


 
Figure 2 Extract from Capitec’s response to Benguela Global Fund Mangers 


Viceroy believe Capitec’s definition of “conservative” in this case is misleading, as a shorter time to cure would 


imply a much higher value of loans that were in arrears over the course of the year. A sensitivity analysis of this 


figure is shown below: 


                                                                 
1 https://www.capitecbank.co.za/resources/Capitec_response_to_Benguela.pdf 



mailto:investorrelations@capitecbank.co.za

https://www.capitecbank.co.za/resources/Capitec_response_to_Benguela.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyreseach.org 


 
Figure 3 Viceroy analysis – Capitec cured arrears 


It is, frankly, unfathomable that a purportedly highly regulated financial institution must resort to providing 


estimates of its own financial data to begin with. It is more unbelievable that, when the integrity of Capitec’s 


accounts is questioned, the disclosures become less transparent. 


Arrears data should be easily accessible via management accounts collated by adequate internal controls, and 


regularly analyzed as part of risk maintenance within financial institutions (or any institutions, for that matter). 


We ask you to please discard your estimates and present: 


a. the actual value of cured arrears for the 12 months ending August 2017; and 


b. the actual value of loans which fell into arrears during the 12 months ending August 2017 


2. Do Capitec believe extending new loans to consumers who were only one day prior in arrears is 


both socially and financially sustainable? 
Analysis of tens of thousands of Capitec borrowers’ datasets within debt counselling firms show consumers were 


able to get new loans after paying down their arrears the day prior.  


Capitec consumers constitute largely low-income, financially at-risk demographics.  


Interviews with Capitec former staff depict the roundabout ways in which these consumers are able to 


temporarily cure their arrears in order to draw down a further, larger facility. This topic was covered extensively 


in our report dated 14 February 20182. 


Does Capitec believe it is socially and financially sustainable to grow its loan book in this manner? 


3. What amount of loans are made to clients who had cured arrears over the preceding month?  
Following from Question 3 above, we can state empirically that the practice of extending new loans to clients 


were immediately prior in arrears is still occurring.  


We contrast this with the lending criteria of a Standard Bank or Absa where there is a "cooling off" period before 


a borrower formerly in arrears can seek a new loan - to prevent exactly this behavior. 


What amount of loans are made to clients who had cured arrears over the preceding month, week and day? 





                                                                 
2 https://viceroyresearch.org/2018/02/14/viceroy-responds-to-capitec/  


Cured arrears sensitivity analysis


ZAR (m)


Aug-16 2,561          2,561          2,561          


Feb-17 2,855          2,855          2,855          


Aug-17 2,498          2,498          2,498          


Average arrears 2,638          2,638          2,638          


Cure rate 32.8% 32.8% 32.8%


Time to cure (months) 2                  1.5              1                  


Months inyear 12               12               12               


Estimated arrears cured during the year 5,192          6,922          10,383       



https://viceroyresearch.org/2018/02/14/viceroy-responds-to-capitec/
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyreseach.org 


4. Please elaborate on Capitec’s recently amended maximum customer loans policy 
Viceroy obtained a communication from Capitec Head Office to its branches, which details subsequent to our 


original report – and on the day of Capitec’s response to Viceroy – Capitec appears to have amended the 


maximum number of loans consumers are entitled to: 


 
Figure 4 Extract from Capitec branch communications 


The direction of this limit amendment is unclear from Figure 4 above. 


Capitec should disclose to its investors and borrowers why it has amended this policy while recently stating they 


have adequate risk policies in place. An amendment to the maximum number of loans issued, in either direction, 


will have a major impact on Capitec’s risk profile and should be disclosed to the market. 


If the maximum number of loans per customer has increased, we believe this will drastically increase the risk of 


Capitec’s loan book and corroborates our thesis that overindebted customers finance existing loans by taking 


out fresh loans.  


If the maximum number of loans per customer has decreased, this suggests Capitec are actively curbing the 


underlying risk of their underrepresented delinquencies and corroborating our thesis that the loan book is 


unsustainable. This outcome, in our opinion, would represent a prudent step in minimizing the financial damage 


caused by underrepresented loan book risk. 


5. Branch-level internal controls 
Following from Question 4 above, the last dot point on Figure 4 above states: 


“System changes will be done in future to alert employees granting credit that the maximum number of 


term loans have been exceeded” 


Why did Capitec not previously have internal controls in place to enforce the maximum number of terms loans 


extended to a consumer?
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyreseach.org 


6. How many loan accounts, on average, do Capitec consumers have? How has this grown over time? 
Analysis of tens of thousands of datasets from reputable debt counsellors show the number of Capitec loans per 


customer have increased ~50% over the last 2-3 years, despite a mostly flat market across competitors. 


Can you please advise how many loans each Capitec customer has, on average, and how much this figure has 


grown over time since 2013 on quarterly basis? 


7. Please advise which financial regulators are in discussions Capitec, if any, in relation to research 


prepared by Viceroy 
Local investors have asserted through media outlets that Capitec are in discussions with the SARB in relation to 


the research compiled by Viceroy and possible breaches of the National Credit Act: 


 
Figure 5 Extract from Independent Online – “Capitec will ignore Viceroy’s latest broadside”3 


Please confirm and deny the accuracy of these assertions, and please advise of any other financial regulators 


that are in discussions with Capitec, if any. 





We look forward to your response.  


Yours faithfully 





Viceroy Research 








                                                                 
3 https://www.iol.co.za/business-report/companies/capitec-will-ignore-viceroys-latest-broadside-13294393  



https://www.iol.co.za/business-report/companies/capitec-will-ignore-viceroys-latest-broadside-13294393
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyreseach.org 


Important Disclaimer  


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation.
