Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Pretium Loses its General Manager 
Viceroy detail  Pretium ’s unannounced departure of B rucejack ’s General Manager just 12 days 


after our initial report  (NYSE:PVG) Important disclaimer annexed –  please read before continuing  


SEPTEMBER 18, 2018 – Viceroy continues its coverage on Pretium Resources Inc. This report will detail what 


appears to be an exodus of personnel from Pretium since the start of the operation at the Brucejack mine.  


Notably the General Manager of Pretium’s Brucejack mine, Kevin Torpy, has just resigned from the company. 


This was not announced by Pretium, but instead by Torpy’s new employers: Titan Mining Corporation – a 


microcap zinc explorer – on 17 September 2018. Yet again it is left to Viceroy to inform stakeholders of key 


developments. 


 
Figure 1 Titan Mining Announces Donald Taylor as CEO and other Senior Management Appointments1 


 
Figure 2 Pretium Management Profiles2 


                                                                 
1 https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/09/17/1571550/0/en/Titan-Mining-Announces-Donald-Taylor-as-CEO-
and-Other-Senior-Management-Appointments.html  
2 https://www.pretivm.com/corporate/management/default.aspx  



https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/09/17/1571550/0/en/Titan-Mining-Announces-Donald-Taylor-as-CEO-and-Other-Senior-Management-Appointments.html

https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/09/17/1571550/0/en/Titan-Mining-Announces-Donald-Taylor-as-CEO-and-Other-Senior-Management-Appointments.html

https://www.pretivm.com/corporate/management/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


Torpy’s departure makes him the 4th member of Brucejack’s senior management and 


director group to depart since the mine commenced commerce production in July 2017, 


amongst a wave of staff turnover across the company.  


Note that Torpy is recognized as the author of two of Pretium’s Annual Reclamation Reports (which the company 


has recently applied to amend), in charge of waste rock and tailings disposal, and generally responsible for all 


operational aspects on the Brucejack site. 


 
Figure 3 Roles & Responsibilities - Individuals Involved in Construction/Operations Phase of Waste Rock Tailings Deposition 3 


 
Figure 4 Metadata extract of Pretium 2016 ARR  


We have previously discussed Pretium’s issues with excessive potentially acid generating (PAG) rock, which it 


could not dispose of fast enough and requested an extension for.  


For the record, we do not mean to imply that Torpy is responsible for Brucejack’s PAG rock difficulties: we 


believe this was ultimately caused by overmining and would fall far beyond the scope of his control. We do 


however believe it is telling that he has left the company in the wake of the increased scrutiny and material 


inconsistencies faced by Pretium’s filings. 


Per Figure 2, Torpy is also listed as part of Pretium’s Senior Management team on the 


company’s website. We believe Pretium is doing a disservice to its stakeholders in not 


informing them of key personnel departures prior to other companies announcing their 


recruitment. 


Viceroy perceive Torpy’s departure as a major red flag. It is notable that Torpy appears to have a long-standing 


involvement in the development of Brucejack’s operations plan to run a commercially viable mine. Torpy 


appears to have abruptly resigned from his duties without any advance warning or succession plan from Pretium, 


less than two weeks after Viceroy’s preliminary report. 


 
Figure 5 Extract of Kevin Torpy’s LinkedIn4 


                                                                 
3 Operation, Maintenance & Surveillance Manual: Brucejack Gold Mine Subaqueous Waste Rock & Tailings Deposition–p. 10 
4 https://www.linkedin.com/in/kevintorpy/  



https://www.linkedin.com/in/kevintorpy/
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


Unusually high staff turnover 
Torpy is one of at least 38 staff to have resigned from Pretium since the mine commenced commercial 


production in July 2017. A (likely incomplete) list of identified resignations is as follows: 


Position Date left 


General Manager Inferred notice given Sept 2018 


Mill Maintenance Planner Sep-18 


HR Advisor Nov-17 


Construction Safety Representative Jul-17 


Director of Pretium Aug-18 


Director of Pretium May-18 


Corporate Secretary Jul-18 


Environmental Scientist Jul-18 


Accounting Clerk  Jul-18 


Mill Operations Superintendent  Jun-18 


Control Room Operator Jun-18 


Director of Pretium  May-18 


Resource Geologist May-18 


Buyer May-18 


Project/ Production Geologist Jan-18 


Alternate Mine Manager - Mine Superintendent Jan-18 


Environmental Scientist  Jan-18 


Exploration Geologist Nov-17 


Geologist Oct-17 


Project Controls Management  Sep-17 


Cost Engineer Aug-17 


Mechanical Piping Supervisor  Aug-17 


Senior Cost Control Jul-17 


Health & Safety Advisor Jul-17 


Electrician Jul-17 


Environmental Scientist  Jul-17 


Construction Admin Manager (Formerly General Superintendent)  Jul-17 


Contracts Administrator Jul-17 


Supply Chain Management Jul-05 


Metallurgy Consultant & Commissioning Manager Aug-17 


Health & Safety Manager Apr-18 


Recruitment Manager Dec-17 


Senior Materials Manager Jun-17 


Logistics Manager Jun-17 


Exploration Geologist Sep-17 


Contracts Coordinator Aug-17 


Geological Technician Oct-17 


Executive Assistant/Document Control Jul-17 


Project Controls Manager Jun-17 


Figure 6 Viceroy summary of Pretium resignations 


This pattern of high turnovers is consistent throughout pre-commercial and development phases, especially 


within Pretium’s geological and technical staff. 


Our industry consultants have expressed serious discomfort with the extent of the level of resignations, even 


when considering many staff were assigned on a contract basis for development works.
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within Pretium or any other entity to file a report 


with the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroyresearch@gmail.com.  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer  


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 





 



mailto:viceroyresearch@gmail.com
