ADAP (Adaptimmune): We are blowing the whistle to the FDA on this suspicious 


patient death (PT:  $1) 
Part 1 in a Multipart Series on ADAP (SHORT)  by Art Doyle 


In memory of a truly brave patient (“M”) who died trying to advance the cause of fighting cancer.  He 


posted this photo the day he received his Adaptimmune experimental MAGE-A10 TCR cells.  He was put 


on life support two weeks later and died less than two weeks after that.  Adaptimmune management 


claims his death has nothing to do with the treatment.  Art vehemently disagrees and so should you. 


Note:  Art intends to protect the identity of this patient and his family.  His posts are/were public as 


he was an outspoken warrior in his battle with cancer.  The death itself has been written about 


publicly here.  The proof of identity of this patient has been submitted to the FDA. 





Summary of this Report 


1. Adaptimmune’s solid tumor TCR programs are a disaster and they know it. 


2. Adaptimmune is already reeling from patient deaths in its MAGE program and 


knows it can’t sustain another hit. 


3. Adaptimmune investors might forget that the conditioning regimen for ADAP 


TCRs now contains FLU (fludarabine) again. 


4. The patient’s own published data will show his health and regimen leading up to 


and through the Adaptimmune trial, shutting down management’s attempts to 


claim this had ‘NOTHING TO DO WITH THE TREATMENT’. 


5. Art has initiated formal whistleblower proceedings with the FDA against 


Adaptimmune through the Division of Communication and Consumer Affairs for 


CBER (FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation & Research). 


ADAPTIMMUNE MANAGEMENT MUST BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE FOR 


DISREGARDING THE OBVIOUS SAFETY ISSUES PRESENTED IN THEIR TRIALS 


JUST TO AVOID ANOTHER ‘CLINICAL HOLD’. 



http://epvantage.com/Universal/View.aspx?type=Story&id=748182&isEPVantage=yes
Reading this report, you agree that use of Art Doyle research is at your own risk. In no event will 


you hold Art Doyle or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by 


any information in this report. This report is not investment advice or a recommendation or 


solicitation to buy or sell any securities.  


You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision 
with respect to securities covered herein. You represent to Art Doyle that you have sufficient 
investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinions in this report. 
You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person 
unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  


Conflict of Interest Advice: You should assume that on the publication date of this report, Art 
Doyle has a net short position with respect to the shares (and/or options, swaps, and other 
derivatives related to the shares) of the issuer discussed in this report. Therefore, Art Doyle 
stands to profit in the event the issuer’s share price declines, and may incur investment losses if 
such issuer’s share price increases, following the date of this report. This report, therefore, 
specifically emphasizes negative aspects of the issuer that Art Doyle believes have not been 
properly reflected in the share price of the issuer. Art Doyle may buy, sell, cover or otherwise 
change the form or substance of its position in the issuer in its sole discretion at any time. Art 
Doyle disclaims any obligation to notify the market of any such changes in advance.  


This research and report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, 
assessments, beliefs, views, and opinions of Art Doyle prepared with respect to, among other 
things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer may faces and the potential 
impact of those issues on its future business, financial condition and results of operations, as well 
as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, access to capital markets, 
market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions 
may prove to be substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and 
uncertainties beyond Art Doyle control.  


This research and report expresses Art Doyle opinions, which have been solely based upon 
publicly available information, as well as inferences and deductions through our research and 
analytical process. Art Doyle believes all factual information contained herein to be accurate and 
reliable, and has obtained such information from public sources believed to be accurate and 
reliable. However, the issuer may possess or have access to information that materially differs 
from the information presented herein.
Art really doesn’t like his job sometimes.  He is very certain that Adaptimmune’s (ADAP) solid 


tumor TCR programs are complete garbage and will never work.  Single antigen solid tumor T-


cell therapy is just plain stupid.  It is like trying to destroy a mountain with a ball peen hammer.  


Good luck.  So when he heard there were some problems on an Adaptimmune trial, he looked 


up from his ‘500 bottlecaps’ jigsaw puzzle he had been saving for the holidays and figured that 


the dang things just didn’t work.  Because they won’t in the long run and Adaptimmune 


management knows it.  Which is why they are SLOOOOOOOWWWW playing everything after 


NY-ESO (which also doesn’t really ‘work’ but who really cares).  However, what they have 


appeared to do in their MAGE-A10 trial is truly atrocious.  They appear to have simply stepped 


over a highly suspicious patient death of a young father of three and said ‘NOT RELATED TO 


TREATMENT’.  This, despite overwhelming evidence that it is at least POSSIBLY related to 


treatment.  Did they tell you about this death?  No, a reporter did.  So herein Art will do what 


Adaptimmune refuses to do and provide the FDA and investors with the information they need 


to make an informed decision about this patient death.  As Art says earlier, he is protecting the 


identity of this patient despite the fact that they have posted everything publicly.  Here is all 


you need to know: 


Timeline Summary (again, all information obtained from publicly available sources): 


1) “Late September/Early October 2017”: Patient M undergoes leukaphereis at a major 


cancer center in the southern US 


2) “Early October 2017”: Patient M undergoes lymphodepletion at same center 


3) October 17, 2017:  Patient M receives infusion of engineered Adaptimmune MAGE-A10 


TCRs. 


4) October 27, 2017:  Patient M is discharged home 


5) October 28, 2017:  Patient M is rushed to the hospital via ambulance 


6) October 29, 2017:  Patient M is admitted to the ICU and put on life support including 


ventilator 


7) November 13, 2017:  Patient M dies, having never been taken off life support 





- Adaptimmune has two huge reasons to be scared of deaths in this MAGE-A10 TCR trial: 


o Their MAGE-A3 TCR trial was involved in two patient deaths related to unexpected 


cardiovascular toxicity back in 2011 and 2012. 


▪ “Cross reactivity” (off target effects) is a MAJOR risk factor for solid tumor 


T cell therapy.  This isn’t CD19—this is real war.  If you hit a healthy cell 


with the T cell therapy you are SCREWED.  And these Adaptimmune MAGE-


A3 patients were SCREWED. 


▪ Art believes that Adaptimmune is so blinded by crossreactivity findings in 


this ‘safety study’ that they are missing out on the other HUGE ISSUE… 


o The conditioning regimen for the Adaptimmune MAGE-A10 TCR trial is “now 


enhanced with the great taste of FLU (fludarabine)!!!” 


▪ This change to add FLU to the conditioning regimen was made to their 


protocol on April 4, 2017—just a few months before M enrolled: 



http://epvantage.com/Universal/View.aspx?type=Story&id=748182&isEPVantage=yes

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3743463/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3743463/

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02592577?term=adaptimmune&draw=1&rank=7

https://clinicaltrials.gov/archive/NCT02592577/2017_04_06/changes

https://clinicaltrials.gov/archive/NCT02592577/2017_04_06/changes
▪ Why would they do this?  Well, because Adaptimmune management 


learned that their product doesn’t work pretty much at all without it in 


another trial (NY-ESO).  Recall that Adaptimmune tried to take FLU away 


for the NY-ESO program due to the safety concerns raised in the Juno trials, 


but had to add it back in when it turns out they needed it to get ANY 


efficacy at all (and we don’t see much as far as lasting, life changing efficacy 


for NY-ESO). 


▪ Why does that matter?  Well, FLU has a lot of issues and neurotoxicity isn’t 


the only one.  REPEAT AFTER ART:  FLUDARABINE CAUSES DIRECT 


PULMONARY TOXICITY.  Here is one of MANY references.  LET ART JUST 


GOOGLE IT FOR YOU.  So you are going to tell me that you believe 


Adaptimmune and their ‘investigators’ when they tell you that the 


treatment had NOTHING TO DO with the patient being put on life support 


shortly after he received his treatment.  Adaptimmune gives lung cancer 


patients FLU and they end up on a ventilator.  When asked if this regimen 


IN ANY WAY could have led to this outcome, they say ‘NOPE!’ 


- Oh, and one more thing:  CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE ALSO CAUSES LUNG TOXICITY!!! 


o Cyclophosphamide is the other agent in the lymphodepleting regimen.  It is a 


chemo agent with well known lung toxicity.  Here is what they tell doctors about 


it in a popular decision support tool. 


o Wonder if the conditioning regimen took a toll on Patient M?  Remember him 


from our cover photo?  Here is a photo he posted just ONE WEEK after the one on 


the cover (YES THAT IS THE SAME GUY!): 



https://www.biopharmadive.com/news/after-setback-adaptimmune-revamps-t-cell-study/428205/

https://www.biopharmadive.com/news/after-setback-adaptimmune-revamps-t-cell-study/428205/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12226014

http://lmgtfy.com/?q=fludarabine+pulmonary+toxicity

http://lmgtfy.com/?q=fludarabine+pulmonary+toxicity

https://www.uptodate.com/contents/cyclophosphamide-pulmonary-toxicity

https://www.uptodate.com/contents/cyclophosphamide-pulmonary-toxicity
o Art failed out of medical school, but I’d say that his condition is deteriorating 


rapidly.  But as Adaptimmune would say, it has nothing to do with the treatment! 


- Don’t believe what the PI’s are telling you…they have NO IDEA WHAT THEY ARE DOING. 


o In one of his posts, the patient notes (emphasis and redaction mine):  “[T]hey 
have done around 20 CAR T's on Leukemia patients at [redacted] so far and know 


what to look for... but are still very vague since this is their first solid tumor trial.” 
o The inclusion criteria for this trial includes the following: 


▪ “ECOG Performance Status 0-1 and anticipated life expectancy >3 


months.” 


o The patient was put on life support less than two weeks after getting his T cell 


therapy. 


o Bottom line:  ask yourself if this particular patient would have died on THIS 


PARTICULAR DAY in November if they never met Adaptimmune or their 


investigators.  Art doesn’t see how you can say with a straight face how you could 


say that the trial wasn’t the cause of this person’s death in some direct way, shape 


or form. 


- Let’s let the patient’s own posts speak for themselves.  This is what the patient posted 


about their health and regimen on a public page prior to joining the trial: 


Either the PI doesn’t know how to assess a patient properly for their own 


inclusion criteria OR they don’t know how to properly assess a patient death for 


causality.  Because this did NOT look like a guy who was supposed to be on life 


support 12 days after getting his treatment. 


ADAPTIMMUNE AND THE PI CAN’T HAVE IT BOTH WAYS!!! 



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02592577?term=adaptimmune&draw=1&rank=7
o So what we see here is a guy who had a fairly standard chemo regimen that 


appears to have been designed AROUND (not THROUGH) his compromised lungs. 


o He was able to walk three miles a day. 


o He was deemed by the PI of the Adaptimmune trial to be ECOG 0-1 and to have a 


life expectancy greater than three months.  This all makes perfect sense given 


everything we know about this brave father of three. 


o And yet, he died within a month of receiving his Adaptimnune T cell therapy.  And 


the company claims that the trial had NOTHING TO DO with his death. 


- Art has formally blown the whistle to the FDA on Adaptimmune management regarding 


what he believes to be an egregious coverup of a highly suspicious patient death.  He 


believes the company is doing this solely to protect their own interests and are not 


providing sufficient communication to patients and shareholders.  Here is the mechanism 


under which he has filed a complaint and provided the FDA with the sufficient information 


they need to hold the company accountable: 
 





 



https://www.fda.gov/ScienceResearch/SpecialTopics/RunningClinicalTrials/ComplaintsrelatingtoClinicaltrials/default.htm
Art’s summary of the situation: 


- Adaptimmune is fumbling its way through what is sure to be failed single antigen solid 


tumor T cell therapy programs. 


- They have had some major safety issues in the past and are highly defensive about 


anything that would appear to be a new safety issue. 


- A patient has died under some highly unusual circumstances which appear to be in some 


way directly related to the clinical trial that was conducted by Adaptimmune—either it 


was the therapy itself or the conditioning regimen but this person was put on life support 


rather suddenly and in direct contrast with the inclusion criteria. 


- Rather than communicate this information with shareholders and the FDA, Adaptimmune 


management is hiding behind a ‘safety committee’ which they claim has ruled the death 


unrelated to the ‘treatment’.  This completely flies in the face of reason and common 


sense.  The patient was given two drugs with known pulmonary toxicity.  A previous 


version of this TCR killed two patients for cardiac toxicity.  Any and all deaths (especially 


within weeks of treatment) should at the very least be ruled ‘possibly’ related to 


treatment.   


o The ‘committee’ excuse that Adaptimmune is using is BS and the company isn’t 


required to accept their recommendation especially if it makes no sense.  Would 


this father of three have died on this particular day were it not for the intervention 


of Adaptimmune?  Art thinks not and neither should you. And neither will the FDA. 


o Art believes the ‘committee’ is likely protecting the PI and giving them plausible 


deniability.  This is nonsense.  Common sense says that drugs which hurt the lungs 


may kill someone with bad lungs.   


- Art has blown the whistle to the FDA on Adaptimmune management utilizing the FDA’s 


Complaint Reporting Program for Biologic Studies.  A redacted copy of our letter can be 


found at the back of this report. 





Investors have flocked to T Cell therapies for promises of ‘CRs’ (complete 


responses)…and what has Adaptimmune given you? 


What did patient M have?  Apparently, he just died of natural causes?!?   


There is NO WAY out of this:  either their conditioning regimen is dangerous, 


their therapy is INERT (NO response), their therapy is dangerous OR ALL OF 


THE ABOVE!!! 


Meanwhile Adaptimmune management is happy to whistle past the 


graveyard…
