1 
 





WVE (Wave Life Sciences): All Pump, No Action…Hitting RESET (PT:  $16) 
Part 1 in a Multipart Series on WVE (SHORT)  by Art Doyle 








Summary of this Report 


This first report will break down the bull thesis point by point into a series we like to 


call ‘Myth vs. Reality’.  We shed a much-needed dose of reality on each of the following 


Wave Life Sciences ‘myths’: 


MYTH 1:  Wave Life Sciences platform is unique and revolutionary 


REALITY: The Company can’t (and won’t) PROVE anything about its platform.  These are 


not real benefits, just marketing nonsense. Published data by Ionis and othes is far 


superior.  And yes, we will prove it. 


MYTH 2:  Wave Life Sciences is a ‘Fast Follower’ in Huntington’s Disease if/when Ionis 


succeeds 


REALITY:  Ionis’ successful HD trial nullifies Wave Life Sciences ENTIRE approach to 


treating the disease (allele specific).  Oh and gene therapy will destroy this whole field. 


MYTH 3:  Wave Life Sciences is “~15 months behind Ionis in Huntington’s Disease.”  


REALITY:  Lopping off a cohort and getting your IND rejected down’t equal “X” months 


behind.  It means failure. 


MYTH 4:  Wave Life Sciences is a Big Time Player in DMD (Duchenne’s Muscular 


Dystrophy) 


REALITY:  Stop it.  You are not the next Sarepta.  You are not the next anything.  We are 


calling your bluff.    


MYTH 5:  Wave Life Sciences will have ‘top line data’ in the DMD program in Q3 2018 


and ‘top line data’ in the two HD programs in H1 2019. 


REALITY:  Not only are Wave Life Sciences’ milestones not accurate (missing cohorts, 


‘topline data’ that is anything but), but they haven’t come close to hitting a single 


milestone since their IPO.  We spell it out for you…        


NONE of these things are remotely close to reality.  Art suggests hitting the ‘reset' 


button on this inflated stock and bringing it back to its IPO price of $16.
2 
 





Reading this report, you agree that use of Art Doyle research is at your own risk. In no event will 


you hold Art Doyle or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by 


any information in this report. This report is not investment advice or a recommendation or 


solicitation to buy or sell any securities.  


You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision 
with respect to securities covered herein. You represent to Art Doyle that you have sufficient 
investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinions in this report. 
You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person 
unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  


Conflict of Interest Advice: You should assume that on the publication date of this report, Art 
Doyle has a net short position with respect to the shares (and/or options, swaps, and other 
derivatives related to the shares) of the issuer discussed in this report. Therefore, Art Doyle 
stands to profit in the event the issuer’s share price declines, and may incur investment losses if 
such issuer’s share price increases, following the date of this report. This report, therefore, 
specifically emphasizes negative aspects of the issuer that Art Doyle believes have not been 
properly reflected in the share price of the issuer. Art Doyle may buy, sell, cover or otherwise 
change the form or substance of its position in the issuer in its sole discretion at any time. Art 
Doyle disclaims any obligation to notify the market of any such changes in advance.  


This research and report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, 
assessments, beliefs, views, and opinions of Art Doyle prepared with respect to, among other 
things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer may faces and the potential 
impact of those issues on its future business, financial condition and results of operations, as well 
as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, access to capital markets, 
market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions 
may prove to be substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and 
uncertainties beyond Art Doyle control.  


This research and report expresses Art Doyle opinions, which have been solely based upon 
publicly available information, as well as inferences and deductions through our research and 
analytical process. Art Doyle believes all factual information contained herein to be accurate and 
reliable, and has obtained such information from public sources believed to be accurate and 
reliable. However, the issuer may possess or have access to information that materially differs 
from the information presented herein.
3 
 


And now…A holiday message from Art: 


To anyone out there who has tried to discredit our work, let’s make one thing clear:  get lost.  


We are tweeting out free research and ideas.  We have done so without presenting any 


credentials, any ‘I went to this school’ or ‘I worked at this company’ bullshit.  Just good old 


fashioned hard work given out for free for you to download and bitch about.  We do this 


because you don’t do the work yourself and neither does the sell side.  We see your stupid 


comments as you try and discredit an entire mountain of evidence against your beloved stock 


by attempting to invalidate a single part the report (the misspelling of a trade name, for 


example).  You AND the sell side shills are both part of the problem (we see you Leerink, 


Mizunho, Jefferies, Suntrust...).   


You might have a general idea of what Art is about to show you which is why you are reading 


this report at this very moment.  The key question you should have as we exit 2017 is…how did 


ol’ Art do?  Well, glad you asked (prices as of close 12/15/2017): 





Yes, ol’ Art was FOUR FOR FOUR AGAINST AN ALMOST 20% INCREASE IN THE XBI BIOTECH 


INDEX!  And we aren’t even going to go back and talk about how much greater your return 


would have been had you covered OMER at say $14 last month.  So now that we have reminded 


you why you read Art’s stuff FOR FREE, let’s discuss the next idea which you should just go now 


right now and get started on.  It’s pretty easy and it’s a simple trade: 


Stock Ticker Date Price Current Return


La Jolla Pharmaceuticals LJPC 3/31/2017 $31.50 $23.91 31.7%


Aclaris Therapeutics ACRS 4/21/2017 $32.50 $24.23 34.1%


Omeros Corporation OMER 6/28/2017 $22.61 $19.56 15.6%


Adaptimmune ADAP 11/30/2017 $8.28 $7.37 12.3%


XBI Index .XBI 3/31/2017 $69.26 $81.82 18.1%


HIT THE RESET BUTTON ON WAVE LIFE SCIENCES (WVE) AND GO BACK TO ITS 


2015 IPO PRICE OF $16.  THEY HAVE ACCOMPLISHED ABSOLUTELY NOTHING 


SINCE THEN AND HAVE NO REAL CATALYSTS UNTIL THE END OF 2019 


(ASSUMING THEY DON’T HIT THEIR USUAL DELAYS).  THIS STOCK IS ALL PUMP 


AND NO ACTION. 


In Part One of this Multipart Series on Wave Life Sciences (WVE), we pick 


apart the RIDICULOUS bull thesis point by point (thanks LEERINK!).   


Part 2 will focus on Pfizer giving up and a deeper dive into the technology 


(and lack thereof).   


Stay tuned for Art’s BIG SURPRISE during JPMorgan on WVE
4 
 


This is one of the easiest reports Art has ever written.  You are going to be sick of the repetition 


by the time we are through.  Because we have never seen a company that has accomplished 


SO LITTLE as a publicly traded company in our lifetime.  And what little Wave Life Sciences has 


accomplished, they have done WRONG.  To make matters worse, when things go bad for 


them…THEY HIDE IT.  So these guys are like the moronic TRIFECTA of bad biotechnology 


companies.  We have been blessed by some idiotic sell side notes recently by the likes of 


Leerink who are trying like heck to justify the Q4 pump that we are seeing in this stock (led by 


the largest investor RA who obviously want their Christmas bonuses).   


What you will find when you dig more than one inch past the bullshit on this company is a (RICK 


FLAIR VOICE) BS marketing spin heavy, real company coattail ridin’, Pope name droppin’, 


shareholder value destroyin’, do nothin’, milestone missin’, getting IND’s rejectin’, fake 


platform comparin’ no good shell of a company.  WHOOOOOOOOO!!!! 


So here goes, point by point.  To Leerink or any other shills hoping to get a piece of the next 


massively dilutive raise—if I missed any of your company-fed disposable bullet points please 


email Art.  You are right down the road from them in Boston after all.  We are going to play a 


simple game of ‘MYTH vs. REALITY’.  Wave Life Sciences and its management have created what 


we believe is a MYTH about what Wave actually is.  We have pretty good conviction in this 


because if you look at their IPO prospectus from 2015 and what they SAID they would 


accomplish compared to what they have actually accomplished, you will see we are right.  But 


let’s get more specific than that.  HOW is this a myth.  What are they and the sell side feeding 


us that we believe isn’t accurate? 


MYTH 1:  WAVE LIFE SCIENCES’ PLATFORM IS UNIQUE AND REVOLUTIONARY 


REALITY:  Wave hasn’t proven that its platform is better than anything except its own research.  


But Wave tells the sell side analysts with their newly minted PhD’s that their platform is ‘better’ 


and ‘stereopure’ and they buy it hook line and sinker.  WHAT DATA HAVE THEY ACTUALLY SHOWN 


YOU THAT IS DEFINITIVE PROOF THAT THEY ARE BETTER?  And by data I mean in vitro animal data 


(or God forbid CLINICAL data).  Because let’s not kid ourselves, knocking down genes is knocking 


down genes and there are hundreds of companies that can do it.  Did you ever take a GOOD hard 


look at the slides where Wave Life Sciences touts how much better they are?  Well, let me do the 


hard work for you (this is from their November 15, 2017 investor presentation):
5 
 





Art has helpfully labelled each of these travesties in red for you in order to refer to them and 


their massive flaws: 


1) Here we believe they are trying to show that ‘stereopure’ is better than ‘stereorandom’ 


in the area of antisense (a field dominated by Ionis).  A couple of major issues that they 


don’t address: 


a. The knockdown is pretty good for stereorandom at the 3 and 10 mpk dose levels 


and is comparable to the stereopure.   


b. NO ONE OPTOMIZED THE STEREORANDOM CONSTRUCT.  YOU BOUGHT THAT OFF 


A VENDOR.  Let Art explain:  By labelling this chart ‘Antisense’ we believe that 


Wave Life Science management is trying to imply they are better than say Ionis 


who is the best known antisense company in the universe.  Did Ionis design that 


‘stereorandom’ APOC3 construct using their platform?!?  NO!  So why are you 


implying this is a fair comparison.  Let Ionis build an APOC3 and send it you, then 


post this…we bet you LOSE at all doses. 


c. BOTTOM LINE:  For every paper that Wave Life Sciences shows you that says that 


‘stereopure’ nucleic acids are better than ‘stereorandom’, there is one that says 


there is no difference at all (in fact it could even be described as WORSE).  And 


guess which ones came first, from more established players in the space of RNA 


interference (hint:  the ones that said the technology was NO GOOD). 


2) Here we believe they are trying to show that they are superior to RNAi.  A couple of major 


issues they don’t address: 


a. Most of the ‘improvement’ you see in this graph is them going from ‘WVE RNAi 


1.0’ to ‘WVE RNAi 3.0’.  Congratulations, you guys are getting better at not sucking 


using all the shareholder money you are wasting.  However, this slide is a mess.  


1 
2 


3 



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25398895

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25398895
6 
 


Are you not able to get full knockdown with your constructs (down to the bottom 


of your graph) like the double stranded RNAi constructs are able to?  Sketchy.  


b. Now, as for the ‘double stranded RNAi’ constructs on the graph we just 


mentioned…YOU BOUGHT THOSE FROM A VENDOR TOO.  Those are also not best 


of breed and are not optimized.  This is the equivalent of saying your car is the 


fastest in the world because you beat 2017 Hyundai.  No, you need to beat a 2018 


prototype Bugatti to prove you are the fastest in the world.  And you can’t run the 


race in your own backyard.  The fact that Wave Life Sciences posts this ‘data’ and 


claims it validates their platform is a joke.   


c. BOTTOM LINE:  siRNA is NOT the best of breed in 2017 for RNAi and should not 


be used for comparing technologies.  Wave Life Sciences seems aware of this fact 


which is why most of their graph involves their own evolution of sucking less with 


their own technology.  We believe Wave management is purposely using off the 


shelf constructs from vendors that use dated technologies to snow novice 


investors.  There are shRNA technologies, Dicer substrate technologies…so many 


things in 2017 that are more relevant yet they want to pretend that old technology 


is still comparable.  Hey Wave, why not put Dicerna’s APOC3 construct up there? 


Hey, don’t believe Art?  Here is a recent slide from Dicerna Pharmaceuticals 


(DRNA) showing the ability of their NEXT GENERATION, MODIFIED platform to 


knockdown their target.  IF you aren’t a scientist, what you want in knockdown is 


for the graph to be LOW to the bottom of the axis—that means that you have 


reduced the mRNA expression of the gene.  This is from their May 2, 2017 


presentation, slide 14: 


Do you see what we are talking about?  The red line at the bottom?  How after 


one dose it HUGS THE GODDAMN FLOOR FOR WEEKS!?!?  And you are trying to 


tell me that when Wave Life Sciences was testing their APOC3 compounds they 


went up against something like this?!?  Of course not.  They bought something off 


the shelf like this, or this, or this…threw it in with their crap and WOW.  That is all 


they have been doing since they went public.  TELLING YOU A STORY.  And they 



https://www.thermofisher.com/order/genome-database/SIRNA/gene/APOC3

https://www.abmgood.com/APOC3-siRNA-Lentivirus-APOC3.html

http://dharmacon.gelifesciences.com/biology-overview-entrezgene-345-sirna-apoc3/
7 
 


have been controlling the narrative by selecting who they get to beat up in the 


various experiments.  But anyone who is in the industry will tell you:  those 


comparisons SUCK.  They aren’t optimized, they aren’t best of breed and they 


aren’t next generation.  But you go ahead and believe them anyways. (Oh and by 


the way, the Dicerna slide was practically picked at random.  There are HUNDREDS 


of examples of this if you just DO ACTUAL WORK and STOP LISTENING TO ONLY 


WHAT THE COMPANY IS TELLING YOU.) 





3) Here we believe they are trying to show that they are superior to exon skipping drugs like 


Sarepta’s Eteplirsen.  Here are a couple of major issues they don’t address: 


a. See those asterisks all over the chart?  You can just stop right there and throw the 


chart out.  Those mean they tested ‘analogs’ of Eteplirsen and Drisapersen.  So it 


is sort of like when they said Michael Phelps was going to race a Great White shark 


and there was no goddamn shark.  Just a computer-generated thing.  This isn’t 


Eteplirsen but an analog.  Thanks for playing. 


b. Even beyond it being an analog, there are so many things wrong with this 


comparison.  If you have looked at therapeutic stocks for more than five minutes, 


this should look weird to you.  Most companies don’t feel the need to include the 


competition in their experiments.  It’s cheesy.  Especially an analog.  If it feels like 


a red flag, it’s because it is.  Put your drug into people and SHOW US.  Oh wait, 


that won’t happen for years.  


MYTH 2:  WAVE LIFE SCIENCES IS A ‘FAST FOLLOWER’ IN HUNTINGTON’S DISEASE IF/WHEN 


IONIS SUCCEEDS 


REALITY:  Ionis Pharmaceutical has already completely negated Wave Life Sciences’ entire 


Huntington’s Disease program.  Game over.  Thanks for coming.  If Ionis doesn’t destroy Wave 


Life Sciences then one of the emerging gene therapy players will.  Let Art break this down for 


you: 


- Art said he wasn’t going to do a lot of science in this report but this is important.  For 


some time now, Wave Life Sciences has been touting its ‘allele specific approach’ to 


Huntington’s Disease or HD.  Every HD patient has a specific mutant HD allele that they 


express.  Right now they are actually developing TWO Huntington’s Disease drugs at the 


If it sounds like Wave Life Sciences does more TELLING about their platform 


then DOING about their platform, that is because all they do is tell you how 


good it is.  There is ZERO clinical data to date.  ZERO published animal data that 


we can find on Huntington’s disease that would allow comparisons to other 


programs like Ionis’.  Just a lot of cell-based assays and schematics on this 


‘STEREOPURE’ marketing BS.  There is nothing tangible that Wave can point to 


that its platform has actually DONE, yet investors have let it get pumped up to 


a billion dollar market cap!
8 
 


same time:  One for SNP 1 and one for SNP 2.  The first one is found in about 55% of the 


HD population.  The second one is found in approximately 16%.  Beyond the 2nd SNP the 


prevalence just shrinks and shrinks.  This is from their own presentation (they took it out 


a while ago because it shows how dumb they are): 


 
The issue is that for each SNP you need a DIFFERENT DRUG.  No, the FDA doesn’t care 


that the drugs are going after the same disease.  Nor does the FDA care that they are 


made on the same ‘Stereopure’ fake BS platform.  The FDA looks at all drugs and their 


safety and efficacy separately and will not cut any corners.  Which is why they actually 


have to run PARALLEL experiments right now in Ontario and Warsaw for their first two 


drugs.   


- The reason for this allele specific approach, Wave Life Science reasoned, was that the 


human brain needs ‘wildtype’ (normal) HTT protein and that suppression ‘may have 


detrimental long-term consequences’.   


- Every other HTT protein knockdown program we can find from Ionis with antisense to 


Voyager and UniQuire with gene therapy do NOT agree with Wave Life Sciences.  They 


reason that the adult brain (25 and older) does not need wildtype HTT protein any more 


and that it is fine to go ahead and knockdown ALL HTT protein. 


- So if Wave Life Sciences was correct in its assumption (that knocking down wildtype HTT 


was bad for you) then this probably wouldn’t have happened this week: 


 
That is right.  After Ionis completed FIVE (yes that is what Art said FIVE) cohorts in its 


Phase 1b study of Huntington’s patients using an antisense molecule that knocked down 


BOTH mutant HTT protein and wildtype HTT protein, Roche wrote Ionis a $45 million 



https://huntingtonsdiseasenews.com/2017/12/12/roche-licenses-huntingtons-drug-candidate-ionis-httrx-from-ionis-pharmaceuticals/
9 
 


check and took over the program.  If Wave Life Sciences theory that they based their 


entire convoluted drug development program around was true, we would expect to have 


seen some tox issues in that study.  Oh, but we didn’t.  And now Wave Life Sciences is 


stuck up in POLAND with an allele specific strategy that is just plain stupid. 


- There is no ‘fast following’ Ionis/Roche.  If their drug works, you don’t need another nearly 


identical approach.  What is more, Ionis/Roche haven’t even validated the HTT protein 


biomarker that Wave Life Sciences management calls ‘clinically validated’.  They need to 


conduct a massive (and long) clinical study to do that.  Roche doesn’t mind—they have 


the time and resources.  Hey WVE shareholder, do you? 


- Maybe you don’t like Ionis or Roche.  Well, Voyager, UniQure and others are entering the 


clinic in 2018 with gene therapy solutions (you know, the one-time treatment variety) 


which would make Wave completely obsolete.  But don’t worry, That FIFTH Wave Life 


Sciences cohort will read out in 2020—they promise!    





BOTTOM LINE:  Wave’s Huntington’s Disease business plan is totally broken RIGHT NOW.  They 


are wasting TWICE the money (at least) and taking TWICE the risk of a company who is developing 


a drug hitting all the alleles, meanwhile their ‘drugs are currently addressing AT MOST 70% of the 


HD market!  Ionis not only beat you to the punch last week, they blew your whole stupid theory 


out of the water!  So not only is Wave Life Science’s HD game already OVER, but they can’t even 


PROVE ANYTHING about their program they DO have.  So here you are, sitting on a failed drug 


development plan, a failed business plan and literally zero data to prove anything otherwise.  I 


hope you are patient—it is a long time until 2020. 


HERE IS THE DEAL:  “I don’t like Ionis” is NOT a valid bull thesis for Wave Life Sciences.  There is 


NOTHING that Wave’s platform can do (even in THEORY) that Ionis platform cannot do.  The 


ENTIRE neurology ‘pipeline’ for Wave Life Sciences is just a ripoff of the Biogen/Ionis 


partnership—except the Wave’s is two years or more behind.  Let’s look at the key features: 


1) Intrathecal delivery….check 


2) Monogenic diseases…check 


3) Antisense platform…check 


Think about it…what if Wave Life Sciences said they were developing “Spinraza Jr.” for Spinal 


Muscle Atrophy?  Ionis is already on the market, selling their drug with Biogen in SMA.  In Wave 


Life Sciences’ world, they would say their ‘Spinraza Jr’ would be BETTER.  What would that be 


worth to you?  Would that be feasible to develop?  Over what time period?  How on earth would 


one EVER show it was superior to Spinraza?  YOU CAN’T YOU MORON.  IT’S IMPOSSIBLE THE 


BATTLE IS ALREADY WON JUST LIKE SAREPTA’S EXONDYS 51!!!  You can’t tell the world you have 


a better mousetrap in a rare disease when there is already a clear winner.  That isn’t how this 


works.  Wave thinks you are stupid enough to ‘wait a couple of years’ (or more!) for clinical data 


to prove that their follow on product works at all.  Not AGAINST the incumbent product mind 


you.  Just works at all.  It’s complete and total nonsense.  Don’t fall for it.  The world does not 


need Spinraza Jr. or Exondys 51 Jr.  Those games are OVER.  Those products are fighting against 


gene therapies.  Not crappy follow on products like those offered by Wave.
10 
 


MYTH 3:  WAVE LIFE SCIENCES (WVE) IS “~15 MONTHS BEHIND IONIS IN HUNTINGTON’S 


DISEASE.”  (This is a direct quote from the embarrassing November 15, 2017 Leerink note). 


REALITY:  Wave Life Sciences has no idea what they are doing on clinical development in any way, 


shape or form.  They were UNSUCCESSFUL in getting a US IND allowed for their Huntington’s 


program (even the worst companies Art has reviewed can get an IND allowed) and had to take 


development offshore.  There are only TWO CENTERS WORLDWIDE recruiting for their 


Huntington’s trial and those are in Ontario Canada and Warsaw Poland (yes, thought leader 


central).  Meanwhile, the lead dog in the race by a mile is Ionis Pharmaceuticals.  They started 


their trial on August 31, 2015 and just recently completed it.  They did FIVE COHORTS in NINE 


CENTERS in their Phase 1b.   So Wave Life Sciences is promising investors clinical data ‘in the 


second half of 2019’.  Let’s see if that is even possible.  Here is what their trial record says: 





Wow, that is cutting it pretty close for a company that can’t hit a milestone to save its life.  


September 2019 and they are going to get you all the data before the end of the year?  Recruiting 


out of TWO CENTERS?  Meanwhile, Ionis recruited in nine centers including real countries like 


Germany and the UK?!?  Man, I wouldn’t bet my money on that.   


…Oh, and one more thing:  WAVE MANAGEMENT MADE A COHORT ‘DISAPPEAR’ TO MAKE EVEN 


THIS RIDICULOUS TIMELINE SEEM PLAUSIBLE! 


What is that you say?  Come on now.  Well, we told you that Ionis did five cohorts.  Maybe Wave 


ALWAYS planned on doing four cohorts instead of five like Ionis did.  NO.  Here is a Wave Life 


Sciences investor presentation from January 6, 2017 (Page 21) where they say they are going to 


do 60 patients per trial in the Phase 1: 


You can’t be a ‘fast follower’ if the catalyst you need to prove you are even in 


the game is in 2020.  And you can’t be a ‘fast follower’ if you approach to 


developing a drug for a disease has just been rendered obsolete by actual 


clinical data. 


Wave Life Sciences won’t tell you any of this.  They won’t tell you that Ionis 


didn’t have any safety issues (which is why Roche wrote the check) or that the 


gene therapy players knock down wildtype.  Nor will they tell you that the 


allele specific approach is so damn inefficient it HAD to be invented by 


someone who had never gotten a drug approved before (oh, it had…) 


 



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03225846?term=wave+life+sciences&recrs=ab&rank=1

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02519036?term=ionis+huntington&rank=1

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02519036?term=ionis+huntington&rank=1

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1631574/000119312517004655/d324054dex991.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1631574/000119312517004655/d324054dex991.htm
11 
 





Not fair, you say.  That was a LONG TIME AGO.  Things can change in eleven months.  Heck, the 


whole NFL collapsed in less time than that.  OK, would you believe Art if he told you they have 


been saying 60 patients as recent as…September 18, 2017? 





But look what magically happened to the same slide in NOVEMBER 6, 2017: 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1631574/000119312517286816/g456839ex99_1s20g1.jpg
12 
 





Do you see how stupid management thinks you are?!?  All the way through the year it’s 


‘approximately 60’ and then out of nowhere it drops to ‘approximately 50’ (which sounds an 


awful lot like 48!).  Meanwhile, their clinical trial record has been on file with the FDA since JULY 


2017 saying 48 patients and four cohorts and finishing in SEPTEMBER 2019.  Yet somehow in the 


slide above that nets you ‘topline data in H1 2019’.  Hmmmmm. 


So if FOUR cohorts of twelve patients puts them finishing the trial in September of 2019 then 


FIVE cohorts would certainly put them finishing the trial in 2020.  And they can’t have that.  So 


we are suggesting that one of these cohorts has been magically eliminated (possibly to return 


later once investors have lost all their money) in order to make the timelines “work”.  Because 


we can assure you that the more conservative five cohort approach is the more realistic approach 


to begin with for a Phase 1 trial.  They clearly had that approach to begin FOR THE MAJORITY OF 


THIS ENTIRE YEAR and magically it disappeared.  We think it is just a really dumb thing to try and 



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03225846?term=wave+life+sciences&recrs=ab&rank=1

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03225846?term=wave+life+sciences&recrs=ab&rank=1
13 
 


do to investors and so should you.  They aren’t going to hit their mark anyways so the least they 


can do is be honest about it.   


MYTH 4:  WAVE LIFE SCIENCES IS A BIG TIME PLAYER IN DMD (DUCHENNE’S MUSCULAR 


DYSTROPHY)  


REALITY:  We believe Wave Life Sciences is completely bluffing on their DMD program in exon 


51.  Hey, everyone needs their year end bonuses (just ask RA Capital) so we kind of get it.  Wave 


Life Sciences management has been touting ‘three programs in the clinic by the end of 2017’ for 


quite some time now.  Here it is at the beginning of their February 1, 2017 presentation: 





Ok, so how were they doing by Q3?  Well, they counted the Huntington’s Disease program as 


TWO (SNP 1 and SNP 2 being separate drugs).  That is sort of cheating but at least it is rational.  


(Don’t allow them later to pretend that there are ‘synergies’ between the programs!)  Well, they 


need a third one in order to hit their marks.  So out of nowhere in November we get this press 


release: 





They even spell it out there at the end that ‘it is the third clinical trial initiated in 2017’ as though 


telling the Board of Directors “F you, pay me…”  This press release has everything: 


- Hat tip to ‘the DMD scientific and patient communities’  


What is more important here than lopping a cohort off in the dead of the night 


to appear like you are going to make a 2019 catalyst timeline is the fact that 


you are investing in a stock that needs to have a 2019 catalyst timeline in the 


first place.   


Wave Life Sciences has and for the next two years AT LEAST will be DEAD 


MONEY.  DO NOT TAKE THE COMPANY AT ITS WORD ON TIMELINES.  IT DOES 


NOT KNOW HOW TO RUN TRIALS—JUST ASK THEM.  Their Huntington’s IND 


got REJECTED by the FDA.  They have only two centers open for their HD trial 


and have given ZERO enrollment updates.  Why won’t you hold management 


responsible to any of its commitments?!? 



http://ir.wavelifesciences.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=254233&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=2314450

http://ir.wavelifesciences.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=254233&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=2314450
14 
 


- A quote from a scientific collaborator! 


- A quote from a patient support group (Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy)—gotta show 


you are just like Sarepta, right!? 


- Contact information for “Patients” (it’s their ‘VP, Patient Advocacy and Market Insights’—


she is a former salesperson at Biogen but you won’t find the word ‘sales’ anywhere in her 


Wave Life Sciences bio…shhhhh….) 


Then it has this really curious language which has us really confused (emphasis ours): 


- “Wave’s first global clinical trial in DMD is expected to enroll up to 40 patients between 


the ages of 5 and 18 years. The Phase 1 inclusion criteria allow for participation of both 


ambulatory and non-ambulatory patients, including those previously treated with 


eteplirsen following an appropriate washout period. The trial has been initiated in the 


United States, with Europe and other regions to follow. Intravenous doses tested in the 


Phase 1 trial will escalate through a range expected to be clinically relevant. In the U.S., 


Wave is required to provide data from ongoing preclinical studies to the FDA in order 


to progress to the highest dose cohorts and planned multi-dose studies.” 


What the hell?!?  We have so many questions it isn’t even funny: 


- When did Wave Life Sciences get its IND allowed?  The company used to talk about ‘we 


will be filing our IND with the FDA… 


- Who is the Principal Investigator for this trial?   


- Why does the Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy, who apparently is so in the know on 


this program and is so excited, still show you as being preclinical?   


- Where is this program recruiting patients and why can’t you find them anywhere? 


- Why haven’t you registered this trial with the FDA? 


- If you did have an IND allowed, what are issues the FDA has safety?  They obviously want 


to see more preclinical studies than what you currently have--why haven’t you disclosed 


this before?  They sound really material.  Companies like Concert Pharmaceuticals (CNCE) 


have notified investors immediately when they hear things like this from the FDA.  You 


just throw it in here like it is no big deal?  Wave, a company that has NEVER gotten an IND 


allowed before and in fact got its previous INDs rejected?!? 


There is something REALLY fishy going on with this program.  Note they never use the words 


‘enrolled its first patient’ nor do they say where such a patient could be enrolled.  They never say 


an IND was allowed.  All ridiculous red flags.  Amateur hour.  None of this matters though.  Sarepta 


already has won the exon 51 fight and they aren’t going anywhere.  Dystrophin isn’t a validated 


clinical biomarker no matter what Wave Life Sciences management tells you.   


Oh, and this ‘top line data in 2018’ catalyst they dangle on this program?  Top line for their DMD 


program is ‘safety and tolerability’.  So get ready to take that to the bank.  The closest thing to 


remotely useful data wouldn’t come until the end of 2019 or later.  They admit that but you have 


to read the fine print. 



mailto:werler@wavelifesci.com

https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwi1rtGK-oXYAhWH7CYKHUYAD8AQFggpMAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.linkedin.com%2Fin%2Fwendyerler&usg=AOvVaw3Wjs1PMC3jCD6R4aklQkFr

http://www.wavelifesciences.com/about

https://www.duchenneconnect.org/clinical-trials/research-faqs/989-wave-life-sciences-exon-skipping-medications.html

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/results?cond=&term=WVE-210201&cntry1=&state1=&recrs=

http://ir.concertpharma.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=1026747
15 
 


By the way, have you heard of this company Solid Biosciences, LLC?  They started their first clinical 


trial for GENE THERAPY for DMD on November 30, 2017.  Oh, and unlike Wave Life Sciences you 


can actually LOOK UP their clinical trial for DMD.  So it’s just like HD.  Pick your poison.  There is 


no ‘fast following’ here.  Wave Life Sciences data for DMD comes out at the end of 2019 or 2020 


if it comes out at all.  In the meantime, Sarepta is going to solidify its business.  Don’t like Sarepta?  


OK.  Solid Bioscience is creating a one-time therapy with a micro dystrophin gene.  Makes sense 


doesn’t it.  Doesn’t your money have better things to do than go to SLEEP until 2020? 


MYTH 5:  WAVE LIFE SCIENCES WILL HAVE ‘TOP LINE DATA’ IN THE DMD PROGRAM IN Q3 2018 


AND ‘TOP LINE DATA’ IN THE TWO HD PROGRAMS IN H1 2019  


REALITY:  The ‘Q3 2018’ catalyst is purposely misleading we believe and there is not a chance in 


hell that the company will read out the HD programs in 2019.  Most importantly, and this is for 


the new investors, WAVE LIFE SCIENCES NEVER HITS ITS MARKS.  So first Art is going to tell you 


that the catalysts they mention are actually fake and then he is going to tell you that it wouldn’t 


matter if they were not fake:  Wave Life Sciences can’t seem to hit a REAL milestone promised to 


investors to save its life.  Let’s go through these one at time, shall we (this is all from their 


November 15, 2017 investor presentation): 


- DMD program ‘Top line data Q3 2018’.  Well, that sounds exciting.  We going to get these 


kids walking again?  I mean, that surely has to be the ‘top line’ right?  No.  The ‘top line’ 


they are referring to is ‘safety and tolerability’.  And I will go ahead and bet you that aside 


from the gnarly inflammation this drug Art believes this could cause on these kids’ 


muscles (more on that in the second report), it will be deemed ‘safe and well tolerated’.  


There, feel better?  Oh, did you want something more?  Like dystrophin levels?  Walking 


longer?  Yeah, that isn’t going to come until (according to their own PR) ‘H2 2019’.  Cue 


the sad trombone music.  So there is no ‘top line data’ of any investor relevance in 2018—


heck, given the open label nature of the extension study the dystrophin samples will be 


taken from I would argue there won’t be a lot of relevance to the 2019 data either.  


Especially with how fast Sarepta and the other players will be moving. 


- HD Program ‘Top line data H1 2019’.  We have already shown you that Wave Life Sciences 


has SELF REPORTED to the FDA that they are not going to finish with the 48 person study 


(which would be FOUR cohorts) until September of 2019.  So we aren’t even sure where 


Just like the ‘disappearing cohort’ we now have the case of the ‘phantom 


trial’.  They both have the same thing in common:  you shouldn’t care about 


either.  The DMD program (like HD) is behind a proven leader.  There is a more 


interesting gene therapy approach emerging faster than Wave Life Sciences 


can produce data.  And their timelines (which are not to be believed anyways) 


have you finding out that you STILL have a loser at the end of 2019 (we say 


2020). 


If you want to put your money to sleep, invest in sleep drugs. 



https://solidbio.com/

https://solidbio.com/content/letter-duchenne-community-about-solid-s-first-clinical-trial

https://solidbio.com/content/letter-duchenne-community-about-solid-s-first-clinical-trial

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03368742?term=solid+biosciences&draw=1&rank=1

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03368742?term=solid+biosciences&draw=1&rank=1

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03225846?term=wave+life+sciences&rank=1
16 
 


this H1 2019 number comes from—hoping and wishing maybe?  But usually in order to 


provide investors with data the study needs to be completed first and then analyzed.  


Mind you they only have two centers open in the entire world.  A real company that 


develops actual drugs like Ionis had a much larger global study and it took them quite a 


bit of time to get their five cohorts done.  So we believe that Wave Life Sciences isn’t even 


being honest about their own internal timelines with investors in order to keep you 


interested in the stock.  We clearly showed you that a cohort magically disappeared.  


Whatever reason they give you for removing the cohort is a lie.  You cannot KNOW a priori 


that you will DEFINITELY not need the fifth cohort.  You might decide once you are well 


under way you don’t need the fifth cohort but it’s not ethical to make that decision exactly 


when your stock is tanking and you need to keep people from running to the exits.  They 


could tell people ‘we might not need the fifth’ but to straight up hide it from you like that 


is disgraceful.  You can thank us later. 


- Now that we have debunked what those milestones and catalysts even are, let Art explain 


why you shouldn’t believe management even farther than you can throw them.  Since Art 


is asking to hit the RESET BUTTON on this stock and go back to the IPO price of $16, why 


don’t we go back to that day in November 2015 and see what kind of promises were being 


made back then.  We will go program by program and you can decide how good Wave 


Life Sciences management is at hitting its marks when it comes to timelines.  That way 


you know how to judge if ‘2019’ really means ‘2021’… (Source IPO prospectus): 


Let’s start with the late stage programs: 


o HD:  “We expect to file investigational new drug applications, or INDs, with the 


FDA for our candidate targeting HTT SNP-1 in late 2016 and our candidate 


targeting HTT SNP-2 in early 2017” 


▪ Outcome:  They NEVER got an IND approved by the FDA for HD.    The 


protocol to do the study in Ontario Canada and Warsaw Poland was filed 


in Q3 2017. 


o DMD:  “We have selected a lead product candidate in our Exon 51 program and 


expect to file an IND with the FDA for this candidate in late 2016.” 


▪ Outcome:  To the best of Art’s knowledge, they have never filed an IND 


with the FDA for this candidate—certainly not in 2016.  In November 2017 


they announced they were ‘initiating a worldwide clinical study’. 


o Irritable Bowel Disease (IBD)—I know, “What?”:  “We expect to file an IND with 


the FDA for this candidate in 2017.” 


▪ Outcome:  They haven’t even advanced this (SMAD7) program out of 


‘Discovery’ phase on the Wave Life Sciences pipeline chart, let alone filed 


an IND on it. 


Let’s do the same thing with the earlier stage programs: 


o EBS (Epidermolysis Bullosa Simplex):  “In EBS…We expect to identify lead 


candidates in our KRT14 SNP-1 and KRT14 SNP-2 programs in 2016.” 


▪ Outcome:  Per the Wave Life Sciences current pipeline chart, they have not 


advanced the KRT14 program for EBS beyond the discovery phase in 2017, 


let alone 2016.  FAIL. 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1631574/000119312515374504/d42123d424b1.htm#rom42123_12

http://www.wavelifesciences.com/pipeline

http://www.wavelifesciences.com/pipeline
17 
 


o DMD:  “In DMD…We expect to identify a lead candidate in our AcRIIb program in 


2016.” 


▪ Outcome:  Per the Wave Life Sciences current pipeline chart, just like the 


EBS program they have not advanced the Activin receptor program beyond 


the discovery phase in 2017, let alone 2016.  FAIL part 2. 





DO YOU SEE A PATTERN HERE?  DO YOU NOW SEE WHY THIS STOCK WAS TANKING? 


Now can you see why Art titled this report “ALL PUMP, NO ACTION”?!?  These guys 


make promises after promises yet NEVER DO ANYTHING.  What they tell us they do (like 


HD) is COMPLETELY wrong from the moment they started doing it.  They can provide 


ZERO REAL supporting data that would TRULY substantiate any of their claims.  


Meanwhile, current investors are pumping the stock in the hopes they can get you to 


hold the bag for them.  These 2019 ‘catalysts’ aren’t even REAL—and we have shown 


you that time and time again the company CANNOT HIT ANY TIMELINES—not even 


close.  Don’t fall for this ridiculous pump and hit the reset button.  Make the Wave Life 


Sciences management team actually PROVE they can do something other than hype a 


stock and ride others’ coattails. 


Coming in part 2: 


- A deeper dive on the technology and why all the company’s claims are bogus (tech nerd 


alert!) 


- Why Art believes Pfizer has no actual interest in this technology or this Company 


- Is RA Capital doing a ‘pay to play’ scheme in order to get their portfolio company’s (like 


Wave Life Sciences) articles into major journals?  We do a deep dive. 


Things Wave Life Sciences management should tell you but they won’t: 


- The reason they haven’t published any animal data using their HD  constructs. 


- The reason they don’t compare their platform to Ionis’ 2’MOE constructs 


- The reasons why the FDA rejected their HD INDs in the first place 


- The issues the FDA has with their DMD safety data 


- What it is like to meet the Pope (just kidding, the CEO name drops constantly) 





THEY HIDE, DELAY AND MISS MILESTONES WHILE YOU WAIT… 
 



http://www.wavelifesciences.com/pipeline
