Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


NEPI Rockcastle – Mucking Out the Stable 
Profit Stripping ‘Non -REIT Style’  


On November 28th, 2018 Viceroy Research released a report regarding NEPI Rockcastle (JSE: NRP) detailing what 


we believed to be overinflated profits in the company’s Romanian operations. NEPI issued a response to our 


research and hosted a call for concerned investors. 


Unusually NEPI provided some clarity in terms of their accounting treatments. We maintain our belief that NEPI 


is fundamentally overvalued with reservations regarding the sustainability of distributable income, the tax 


treatment in foreign jurisdictions and the status of the overall company. This we will update on.  


▪ NEPI Rockcastle have not sought to deliver any scope of investigation in response to a request by investors 


in August 2018, and claim it is the prerogative of investors to identify the exact issues they want 


investigated.  It seems clear what issues 10 of South Africa’s largest financial firms sought clarity on: 


potential trading of associated companies, suspicious capital raising activity and property transactions. 


▪ Per our original report, we were of the opinion that transfer pricing is not an adequate explanation as to 


why statutory losses are incurred in Romania. This is due to transfer pricing legislation in Romania and the 


EU. On further investigation, these hard currency, unsecured, intra-group loans are disclosed in NEPI’s Dutch 


subsidiary at rate of 8%-12%, compared to the Romanian mortgage rate of 4.5-5% and safe harbor limit of 


4%. This is a stark contrast to the CFO’s description, in which she did not provide the figures, but guided the 


rate was between 4% to 8%. 


▪ Having obtained the filings of Dutch subsidiary, NE Property Cooperatief UA, we find it untenable how a 


local CFO or Financial Controller locally can advocate a “fair” and arm’s length transfer pricing interest rate 


on unsecured loans of 8%, formerly 12%. Essentially, stakeholders holders at the local level are being 


punished for an excessive and non-arm’s length priced loan. We make this assumption based on local Euro 


borrowing costs within Romania with an LTV of circa 28% as disclosed by NEPI.  


▪ NEPI uses the entirety of its funds earmarked for deferred tax payments to inflate its distributable earnings 


figure. In effect, the company is likely improving their dividend figures at the expense of future 


disbursements.  


▪ New anti-abuse legislation will materially hamper NEPI’s transfer pricing model going forward in Romania, 


Netherlands, and across the EU. Given the extent of transfer pricing, this will impact NEPI’s distributable 


earnings. 


▪ Taking a step back, it is delayed outgoings, not earnings, that substantiate ~20% of distributable earnings. 


The Romania tax channeling is in fact one of many adjustments that allow this unsustainable dividend 


practice. Other items that deserve scrutiny include the dividend contribution of stocks, the antecedent 


dividend add back and the sale of financial investments. 


▪ At a property yield of 6.77%; after accounting for cash costs, interest costs, taxes, and the stock trading at 


a premium to NAV, we fail to see how NEPI can justify a 7.5% dividend unless holders choose to take their 


dividend as scrip, which is dilutive and makes future dividends even harder to justify. Accordingly, we 


maintain our view that the stock is fundamentally overvalued. 


▪ Of concern is that large money managers, including PIC, have continuously chosen to take dividends as scrip. 


▪ SENS trading data shows entities associated with the Resilient stable associate Roque Hafner traded large 


amounts of NEPI shares at least for the period between May 2016 and May 2018. Hafner was implicated in 


the media as being involved in the Resilient insider trading scandal and several Hafner entities used to trade 


Resilient shares also traded NEPI shares.  


We reiterate our belief that NEPI Rockcastle’s shares carry a high investment risk and are fundamentally 


overvalued, which will become increasingly unattractive over time given what we believe are unsustainable 


distribution practices.
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within this company or any other entity to file a 


report with the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroyresearch@gmail.com.  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 





 



mailto:viceroyresearch@gmail.com
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


1. Transparency into Corporate Governance 
NEPI Rockcastle have not sought to deliver any scope of investigation in response to a request by investors in 


August 2018, and claim it is the duty of investors to identify the exact issues they want investigated.  


It seems clear what issues 10 of South Africa’s largest financial firms sought clarity on: potential trading of 


associated companies, suspicious capital raising activity and property transactions. 


When the share price performance and associated values were significantly underperforming and extensively 


written down, this seemed like a prudent request.  Investors raising concerns should not need to guess the 


“under-the-hood” issues of any company especially of that company whose share price performance is now 


being investigated for stock manipulation.  


Our view is shared across the media, as per the Business Live article entitled “NEPI Rockcastle rejects call by 10 


of SA’s largest financial institutions for probe.”1 


We have already highlighted in our original report that the Rockcastle acquisition was extremely dilutive to NEPI 


shareholders to the benefit of Rockcastle shareholders, a large portion of which were insiders. This is due to the 


excessive ~80% book value premium NEPI paid for the company, which was written off in full within 6 months. 


Tax benefits to insiders 
The large premium afforded to Rockcastle holders by NEPI will have resulted in large windfall gains for many of 


its major holders. 


The almost immediate write down of Rockcastle’s goodwill post-transaction essentially meant that minority 


interest intangible losses provided an almost equal tax benefit to the same insiders. 


To clarify, not only were NEPI shareholders left holding the bag in an extremely dilutive, expensive transaction, 


but insiders essentially walked away with tax-free distributable income.   


2. Financial statements 
We give kudos to NEPI’s increased transparency in their response, which broke down its Romanian GAAP to IFRS 


reconciliation responsible for turning a statutory EUR 56.1m loss to a EUR 284.9m. 


 
Figure 1 Reconciliation of Statutory loss to IFRS consolidated profit before tax – NEPI Rockcastle Update on Viceroy Report 


Per our original report, we are of the opinion that transfer pricing is not an adequate explanation as to why 


statutory losses are incurred in Romania. This is due to transfer pricing legislation in Romania and the EU.  


Romanian transfer pricing legislation is aligned with OECD guidelines, where related party transactions must be 


carried out at arm’s length/fair value. Interest payments exceeding the safe harbor limit of 4% are non-


                                                                 
1 https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/property/2018-10-02-NEPI-rockcastle-rejects--call-by-10-of-sas-largest-
financial-institutions-for-probe/ 



https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/property/2018-10-02-nepi-rockcastle-rejects--call-by-10-of-sas-largest-financial-institutions-for-probe/

https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/property/2018-10-02-nepi-rockcastle-rejects--call-by-10-of-sas-largest-financial-institutions-for-probe/
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


deductible (as alluded to by the CFO on NEPI’s conference call) and cannot be carried forward to subsequent 


years. It’s also worth noting that forex losses arising from these foreign currency loans are also non-deductible. 


On further investigation, these hard currency, unsecured, intra-group loans are disclosed in NEPI’s Dutch 


subsidiary at rate of 8-12%, compared to the Romanian mortgage rate of 4.5-5% and safe harbor limit of 4%. 


This is a stark contrast to the CFO’s description, in which she did not provide the figures, but guided the rate was 


between 4-8%. 


 
Figure 2 Extract – NE Property Cooperatief UA. Annual Report 2017 


We do not have the insight into NEPI’s accounts necessary to assess the tax liabilities. 


From the perspective of the borrower, we do not believe these transactions have been conducted at arm’s 


length. Should the lender have been a third party, the cash profit at the local subsidiary (Statutory Loss – 


Depreciation Expense – FOREX) could not feasibly service this loan, and liabilities would hike due to FOREX costs. 


Deferred Tax Expense 
Understandably, these Romanian companies will likely never turn a statutory profit, resulting in deferred taxes. 


This does not appear to be solely from fair value increments, but also transfer pricing. NEPI monetizes its 


deferred tax liabilities: using them to increase its distributable income. 


 
Figure 3 Reconciliation of profit for the year to distributable earnings – NEPI Rockcastle Annual Report 2017 


Without these adjustments, NEPI’s distributable earnings would have totaled EUR 220.45m (2016: EUR 


92.41m), a -18.27% adjustment (2016: -28.06%).   


This is not a sustainable practice, as it benefits current shareholders in cash at the expense of future shareholders 


when liabilities become due.
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org 


Regulatory change 
Romanian legislation effective at the start of 2018 limits the excess debt cost amount deductible to EUR 200,000 


per company per year plus 10% of accounting profit with excessive indebtedness costs added back , effectively 


limiting NEPI’s Romanian tax deferrals.  


 
Figure 4 Anti avoidance rules – ACCACE 2018 Tax Guidelines2 


Dutch regulations effective January 1, 2019 will limit the deductibility of net interest expenses to 30% of adjusted 


taxable profit. 


 
Figure 5 Dutch implementation of directive against tax avoidance (ATAD 1)3 


This legislation alone will significantly impact NEPI’s distributable earnings rate. 


These new rules on profit-stripping and deductions effective 2018 in Romania and 2019 in the Netherlands will 


greatly limit NEPI’s ability to bump their distributable earnings in this manner.  


If correct, this practice can only continue as long as investors largely choose to receive their dividend in scrip 


instead of cash. 


As an aside the only Romanian entities who list auditors on their annual filings appear to be profitable and 


accordingly pay tax. If NEPI assert their Romanian entities are audited by PWC, then their filings have not been 


properly updated.  





                                                                 
2 https://accace.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/2018-02-Tax-Guideline-Romania-EN-compressed.pdf  
3 https://www.pwc.nl/en/budget-day/dutch-implementation-of-directive-against-tax-avoidance.html  



https://accace.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/2018-02-Tax-Guideline-Romania-EN-compressed.pdf

https://www.pwc.nl/en/budget-day/dutch-implementation-of-directive-against-tax-avoidance.html
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org 


Profit distribution scheme 
Due to the unfavorable nature of loans to SPV’s by NE Property Cooperatief and the related nature of these 


companies, we believe that the loans made during 2016 and 2017 should have been classified as profit 


distribution schemes.  


This is according to law 227/2015 entered effect on January 1, 2016 and was replaced in 2018 with the 


regulations detailed above. 


 
Figure 6 Law 227/2015 of the Romanian Tax Code4 


It was previously difficult to assess the transfer pricing model in effect in NEPI’s Romania segment and the 


circumstances around these loans do not particularly apply to other business types within Romania, even if we 


account for safe harbor laws. For instance: 


1. A professional services company with the same corporate structure and profits at an IFRS level, would 


not suffer a statutory loss at the local level as profits are not dependent on unrealized capital gains. A 


reversal of unfair interest charges would immediately incur income taxes for the business on a pro-


forma basis as there would be no pre-existing statutory loss. 


2. In NEPI’s case; as there is a large statutory loss due as fair value gains have not been recognized on the 


income statement, the reversal of unfair interest charges is not subject to tax until the break-even point 


is reached providing a huge tax benefit.  


Essentially the reconciliation of Romanian GAAP to IFRS, the Romanian tax code and NEPI’s structure provide a 


unique situation wherein the company can almost completely eliminate its tax expenses.  


However as detailed above, we believe these loans were profit distribution schemes and may be retroactively 


reclassified as such for the years 2016 and 2017 by the authorities.  


 
Figure 7 Deloitte International Tax Romania Highlights 20185 


 
Figure 8 Real Estate: The Tax Landscape6 


                                                                 
4 https://static.anaf.ro/static/10/Anaf/Prezentare_R/Law227_11042018.pdf  
5 https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/global/Documents/Tax/dttl-tax-romaniahighlights-2018.pdf  
6 https://www.nndkp.ro/articles/real-estate-the-tax-landscape/   



https://static.anaf.ro/static/10/Anaf/Prezentare_R/Law227_11042018.pdf

https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/global/Documents/Tax/dttl-tax-romaniahighlights-2018.pdf

https://www.nndkp.ro/articles/real-estate-the-tax-landscape/
Viceroy Research Group 7 viceroyresearch.org 


This would negate the majority of savings NEPI was able to generate on its interest payments during those 


periods, as well as the size of the interest payments during that period. 


NEPI does disclose the risk of its transfer pricing being challenged in its annual report but reports this risk as 


“low” as of 2017, as well as acknowledging the requirement that related entity transactions should be carried 


out at arm’s length.  





 
Figure 9 Tax risks – NEPI Rockcastle annual report 2017 


We don’t believe intra group loans at a 8-12% interest rate are arm’s length transactions. This claim of arm’s 


length transactions is also mirrored in NE Property Cooperatief’s debt prospectus. 


 
Figure 10 NE Property Cooperatief prospectus
Viceroy Research Group 8 viceroyresearch.org 


Key Takeaways 
In our original report, we did not directly attribute Romania’s lack of profits to any specific reason, however 


highlighted many potential reasons for why the numbers did not stack up. We give kudos to NEPI’s increased 


transparency in their response, which broke down its Romanian GAAP to IFRS. 


If we take step back, what matters to NEPI is whether its dividend is sustainable. A property yield of 6.77%, 


cannot reasonably justify a dividend of 7.5%. NEPI’s trick lies in the distributable earnings report. 


The Romania tax item is in fact one of many adjustments that allow this unsustainable dividend practice. Other 


items that deserve scrutiny include the dividend contribution of stocks, the antecedent dividend add back and 


the sale of financial investments. Financial investments have contributed to large portions of NEPI’s distributable 


income, despite the company inferring that it planned to reduce investments in these securities in favor of 


increasing direct property investments. The sale of these investments is inherently non-recurring. 


 
Figure 11 Circular to shareholders – Merger of NEPI and Rockcastle 





In normal circumstances, a scheme like this would quickly run out of cash. In this instance, over 70% of the 


dividend cost was paid through the payment of a stock dividend. This unusual measure was widely accepted 


largely because the shareholder base is largely composed of Resilient, Fortress, and their related parties.
Viceroy Research Group 9 viceroyresearch.org 


3. FSCA Investigation into market manipulation 
NEPI – together with Fortress, Resilient and Greenbay – are currently subject to a FSCA investigation into 


prohibited trading practices, specifically market manipulation. Other members of the Resilient Stable are also 


subject to ongoing insider trading and misleading reporting cases (alongside Steinhoff and Capitec). 


Key management resignations 
NEPI’s co-CEO, Spiro Noussis, and former Rockcastle CFO and executive director, Nick Maltulovich, have both 


submitted intentions to resign from NEPI just one month after FSCA investigations into the Resilient Stable’s 


conduct was announced. Mr. Noussis resigned from his role as co-CEO with immediate effect. 


We are of the opinion there are significantly red flags when audit committee chairman and independent non-


executive director Michael Mills did not stand for re-election as announced by the company in May7, following 


the release of the 36One Resilient report in February. We believe these key management resignations following 


negative developments for NEPI Rockcastle imply these directors were aware of these issues.  


4. Ties to individuals implicated in Resilient scandal 
SENS data has revealed that Roque Hafner, an individual tied to the Resilient Share Price Manipulation 


investigation, has been actively heavily trading NEPI Rockcastle shares at least as recently as May 2018. It has 


been alleged that Hafner was responsible for manipulating the share prices of companies within the Resilient 


stable, including NEPI during the Rockcastle acquisition period. 


Desmond De Beer, a current non-executive director at NEPI and the former CEO of Resilient, has been linked 


with a web of characters involved in the potential share price manipulation of the Resilient stable8. While 


Hafner’s intentions are unknown to us, we note that one occasion wherein Hafner heavily traded the shares of 


a De Beer-related company resulted in an FSCA investigation. 


 
Figures 12 & 13 Ex-AG clarifies ‘K’ Shareholding – The Citizen (Gauteng) 9 


                                                                 
7 https://www.marketscreener.com/NEPI-ROCKCASTLE-PLC-
37488492/pdf/833788/NEPI%20Rockcastle%20PLC_Nomination.pdf  
8 https://www.pressreader.com/south-africa/financial-mail/20180405/281552291422483  
9 https://www.pressreader.com/south-africa/the-citizen-kzn/20180504/282398400040695  



https://www.marketscreener.com/NEPI-ROCKCASTLE-PLC-37488492/pdf/833788/NEPI%20Rockcastle%20PLC_Nomination.pdf

https://www.marketscreener.com/NEPI-ROCKCASTLE-PLC-37488492/pdf/833788/NEPI%20Rockcastle%20PLC_Nomination.pdf

https://www.pressreader.com/south-africa/financial-mail/20180405/281552291422483

https://www.pressreader.com/south-africa/the-citizen-kzn/20180504/282398400040695
Viceroy Research Group 10 viceroyresearch.org 


Hafner, through his investment vehicles the Hafner family trust and Sentola Limited, has been actively trading 


NEPI Rockcastle shares from May 2016 to at least May 2018. 


Some of these trades were conducted by the same entities implicated in the Resilient scandal including the 


infamous “K” entities, so named for their similar names. To our knowledge the following companies are 


associated with, or controlled by Roque Hafner and have traded NEPI Rockcastle shares10: 


Company Name  Relationship to Hafner 


K2012040668 Implicated in Resilient scandal 


K2012040151  Implicated in Resilient scandal 


K2012040925 Implicated in Resilient scandal 


SENTOLA LIMITED Owned by Hafner family trust  


RCG TRADE & FINANCE SA(PTY)LTD  Subsidiary of Sentola Limited 





In addition, the following companies may be related to Hafner based on naming convention. 


▪ RCG TRADE & FINANCE SA(PTY)LTD(NO.2)  


▪ K2011110358 (PTY) LTD 


▪ K2014070733 (PTY) LTD  


▪ K2013028198 


▪ HAFNER PETA JOY 


▪ HAFNER ANDREW PETER 


▪ K2016125414 (SOUTH AFRICAN) (PTY) LTD 


From trading data we have obtained, these companies combined purchased 53,374,018 shares and sold 


42,659,848 shares from May 2016 to at least May 2018, and we have only assessed month/month movements. 


This data is available from SENS. 


5. Conclusion – An Investor Letter 
In the conference call November 29, 2018, NEPI Rockcastle invited interested parties to raise tangible concerns 


that would be investigated.  


We raise various concerns regarding NEPI’s most recent statements, we have also downloaded a copy of the 


NEPI Rockcastle Investor call to avoid any disputes between our findings and those of the CFO and NEPI 


representations with said tax authorities.  


We now raise these concerns with the Auditors, the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Our response 


was largely delayed as we had to provisionally check with the Romanian Tax Authority regarding the scheme 


that NEPI have set up: essentially a block of malls where rental income/profits are “stripped” that would 


otherwise be taxed, including but not limited to conflicting data on the Safe Harbor rules regarding interest rates 


and Forex items.  


We have also been in contact with a large audit firm to assess the Romanian transfer pricing data, and while we 


reserve concerns to the tax treatment, this would be speculative with publicly available information. 


Our analysis so far has been limited to the company’s operations in Romania and NE Property Cooperatief 


extends loans at the 8-12% interest rate to entities in several jurisdictions. We are yet to investigate whether 


these other loans were conducted on an arm’s length basis. 





                                                                 
10 http://newswire.randswiss.com/2018/03/20/the-groundsman-with-r1-billion-in-the-resilient-stable/  



http://newswire.randswiss.com/2018/03/20/the-groundsman-with-r1-billion-in-the-resilient-stable/
