Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Ebix – FOIA response confirms enforcement investigation 
SEC withholds FOIA documentation as it  could reasonably be expected to interfere with 


enforcement activities, and disclose identities of confidential sources and whistleblowers.  


Important – Disclaimer on page 3. 


July 1, 2019 – On December 11, 2018, Viceroy released our preliminary report on Ebix Inc. (NASDAQ:EBIX), within 


which we reported on numerous historical and potential ongoing regulatory investigations into the Company 


and its conduct internationally. You can find our report here: 


https://viceroyresearch.org/category/ebix-nasdaqebix/ 


On June 20, 2019, the SEC responded to a Freedom of Information Act document request. The SEC has withheld 


records pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 552 (b) (3), (6), (7)(A), (7)(C) and/or (7)(D): 





 
Figures 1, 2 & 3 SEC Office of FOIA Services Response re Ebix Inc. 


 



https://viceroyresearch.org/category/ebix-nasdaqebix/
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


This document mirrors responses received from the SEC’s Office of FOIA Services relating to MiMedx. Following 


the dissemination of the MiMedx report, the Company subsequently admitted to investigations by the SEC, DOJ 


and VA, amongst potentially more acronyms. You can find the relevant MiMedx report in the link below: 


https://viceroyresearch.files.wordpress.com/2017/11/19-doj-dva-investigation1.pdf  


Regarding the response to the Ebix FOIA request, Viceroy have never encountered a withheld FOIA response of 


such specific detail regarding the protection of whistleblowers and confidential sources. 


Ebix have once again left it to Viceroy to disclose market sensitive information pertinent 


to shareholders. 


The full FOIA response can be found in Annexure A below. Note that the mentioned 31 pages of records provided 


by the Office of FOIA Services are heavily censured email complaints to the SEC relating to short seller activity 


surrounding Gotham and Copperfield Research reports.  


This finding follows ongoing suspicion, fueled by Ebix supporters Craig Hallum, that the company may also be 


under active investigation by the Department of Justice. 


 
Figures 4 Extract from Craig Hallum Ebix note – November 8, 2018 


Viceroy will continue to report on Ebix as new information becomes available.  



https://viceroyresearch.files.wordpress.com/2017/11/19-doj-dva-investigation1.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within Pareteum or any other entity to file a report 


with the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroy@viceroyresearch.com  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer  


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 


All of Viceroy's work is in accordance with our rights to comment on market participants of US listed stocks, in this case 


specifically NASDAQ: EBIX
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


Annexure A
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org
