Ebix – Goodwill Hunting
The alchemy of creating profits 


Viceroy Research Group
Fraser Perring, Gabriel Bernarde & Aidan Lau


“[Viceroy] are a Hit Squad” – Lesetja Kganyago – Governor of the South African Reserve Bank
Disclaimer


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements made in connection with it are 
the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, information, and analysis through our due diligence process, 
and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any 
reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that 
we research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. You can access any 
information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in the public domain.


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be 
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of 
confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of 
any kind – whether express or implied. 


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think critically about our opinions 
and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By 
downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with 
respect to securities discussed herein, and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the 
information, analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions. 


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing of services or products, 
advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to 
make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy.


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and educational purposes only and 
are not indicative of the historical or future  or the chances of success of any particular investment and/or strategy. 


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all stocks (and/or options, 
swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the 
price of either declines. 


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an indefinite period and may be 
long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation.


Viceroy Research Group 2
Intro to EBIX


• What they do
• EBIX is a technology provider to the insurance industry but has recently branched 


out into payment processing (incl Forex) and travel solutions 


• Has previously had run-ins with the SEC and IRS however no material 
developments were ever announced. Possible ongoing DOJ investigation.


• Background reading/ kudos
• Previous short seller reports


• Gotham City Research published 3 reports on EBIX, available on their 
website.


• Copperfield Research published 2 reports on EBIX, available on Seeking 
Alpha


• Shareholder lawsuit documents


• Segment data
• EBIX only has one operating segment but does separate its businesses (external 


revenues, pre-tax profits, long lived assets, short term and cash) by geography.


• Recent push into Asia and especially India, with satellite operations in Australia, 
Singapore, Dubai and the UAE.


Viceroy Research Group 3


[insert share info] -
Summary Red Flags


• Change in business model (IT providers to insurance v. finance sector) without visible synergies or management experience.


• Accounting discrepancies suggests EBIX is booking external revenues on transactions between its subsidiaries: this occurred in 
2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 across multiple geographies (UK, Singapore, India, Dubai, Mauritius).


• The company has a growing unbilled receivables balance: 


• 50% from by EBIX’s India JV (Ebix Vayam Technologies) whose only customer is the JV partner (Vayam): it appears to have no 
other customers, and 446 days of receivables. 


• Rapid change of company auditors, most recently the replacement of Cherry Bekaert with T.R. Chadha, an Indian auditor with no
history of auditing a major US-listed entity.


• Unnecessarily intricate and opaque subsidiary structure, with very little insight provided to investors. Many assets are being held 
in opaque geographies and have been transferred with no disclosure or justification.


• The CEO has financially engineered an >US$825m “poison pill” to prevent any takeover by mandating a large payout to himself in 
the case of such a takeover.


Viceroy Research Group 4
Meet the CEO


EBIX’s CEO, Robin Raina, displays what we at Viceroy refer to as
“Petit syndrome”:


• Company has never issued guidance, only “aspirational goals”.
Likely a pre-emptive legal defence.


• Created a financial remuneration “poison pill” to protect
short sellers in the event of a takeover (similar in function to
MiMedx) by mandating a large payout to himself adds 25-30%
to the cost of acquiring Ebix.


• First called ABA and SARA


• Essentially a disaster for shareholders who can rule out a
buyout unless the purchaser is willing to pay a massive
premium, which is calculated at ~$825m.


• The poison pill was subject to a shareholder lawsuit alleging
directors were captive to Raina’s wishes.


• Has surrounded himself with allegedly ineffective copy-paste
yes-men directors and audit staff. Who is looking after
shareholders interests?


• Material weakness in internal controls


Viceroy Research Group 5
Accounting Discrepancies in Roll-Up Structure


Viceroy Research Group 6


EBIX’s acquisition spree has created numerous accounting discrepancies we 
believe are exaggerating group earnings.


Viceroy will explore two examples, however many more exist:


• Qatarlyst & TriSystems


• Oakstone & Healthcare Magic


• Peak


• …


• At least 32 acquisitions since 2007: very little organic growth
Example: Qatarlyst


• EBIX UK Limited purchases Qatarlyst on April 7, 2013 for
cash $5.03m and contingent consideration of $9.43m


• Subsidiary filings show contingent consideration was only
$1.07m.


This leaves us with two governance problems:


1. For what purpose does the discrepancy exist?


2. Who is in line for the ~$8m earnout balance that EBIX
has put on its books?


What we believe actually happens:


EBIX have no intention of paying this ~$8m earnout 
contingency, which is essentially reversed and added to the 
bottom line. This is the same issue highlighted in a lawsuit 
against EBIX for their Peak Performance Solutions.


Viceroy Research Group 7
Example: TriSystems


• Ebix Purchase of TriSystems for a net US$9.277m in cash 
resulting in US$8.8m of goodwill recorded at Ebix 
Corporate. 


• In 2014, Ebix UK Limited (formerly Qatarlyst) purchased 
Ebix Europe Limited (formerly Trisystems). Ebix Corporate’s 
2014 10-K showed increase of almost US$8.58m in pre-tax 
income a 730.88% increase. 


• Ebix Europe appears to have paid nothing for these assets 
and accordingly booked no goodwill.


• At the time Ebix Europe was the only Ebix subsidiary in 
Europe excluding Sweden, which is accounted for 
separately. This pre-tax income bump appears to be from 
the reversal of the contingent consideration balance.


• This surge in income could not feasibly be from 
operations, as Ebix Europe reported only US$1.004m of 
pre-tax income.


Viceroy Research Group 8


2013


2014


2015
Example: Oakstone & Healthcare Magic


• EBIX’s Indian operations reported steady profits until 2015 
when they increased US$30.476m, a 108.09% increase yoy. 
This was not repeated the following year with profits of 
US$40.444m for 2016.


• This appears to be due to the transfer of assets out of India, 
to Singapore. 


• EBIX acquired HealthCare Magic and Oakstone Publishing
for US$37.7m in May and December of 2014, respectively.
This created US$34.388m of goodwill at EBIX Corporate.


Viceroy Research Group 9


There were complications in transferring Oakstone assets to India from the USA. Indian courts allowed the transfer through
amalgamation with Healthcare Magic.


The goodwill paid for these entities were amortized at a local level, which is allowed at an Indian GAAP level through business
amalgamation, but not at the parent company level (IFRS).


Post amortization, these businesses were sold to EBIX’s Singapore entity for ~$30m, creating a profit at the Indian subsidiary level.


Given these entities had essentially no hard assets, we believe the gain on sale recorded by the Indian subsidiary has flowed through
to EBIX’s consolidated accounts given no other significant business changes in the segment.
CCD’s – Where is the cash coming from?


• EBIX’s Indian subsidiaries have issued almost $250m of 
compulsory convertible debentures to EBIX’s Mauritius 
entity.


• EBIX’s balance sheet and cashflow statement do not
demonstrate that the business even has this cash balance
to distribute.


• Where did this cash come from? 


• Where has it been spent?


• If this cash was round tripped from India to Mauritius and 
back in order to fund Ebix Paytech, why?


It is noteworthy that EBIX’s Paytech entity has been given 
freedom to distribute up to $280m to ANYONE its discretion. 
This is the entity which EBIX intends to IPO, which we believe 
is extremely dangerous.


Viceroy Research Group 10
Receivable Issues


Viceroy Research Group 11


Ebix’s growing unbilled receivables balance is also concerning: 


• Ebix Vayam Technologies is a 51% Ebix owned joint venture 
with Indian Vayam Technologies. 


• For 2017 & 2018, 100% of Ebix Vayam’s revenue has been 
transactions with Vayam Technologies with funding from Ebix.


• Despite this, Ebix Vayam has an extremely high receivables 
balance (443 days): Ebix is basically buying revenue at this 
point but does not seem to receive cash.


• Vayam’s receivables represent 25% of Ebix’s trade receivables 
balance.


• Ebix Vayam Technologies also pays out its borrowings from 
Ebix out of receivables at 8% interest.


We have no doubt there are other entities making up the rest of 
the unbilled receivables balance with such situations


Ebix Vayam


31-Mar-17 31-Mar-18


In USD


Revenue from ops 8,906,194               11,919,768          


Vayam technologies sale of goods 8,906,194               11,919,768          


Trade recievables  (unsecured, 


considered good) 10,391,671             14,463,573          


Vayam technologies trade recievables 10,391,671             14,463,573          


INR - USD exchange rate 0.015418 0.015352
Auditor issues


• The company recently appointed T.R. Chadha its auditor however the firm appears never to have audited a 
US-listed entity.


• T.R. Chadha is also the auditor at Ebix India Software, and Ebix Vayam Technologies.


• Under previous auditors Cherry Bekaert, many subsidiary accounts were signed off years after parent 
company accounts. 


• Ebix India software 2014 account signed off February 2016


• Ebix Singapore 2016 accounts signed off April 2018


• In PCAOB's 2017 inspection report for Cherry Bekaert, it was found that for five different issuers Cherry Bekaert did not obtain
sufficient evidence to issue an audit report and "Whether or not associated with a disclosed financial reporting misstatement, an 
auditor's failure to obtain the reasonable assurance that the auditor is required to obtain is a serious matter. It is a failure to 
accomplish the essential purpose of the audit, and it means that, based on the audit work performed, the audit opinion should not 
have been issued."


• Ebix’s Swedish auditor claimed it could find no proof of ownership of several subsidiaries by Ebix’s Swedish 
subsidiary – note this is an existing issue! (thanks Gotham)


• Given Cherry Bekaert’s customer (MiMedx) history, we believe sanctions are not out of the question.


Viceroy Research Group 12
Auditor issues


Viceroy Research Group 13


Year Activity


1998 Arthur Anderson, former partner Robert Putnam charged with improper conduct for Ebix 
Financials. Did not investigate claim of false revenue


2004 KPMG resigns over disagreement with management regarding lack of authority, lack of 
understanding of the company’s income, lack of contract review, inadequate documentation 
for transactions


2007 BDO resigns, expresses no opinion


2007 Miller Ray Houser & Stewart hired, merged with Habif, Arogeti and Wynne


2008 Cherry, Bekaert & Holland hired


2018 Cherry, Bekaert & Holland replaced with T.R. Chadha & Co. After negative backlash agree to 
keep Cherry Bekaert & Holland on for US Revenue and T.R. Chadha for global audit partner.
Regulatory Issues


• Previously investigated by the IRS: paid settlement.
• Settled 2008-2013 for US$20.8m


• Previously investigated by the SEC through 2017: investigation findings not released.


• Possibly ongoing DoJ investigation.


• Increased regulatory scrutiny into payment processing operations, see Deutsche bank raids. 


• Active debate in India between government and banks regarding regulation of payment systems which are 
now under heavy scrutiny.


MiMedx was also previously investigated, and used the closed investigations as a point of pride. This did not 
end well for them.


Viceroy Research Group 14
Subsidiary Structure


Ebix has, relative to its size, the most complex subsidiary 
structure we have seen.


• The company only discloses a list of subsidiaries in SEC filings, 
not an explicit ownership structure showing which subsidiary 
holds which.


• Despite transferring a significant number of assets between 
different geographies with operating implications, no 
disclosure has been given regarding which assets are held 
where.


• The most recent full capture of the company’s structure is 
from February 2018, as part of a credit amendment submitted 
as a series of unsearchable .jpg files.


• In recent years, Ebix has moved significant assets to Mauritius, 
Dubai and the UAE, all being held under a dormant UK entity, 
Ebix International Holdings.


• There are also questions as to how Ebix reports “pre-tax 
profit” by geography which makes up the income statement 
line, and “external revenues” which make up the top-line. 
Somehow revenue is being gained in one geography with the 
profits reported in another.


• Likely for purposes of tax minimisation. 


Viceroy Research Group 15
Subsidiary Structure


Viceroy Research Group 16
Devil’s advocate – Risks to trade


• The short didn’t work before, why would it work now?
• Reduced risk of an acquisition v. 2013. Poison Pill more widely known about by stakeholders, with arguments being heard on January 


31st.


• Roll-up tech structures under increased scrutiny.


• More visibility into foreign subsidiaries since accounts have been signed off.


• Increased regulatory scrutiny into payment processing operations, see Deutsche bank raids. 


• Greater liquidity following stock split


• Cash generation and ownership
• Indian EbixCash group issued more in CCD’s to Mauritius subsidiary than the company could have in cash, even maxing-out line of 


credit.


• Ebix starts performing and paying down debt.


• Further buybacks by the company already announced. 


Viceroy Research Group 17
Q&A


Viceroy Research Group 18
