Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Ebix – The Taxman Cometh 
Ebix’s Mumbai office was “searched” by Indian tax authorit ies in Q3 2018. In other news, Robin 


Raina claims Ebix has never “been on the wrong si de of any regulatory or tax authority” .  


DECEMBER 13, 2018 – Viceroy released its preliminary report on Ebix – titled Goodwill Hunting – on 11 December 


2017, the contents of which we also discussed at the Kase Learning conference in New York on December 3, 


2018.  


This report will address the totally inadequate response Ebix issued on December 12, 2018, which was 


substantially an attempt at authority bias by CEO Robin Raina. Accordingly, we will also shine a light on the 


statements Raina decided to include in this press release, which we believe to be extremely misleading. 


 
Figure 1 Extract from Ebix press release – December 12, 20181 


▪ Ebix acknowledged our report via a press release on December 12, 2018, however CEO Raina would rather 


issue a hollow press release than address the issues Viceroy have raised in our preceding report. 


▪ Robin Raina claims Ebix has “never been on the wrong side of any regulatory or tax authority”. This is 


inconsistent with: 


▪ Ebix’s Mumbai office being subject to an undisclosed “search” by Indian Tax Authorities for 


suspicion of tax evasion in late August 2018; 


▪ Ebix currently subject to a tax audit by the Australian Taxation office since at least 2016; 


▪ Ebix historically settling an IRS dispute for >$20m; 


▪ Ebix being subjected to a prolonged SEC investigation; 


▪ Ebix being subject to a possible ongoing DOJ investigation; 


▪ Contrary to Raina’s claims, it appears his conduct was subject to regulatory scrutiny even prior to his rise to 


CEO. Ebix’s former auditor, Arthur Anderson, was charged by the SEC for improper conduct and fraud 


relating to the audit of Ebix’s revenue recognition practices at a time where Raina was VP of Sales and 


Marketing and COO. 


▪ Robin Raina claims Ebix has had “no difference with any statutory of consolidated auditors across the world 


in the last two decades”. This is objectively, and verifiably false, as we have already reported. 


▪ Ebix detracts attention to concerns raised through reinforcement of its commitment to stock buybacks, of 


which it has announced US$330m since 2015 and only fulfilled US$187.169m. 


▪ Viceroy is writing to the Debt Providers shortly with these and other material concerns.  


Viceroy’s original report can be found here: 


https://viceroyresearch.org/2018/12/11/ebix-goodwill-hunting-2/  


Ebix’s press release on December 12, 2018 can be found here: https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-ceo-


decides-to-take-salary-in-ebix-stock-instead-of-cash-the-company-commencing-purchase-of-ebix-stock-under-


100-million-usd-repurchase-commitment-over-the-next-6-to-12-months-period  


                                                                 
1 https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-ceo-decides-to-take-salary-in-ebix-stock-instead-of-cash-the-company-
commencing-purchase-of-ebix-stock-under-100-million-usd-repurchase-commitment-over-the-next-6-to-12-months-
period  



https://viceroyresearch.org/2018/12/11/ebix-goodwill-hunting-2/

https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-ceo-decides-to-take-salary-in-ebix-stock-instead-of-cash-the-company-commencing-purchase-of-ebix-stock-under-100-million-usd-repurchase-commitment-over-the-next-6-to-12-months-period

https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-ceo-decides-to-take-salary-in-ebix-stock-instead-of-cash-the-company-commencing-purchase-of-ebix-stock-under-100-million-usd-repurchase-commitment-over-the-next-6-to-12-months-period

https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-ceo-decides-to-take-salary-in-ebix-stock-instead-of-cash-the-company-commencing-purchase-of-ebix-stock-under-100-million-usd-repurchase-commitment-over-the-next-6-to-12-months-period

https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-ceo-decides-to-take-salary-in-ebix-stock-instead-of-cash-the-company-commencing-purchase-of-ebix-stock-under-100-million-usd-repurchase-commitment-over-the-next-6-to-12-months-period

https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-ceo-decides-to-take-salary-in-ebix-stock-instead-of-cash-the-company-commencing-purchase-of-ebix-stock-under-100-million-usd-repurchase-commitment-over-the-next-6-to-12-months-period

https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-ceo-decides-to-take-salary-in-ebix-stock-instead-of-cash-the-company-commencing-purchase-of-ebix-stock-under-100-million-usd-repurchase-commitment-over-the-next-6-to-12-months-period
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


Since publication, Viceroy has received immense amounts of data pertaining to Ebix from researchers and 


whistleblowers alike, submitted a preliminary report to regulators, and are preparing this data for wider 


distribution in the short term. 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within EBIX or any other entity to file a report with 


the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroyresearch@gmail.com.  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 



mailto:viceroyresearch@gmail.com
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


CEO response misleading 
Ebix CEO Robin Raina has refused to address any of the concerns raised by Viceroy in our report dated December 


11, 2018, and preceding presentation on December 3, 2018, choosing instead to “let time, cash and 


fundamentals to do the talking…”. 


 
Figure 2 Extract from Ebix 8K – December 12, 2018 


This address is substantially an attempt by Raina to legitimize Ebix through authority bias – whereby the opinion 


of an authority figure (in this case: regulators and auditors) carries greater weight. This appeal to authority only 


works if it is not objectively, and verifiably wrong. 


Tax Search in Mumbai -Viceroy call office “searches” a raid as generally the investigators 


have a belief information is being withheld or destroyed.  
News of a more recent nature has been sent to Viceroy since publication of our report, which verifies that Ebix’s 


Mumbai office was “searched” by Indian Tax Authorities relating to possible Goods and Services Tax (GST) 


avoidance in the part of its payment processing business. 





 
Figures 3 & 4 Moneycontol.com – “GST dept’s service tax crackdown continues, searches payments firm EbixCash”2 


                                                                 
2 https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/companies/gst-depts-service-tax-crackdown-continues-searches-
payments-firm-ebixcash-2912181.html  



https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/companies/gst-depts-service-tax-crackdown-continues-searches-payments-firm-ebixcash-2912181.html

https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/companies/gst-depts-service-tax-crackdown-continues-searches-payments-firm-ebixcash-2912181.html
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


We reiterate our opinion that the walls are closing in on Ebix. This “search” follows our previous announcement 


that Ebix was under audit by Australian tax authorities: 


 
Figure 5 Ebix Australia (VIC) Pty Ltd annual report 2017 


These “searches” and audits have gone unreported by Ebix, who only discloses the following in its 10-K’s: 


 
Figure 6 Ebix Australia (VIC) Pty Ltd annual report 2017 


It is difficult to imagine that these regulator activities are in any way “routine” as part of a “regular review and 


audit” procedure. 


Wrong side of regulators 
The suggestion that Ebix has “never been on the wrong side” of tax agencies or regulators is verifiably wrong. 


The company has settled >$20m of IRS disputes: 


 
Figure 7 Ebix 2015 10-K 


Ebix was also investigated by the SEC for ~5 years, is in the midst of legal proceedings with shareholders due to 


a ludicrous poison pill installed by the board of directors, and is rumored to be under active investigation by the 


DOJ – don’t take our word for it, analysts at Craig-Hallum even note this DOJ investigation as an investment risk, 


presumably because the company has not denied such rumors: 


 
Figures 8 & 9 Extract from Craig Hallum Ebix note – November 8, 2018
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org 


Differences with auditors 
Raina’s assertion that Ebix has had “no differences with any statutory or consolidated auditors across the world” 


is also verifiably wrong. This was well-documented in our preceding report and our presentation. 


Contrary to Raina’s claims, it appears his conduct was subject to regulatory scrutiny even prior to his rise to CEO. 


Ebix’s former auditor, Arthur Anderson, was charged by the SEC for improper conduct and fraud relating to the 


audit of Ebix’s revenue recognition practices at a time where Raina was VP of Sales and Marketing and COO. 


 
Figure 10 SEC order making findings against Robert Putnam, CPA3 


KPMG resigned over disagreement with management regarding lack of authority, lack of understanding of the 


company’s income, lack of contract review, inadequate documentation for transactions. They were replaced 6 


months later. 


 
Figure 11 Ebix 2004 10-K/A 


While we cannot document any disagreements between Ebix and Cherry Bekaert, Ebix’s former auditor was 


subject of a scathing PCAOB inspection report published just weeks before its replacement and has left what is 


essentially a dumpster fire at its second-largest client, MiMedx4.  


We do not consider the pace at which Ebix cycles through auditors at consolidated and subsidiary levels normal 


by any means. 


Buybacks not fulfilled 
Ebix has detracted from addressing any of Viceroy’s criticisms with an announcement relating to its pre-existing 


share-buyback scheme. Like MiMedx, the buybacks are indeed ‘timely’ in nature.  


 
Figure 12 Viceroy analysis of Ebix share buyback announcements v. repurchase of common stock 


                                                                 
3 https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2008/33-8912.pdf  
4 https://mimedx.gcs-web.com/static-files/bc42de99-872c-47c5-9a23-33eb7eccc964  





Share buybacks Repurchase of common stock


Date Amount (US$m) Period Year Amount (US$m)


06-Feb-17 150 not stated 2018 2.226


19-Aug-15 100 not stated 2017 45.732


25-Aug-14 80 "next 12 months" 2016 59.784


2015 81.653


Total 330 187.169



https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2008/33-8912.pdf

https://mimedx.gcs-web.com/static-files/bc42de99-872c-47c5-9a23-33eb7eccc964
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org 


Since 2015, Ebix has announced share buybacks of over US$350m but have only completed US$187.169m of 


buybacks as of Q3 20185. At the same time the company has heavily levered itself, with net debt/EBITDA levels 


rising from 0.8x to 3.5x. 


Conclusion 
Ebix’s response to our report is factually inconsistent and wholly inadequate, addressing none of the concerns 


raised in our report. The share buyback announced appears to be a hollow measure taken only to reassure 


shareholders, as does the change in Raina’s compensation scheme.  


We reiterate our belief that Ebix carries a high investment risk and that investigations by regulatory authorities 


into the company are highly likely to be reopened. Our investigation into Ebix is ongoing. 


Viceroy welcome public debate from Robin Raina on all these matters. The justifications so far are merely a 


distraction from the underlying issues of the company.  


                                                                 
5 We have ignored the most recent share buyback announced and included that announced August 25, 2014, as it would 
substantially have taken place during the 2015 year.
