Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Diving into the Robin Raina Foundation 
Publicly available financials suggest the Robin Raina Foundation shares similar financial  


discrepancy issues and poor disclosure practices as Ebix .  


Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing (page 6) 


One of the Ebix’s CEO’s biggest self-promotion points is his commitment to charity. Kudos.  


As part of our due-diligence process, Viceroy has conducted background checks into Ebix’s directors and their 


ventures. When diving into the Robin Raina foundation, we have found inconsistencies between Robin Raina’s 


self-promotion of the Robin Raina Foundation (RRF) and the financial accounts of the foundation and its 


affiliates. 


Specifically, we have been unable to reconcile the Robin Raina Foundation’s outflows to outflows expressed by 


Raina himself and to public targets set by the foundation. 


 
Figure 1 Extract from The South Asia Times, January 20131 


 
Figure 2 Extract from Robin Raina Foundation website2 


The RRF solicits donations based on this premise, however financial filings for tax exempt entity show that the 


RRF has only outlaid $4.8m since inception in 2004, significantly less than $2m in “a given year”. In fact, the RRF 


has never outlaid $2m in any given year: 


 
Figure 3 Viceroy Analysis – Figures sources from RRF 990 Form submission 


It’s also worth noting that charitable organizations’ fundraising activities are regulated by state law. The Robin 


Raina Foundation is based in Alpharetta, GA and solicits donations on its website, and thus we would expect the 


foundation to hold a Charity License with the Secretary of State.  


                                                                 
1 https://www.scribd.com/document/119149850/37-vol-5-epaper-January-5-11-2013  
2 https://www.rainafoundation.com/initiative/slum-housing-projects  


Robin Raina Foundation


US$ 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total


Revenue 192         422         714         611         1,615     2,122     1,728     1,070     203         214         197         130         222         9,440       


Expenses (56) (326) (598) (441) (471) (704) (1,054) (86) (378) (181) (153) (142) (195) (4,785)



https://www.scribd.com/document/119149850/37-vol-5-epaper-January-5-11-2013

https://www.rainafoundation.com/initiative/slum-housing-projects
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 4 RRF Website Extract – Donation Solicitation 


We note that the RRF’s license with the Georgia Secretary of State to solicit charitable donations was last 


renewed in 2012, and expired in 2014.  


 
Figure 5 RRF Website Extract – Donation Solicitation
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


Of further concern, Ebix appears to own the RRF’s domain which actively solicits donations and includes the 


charity’s payment portal. There should be a clear division of duties for these separate entities. 


 
Figure 6 Rainafoundation.com Whois extract3 


Where does the money go? 
Outside of audit costs, travel costs and administrative expenses, the entirety of the RRF’s charitable 


contributions are moved offshore to Indian companies/trusts, which are poorly disclosed in RRF’s 990 


lodgments. 


 
Figure 7 Extract from RRF Form 990 Lodgment -2016 





                                                                 
3 www.whois.com  



http://www.whois.com/
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


We understand that the “RRF C Trust” is the Robin Raina Charitable Trust, which does not even fall under a “RRF” 


acronym: 


 
Figure 8 Robin Raina Charitable Trust – India Income Tax Department extract4 


Following this trail, we can see that the Robin Raina Charitable Trust’s Foreign Contribution Regulation Act 


(FCRA) license expired in November 2016, having failed to apply for its renewal by June 20165. Under Indian law, 


charitable entities without FCRA licenses cannot legally receive foreign contributions. 


In spite of this, the trust’s ngodarpan.gov.in profile shows donated amounts in 2016 and 2017. Note that the 


amounts below are in INR and the declared amount sanctioned for 2016 roughly matches the contribution listed 


on RRF’s form 990 for the year. 


 
Figure 9 Robin Raina Charitable Trusts NGO Darpan profile 


Similarly to the RRF, the trust shares an address with Ebix subsidiary EBIX Software Asia SEZ6.  


                                                                 
4 https://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/Pages/utilities/exempted-institutions.aspx  
5 https://fcraonline.nic.in/home/PDF_Doc/fcra_11319_03112016.pdf  
6 https://www.zaubacorp.com/company/Ebix-Software-Asia-SEZ-Private-Limited/U72200DL2008PTC183455  



https://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/Pages/utilities/exempted-institutions.aspx

https://fcraonline.nic.in/home/PDF_Doc/fcra_11319_03112016.pdf

https://www.zaubacorp.com/company/Ebix-Software-Asia-SEZ-Private-Limited/U72200DL2008PTC183455
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org 


There were no results for tax-exempt institutions in India’s Income Tax Department register for any institution 


with the name Slum Dweller (multiple search terms conducted, we welcome any feedback if this institution is 


found), nor any results fitting “Mahatma Gandhi Homes Initiative”: 


 
Figure 10 Extract – NewsPatrolling.com article – July 31, 20187 


The only Indian entity we could find that fit the title Slum Dwellers was a Mumbai based entity called Slum 


Dwellers Development India, which turns over $0 and outlays ~15,000 rupees a year. We do not believe this is 


the correct entity. 


From a donor’s perspective, we would expect greater transparency into where these charitable donations are 


being transferred to.  


There is simply insufficient evidence and capital outlay to suggest that almost 40% of the Slum Housing Project’s 


houses have been completed with a total outlay from the RRF of less than 25% of the projected $20m cost, 


which presumably include contributions to the various other initiatives conducted by the RRF. 


It’s also worth noting that several other issues pertaining to the accuracy of the RRF’s filings have previously 


been raised by short sellers in the past, and evidence accounts that do not reconcile, and hundreds of thousands 


of dollars allegedly unaccounted for: 


 
Figure 11 Extract – Gotham City Research report The Truth About Ebix –Feb 20138 


Pending any response from Robin Raina or Ebix (who own the Charity’s domain), Viceroy are in the process of 


filing a complaint with both the State Secretary’s office in Georgia and with the IRS. 





                                                                 
7 http://www.newspatrolling.com/indo-american-millionaire-robin-raina-brings-hope-to-homeless/  
8 https://www.gothamcityresearch.com/archive  



http://www.newspatrolling.com/indo-american-millionaire-robin-raina-brings-hope-to-homeless/

https://www.gothamcityresearch.com/archive
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within Ebix or any other entity to file a report with 


the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroyresearch@gmail.com.  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer  


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 





 



mailto:viceroyresearch@gmail.com
