1/10


GeoTeam February 7, 2019


Has Fanhua (FANH) Been Caught in an Outright Lie? We
Believe Fanhua Could Fall off the Cliff at Any Time


geoinvesting.com/fanhua-fanh-outright-lie/


Summary


We believe we’ve caught Fanhua Inc. in an outright lie: despite FANH stating on its
recent conference call that they have no related party relationship with Liu Tingting and
Yang Lin, we have concrete evidence that they do
Others have pointed out that FANH transacts with related parties, something FANH
management has denied. We now offer concrete proof through ID documents that they
do. This leaves no ambiguity of the individuals in question, which helps avoid any
possible confusion based on matching names.
Today we ask: why would the company deny, on the record, dealings with related
parties?
GeoInvesting has an over decade long track record of helping expose billions of dollars
in U.S. listed China based fraud
It appears Fosun has given up on FANH: they announced the sale of their entire
position in the company in a January 30, 2019 SEC filing



https://geoinvesting.com/fanhua-fanh-outright-lie/
2/10


We contend that FANH stock is completely uninvestable and that the company needs
to be placed under deep scrutiny by auditors, analysts, investors and U.S. regulators


GeoInvesting Takes a Stance


It has been a few years since we have written a critical piece on a U.S. listed China based
company. Since 2010, fourteen U.S. listed China based companies worth billions have been
halted or delisted as a result of GeoInvesting’s due diligence.


Our expertise lies in extensive on the ground due diligence, and we have become proficient
in sniffing out fraud by examining documents in China that U.S. investors and analysts can’t
find or don’t make an effort to find. Even then, these documents can sometimes be hard or
confusing to interpret. In almost every instance that we uncovered deceit in U.S. listed China
based stocks and we were eventually proven correct, management has issued press
releases and held conference calls saying we were wrong. It is just the game many of these
companies play, delaying the massive losses investors inevitably suffer. Many of the dog
fights we were in, and won, dealt with confusing disclosed and undisclosed related party
issues that simple document analysis shed light on.


We think $FANH is shaping up to be one of those cases. Our research indicates that auditors
will need to stringently examine this company before signing off on its 2018 audit, simply
because we prove that FANH statements made in its JCap rebuttal press release and
conference call denying its involvement in certain related party transactions are false.
Management stated…


“Fanhua and its management and directors have no related party relationship with
either of them.”


…when referring to Liu Tingting and Yang Lin, two names raised in the JCap report issued in
late Janaury.


Today we provide direct evidence that no report has yet discussed that proves that this
statement is incorrect and may carry large implications for FANH, its investors and its
auditors.


This is especially true, given that FANH has moved hundreds of millions of
dollars between itself and its related parties, some with companies FANH has claimed to
have sold that JCap discussed in their initial report. Worse, we know this from only taking a
look at few of the company’s related party dealings. We believe that in this regard, where
there’s smoke, there could be fire. We know this from only taking a look at few of the
company’s related party dealings. FANH also has several other investments, such as Beijing
Baoping and Beijing Fanhua Small Loan, which have not been disclosed in its financial
statements.
3/10


Finally, we view Fosun’s recent sale of its entire stake in FANH as anything but a continued
vote of confidence in the company.


In August 2018, Seligman Research published a comprehensive research report exposing
FANH’s questionable history and JCap Research recently followed with a new, scathing
research report on the company in January 2019.  Both firms called for potential 100%
downside risk with FANH.  After these two research reports, FANH provided rebuttals, which
we closely examined and wanted to respond to today.


Our goal today is not to provide a lengthy rebuttal, but rather to point out with clarity how we
believe FANH recently misled U.S. investors, who we don’t believe understand the
magnitude of the misstatements made by the company on its recent conference call.


We Believe Liu Tingting and Yang Lin Are Related Parties


One of the claims made by JCap in its recent report was that FANH was self-dealing
subsidiaries to related parties, who JCap identified as people named Liu Tingting and Yang
Lin. The company’s defense is that JCap simply mixed up the names of two unrelated people
with two individuals that have the same names (Liu Tingting and Yang Liu) that are related to
the company. We wanted to look into this claim and, by tracking these individuals via ID
number and not name, see if the company’s claims had merit.


On the company’s January 28, 2019 conference call, responding to JCap’s latest publication,
FANH made the following statement about Liu Tingting and Yang Lin, two related parties:


However, these two individuals just coincidently have the same names with the
shareholder of Sichuan Borui Xinrui who also surnamed Yang and the shareholder of
Ruisike surnamed Liu. They are totally different persons. Fanhua and its management
and directors have no related party relationship with either of them.


We believe this denial is an outright lie. Liu Tingting is a substantial shareholder of Beijing
Ruisike, a company that was divested by FANH. Yang Lin a substantial shareholder of
Sichuan Borui Xinrui, which holds 12 of FANH’s divested P&C insurance subsidiaries. How
can FANH claim they have no related party relationship with these people or not know them
at all?


To avoid confusion, we pulled identification information for Liu Tingting and Yang Lin:



https://seekingalpha.com/article/4202238-fanhua-inc-questionable-company-history-alleged-fraud-potential-79minus-100-percent-downside
4/10


In China, each person only has one ID number, despite the fact that it’s possible for two
people to have the same name. Given that information, we conducted our search based on
Liu Tingting and Yang Lin’s ID numbers.


FANH claimed that there was no related party relationship between them and Liu Tingting. 
However, we found out that Beijing Ruisike (100% owned by Liu Tingting), FANH (via
FANH’s affiliate Shenzhen Fanlian Investment Co., Ltd. 深圳泛联投资有限公司) and Ge Peng
(FANH’s CFO) have a joint venture together called Beijing Fanhua Small Loan Co, Ltd, (北京
泛华小额贷款有限公司).


This is the joint venture’s shareholder structure:


Considering the fact that Beijing Ruisike is located within FANH’s Beijing office (JCap
explained the details in its report and FANH did not deny them in its response) and Beijing
Ruisike has a joint venture with FANH and FANH’s CFO, Ge Peng, we do not know what
more evidence we would need to present in order to prove that Liu Tingting is, in fact, a
related party of FANH.


Similar with the relationship between Liu Tingting and Beijing Fanhua Small Loan, we found
out that Yang Lin also has a joint venture with FANH, Beijing Baoping Science & Technology
Co., Ltd. (北京保评科技有限公司),via FANH’s 100% owned subsidiary Beijing Fanlian
Investment Co., Ltd. 北京泛联投资有限公司).  Yang Lin is the legal representative of the joint
venture and the  ownership structure of the joint venture looks like this:
5/10


We also found a company called Xinzhiying Assets Management (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (鑫智盈
资产管理(北京)有限公司) (“XZY Assets”), which is 31.13% owned by Yang Lin.  The
controlling shareholder (55.53%) of XZY Assets is Chengchuang (Shenzhen) Investment
Co., Ltd. (承创（深圳）投资有限公司), which is 100% owned by Lai Qiuping, the founder of
FANH.


JCap’s report already proved that XZY operates its business within FANH’s Beijing office and
FANH did not dispute this fact in its response.


This is the current shareholder structure of XZY Assets:





The fact that Yang Lin has a joint venture with FANH and another joint venture with FANH’s
founder Lai Qiuping, is, in our opinion, enough proof to establish a clear related party
relationship between Yang Lin and FANH.


Did the divestment of the 19 P&C subsidiaries to Cheche involve funneling money/interests?
Investors can judge for themselves, but we find it dubious that 12 of these subsidiaries,
within a year later, wound up under the control of Yang Lin, a related party to FANH.  Both
6/10


Beijing Baoping (joint venture with Yang Lin) and Beijing Fanhua Small Loan (joint venture
with Liu Tingting) are not listed in FANH’s annual report as its affiliates (FANH does not claim
to ONLY list important subsidiaries, therefore all subsidiaries should be listed).


As we mentioned before, it is possible that two people can share the same name, but not the
same ID number. Therefore, we believe that Liu Tingting, the owner of Beijing Ruisike, and
Yang Lin, the owner of Sichuan Borui Xinrui, are clearly related parties to FANH.


Given this related party relationship and FANH’s denial, we believe investors should be
highly concerned about the divestments to Liu Tingting, such as Fanhua Bocheng and
FANH’s 12 P&C insurance subsidiaries.


Fosun Sold Their Entire Position in FANH


In April 2017, Fosun invested USD $29 million in FANH at a price of USD $8.837 per
ADS with a one year lock up:


In April 2017, we issued and sold 66,000,000 ordinary shares to Fosun Industrial
Holdings Limited for a total purchase price of US$29,162,100. Fosun held 5.34% of the
total outstanding ordinary shares of the company at the time of the share issuance
post-closing and its purchased shares were subject to a one-year lock-up. (2017 20-F)


In February 2018, Fosun registered these shares with SEC. Ten days after the
announcement of the 521 Development Plan, on June 25, 2018, FANH filed a F3 explaining
Fosun’s plan to sell its 3.3 million ADSs on the open market. Using the $29 per ADS from the
521 Development Plan as a mark, Fosun’s investment had increased 328% in less than
eighteen months.


Fosun dumped FANH’s stock on December 31, 2018 and filed that it sold its position on Jan
30th, 2019, netting more than 250%. Due to the timing of this announcement, one could
argue that it looks as if Fosun did not trust FANH’s management team and used the 521 Plan
to sell the stock at a higher price.


Conclusion


FANH appears to us to just be a holding company that holds a range of investments that are
incredibly difficult to analyze for outside investors. Opaque disclosures, coupled with the fact
that the company deals with related parties and may not be forthcoming about these facts,
causes great worry.


The organization covers all different kinds of products, ranging from life insurance, P&C
insurance, investment funds, wealth management, consumer finance and claims adjusting. 
In fact, the Chinese website of FANH supports this claim.



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1413855/000117184318002899/f20f_042018p.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1413855/000121390018008169/ff32018_fanhuainc.htm

https://www.bamsec.com/filing/114420419003616?cik=1413855
7/10


FANH has sold various products across its many subsidiaries. This makes it difficult to try
and pin down SG&A and cost of goods sold for different sub-sects of the business. Without
being able to differentiate which companies are performing which tasks and (more
importantly) which companies are recognizing which revenue and absorbing which costs, it’s
impossible to assign a “fair market value” share price to FANH.


Even after JCap’s report, FANH tried to deny the fact that Liu Tingting and Yang Lin have a
related party relationship with the company. We have now provided evidence that FANH
established joint ventures with both Liu Tingting and Yang Lin. With this evidence, we can’t
see how FANH can continue to deny the related party relationship with Liu Tingting and Yang
Lin. We find it extremely worrisome that a US listed public company would deny, on the
record, such an important aspect of its business.


We strongly encourage the company’s auditor, Deloitte, to take a deep dive into the details
surrounding FANH’s claimed business as it is disclosed in the company’s annual report. Until
the company makes very clear to its auditors and, more importantly, investors, how FANH is
operating, we believe the company is clearly uninvestable and carries substantial risk of
having to restate its financials, for example due to non-consolidation of its real estate
joint venture that has existed since 2016, but was only disclosed in November of 2018.


FANH also has several other investments, such as Beijing Baoping and Beijing Fanhua
Small Loan, which have not been disclosed in its financial statements.  We believe the risk of
delisting is very real as we don’t believe the company has met the requirements put forth by
SEC disclosure rules and by standard audits.


We concur with JCap’s research and conclusion that FANH may have up to
100% downside.


Disclosure: Short FANH at time of report.


Disclaimer:
8/10


Please be advised that GeoInvesting™ is a research and publishing firm, of general and
regular circulation, which falls within the publisher’s exemption to the definition of an
“investment advisor” under Section 202(a)(11)(A) – (E) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C.
77d(a)(6) (the “Securities Act”).  GeoInvesting™ is not registered as an investment advisor
under the Securities Act or under any state laws.  None of our trading or investing
information, including the Content, GeoInvesting™ Email, Executive Casts and/or content or
communication (collectively, “Information”) provides individualized trading or investment
advice and should not be construed as such. Accordingly, please do not attempt to contact
GeoInvesting™, its members, partners, affiliates, employees, consultants and/or hedge
funds managed by partners of GeoInvesting™ (collectively, the “Geoinvesting™ Parties”) to
request personalized investment advice, which they cannot provide.  The Information does
not reflect the views or opinions of any other publication or newsletter.


We publish Information regarding certain stocks, options, futures, bonds, derivatives,
commodities, currencies and/or other securities (collectively, “Securities”) that we believe
may interest our Users.  The Information is provided for information purposes only, and
GeoInvesting™ is not engaged in rendering investment advice or providing investment-
related recommendations, nor does GeoInvesting™ solicit the purchase of or sale of, or offer
any, Securities featured by and/or through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings and nothing we do
and no element of the GeoInvesting™ Offerings should be construed as such.  Without
limiting the foregoing, the Information is not intended to be construed as a recommendation
to buy, hold or sell any specific Securities, or otherwise invest in any specific Securities.
Trading in Securities involves risk and volatility. Past results are not necessarily indicative of
future performance.


The Information represents an expression of our opinions, which we have based upon
generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due
diligence and analytical processes.  Due to the fact that opinions and market conditions
change over time, opinions made available by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings
may differ from time-to-time, and varying opinions may also be included in the
GeoInvesting™ Offerings simultaneously.   To the best of our ability and belief, all Information
is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that we believe to be
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the applicable
Securities covered or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to
the issuer.  However, such Information is presented on an “as is,” “as available” basis,
without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. GeoInvesting™ makes no
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness or completeness of any
such Information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of
opinion are subject to change without notice, and GeoInvesting™ does not undertake to
update or supplement any of the Information.
9/10


The Information may include, or may be based upon, “Forward-Looking” statements as
defined in the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-Looking statements may
convey our expectations or forecasts of future events, and you can identify such statements:
(a) because they do not strictly relate to historical or current facts; (b) because they use such
words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect(s),” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “may,”
“will,” “should,” “anticipates” or the negative thereof or other similar terms; or (c) because of
language used in discussions, broadcasts or trade ideas that involve risks and uncertainties,
in connection with a description of potential earnings or financial


performance. There exists a variety of risks/uncertainties that may cause actual results to
differ from the Forward-Looking statements. We do not assume any obligation to update any
Forward-Looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise, and such statements are current only as of the date they are made.


You acknowledge and agree that use of GeoInvesting’s™ Information is at your own risk. In
no event will GeoInvesting™ or any affiliated party be liable for any direct or indirect trading
losses caused by any Information featured by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings. 
You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment
decision with respect to Securities featured by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings.
You represent to GeoInvesting™ that you have sufficient investment sophistication to
critically assess the Information. If you choose to engage in trading or investing that you do
not fully understand, we may not advise you regarding the applicable trade or investment. 
We also may not directly discuss personal trading or investing ideas with you. The
Information made available by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings is not a substitute
for professional financial advice. You should always check with your professional financial,
legal and tax advisors to be sure that any Securities, investments, advice, products and/or
services featured by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings, as well as any associated
risks, are appropriate for you.


You further agree that you will not distribute, share or otherwise communicate any
Information to any third-party unless that party has agreed to be bound by the terms and
conditions set forth in the Agreement including, without limitation, all disclaimers associated
therewith.  If you obtain Information as an agent for any third-party, you agree that you are
binding that third-party to the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement.


Unless otherwise noted and/or explicitly disclosed, you should assume that as of the
publication date of the applicable Information, GeoInvesting™ (along with or by and through
any Geoinvesting™ Party(ies)), together with its clients and/or investors, has an investment
position in all Securities featured by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings, and therefore
stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such Securities change in
connection with the Information.  We intend to continue transacting in the Securities featured
10/10


by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings for an indefinite period, and we may be long,
short or neutral at any time, regardless of any related Information that is published from time-
to-time.
