Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





1 


“You Can’t Beat the Real Thing” 


- Coca-Cola slogan (1990) 





Coca-Cola Consolidated (Nasdaq: COKE, also the “Company”) is one of the more compelling short 


opportunities that we’ve seen in some time – and Upslope is currently short. COKE is the largest 


independent Coca-Cola bottler in the U.S. With a market cap of under $4bn, COKE is not to be confused with 


“Coca-Cola Co.” (NYSE: KO), the $240bn enterprise that boasts Berkshire Hathaway as a top shareholder.  


The COKE we’re discussing doesn’t own Coca-Cola brands, but instead “distributes, markets and 


manufactures” various nonalcoholic beverages across 14 states (mostly Southeast and mid-Atlantic) and D.C. 


Almost 90% of COKE sales are in fact branded products from the Coca-Cola Company (KO). But again, 


COKE is simply the bottler and distributor of Coca-Cola-branded (and other) products.  


While readers might assume we’re dealing with a boring consumer staple stock, COKE is anything but. After 


more than doubling YTD, COKE’s current market cap is almost $4bn. There are four key pillars (plus a bonus 


section at the very end, because why not?) to the short thesis, in our view: 


1. COKE has the financial profile of a mediocre consumer staple stock 





2. The Company checks all the boxes for poor corporate governance 





3. Explosive YTD performance driven by questionable, non-fundamental factors 





4. COKE shares are now egregiously overvalued (>50x 2019E earnings) 





5. Bonus / Miscellaneous Observations 





We’ll dive into each of these section in more detail below and in the coming pages. 





A Mediocre Consumer Staple Stock 


In 2013, COKE began a series of inorganic transactions that practically doubled the size of the Company and 


its footprint. We give management credit for executing well on this front; but it’s over. The “Transformation 


Program,” as it was called, concluded at the end of 2017. “Real Coke” (KO) is done refranchising its domestic 


bottling operations. Today, COKE shareholders are left with a low-quality consumer staple stock. What 


exactly does this mean?  


Qualitatively, we note that COKE has commodity exposure (aluminum, PET resin, and corn price changes 


create margin volatility), limited organic growth prospects (exclusively focused on domestic sales with heavy 


exposure to Coca-Cola brands), and significant customer concentration (22% of sales combined go to Wal-


Mart and Kroger). 


Quantitatively, COKE has (a) modest historic (+ prospective, in our view) organic growth, (b) low margins that 


have declined over the long-term, (c) low returns on capital, and (d) a full balance sheet (~3.5x net 


debt/2019E EBITDA).
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





2 


Exhibit 1: Modest Organic/Comparable Revenue and Volume Growth 





Source: Upslope, Canalyst, Sentieo 
Note: Organic growth disclosures have been somewhat inconsistent, which is why this chart is limited in its history. 





Exhibit 2: Low/Declining EBITDA Margins 





Source: Upslope, Canalyst, Sentieo 





Note: we do think it’s likely for COKE to experience an improvement in margins in 2019 as Transformation 


Program execution costs finally roll-off. There were $43mm of such direct expenses in 2018 (only some of 


which should repeat in 2019). For modeling purposes, we assume an EBITDA lift of ~$85mm in 2019 vs. 


2018. However, we believe the benefits will be relatively one-time in nature and that margins will remain low 


in an absolute sense and are unlikely to experience a lasting change in trend. 





Sales


Volume


 -


 2.0%


 4.0%


 6.0%


 8.0%


 10.0%


 12.0%


FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Q1-2019


 -


 2.0%


 4.0%


 6.0%


 8.0%


 10.0%


 12.0%


FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





3 


Exhibit 3: Low Returns on Capital (ex-Goodwill) – Especially for a Consumer Staple 





Source: Upslope, Canalyst, Sentieo 








Corporate Governance Disaster 


Coke’s CEO, Frank Harrison, claims COKE’s purpose is “to honor God, to serve others, to pursue excellence 


and to grow profitably.” Despite this mantra, which he repeats frequently in interviews and is noted in official 


SEC filings, Harrison treats the company as his own personal piggy bank. Examples are noted below.  


Dual Share Structure  


COKE has a dual share class structure. As a result, Harrison controls ~86% of the votes (despite owning 


~25% of total shares/economic rights) via his Class B share holdings. While not unusual, such structures 


have been widely criticized in recent years for entrenching management interests at the expense of 


shareholders (and we see exactly how that can go wrong below). 


Exorbitant Executive Comp 


Harrison’s compensation level is astronomical by almost any measure. He has earned $11mm/year over the 


past three years (2016-18) and $50mm total in the last five. And all this, for the CEO of a Company that has 


historically – until this Spring – had a market cap in the $1-2bn range.  


While aggregate data is tough to slice, it appears Harrison’s comp is ~2-3x the level of CEOs that run 


comparably-sized businesses1. Out of curiosity, we also took a peek at comp for the CEO of “real Coke” (KO), 


which has an enterprise value of nearly 50x COKE’s. Sure enough, Harrison’s compensation was almost 


dead in-line with the CEO of “real Coke” over the past three years.  





                                                           
1 Based on Equilar data cited in a Stanford GSB presentation on executive comp. 


 -


 2.0%


 4.0%


 6.0%


 8.0%


 10.0%


 12.0%


 14.0%


 FY2009  FY2010  FY2011  FY2012  FY2013  FY2014  FY2015  FY2016  FY2017  FY2018
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





4 


Big Related Party Deals Boost Comp Even More 


On top of his direct comp, Harrison is also an owner of/beneficiary in two properties (including corporate HQ) 


leased by the Company that receive a combined $8-9mm/year of ongoing rent/lease payments from COKE. 


While this is disclosed in COKE’s SEC filings, these conflicts/transactions are yet another sign of weak 


corporate governance and executive over-compensation. 


Of Course, There’s a Jet 


Despite COKE being a company of relatively modest size, COKE (a) has a corporate plane and (b) 


encourages Harrison to use it not just for work purposes, but for personal reasons. Harrison has, of course, 


diligently used the plane for personal travel. 


Lack of Openness/Transparency with The Street 


Finally, the Company does not conduct quarterly earnings calls – yet another big check-mark in the column 


for poor transparency and weak corporate governance. This lack of transparency combined with limited sell-


side coverage is a key factor making COKE shares vulnerable to becoming mispriced in the extreme. 





Questionable Corporate Name Change  


Given the above corporate governance weaknesses, it is our view that management (and the board) has not 


earned the benefit of the doubt when it comes to ethical decision-making. On this front, COKE did something 


in early 2019 that was quite curious: it changed its corporate name… 


From:  “Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated” 


To:  “Coca-Cola Consolidated, Inc.” 


Two observations: first, note that COKE mostly just removed the word “Bottling” from the name. Why? It’s not 


clear to us – though we have inquired with the Company. Second, note how similar the new name is to “Coca-


Cola Co.” (aka the “real Coke”). Given the similarity, you might think COKE’s executives would be aware of 


the risk that people (less-informed investors in particular) might confuse their company with the “real Coke”… 


…And, of course you’d be exactly right. From a November 2018 (two months before the name change) 


interview with Charlotte Business Journal, we see that COKE’s CEO was well-aware of the fact that people 


often confused COKE for the “real Coke”:
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





5 





To summarize: Harrison was well aware that people – even CEOs and sophisticated businesspeople – 


frequently confuse the Coca-Cola entities. So, what did he do? He heightened the confusion – perhaps 


unintentionally – by changing COKE’s name to look even more like “real Coke’s.” 


While it doesn’t impact the attractiveness of the COKE short today, we (and others) would postulate 


that a healthy portion of COKE’s YTD outperformance has been driven by confusion over the name 


change. The theory may sound ridiculous, but let’s run through a few real-world cases demonstrating how a 


lesser-informed retail investor (i.e. someone not as financially savvy as the CEOs Harrison often finds himself 


correcting) could end up owning COKE shares when he/she intended to purchase shares in the Berkshire-


backed KO: 


Exhibit 4: Robinhood Brokerage App Search for “Coke” and “Coca-Cola” 





Source: Upslope, Robinhood 


 



https://timberwolfequityresearch.wordpress.com/2019/05/13/coca-cola-consolidated-why-did-the-soda-pop/
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





6 


Exhibit 5: Robinhood Users Owning COKE Shares vs. Stock Price 





Source: Upslope, Robintrack.net 








Exhibit 6: Yahoo! Finance Search for “Coke” and “Coca-Cola” 





Source: Upslope, Yahoo! Finance 





Note: if one didn’t take the time to research the difference between the two “Cokes” the COKE ticker 


might seem to be the logical default choice to buy (instead of KO), in our view.
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





7 


Exhibit 7: Extreme Outperformance – Ratio of COKE’s Stock Price to KO’s 





Source: StockCharts.com, Upslope 





Note the unusual spike on the first day of trading after the name change (highlighted in yellow). 





Limited Float Dynamics: Adding Fuel to the Fire 


Given the unusual nature of COKE’s shareholder base and its equity float, we believe potential confusion over 


the name change had the ability to drive significant share gains YTD. COKE’s shareholder base could roughly 


be categorized into the following buckets (all amounts approximate for simplicity): 


- 25% - Coca-Cola (yes, “real Coke” owns shares in COKE)  


- 25% - Frank Harrison (COKE CEO)  


- 25% - Passive/index investors 


- 25% - Active institutional and retail investors 


Given the last bucket is such a small portion of total equity ownership (in a company not particularly large to 


begin with), it is our view that confused retail investors plus passive index fund buyers were material drivers of 


COKE’s outperformance YTD. Readers are free to reach their own conclusion about whether this theory 


holds water. Our goal with this part of the analysis was simply to identify “the why” behind recent 


outperformance. In our view, it doesn’t change the fact that we are left with a very mediocre business 


that is significantly overvalued.  





COKE Appears Significantly Overvalued, with 40-50% Downside 


When thinking through COKE’s valuation, we considered a few methods. First, looking at comparable 


businesses, we could look at either other publicly traded bottlers or the beverage can producers. Given far 


better (if still imperfect) geographic overlap, we actually view the can-makers as the more relevant comp 


group. They also share a roughly similar volume outlook (given both are reliant on soda and other beverage 


volume trends) and have fully-levered balance sheets.
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





8 


That said, we also note some other key differences in comparing COKE vs. Crown (CCK) and Ball (BLL), the 


two leading global manufacturers of beverage cans: 


- More diversified brand exposure at the can-makers vs. COKE (given can-makers serve a variety of 


soda, beer and other food/beverage customers) 


- Contractual pass-throughs for raw material price changes at the can-makers – and therefore more 


stable, predictable margins (COKE generally eats input cost changes or pushes through pricing 


changes on a one-off basis) 


- Marginally better top-line outlook for can-makers, given emerging markets exposure (arguably this 


benefit may be offset by FX volatility, but on balance we think it’s a win for the can-makers) 


- Significantly higher EBITDA margins for the can-makers: ~15-16% vs. COKE’s 5% 


- Significantly higher returns on capital for the can-makers: roughly mid-teens for the can-makers vs. 


high-single-digits for COKE  


- Far superior conversion of adj EBITDA to Free Cash Flow for the can-makers: ~30-35% in the best 


years for COKE (and close to 0% in recent years) vs. regularly achieving ~40% for the can-makers 


- Significantly better corporate governance for the can-makers: no serious corporate governance 


concerns/red flags (that we are aware of), as COKE does 


Currently, Ball and Crown trade for ~10x and ~14.5x EBITDA (2019E), respectively. COKE trades for ~14.5x 


EBITDA. So, investors today can buy Ball – considered by many a legendary compounder (yes, I hate that 


word, but it’s true!) – or COKE for about the same price. Based on the above analysis, we would argue COKE 


is a far lower quality asset than both Ball and Crown – and should therefore trade no higher than Crown’s 10x 


EBITDA. At ~10x EBITDA (which we consider quite generous) COKE shares would trade for $237 – or 


~40% lower than where they are today (~$393). At 9x, COKE would trade for $200 per share.  


In addition to the above comparable company analysis, we also ran a simple discounted cash flow model. 


The results of this analysis yielded a fair value for COKE shares moderately below prices noted above.  





Risks to the Short 


- Continued squeeze/irrationality/lack of hard catalyst 


- Unforeseen improvements in free cash flow and margins 


- Unforeseen acquisition/expansion opportunities 


- Sale of the Company – valuation + CEO’s control/ability to extract value are mitigants 





Conclusion 


In summary, we view COKE as being a highly attractive short on a number of angles: 


- Low growth prospects – both organic and inorganic 


- Poor returns on capital 


- Full balance sheet 


- Challenged free cash flow generation history 


- Extreme overvaluation driven by non-fundamental factors 


- Highly questionable corporate governance 


- Low short interest (2% of float) 


What more could you want in a short?
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





9 


Bonus Items – Miscellaneous Observations 





Traditional Free Cash Flow Calculation Appears Over-Stated 


As part of consideration paid for its Transformation Program, COKE agreed to make certain ongoing sub-


bottling payments to KO. In 2018, those payments appeared to have been ~$25mm. Due to certain 


accounting practices (which we are not disputing) this cash outflow comes out of the Cash Flow from 


Financing section. We would argue that investors analyzing COKE’s FCF might want to consider 


incorporating this real cash outflow into free cash flow estimates. 





From 2018 10-K: Had to Preserve Cash in 2018 – This Seems at Odds with Stock Performance/Multiple 








Misc. Executive Turnover 


COKE brought in a new CFO in Dec 2018 (had interim CFO from Jan-Dec 2018). The prior CFO (Clifford M 


Deal III) retired – but, seems like he gave two weeks’ notice. Despite the notice, COKE named a new CFO 


(later turned out to be just the interim CFO) immediately. We also note that James Harris – head of COKE’s 


Transformation Program also left recently. 





From 2018 10-K: Recently had to Correct an Accounting Error 








It’s Not Particularly Large, but Coincidentally We Saw the First Insider Sale in Years on May 10, 2019
Memo: Short - Coca-Cola Consolidated         May 14, 2019 





10 


IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES 
 


Certain accounts managed by Upslope Capital Management (“Upslope”) currently hold short positions 


in COKE. These positions may change without notice and Upslope accepts no responsibility to update 


these materials. These materials are solely the opinion of Upslope and readers are encouraged to 


independently verify all facts and assertions. 


 
Upslope Capital Management, LLC is a Colorado registered investment adviser. Information presented is for 
discussion and educational purposes only and does not intend to make an offer or solicitation for the sale or 
purchase of any specific securities, investments, or investment strategies. Investments involve risk and, unless 
otherwise stated, are not guaranteed. Be sure to first consult with a qualified financial adviser and/or tax 
professional before implementing any strategy discussed herein. Past performance is not indicative of future 
performance. 
 
While Upslope believes all information herein is from reliable sources, no representation or warranty can be 
made with respect to its completeness. Any projections, market outlooks, or estimates in this presentation are 
forward-looking statements and are based upon internal analysis and certain assumptions, which reflect the 
views of Upslope and should not be construed to be indicative of actual events that will occur. As such, the 
information may change in the future should any of the economic or market conditions Upslope used to base 
its assumptions change.  
 
Any description of investment strategies in this presentation is intended to be a summary and should not be 
considered an exhaustive and complete description of the potential investment strategies used by Upslope 
discussed herein. Varied investment strategies may be added or subtracted from Upslope in accordance with 
related Investment Advisory Contracts by Upslope in its sole and absolute discretion. 
 
Any specific security or investment examples in this presentation are meant to serve as examples of Upslope’s 
investment process only and may or may not be trades that Upslope has executed or will execute. There is no 
assurance that Upslope Capital will make any investments with the same or similar characteristics as any 
investments presented. The investments are presented for discussion purposes only and are not a reliable 
indicator of the performance or investment profile of any composite or client account. The reader should not 
assume that any investments identified were or will be profitable or that any investment recommendations or 
investment decisions we make in the future will be profitable. Any index or benchmark comparisons herein are 
provided for informational purposes only and should not be used as the basis for making an investment decision. 
There are significant differences between Upslope’s strategy and the benchmarks referenced, including, but 
not limited to, risk profile, liquidity, volatility and asset composition. You should not rely on this presentation as 
the basis upon which to make an investment decision. 
 
There can be no assurance that investment objectives will be achieved. Clients must be prepared to bear the 
risk of a loss of their investment.  
 
Upslope clients may hold positions (long or short) in securities mentioned. 
 
These materials may not be disseminated without the prior written consent of Upslope Capital Management, 
LLC.
