Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 1 
 


 
Sept 23, 2012 





Zillow (NASDAQ:Z): It's Not Just the Ridiculous Valuation—
it’s the Ridiculous Business Model  
 


 Introduction 
 
Wall Street was back to its old tricks last week as they rushed out the Trulia IPO based on the recent 
stock market run-up of its main competitor Zillow. But as we know through history, success in the stock 
market does not necessarily mean the underlying business is investible. Citron now exposes the side of 
Zillow that you do not know, one not accurately reflected in its stock price. But it will inevitably be cut in 
half just like the previous online real estate companies whose valuation collapse Citron has accurately 
predicted over the years.  
 
Citron thinks shareholders lulled into complacency by Zillow's recent stock chart, while failing to 
question its underlying business model, will face devastating consequences. While Citron has hesitated to 
spotlight a battleground stock such as Zillow, Trulia's frothy IPO reception further encourages the 
investing public to get swept up in the speculative frenzy, ignoring the looming array of red flags 


swarming around Zillow. The unvarnished truth is that the willowy story Zillow has been 
telling Wall Street is completely inconsistent with company's underlying business metrics. 
Meanwhile corporate and insider actions reveal a completely different agenda.  
 
Citron truly hopes Trulia treats the public's capital with more respect than Zillow has. Will it restore 
some dignity to a stock market that has become nothing more than a vehicle to line the pockets of 
shareholders until the day of truth eventually comes?  Time will tell.  
  
But for Zillow, Citron believes the day of reckoning is sooner than you think. 
 
Citron has been following Zillow for close to seven years now. We first mentioned Zillow to our readers in 
the context of our analysis of SOLD and MOVE, two long-lived companies with the fundamentally 
identical business model (yes, we are veterans in this space). 
 


Ticker Company Price when 
reported 


Date of 
report 


Price/ 
Pctg loss 


Outcome 
date 


Current Price 
/ Pctg loss 


SOLD Housevalues.com  
( now LEDR ) 


13.21 Nov 
18, 
2005 


2.40 
-80% 


Mar, 
2008 


6.71 
-49% 


MOVE Realtor.com  19 July 5, 
2006 


7.59 
-60% 


Jan, 
2008 


8.67 
-54% 


 



http://www.citronresearch.com/stocklemon-reports-on-housevlauescom-nasdaq-sold/

http://www.citronresearch.com/stocklemon-reports-on-movecom/
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 2 
 


At the time Citron posted these stories, Zillow was a privately held startup with a cute little gimmick 
called the "Zestimate." 
 
Fast forward six years, and this cute little gimmick has evolved into a $1.55 billion market cap, yet their 
underlying fundamentals look worse than they did even seven years ago. The evidence is in plain sight, 
where management shows its true conviction—through their massive insider sales. 
 


 Zillow is Not a Valuation Story, it's a Terminal Story 
 
Zillow: Priced…"To Infinity…And Beyond!"  





 
Bloomberg data 


 Recent Market Cap 1,477,000,000 billion 


Trailing P/E (ttm) 296 
 Forward P/E 2012 142 
 Relative PE to SPX 17.75 times 


Price/Sales (ttm) 16.49 
 EPS (ttm) 0.11 
 Current Revenue Run Rate 100,000,000 per yr 


   These are true nosebleed valuations. Normally, Citron would not write about a stock that is heavily 
shorted, with a bear case predicated on valuation. But that headline doesn't tell Zillow's story. 
 
Citron does not write for the purpose of affecting reactive short term market movements.  


 Zillow's story is not about valuation. Chipotle has great burritos, Lulu Lemon has great workout 
clothes and LinkedIn is a game changer in professional networking—all very expensive stocks. 
Those are valuation considerations.  


 In contrast, Zillow is a dog for its users, a dog for its customers, and operates in a hotly 
competitive space without a sustainable advantage. 


 Zillow serves a constrained revenue customer base—real estate agents—with very finite 
potential.  


 
Ergo, it's not a valuation story. It has all the ingredients of a terminal business story.  
 
A picture is worth 1000 words. There is a lot of data in this story presented in chart form whose source is 
the two most recent Citigroup reports on Zillow. We want it noted that we respect Citi for publishing 
truthful survey results, regardless of having underwritten Zillow's IPO, even though these charts do not 
portray the client company in the most favorable light. We have also included some charts from Craig-
Hallum, who maintains comprehensive coverage on Realtor.com (MOVE).  
 
Citron acknowledges that Zillow is a high short interest stock, that being for a reason. This purpose of this 
article is not to cause a sudden drop in stock price. Rather we just want to be on the same side of the 
counter as management, the people who know best—we are net sellers of the stock. In time, sooner than
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 3 
 


later, the stock will unwind and will head down toward a realistic multiple. We think that level is in 
the teens and ultimately the single digits.  
 


 What Do Insiders Know That You Don’t Know? 
 
Since IPO, Zillow's insiders have reaped a vast reward from insider share sales, a bounty which dwarfs 
the business's results from operations. Normally we would not start with this point, except for the 
astonishingly misleading actions of management with regard to its recent shelf registration. Just six 
weeks ago, on August 7, 2012, during the quarterly earnings conference call, management referred to this 
registration as “good housekeeping” (twice) and said they had no plans of accessing the shelf 
registration anytime soon.  
 





So, this matter of two "good housekeepings" and seven "follow-on's" about not filing to sell any 
shares was "followed-on" by a run to the Wall Street ATM while the ink was still wet, the minute it 
became effective, just 30 days later. It took just 48 hours for  the company to pull the trigger, selling the 
shelf to the public, and including an additional $22 million cash-out for management. It is Citron's opinion 
that this corporate action is completely unscrupulous. The stock was artificially propped up for 30 days 


with promise of no dilution or insider selling, and as soon as the window was open—BOOM!  Why 
doesn't this kind of sleight-of-hand qualify for a market manipulation charge?  


Chadd M. Cohen CFO:   


 "On August 1, we became S-3 eligible and today filed the shelf with the SEC as 
a matter of "good housekeeping" and to provide ourselves with flexibility on 
our capital structure in order to remain prepared for future considerations of 
both our operational needs and potential strategic opportunities in the 
marketplace."   
 
Spencer M. Rascoff CEO:   


" So basically…a year after being public, as a matter of "good 
housekeeping", we filed the shelf, which is pretty much customary for 
companies at this stage… So, just to be clear for those on the call who maybe 
don't know that there's been a shelf and a follow-on, what we filed today is not 
a follow-on offering… It’s a shelf statement with the SEC, which says, basically 
it registers shares… So if we decide to do a follow-on later, then the shares 
can be sold more rapidly; basically we can complete a follow-on more 
expeditiously… you're supposed to file what you think is reasonable to sell 
over a two year period potentially, and so that explains why we chose $150 
million… Again, it’s a pretty customary thing for a company on the one year 
anniversary post IPO to do this just so you can do a follow-on, if you choose, 
and we have not decided whether or not to do a follow-on, if you choose, more 
expeditiously, and we have not decided whether or not to do a follow-on."
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 4 
 


 
Let us put the insider selling in perspective:  
 
The handful of officers and directors (15 to be exact) plus one small transaction from one fund have 
generated sales of in excess of $108 million from 2.92 million shares at an average price of over 37.00.  
  
Zillow's act of "good housekeeping" earlier this month raised yet another  $125 million from the public—
that's more than their entire gross revenues (trailing 12 months) since their IPO.  
 


Occupy Wall Street Anyone? 
  
But when we consider net revenue, the discussion becomes really shameful. Zillow has been operating 
since 2006, but has just reported its first two profitable quarters in March and June 2012. So if we ignore 
all the prior years' losses and focus on the positive, it would take 18 years of the current net revenue 
run rate to earn enough to match the amount of insider sales to date—and that is if the insiders 
never sold another share. (Don't count on that.) 
 
Considering only the 525,000 insider shares sold just last week at $43, it would take 3 ¼ years of the 
current net revenue run rate to generate that much money. 
 
 


 Zillow: A Business Whose Best Days are Behind it 
 
This torrent of insider selling has to be for a reason. The reason is the limitation of the current business 
model and the uncertainty of the future. In a recent New York Times article, CEO Spencer Rascoff admits 
to these limitations as he stated:   
 


 
 
Citron agrees. Investors really need to examine why they are paying such a nosebleed-high valuation for 
decelerating growth, especially in the face of the huge insider sales.  
 


Business Model: a Finite Audience, and a History of Failure 
 
It is Citron's primary thesis that Zillow is a Web 1.0 business presenting itself as a Web 2.0 investment. 
The entire premise of Web 2.0 is that smart managing and publication of information interactively to 
users can scale tremendously, while costs remain fixed. But unlike Netflix, LinkedIn, and even Facebook, 
Zillow isn't voyaging forth into an ever-expanding horizon of unlimited sized markets opening up on the 
internet. It generates virtually all of its revenue from U.S. real estate agents. And it does so the old-
fashioned way—by cold-calling them on the telephone. It's been operating since 2006 more or less as it 
does today, and was consistently unprofitable, until the last two quarters.  


“You can’t just sell advertising without being exposed to 
someone else undercutting you on price…”  


—-Zillow CEO Spencer Rascoff 



http://finance.yahoo.com/q/it?s=Z+Insider+Transactions
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 5 
 


 
As proof, Citron presents Zillow's last two quarterly gross revenues, compared to its Sales and Marketing 
expense. It is a "heavyweight" sales company masquerading as a "web 2.0" leveraged technology 
play. The only way it has to grow revenues right now is with the increasing intensity of the sales effort. 
It’s not light and leverageable like LinkedIn, or OpenTable (Sales and mktg 21.4% of revenues)   In reality, 
Zillow is more similar to Groupon than a Web 2.0 company such as LinkedIn or Open Table.  
 
 


 
Q2 2012 FY 2011 


Revenue 27,765 66,053 


Sales Mktg Exp 12,153 25,725 


 
43.77% 38.95%    


 G&A 5,232 14,613 


 
18.84% 22.12% 





2nd Quarter Revenues and Sales Expense Deltas 
 


 
 
 
Expressed another way, it is apparent to Citron that Zillow is buying revenues with an intense telesales 
effort. Put in its simplest terms, they spent an additional $3.8 million on sales expense last quarter, 
and only generated $4.8 million in new revenues!  
 
By comparison, Open Table spends 21% of revenues on sales, and even LinkedIn spends 33%. This 
comparison shows how much Zillow is dependent on old school phone room sales—not Web 2.0 online 
leverage. 
 
While management might spin a fun story about their company growing revenues at a rapid pace, the 
proof is in the numbers. The cost of sales demonstrates that customers do not buy Zillow ads; they are 


0 


1000 


2000 


3000 


4000 


5000 


Red Flag:  78% 
of New 


Revenue 
Spent on Sales 


Expense 


Sales Expense 
Up 3.8m 


Revenue Up 
4.9m Pays for nearly all last 


quarter's sales growth 
by direct telesales 
expense spending. 


Very unhealthy and 
getting worse.
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 6 
 


sold Zillow ads, which should be disturbing because they address a target niche market unlike OPEN or 
LNKD—and cost of sales should be lower. 
 
 


Open Table Q2 2012 Q1 2012  LinkedIn Q2 2012 Q1 2012 
Revenue 39,558,000 39,369,000   228,207 188,456 


Sales Mktg Exp 8,438,000 8905000   75,740 65,884 


 
21.33% 22.62%   33.19% 34.96% 





 
 
Citron notes that MOVE.com, formerly Homestore.com, referenced above, could not make money during 
the real estate boom of the mid 2000's. At the time, they were the only online destination for brokers to 
buy leads. (Citron wrote about MOVE when its market cap was over two billion "with a B"; today it is 350 
million "with an M"). 
 
How does anyone expect Zillow to thrive in that identical business, with competition from Realtor.com, 
Trulia, and a host of smaller competitors, all fighting for wedges of the same finite customer base?  The 
inescapable market reality is that the business model of selling leads to real estate brokers just does not 
scale…read on. 
 


Valuation Comparison Zillow (Z) and Realtor.com (MOVE) 
 


 
Zillow 


 
MOVE  


 
Zillow has… 





Q2/ 
2012 


FY 
2011 


Q2/ 
2012 


FY 
2011 


 Revenues 50.4 66.1 97.1 191.7 Half the revenues 
Development Spend 10.8 14.1 18.1 34.7 Half the development spend 
Trailing PE 539.05 


 
72.25 


 
6 times the P/E 


Forward PE 63.77 
 


19.70 
 


3 times the forward P/E 
Price/Sales Trailing 12 
months 14.82 


 
1.79 


 
8 times the Price/Sales !?!? 





It is absolutely essential that all investors understand this core 
description of Zillow's business model. 
 
Zillow doesn't sell anything to homebuyers or casual 
internet surfers. . .(except some low-value mortgage loan 
leads/referrals.) 
 
This is an indisputable fact.
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 7 
 


The Metrics of a Constrained Market, and a Finite Customer Spend 
 
Every active real estate agent in an active market area gets calls from Zillow's sales force weekly or 
monthly. Citron asks if there is a single professional real estate agent in the U.S. who doesn't know what 
Zillow is or does? 
 
The following charts, from Zillow's own underwriter Citibank, in a recent analyst report that surveyed 
real estate agents, who are Zillow's core customer base, are pivotally important to understanding Zillow's 
prospects. If you own the stock, we recommend you read this sitting down. 


  
Is this the chart of a defined customer base that should be awarded a forward P/E multiple of 142? 
 





Only a marginal shift 
toward additional 
online ad spending 
 


Finite Ad 
Spend among 


Real Estate 
Agents
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 8 
 


Real estate marketplace changes:  Zillow is in the process of changing the business model for its 
"Platinum Premier Agent" advertisers, from a model in which they share in all the lead-generating ads 
displayed next to listings in a particular ZIP code, to contracts that provide agents with a fixed number of 
ad impressions per month. No matter how these deck chairs are re-arranged, the company is still 
operating a terminal business.  
 


A Company Already in Decline: Visitor Growth Flagging 
Now that there are three public companies syndicating the same MLS listings, Zillow's growth metrics 
are worth examining. The harsh reality is that the statistics reveal a company that is actually already in 
decline.  
 
Visitor Growth Flagging 
Yet as the stock continues to climb and the multiple increases, the contrast to the underlying business, 
which is in declining growth, becomes even more clear. 
 
First, there is a sharp deceleration in the growth rate of monthly unique visitors to Zillow.com. 
 
 


 
Pageviews looks flat to lower over the last 18 months.  
 
  


Is this a picture 
of hypergrowth?
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 9 
 





 
Meanwhile, despite the high unique visitor count, the Yahoo partnership generates only between $5 and 
$10 million per year to Yahoo. http://www.ratetake.com/news/2012-04-04-8.html .  
 
That is far, far short of game changer revenue for a 1.5 billion dollar company.  
 
Premiere agent subscriber rate of growth—which the company points to in its SEC filings as a key driver, 
along with unique user measures—has dropped to 74% in the first quarter from 212% in the first 
quarter of 2011. 
 





Yahoo/Zillow hasn't 
moved the needle 
since April 2011, 


regardless of all that 
IPO money.    


The year-over-year 
increase of monthly 
unique-user visitors has 
been trending lower… 
 
 



http://www.ratetake.com/news/2012-04-04-8.html
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 10 
 


 
Given this, investors might ask why they are paying such a high valuation for decelerating growth. 
 


Inelastic Real Estate Agent Market! 
Third party lead syndication to Real Estate Agents is a dead-end business—always has been, and always 
will be. 
 
And to prove the current model is not working—the company is now focused on shifting that model from 
becoming a marketing channel to a software platform for agents, and to other businesses such as rentals,   
that have little to no synergy with their current business. 
 
 


 Zillow:  What is Going to Make the Future Brighter?     
 
 


It's Tough To Run a Business When Your Customers Don’t Like You 
 
OK…let’s forget for a second the countless “Zillow Sucks” websites and videos posted online and go to 
some data. Zillow estimates there are one million active commission-earning realtors in the U.S. As of Q2  
2012, Zillow had 22,696 real estate agents subscribing to its Premier Agent advertising program. This 
translates into a 2.3% penetration of U.S. real estate agents. Zillow claims there is a vast uncharted 
market of 97.7% more agents to sign up...but is that realistic?  
 
Ask yourself this question: “How many real estate professionals have not yet heard of Zillow?”  Citron 
would suggest that number is close to zero. (Remember it's been operating this model since 2006…)  
Therefore, we can conclude that only 2.3% of their potential and targeted customer base has “been sold” 
on their services.  
 
So every new customer they hope to get is someone who has been called countless times already, and 
who finally gives in on the proposition. 
 


Why Their Customers Don’t Like Them 


 
Zillow takes the intellectual property of individual realtors (syndicated residential real estate listings), 
mixes it together with some other content, and displays it for users. Realtors typically perceive that 
Zillow is re-branding their listings as its own, and then promptly tries to sell " the lead" (generated by 
advertising the listing agent) right  back to the realtor who generated the listing in the first place. This has 
been the cause of much of the backlash. To make matters worse, visitors to the site are not always 
matched with a qualified broker, as Zillow will present a “Real Estate Professional” that might not 
specialize in that area…just because they paid for the lead.  
 
As recently as last month, the President of Pacific Union Realty publicly declared to CEO Spencer Raskoff 
at a real estate technology roundtable discussion in San Francisco:
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 11 
 


 
 
 
If they can't make more money—exponentially more money—from real estate agents than their current 
$100 million revenue stream, then who are they going to make it from?   
 
 
Here are more survey statistics that measure overall sentiment of brokers toward Zillow:  


 
 
Zillow consistently polls less value to real estate agents than social media or search marketing.  


Should be a 
huge source 
of concern... 


and 
disclosure! 


" Don't use real estate professionals to be the 
economic engine of your company",  he said to 
Rascoff and Samuelson. 
 


—CEO Pacific Union Realty  
http://www.inman.com/inmaninf/storyxml/news/198027
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 12 
 


 
 
This one is really a red flag. Note the declining ROI trends for all online ad channels.  
 
Ronald Josey of ThinkEquity noted that while Zillow's customer base continues to grow, average revenue 
per user was down during the second quarter.
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 13 
 





 
If you want to know about Zillow's "customer satisfaction," the above chart tells it all. Again our gratitude 
to Citi for publishing the truth.  
 


The Trouble with Zestimates 
As we all know, Zillow built their brand on the Zestimate. You live by the sword, you die by the sword.  
 
The Zestimate was a cute gimmick when it was first introduced—an easy way for a homeowner to satisfy 
idle curiosity about the current value of their home. (In recent years, it has become an object of morbid 
curiosity for homeowners to track how far their houses are underwater…)  It's generated a noteworthy 
amount of web traffic to Zillow.com.  
 
But now it has become a tool that alienates its customers. Listing agents spend too much time explaining 
to their prospects and clients why Zillow's Zestimate is wrong, and buyers agents are obligated to do the 
same. Can you imagine if a stockbroker's client was getting wrong stock prices from a website—by 20%, 
30% or more?  To make matters worse, the company says that now 35 million people have changed their 
Zestimate. What is worse?  A Zestimate, or a homeowner telling you what their house is worth?  Both 
outcomes alienate the real estate agent—their primary customer.  
 
And after those 35 million "corrections" the current state of Zestimates is not measurably better than it 
ever was.  


Middle of the pack, 
and diminishing 
differentiation. 
 


Its All About "The Leads"  
Glengarry Glen Ross  
 
 
G 
 



http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DO3hk9NR0V8

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DO3hk9NR0V8
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 14 
 


 
 
This is the portrait of a website that depends on a "gimmick" to attract casual retail users, rather than one 
that meets the real needs of real home buyers and sellers. Most importantly, it plants a big obstacle that 
impedes the professional real estate agents who are Zillow's real, and only paying customers.  
 
So either way, wrong Zestimates impede the real estate sales process. Ask any agent about this.  
 
So how good are Zestimates?  Lets have a look at a zip code right near Zillow's headquarters:   
http://www.zillow.com/homes/98101_rb/  
 
Notice how all the Zestimates for "featured listings," the ones the agents pay up to get them listed first, 
are all way too low. A quick scan of the top 10 shows eight Zestimates at least 20% below the listing 
price. Suddenly an innocuous traffic-building gadget becomes a huge problem for Zillow's only paying 
customer —the real estate broker.  
 
OK, let's try Beverly Hills' well-known zip code "90210." http://www.zillow.com/homes/90210_rb/ 
On the whole front page of 24 "featured" houses for sale, the Zestimate was only higher than the sale 
price once, and in most cases it is at least 30% lower than the offering price of the house. How does that 
make the realtor feel about Zillow?  Their biggest chore with a potential buyer or seller is re-educating 
the client to overcome the inevitably misleading information conveyed by a Zestimate.  
 
Need we state the obvious: look at the featured listings which display Zestimates vastly lower than the 
sales price. Who would want to buy a featured listing?  This is worse than calorie counts displayed on the 
menu at KFC.  
  


Superficiality of  
Zestimates 
exposed.  
 



http://www.zillow.com/homes/98101_rb/

http://www.zillow.com/homes/90210_rb/
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 15 
 


Alienating your customer is not a winning business strategy 
 
Advice to Trulia about Zillow's Zestimates: let them have it. They are so enamored with their gadget they 
forget what it does to their customer. Note:  The customer is not the casual website surfer, the only 
customer is the real estate agent. 
 
Yesterday on Cramer's Mad Money, CEO Spencer Raskoff defended Zestimates by pointing out that "35 
million homeowners have submitted 'corrections' to Zestimates." So what is worse: a Zestimate, or an 
owner-modified Zestimate?  Both are terrible for business, in our opinion.  
 
If the current state of Zestimates reflects all these "corrections," the prognosis for Zestimates ever 
becoming anything other than an impediment to the home-selling process is very poor.  
 
 


 Zillow's Dirty Big Secret   
 
Zillow could take a lesson from these tools. They're all transparent—why isn't Zillow?   
 
With all of the controversy about Zillow one has to ask the obvious: what is the churn rate of their 
subscribers? THEY WONT TELL YOU. Why, oh why?  
 
Zillow, is enjoying the huge multiple Wall Street currently gives it, lining the pockets of insiders, but it 
will not disclose the single key metric that affords transparency with which to judge the forward-


looking health of any subscription model:   Churn.  
 


The most telling metric in any subscription-based business is the churn rate. Stock 
market darling LinkedIn discloses it, as well as Netflix and Pandora. In the spring of 2011 when Netflix 
was trading over $250 a share, they informed the SEC that they wanted to stop disclosing churn, a sign of 
things to come.  
 
The SEC responded to them thusly: 
 





"We note your response to prior comment one and your disclosure that you 
plan to cease providing gross subscriber additions, subscriber acquisition 
costs and churn. We continue to believe that disclosure of rates of churn 
would be useful to investors since disclosure of the total number of 
subscribers who discontinued the service can high light important operating 
trends and therefore request reconsideration of discontinuing this metric. 
Please advise.” 


—- SEC Correspondence to Netflix, 7/11/2011 
(Bold and underlining by Citron) 







http://www.citronresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/Churns.jpg
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 16 
 


(It should be noted that soon after Netflix asked for this exemption their stock plummeted 70%.) 
  
Yet, not a single cheerleading analyst has even questioned Zillow's churn, much less demanded it, on a 
conference call in the last year. After reading every conference call and every piece of data on Zillow 
without finding an answer, Citron decided to do something we rarely do…we emailed the company the 
question…and when asking for retention rates, this is what we received: 
 
 


 
 
Citron followed up with an email asking what numbers we should look at to best be able to back our way 
into a retention number. To that inquiry, we are still waiting for our response. 
 
You would think that a company that has a single channel customer, unlike Netflix or LinkedIn, would 
be more than happy to boast about their retention. In all fairness, MOVE does not disclose the churn 
either, which in our opinion is more of a reflection on the whole business model rather than one company 
specifically. But the more narrow and addressable your audience is, the more this metric, which reflects 
your effectiveness in keeping that audience, is a "must know" reference point. By comparison, on their 
last conference call, LinkedIn mentioned the word "churn" nine times:  
http://seekingalpha.com/article/777151-LinkedIn-s-ceo-discusses-q2-2012-results-earnings-call-


transcript?part=single 
 
We expect Zillow to respond by saying "our churn is low" or "our customers love us." Please give us a 
number and let the investors determine for themselves. When insider selling trumps revenues and 
profits you are not afforded the luxury of half-answers.   


From:  RJ Jones <rjj@zillow.com> 
Subject:  Re: a few questions 
Date:  September 10, 2012 11:41:28 AM PD 
 
Andrew, 
We do not disclose retention or churn 
numbers. . Thank you for your interest. 
Thank you, 
 
RJ Jones 
 



http://seekingalpha.com/article/777151-linkedin-s-ceo-discusses-q2-2012-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single

http://seekingalpha.com/article/777151-linkedin-s-ceo-discusses-q2-2012-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 17 
 





RentJuice Acquisition: Money for Nothing 
 
As Zillow searches for alternative revenue streams to selling commoditized and inefficient leads to 
realtors, with, no doubt, some judgment warped by the river of money generated for them by Wall Street, 
they decided to acquire RentJuice.com, which is a software platform for landlords. Zillow paid $40 million 
for this acquisition.  
 
When Citron first read RentJuice's accounting disclosure, we thought there must have been a mistake. 
RentJuice has $2.7 mil in assets and $750K in liabilities and this is what their most recent income 
statement looked like: (the most significant feature of these financials is they're presented without 
trailing 000's removed!)  
 


     
Three Months Ended 
March 31,   


     2012     2011   
Revenue    $ 139,447      $ 79,588    
Costs and expenses:    


   
  
   Cost of revenue      69,140        44,420    


Sales and marketing      380,448        168,205    
Technology and development      338,013        130,374    
General and administrative      223,325        130,739    





Total costs and expenses      1,010,926        473,738    





Loss from operations      (871,479 )      (394,150 )  
Other income (expense)      (25,581 )      (51,396 )  
         
Interest expense      —          (4,616 )  





Net loss    $ (897,060 )    $ (450,162 )  





It appears as if RentJuice was less than three quarters away from running out of cash, running a business 
with declining efficiency. Yet Zillow gave up almost 50% of its net cash for the acquisition. Yes, $40 
million in cash. To Citron, this shows a company that is mismanaged and is desperately trying to change 
its story—regardless of the underlying financials or fundamentals.
Citron Research  Zillow (NASDAQ:Z)  Sept 25, 2012 Page 18 
 





   Fallacy of the Bull Case: Citron's Conclusion 
 
Much of the bull case surrounds the fallacious theory that the historical ad spend primarily in 
newspapers (six billion) is in the process of shifting online, and Zillow will be there to capture it. This is 
flat wrong.  
 
We can all agree the internet is not a new technology. Internet-generated leads to realtors have been 
getting sold for close to 15 years. Zillow itself has been around for seven years. If, after seven years and 
hundreds of millions of dollars of Wall Street's money, all it has generated is a $100 million revenue run 
rate, why should the future be exponentially better than the past—especially with a plethora of well-
capitalized competition? That Zillow has captured a whopping 1% of real estate ad spend after seven 
years, definitively reveals a history of rejection of their model by their core market. This is not a broken 
business model; it is a business model that has never worked.  
 
Zillow has a 100 million dollar cumulative deficit, while insiders have sold more stock since its 
IPO than the company has generated in revenues since that date.  
 
While management unloads stock by the millions, they continue to deceive investors about their true 
business. Let us not forget what Zillow is: an aggregator website of syndicated MLS listings that sells 
leads to real estate agents. It is not doing anything either disruptive or new, and certainly not better than 
the others.  
 
It is Citron's opinion that Zillow's revenue growth will slow once the number of leads per dollar of 
investment is the same as MOVE and Trulia. We suspect we are there right now, and the rate of insider 
sales is telegraphing that loud and clear. 
 
We think the shift to mobile simply reallocates existing ad spend resources, and doesn't change anything 
fundamental on the competitive landscape. If Zillow has something truly disruptive to bring to the real 
estate shopping business, it hasn't demonstrated it to anyone yet.  
 
Zillow is headed towards the severe multiple compression that you might call "a definitive Web 1.0 
phenomenon"…that falling-out-of-bed feeling that was exactly the same fate that hit MOVE and SOLD 
investors in the middle of the last decade.  
 
For all of the above reasons, we look for teens in the next year, and single digits eventually for this 
company.  
 
Cautious Investing to All.
