Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Pareteum – The Sound of Silence 
Management refuse to address business issues raised by Viceroy and Aurelius Value.  


Important - Disclaimer on page 3. 


On June 27, 2019, Pareteum issued a statement response to “Short Seller Attacks”, as follows: 


  
Figure 1 Pareteum Statement dated June 27, 20191 


Pareteum can continue to categorically deny "short seller attacks". This will not bring 


substance to contracts, magically collect skyrocketing receivables, or explain related party 


transactions.  


Readers can find our full report in the following link: 


https://viceroyresearch.files.wordpress.com/2019/06/pareteum-26062019.pdf 


Pareteum has fallen on D-1 general exemption for non-commercial provision of telecommunication and internet 


services in Iran. This exemption explicitly does not include processing payments on behalf of Iranian businesses 


or domain hosting.  





                                                                 
1 https://investors.pareteum.com/home/default.aspx 



https://viceroyresearch.files.wordpress.com/2019/06/pareteum-26062019.pdf

https://investors.pareteum.com/home/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 





 
Figures 2, 3, 4, 5 -  OFAC D-1 General Exemption2 


It is further nonsensical to fall on this defence as Amin SMC does not even appear to be providing any 


telecommunication services. Despite this, Pareteum appears to be actively hosting payment gate and website 


on behalf of Amin.  


Of notable concern, the Chairman of Amin SMC, Hamid Reza Amirinia, is also be the Chairman of an entity of 


OFAC's specific sanction list, The Centre for Innovation and Technology Cooperation, previously suspected of 


skirting sanctions with an Iranian government mandate and money laundering for the regime. 


Pareteum has not responded regarding: 


▪ Why it has received near-zero cash flows from its allegedly massive customer base & backlog, and why 


customers appear to not exist in substance. 


▪ Why the revenues from its backlog do not match up with its revenues and have not for an extended 


period, let along cash collected. 


▪ The justification for its loan to Yonder Mobile, operated by serially failed entrepreneur Adam Kidron. 


▪ The explanation for related-party customers in the UK.  


▪ The explanation for several customers either not operational or minor in stature – either way, 


financially unable to fulfil Pretium’s multi-million dollar contracts.  


▪ The employment of David Fondots, an individual arrested and charged with wire fraud by the FBI 


Viceroy has further evidence of related party transactions between the company and apparent fake customers, 


paid in equity which we will make public in due time.  


We stand by our report in its entirety; and reiterate our recommendation for shareholders to push for an 


investigation of management and their complicity in these events, in Edward “Ted” O’Donnell and Robert Harold 


“Hal” Turner. 





                                                                 
2 https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/Programs/Documents/iran_gld1.pdf  



https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/Programs/Documents/iran_gld1.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within Pareteum or any other entity to file a report 


with the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroy@viceroyresearch.com  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer  


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation.
