We are short shares of CareDx, a $1.7bn diagnostics company whose share price has 
increased by 30x over just the last two years and now trades at over 18x sales. The meteoric 
rise and generous valuation have come in the wake of excitement over the commercialization of 
AlloSure, a blood test intended to identify organ rejection in kidney transplant recipients. 
Transplant nephrologists have long used measures of kidney function to assess the probability 
of rejection, with a tissue biopsy providing a definitive diagnosis. To hear CareDx tell it, AlloSure 
is the long sought-after silver bullet for rejection diagnosis, with the potential to “revolutionize the 
treatment of kidney transplant patients.” It can help physicians “detect rejection of a donated 
organ earlier and more accurately” than traditional blood-based measures of kidney function 
and “reduce the use of invasive biopsies.” [emphasis added] 


But alas, as hard as CareDx has tried to finesse the numbers into telling a good story, it’s 
difficult to escape the simple fact that AlloSure is mostly useless, and potentially dangerous if 
used improperly. It should be obvious that a diagnostic test for transplant rejection that misses 
about 40% of rejections compared to the current standard of care has little place in clinical 
practice. But the stars have fortuitously aligned for CareDx: under the financial cover of broad 
(but provisional) Medicare coverage, the company has enlisted dozens of influential transplant 
researchers in the country’s largest clinics to conduct numerous large-scale studies evaluating 
AlloSure. The hope is to conclusively proclaim its status as a diagnostic panacea. 


The data coming out of those studies, though, is exceptionally poor, even as AlloSure revenues 
are overwhelmingly comprised of utilization in those studies. That leaves CareDx in a precarious 
position, particularly as physicians wise up to the futility of AlloSure. We calculate that CareDx 
has faced a quarterly attrition rate on AlloSure’s surveillance patient population of 20-30%. 
That’s staggering for a diagnostic test with a captive patient population, particularly one that’s 
paid for almost entirely by Medicare. It’s perhaps less surprising when viewed in the context of 
the continuous trickle of papers and data revealing AlloSure’s futility in identifying the most 
common types of kidney rejection.  


That data will present an even bigger obstacle for CareDx when Medicare reconsiders its 
coverage parameters, which are conditional on the results of a large clinical trial under way. It’s 
already clear, in our view, that AlloSure won’t be able to serve as a diagnostic tool in the way it 
was originally envisioned, which would jeopardize Medicare coverage. It’s therefore 
unsurprising to see that, in an attempt to stay relevant, recent AlloSure research sponsored by 
CareDx has been pivoting hard, aiming to prove AlloSure’s worth in a subset of the overall 
kidney transplant market. The problem, as we shall see, is that the subset being targeted is a 
fraction of the $2 billion that CareDx has declared its addressable market.  


To make matters worse, several competing rejection diagnostic tests are slated to hit the market 
in the next few months, fresh off their own provisional Medicare coverage approvals. Some 
have similar mechanisms of action as AlloSure but promise to be more accurate and potentially 
cheaper. Others have novel mechanisms based on genomic markers and are backed by 
impressive clinical evidence. They will now get the chance to vie for their own place in clinical 
studies, and we expect them to hasten the unraveling of AlloSure that’s already under way. 
CareDx, reliant on a single ineffective test, will soon confront its own terminal diagnosis. 


    
July 2019 


CareDx, Inc. (CDNA) 
Pivotal Kidney Transplant Test Headed for Rejection 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in and own option interests on the stock of CareDX, Inc. 
(the “Company”). Kerrisdale stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. 
Following publication, Kerrisdale may transact in the securities of the Company. All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Kerrisdale does not undertake to update this report or any 
information herein. Please read our full legal disclaimer at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 2 








Table of Contents 
I. INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS .......................................................................................................... 3 


II. COMPANY OVERVIEW ..................................................................................................................... 8 


III. CLINICAL DATA SHOW THAT ALLOSURE IS INSENSITIVE IN DISCRIMINATING 
KIDNEY REJECTION, WITH AN UNACCEPTABLE MISS RATE ............................................ 12 


AlloSure is fundamentally incapable of identifying the most common type of kidney rejection ...................... 14 
Recent clinical literature paints a uniformly negative picture of AlloSure’s clinical utility ................................. 16 


IV. ALLOSURE REVENUES OVERWHELMINGLY COME FROM PROTOCOL USAGE IN 
CLINICAL TESTING, WHICH IS SUFFERING 20-30% QUARTERLY ATTRITION .............. 20 


V. ALLOSURE IS VULNERABLE TO BOTH INCREASING COMPETITION AND MEDICARE 
RISK ..................................................................................................................................................... 23 


AlloSure faces significant competition in the near term and almost certain obsolescence over time .............. 23 
The TAM for AlloSure is a fraction of CareDX’s claims and Medicare coverage will be scaled back 
accordingly .................................................................................................................................................................... 25 


VI. VALUATION AND CONCLUSION ................................................................................................. 27 


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ...................................................................................................................... 28
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





I. Investment Highlights 
 
AlloSure is ineffective in identifying kidney rejection. The gold standard of kidney rejection 
diagnosis for transplant recipients is a biopsy. Kidney transplant recipients are subject to 
ongoing monitoring post-transplant, during which they undergo routine screening to assess 
kidney function.  Abnormal serum creatinine or, less frequently, high urine protein levels are 
typically the first sign(s) of decreased kidney function. If they lead to suspicion of rejection, a 
biopsy is performed and examined in order to determine whether the kidney is suffering from 
rejection. 
 
But creatinine is an admittedly flawed marker: 
• False Positive Rate. Creatinine levels are an indicator of kidney function, and rejection is 


just one of several reasons they may be elevated. As a marker of kidney rejection, the false 
positive rate is high, as only about a third of biopsies that are performed due to elevated 
creatinine are diagnosed as rejection.  


• False Negative Rate. Rejection can occur with no short-term loss of kidney function, and 
creatinine measurements are incapable of picking up rejection in such cases. This 
phenomenon, called “subclinical” rejection, is estimated to occur in 15-35% of transplant 
recipients that have normal creatinine measurements. 


 
The field of nephrology has long pursued a noninvasive biomarker of kidney rejection that would 
a) eliminate the false positive problem, thereby reducing unnecessary biopsies and b) detect 
subclinical kidney rejection. AlloSure – the diagnostic test responsible for most of CareDx’s 
market capitalization – is the first attempt (but certainly not the last) to commercialize such a 
biomarker. In CareDx’s telling, AlloSure provides “precise, actionable results” and is “more 
accurate than serum creatinine in diagnosis of active rejection.” It also provides a “sensitive, 
accurate, and precise measure of organ health.” We believe that the underlying message – that 
AlloSure is a precise method that can be used to establish the presence or absence of kidney 
rejection – couldn’t be further from the truth. 
 
Every single clinical paper and study of AlloSure leads, in our view, to one inescapable 
conclusion: AlloSure is an utter failure as a comprehensive biomarker of rejection. In fact, 
based on the flagship paper1 used by CareDx to demonstrate the test’s clinical utility, doctors 
using AlloSure to rule out rejection, as per the company’s marketing materials, would miss 
about 40% of rejection episodes that would otherwise be detected using the current standard of 
care. In the course of our diligence we found that in some clinics doctors have begun using 
AlloSure to diagnose rejection, and we believe this puts a significant number of kidney 
transplant recipients at unnecessary risk. Abnormal creatinine levels may overdiagnose 


                                                 
1 Bloom RD., Bromberg JS, Poggio ED, et al. Cell-Free DNA and Active Rejection in Kidney Allografts. J Am Soc 
Nephrol 2017; 28:2221 



http://www.allosure.com/

http://www.allosure.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/LK-10403-AlloSure-Core-Sales-Aid-Brochure_Rev3_SPREAD.pdf

https://jasn.asnjournals.org/content/28/7/2221
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 4 





rejection (high false positive rate), but AlloSure presents the much more severe problem of 
underdiagnosing rejection (high false negative rate).2 
 
What about subclinical rejection, which goes undetected by creatinine measurement? In 
CareDx’s DART clinical trial, only 3.9% of a reference cohort of patients who exhibited no signs 
of impaired kidney function tested positive for kidney rejection using AlloSure.3 But studies 
documenting the results of surveillance biopsies reveal that the subclinical rejection rate ranges 
from 15-35%. In other words, AlloSure misses the overwhelming majority of subclinical 
rejection episodes, and that’s ignoring the false positives in that 3.9% number.  
 
More recent studies confirm the problems with AlloSure implicit in the DART trial and cast 
further doubt on the accuracy of the test, strongly suggesting that AlloSure is structurally 
incapable of identifying T-Cell-Mediated Rejection (TCMR), by far the most common type of 
acute rejection. The consistent weakness of AlloSure across multiple studies is that, in statistical 
parlance, its sensitivity – the probability that the test result will be positive given the occurrence 
of rejection – is so low as to make the results unreliable at best, and dangerous if misused. 
 
AlloSure’s commercial success is unsustainably built on collapsing clinical-study usage 
and conditional Medicare coverage. If AlloSure is such a poor biomarker, how did it reach a 
~$45 million annual revenue run rate in less than 18 months? As a Laboratory Developed Test 
(LDT), the only barrier to commercialization was payor coverage, and over 90% of kidney 
transplant procedures qualify for Medicare coverage, which includes all medical care for 3 years 
post-transplant. So the only third party payor that really matters for AlloSure (for now) is 
Medicare, which is fortunate because LDTs can obtain broad Medicare coverage just by 
competently navigating the MolDX program.  
 
MolDX, short for Molecular Diagnostic Services, is a program run by Palmetto GBA, a Medicare 
Administrative Contractor (MAC) in the Southeast, and set up in 2011 in order to manage the 
growing number of genetic and molecular diagnostic LDTs. Most of the MACs have outsourced 
their LDT coverage decisions to MolDX, so the program is effectively a gateway to national 
coverage and reimbursement for any LDT. To get a Local Coverage Determination (LCD) from 
MolDX, a test must pass a technical assessment, which involves subject matter experts 
determining whether it has demonstrated “analytical validity, clinical validity, and clinical utility.”  
 
MolDX will normally grant an LCD even with limited evidence of clinical utility, conditional upon 
further research that is expected to prove clinical utility. The LCD for AlloSure states that MolDX 
“recognizes that the evidence of clinical utility for the use of AlloSure in its intended use 
population is promising at the current time. However, this contractor believes that forthcoming 


                                                 
2 CareDx can technically claim that AlloSure is “more accurate” than serum creatinine measurement because it has a 
lower rate of false positives. But accuracy is not the goal of rejection testing, rather, detecting rejection is. 
3 Bromberg JS, Brennan DC, Poggio E, et al. Biological Variation of Donor-Derived Cell-Free DNA in Renal 
Transplant Recipients: Clinical Implications. J Appl Lab Med 2017; 2:309 



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/record/NCT02424227

https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/vitro-diagnostics/laboratory-developed-tests

https://www.palmettogba.com/palmetto/MolDX.nsf

https://www.cms.gov/medicare-coverage-database/details/lcd-details.aspx?LCDId=37266

http://jalm.aaccjnls.org/content/early/2017/04/04/jalm.2016.022731

http://jalm.aaccjnls.org/content/early/2017/04/04/jalm.2016.022731
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





prospective clinical studies will demonstrate improved patient outcomes. Continued coverage 
for AlloSure testing is dependent on annual review by this contractor of such data and 
publications.” [emphasis added] For now, though, AlloSure is covered and reimbursable for any 
kidney transplant recipient covered by Medicare. 
 
That LCD went into effect on October 2, 2017, which partly explains the AlloSure revenue ramp 
that started in the fourth quarter of 2017. But it’s also worth putting AlloSure into the more 
general context of organ rejection research. The transplant community has always dreamed of a 
noninvasive “silver bullet” to detect organ rejection, and the genomic revolution has brought with 
it hope that such a test could be developed. AlloSure measures the quantity of donor-derived 
cell-free DNA (dd-cfDNA) in the patient’s blood stream, and the hypothesis that cfDNA might 
signal organ rejection was first advanced as far back as 1998. Research on the matter started 
gaining momentum in 2011 and, since then, small studies of cfDNA as a rejection marker in 
heart, lung, and kidney transplants showed promise but were inconclusive. Even the March 
2017 flagship paper that arose out of CareDx’s DART study was small (102 patients, only 27 of 
whom were diagnosed with rejection) and while “promising” (in the words of MolDX), it was far 
from conclusive.  
 
The LCD from MolDX in late 2017 essentially subsidized further studies of cfDNA by providing 
reimbursement for AlloSure, which flung open the door for large-scale studies to take place. 
cfDNA, which had been the subject of intense speculation and curiosity for a decade, could now 
be studied as a noninvasive rejection biomarker in large numbers and at negligible cost. On top 
of the latent demand for studying cfDNA, CareDx shrewdly provided financial support and 
funding to renowned transplant nephrologists in over two dozen of the largest clinics nationwide, 
ensuring a steady stream of multi-year studies that would provide “recurring” demand for 
AlloSure tests. The company also immediately began enrollment on a massive 1000-patient 
clinical trial (KOAR), which, in the company’s own words, would “include approximately 10,000 
reimbursed AlloSure tests over the next 3 years, thus representing incremental AlloSure volume 
as well as another revenue driver going forward.”4  
 
As with the routine screening of transplant recipients (see below), AlloSure usage is being 
studied on a protocol basis, with CareDx routinely disclosing on earnings calls the number of 
patients on an AlloSure surveillance protocol. Recently, the company has disclosed a quarterly 
attrition rate of 10% for these surveillance patients. While that still implies an incredible 35% 
annual drop-out rate, we believe that the real attrition rate is much higher. Given the historical 
disclosure of quarterly surveillance patients, and recent disclosures regarding the total number 
of patients who have ever been provided AlloSure results, we calculate an attrition rate for 
surveillance patients of approximately 20-30% per quarter, or a staggering 70% annually. 
Consider that CareDx has provided results to “over 8,000 patients” in the span of 6 quarters, 
and yet only about 3600 patients are currently on an AlloSure surveillance protocol. 


                                                 
4 11/9/2017 – CareDx Fiscal 2017 Third Quarter Earnings Call 



https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673605790553

https://jasn.asnjournals.org/content/28/7/2221

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03326076
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





 
The disclosures also suggest that over 90% of AlloSure revenue comes from these surveillance 
patients. Ironically, AlloSure’s revenue comes almost entirely from transplant clinics studying it 
as a routine screening tool, but finding it so inadequate that they rapidly drop it. We expect the 
patient recruitment treadmill will soon become impossible to outrun. 
 


National Kidney Foundation Routine Screening Guidelines for Clinicians 
 





Source: National Kidney Foundation: Managing Kidney Transplant Recipients  
 


 
Poor clinical results leave CareDx open to significant regulatory and competitive risks. In 
addition to massive patient attrition, CareDx faces the risk of Medicare scaling back coverage. 
For AlloSure to secure broad permanent MolDX coverage, it will need to show that it can 
“[identify] renal transplant recipients who may use AlloSure testing in the first year post 
transplant to safely avoid unnecessary procedures and/or interventions.” In other words, it 
needs to obviate a biopsy by conclusively ruling out rejection in transplant patients. As 
mentioned above and detailed below, the data unambiguously show that’s implausible. But in 
patients with biopsy-diagnosed antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) – a small subset of total 
transplant recipients – AlloSure might effectively monitor the progress of treatment over time. 
That’s a very niche market compared to CareDx’s preferred regiment of testing all transplant 
recipients several times annually for years. CareDx sizes its market at $2 billion, while the 
ABMR-monitoring market size is closer to ~$100 million. We expect that after evaluation of the 
KOAR data (in 2022), Medicare coverage will thus be significantly scaled back. 
 



https://www.kidney.org/sites/default/files/02-50-4080_ABB_ManagingTransRecipBk_Neph.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





At the same time, the same structural processes that helped AlloSure (at least temporarily) are 
allowing competitors to validate other diagnostic rejection tests, and at least two have already 
received a preliminary LCD from MolDX granting Medicare coverage. One of these is a dd-
cfDNA test from Natera, a company that has a long history of using cfDNA in prenatal 
applications. We are skeptical about the ability of cfDNA to significantly impact kidney transplant 
diagnostics, but Natera may be able to measure cfDNA more accurately, and has a cost 
structure low enough to significantly undercut AlloSure on price. There are also other cfDNA 
assays that could be commercialized rapidly, as well as new genomic tests that are aimed at 
precision diagnosis of specific kinds of organ rejection. 
 
CareDx scored reimbursement support for a test whose mechanism of action has been a 
curiosity for decades. But commercialization is a double edged sword: the rigorous testing it has 
catalyzed is coming up empty, driving rapid patient attrition and putting the company at risk of 
both losing Medicare coverage and being run over by competition.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





II. Company Overview 
 


CareDx: Capitalization and Financial Results 
 





Source: company filings, Kerrisdale analysis  
 


 
CareDx considers itself “an international transplant diagnostics company with product offerings 
along the pre- and post-transplant continuum.” In that (somewhat hyperbolic) vein, the company 
mainly provides two diagnostic test services, AlloMap and AlloSure, as well as HLA-typing 
products used by transplant clinics to match donor organs with recipients. AlloMap is a gene 
expression test used in routine screening of heart transplant recipients in order to rule out acute 
cellular rejection. The test was first commercialized in 2006 and has been moderately 
successful, though bound by the relatively small number of heart transplants performed in the 
US each year (~2,000). On its own, AlloMap was never more than marginally profitable, and we 
think its stand-alone value is negligible. The same can broadly be said for the company’s HLA-
typing business. 
 
AlloSure, the primary subject of this report, targets the much larger kidney transplant market 
(21,167 transplant procedures were performed in the US in 2018).5 By measuring the levels of 
donor-derived cell-free DNA (dd-cfDNA) in the transplant recipient’s blood, AlloSure aims to be 
an accurate biomarker of kidney rejection, helping physicians “detect rejection of a donated 
organ earlier and more accurately” than the current standard of care, and “reduce the use of 
invasive biopsies,”6 which are currently the only way to accurately assess whether a patient is 
suffering rejection. 
 
Rejection, though, is a loaded term. In the general sense, it describes the phenomenon of the 
transplant recipient’s immune system attacking and damaging the implanted kidney. But there 
are a few different kinds of rejection:7 


                                                 
5 According to the United Network for Organ Sharing 
6 CareDx 2018 10-K, Item 1, Company Overview  
7 This discussion keeps the descriptions of the various types of rejection relatively simple. For detailed descriptions of 
the histopathology of various types of kidney rejection, see the review of the Banff 2017 conference here. 


Capitalization Financial Results
Share price ($) 37.40$  2016 2017 2018 TTM
Fully diluted shares (mm): Revenue 41$       48$       77$       88$       


Shares outstanding 41.9      EBITDA (13)        (13)        (10)        (11)        
Dilutive impact of options/RSUs 3.1        EBITDA Margin -31% -27% -13% -12%


Total 45.0      


Fully diluted market cap (mm) 1,685$  AlloSure Rev. (est) -$      0.4$      21.1$    30.9$    
Less: cash 57         


Enterprise value 1,627$  
EV/revenue (trailing) 18.4x



https://unos.org/data/transplant-trends/

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1217234/000156459019006533/cdna-10k_20181231.htm#ITEM_1_BUSINESS

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/ajt.14625
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





• T-Cell-Mediated Rejection (TCMR/CMR) – also called cellular rejection, is generally marked 
by inflammation of kidney tubules and interstitial matter. In more severe cases, the inner 
arterial wall of the kidney becomes inflamed. In less severe cases, where the 
tubule/interstitial inflammation is minimal, cellular rejection can be labeled “borderline”. 


• Acute Antibody-Mediated Rejection (AMR/ABMR) – is marked by 1) inflammation of the 
vasculature of the kidney and 2) antibody-caused injury8 to the renal endothelium (the 
interior walls of the blood vessels running through the kidney). True to its name, AMR is 
almost always accompanied by donor-specific antibodies (DSA, or antibodies that 
specifically target the unique cellular receptors associated with the donated kidney). 


• Chronic AMR – is similar to acute AMR, but is labeled “chronic” if, based on the examination 
of the biopsy tissue, the damage is so severe that it’s clear that the immune system attack 
has been ongoing for a while. 


 
Diagnosing Rejection 
 
The precise parameters of a kidney rejection episode – i.e., the type of rejection (AMR vs. 
CMR), the immune processes responsible, the parts of the kidney that are being damaged, etc. 
– are only discoverable via biopsy. But kidney biopsies are not normally a routine monitoring 
mechanism because performing them regularly on every single transplant recipient is seen as 
overkill. While some transplant clinics do perform such “protocol biopsies,”9 most clinics monitor 
kidney function through routine measurement of serum creatinine and, to a lesser extent, 
albumin in the urine, both of which are cheaply and accurately obtainable. Healthy kidneys filter 
creatinine from the blood while allowing protein to remain in the blood stream, so elevated 
serum creatinine levels or protein in urine (proteinuria) signal impaired kidney function.  
 
After consideration of patient-specific factors and ruling out other potential causes of abnormal 
creatinine or proteinuria, if kidney rejection is suspected, a biopsy is performed. The biopsy 
examination of the kidney tissue by a pathologist is the ultimate arbiter of whether the patient is 
suffering from transplant rejection. 
 
But relying on kidney function as the first sign that a transplant might be rejecting is less than 
ideal. First of all, it’s not very “specific,” which means that decreased kidney function could be a 
sign of rejection, but it could also be a sign of other problems such as dehydration, infection, or 
other kidney injuries. Biopsies performed due to elevated creatinine/proteinuria therefore come 
back negative for rejection over half the time. 
 
Kidney function is also not a very “sensitive” indicator of kidney rejection, which means that 
there’s a lot of rejection taking place that doesn’t get picked up by serum creatinine 
measurement. Transplant clinics that perform protocol biopsies have published studies on the 


                                                 
8 Generally indicated on a biopsy by a phenomenon called C4d staining 
9 Protocol biopsies are biopsies performed routinely for screening purposes, generally in the year after the transplant 
surgery. By contrast, biopsies performed due to suspicion of rejection or other kidney injury are called “indication 
biopsies.” Protocol biopsies mostly come back negative, are expensive, carry a small risk of severe bleeding, and 
would be a logistical impossibility for most transplant clinics to perform. 



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3771104/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 10 





frequency of rejection diagnoses that result from these biopsies, and it’s clear that plenty of 
rejection episodes happen with no falloff in kidney function. The simplest explanation for this is 
that a loss of kidney function is often the end-result of rejection, but the actual immune system 
attack begins earlier and only manifests itself in impaired kidney function after a sustained 
period of activity. It’s also possible for immune activity to be temporarily heightened, leading to a 
case of temporary rejection that never advances to the point of declining kidney function.  
 
Kidney rejection in the absence of reduced kidney function is called “subclinical rejection” 
because of its ability to evade detection. It is generally believed that enough time spent in a 
state of subclinical rejection eventually results in chronic AMR or severe TCMR.10 Over the last 
decade, multiple studies of protocol biopsy data have estimated the incidence of subclinical 
rejection to be anywhere in the range of 10-30% of biopsy samples.11 That means much, maybe 
most, of kidney rejection goes undetected and untreated, potentially with negative 
consequences for long term graft survival. 
 
Another problem with diagnosing “rejection” is that each type of rejection – TCMR vs. AMR vs. 
Chronic AMR – is treated differently. Even if there were a test that could perfectly discriminate 
“rejection,” a biopsy would still be necessary for a more granular diagnosis that would inform the 
subsequent treatment. 
 
Cell-Free DNA 
 
The limitations of kidney function markers like creatinine and proteinuria have been understood 
for decades. But no noninvasive diagnostic test or screening protocol has been shown to 
improve the means of detecting rejection, either through avoiding unnecessary biopsies 
(increased specificity) or by identifying subclinical rejection (increased sensitivity). AlloSure is 
really the first attempt at improving upon the long-standing status quo to be studied on a large 
scale. 
 
AlloSure is CareDx’s brand name for a test that measures the proportional quantity of donor-
derived cell-free DNA (dd-cfDNA) in a transplant recipient’s bloodstream. cfDNA is freely 
circulating DNA that’s released from the cell nucleus upon cell death and ends up in the 
bloodstream. There’s always some amount of cfDNA in a person’s blood stream, a natural result 
of the perfectly normal process of apoptosis. Over the past decade, fetal cfDNA in the blood of 
expectant mothers has been tested in order to detect potential genetic disorders in the fetus. 
Tumor cfDNA has also been used more recently as a “liquid biopsy” in a variety of oncologic 
applications, including as a potential marker of residual disease after tumor resection and as a 
trove of potentially useful genomic information pertaining to the cancer.  
 


                                                 
10 Mehta R, Sood P, Hariharan S. Subclinical Rejection in Renal Transplantation: Reappraised. Transplantation. 
2016;100(8):1610‐1618. 
11 Ibid. See also Friedewald, JJ, Kurian, SM, Heilman, RL, et al. Development and clinical validity of a novel blood‐
based molecular biomarker for sub‐clinical acute rejection following kidney transplant. Am J Transplant. 2019; 19: 98‐ 
109. 



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apoptosis

https://journals.lww.com/transplantjournal/FullText/2016/08000/Subclinical_Rejection_in_Renal_Transplantation__.13.aspx

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajt.15011

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajt.15011
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 11 





In the transplant setting, the goal of a dd-cfDNA test is to quantify the proportion of cfDNA in the 
transplant recipient’s bloodstream that’s coming directly from the donated kidney. The logic is 
that the DNA of kidney cells, which are quite literally from another person, is different than the 
DNA of the transplant recipient. If the proportion of the donor cfDNA relative to native cfDNA is 
abnormally high in the blood, that would indicate some sort of injury to the kidney that’s resulting 
in an elevated rate of kidney cell death. In theory, the only kind of injury that would cause that 
sort of event cascade is kidney rejection.  
 
The idea of quantifying the proportion of dd-cfDNA as a marker of kidney injury was first 
hypothesized in the late 1990’s by Dennis Lo and his team at the Chinese University of Hong 
Kong. As the costs of genetic amplification and sequencing technologies declined, the study of 
cfDNA in transplant recipients gained momentum. Stephen Quake, who would found 
ImmuMetrix to commercialize this technology (and then sell it to CareDx in 2014), published the 
first of many papers on cfDNA and transplants in early 2011 with the hopeful title, “Universal 
noninvasive detection of solid organ transplant rejection.”12  
 
In the almost-decade since then, hundreds of articles have been written about small-scale 
experiments in the use of dd-cfDNA to detect organ rejection. These papers can generally be 
described as hopeful, but inconclusive: they almost all find some positive correlation between 
levels of dd-cfDNA and transplant rejection, but the statistical relationship is rarely good enough 
to justify clinical usage (especially at scale). Nevertheless, there’s almost always hope that with 
a bit of improvement and some large scale testing, the concept could work. Thus, in 2015, a 
review of cfDNA studies in the American Journal of Transplantation noted that 
 


Although dd-cfDNA is an interesting and promising marker of solid transplant organ 
health, much work still needs to be done before clinical implementation…In conclusion, 
whereas observational studies published so far point to dd-cfDNA as a promising marker 
in the transplantation field, randomized control studies are mandatory comparing a dd-
cfDNA-based monitoring strategy with the standard post-transplantation monitoring in 
terms of graft and patient survival.13 


 
With the achievement of Medicare coverage and reimbursement in mid-2017, large scale 
subsidized studies of dd-cfDNA became possible. The results don’t bode well for AlloSure. 
 
 


                                                 
12 Snyder TM, et al. Universal noninvasive detection of solid organ transplant rejection. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 
2011;108(15):6229–6234. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1013924108. 
13 Gielis EM, et al. Cell-Free DNA: An Upcoming Biomarker in Transplantation. Am J Transplant 2015;15:2541–2551. 



https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673605790553

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3076856/

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/ajt.13387
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 12 





III. Clinical Data Show that AlloSure is Insensitive in 
Discriminating Kidney Rejection, with an Unacceptable 
Miss Rate 


 
Screening tests have to be really cheap, and in kidney, serum creatinine and proteinuria 
are very good tests. They’re actually excellent tests. And you’re going to have to do very 
well to beat serum creatinine and proteinuria by enough to justify a thousand dollar test if 
you’re doing screening. [emphasis in the original] 


Dr. Philip Halloran, Inventor of the Molecular Microscope14 
 


CareDx clearly positions AlloSure as a kidney rejection test that makes up for the weaknesses 
of serum creatinine, as the latter is “nonspecific as to cause and not sensitive, as serum 
creatinine may only be detected after significant and irreversible renal function loss has 
occurred.” AlloSure is meant to be incorporated into the routine screening protocols used by 
transplant centers: “The AlloSure recommended testing protocol,” according to CareDx, 
“includes 7 tests during the first year [post-transplant] followed by quarterly testing in the second 
year and beyond.”15 
 
To assess whether AlloSure is really an improvement over the current standard of care (SOC), 
which relies on creatinine and proteinuria measurement, two questions must be answered: 
• Can AlloSure safely be used to avoid unnecessary biopsies? Over half of the biopsies 


triggered by impaired kidney function come back negative for rejection. Biopsies are 
invasive and carry some small risk of bleeding, so avoiding unnecessary biopsies, without 
concomitantly avoiding the necessary ones, would be a genuine improvement on the status 
quo. In statistical terminology: can AlloSure reduce the rate of false positives without 
introducing new false negatives? 


• Can AlloSure be used to detect subclinical rejection, i.e., rejection that’s currently missed by 
just testing for creatinine and proteinuria? 


 
Based on our wide-ranging conversations with transplant physicians, as well as an exhaustive 
review of the clinical literature, the answer to both of the above questions is clearly, No. Let’s 
start with the seminal AlloSure paper by Bloom et al., which is used by CareDx as the basis for 
their marketing materials and “results interpretation” guide, both meant for physicians. The study 
focuses on 102 of the 384 patients in CareDx’s DART clinical trial, which was conducted in 
order to validate AlloSure as an accurate measure of dd-cfDNA.16 The 102 patients represent all 
the patients in the DART trial that had undergone an indication-biopsy (i.e., due to elevated 


                                                 
14 Halloran is a world renowned transplant pathologist and the founding editor of the American Journal of 
Transplantation. Halloran’s comments were made in a speech he gave to the Henry Ford Transplant Institute in June, 
2017. 
