Memo: Short – Sealed Air                 August 15, 2019 
 


1 


“Sealed Air is the Packaging Company of the Future…and Always Will Be” 


- Not Charles de Gaulle 
 


We are short Sealed Air (SEE, or the “Company”) – a $7bn market cap flexible plastic packaging company, 
focused largely on protective consumer/industrial (e.g. bubble-wrap, air cushions) and food packaging (e.g. 
Cryovac, fresh meat packaging/films). There are six key points to the thesis and we’ll dive into each below: 


1. Long History of Aggressive Earnings Adjustments 
 


2. Costly, Never-ending Restructuring Programs 
 


3. Lackluster Underlying Financial Performance + Leverage  
 


4. Intensifying Secular Headwinds 
 


5. Active SEC Investigation 
 


6. Premium Valuation Despite all of the Above  





Long History of Aggressive Earnings Adjustments 


SEE has a long history of aggressive earnings adjustments. And thus, it was certainly no surprise to us when 
we first heard of the SEC’s investigation into the Company. SEE’s financials have long been among the most 
convoluted within the broader packaging space. Since 2013, SEE’s presented non-GAAP adjustments have 
consistently boosted EBITDA margins by 200-300 bps. Sure, some of these adjustments may be justifiable 
– but, there’s always something. Below are examples from SEE’s 2018 and 2015 10-Ks, respectively:
Memo: Short – Sealed Air                 August 15, 2019 
 


2 


 


Costly, Never-Ending Restructuring Programs 


Since 2013, SEE has spent $500mm+ on five restructuring programs (most with catchy names, of course): 
“Get Fit,” “Change the Game,” “Fusion,” Diversey sale/cost-out, “Reinvent SEE.” After all these years, we’re 
amazed investors still give SEE the benefit of the doubt for these costly efforts. Investors perpetually seem to 
assume that (a) the programs will have a lasting, material impact (without new problems cropping up), and (b) 
someday the restructurings will end. We would posit: perhaps Sealed Air just isn’t going to return to its peak-
margin glory days. 


Why do we conclude SEE is being given the benefit of the doubt? Because, despite a lackluster financial profile 
(more on that below), the stock has generally traded at a premium valuation vs. most of its peers and the 
broader packaging sector. And, consensus estimates already bake in significant (almost 200 bps) margin 
improvement over the next three years. With sustainable margin improvement always just around the corner, 
it’s easy to justify a premium multiple (who doesn’t love a good turnaround story?). 


Lackluster Underlying Financial Performance 


One thing we look for in potential shorts is companies that have a track record of mediocre performance during 
boom years. And then, if the business is at all cyclical – and ideally levered – we start to feel good about the 
risk-reward of being short later in the cycle.  


While SEE’s heavily-adjusted results skew the picture, SEE fits the bill. In our view, Sealed Air’s financial model 
is not nearly as attractive as investors give it credit for. Performance has been lackluster for at least a decade. 
And, despite being considered more of a “staple” type business, about 40% of sales (the Product Care segment) 
are reasonably cyclical. Some key observations: 


 No underlying growth. Since 2013, sales growth ex-M&A has averaged 0%. While volume + price/cost 
have averaged +3%, these modest gains were entirely offset by FX headwinds. With gains hard to 
come by in “boom years,” we see no reason to believe growth will inflect upwards in the future. To the
Memo: Short – Sealed Air                 August 15, 2019 
 


3 


contrary, it seems far more likely SEE will experience declines, due to rising environmental and 
sustainability awareness around the use of disposable plastics (e.g. SEE’s very own bubble-wrap).  


Exhibit 1: No Core Sales Growth in Boom Years…What Next? 





Source: Upslope, Canalyst, Sentieo, Company filings 
Note: Based on Company disclosures and shown for current segments (i.e. excludes Diversey divestiture). 


 
 Poor / volatile free cash generation. FCF conversion has bounced around historically, but averaged 


35%-40%. It’s been weaker of late, clocking in >30% in 2017 and 2018. Guidance for 2019 is ~20-25%. 
Clearly, part of the issue is never-ending restructuring costs, which are adjusted out of EBITDA by 
management (and consensus). Notably, unadjusted FCF/share has gone nowhere for a decade: 


Exhibit 2: Historical Free Cash Flow per Share 





Source: Upslope, Canalyst, Sentieo, Company filings 


(8.0%)


(6.0%)


(4.0%)


(2.0%)


0.0%


2.0%


4.0%


6.0%


2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1H 2019


Volume + Price/Mix Total Sales Growth Incl. FX


($2.0)


($1.0)


$0.0


$1.0


$2.0


$3.0


$4.0


$5.0


2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Guide
Memo: Short – Sealed Air                 August 15, 2019 
 


4 


 Low, inconsistent ROIC. Return on invested capital has exceeded 10% just twice in the past decade. 
While this is certainly no smoking gun when it comes to a short thesis, it provides yet another data point 
that Sealed Air is not in fact a superior business with a financial model worth a premium. 
 


 Significantly more cyclical than peers. While most “comp” SEE to other packagers such as Bemis 
(now Amcor), Berry Plastics, AptarGroup, and others (Sonoco, Ball, Crown, Silgan, to a lesser extent), 
we believe SEE is notably more cyclical than peers. Yet, it has always traded at a premium valuation 
on hopes of a sustained turnaround. Notably, most of SEE’s peers really are staple-like businesses, 
primarily selling to non-discretionary end-markets (food/bev, healthcare, home/personal care). While 
this is the case for SEE’s Food Care segment, its Product Care segment (40% of sales today), seems 
quite vulnerable to the prospect of a broader economic downturn. Product Care is focused on providing 
bubble-wrap, air cushions, and other forms of protective plastic packaging to consumer/industrial end-
markets. From its 10-K, SEE notes particular exposure to “e-Commerce, electronics and industrial 
manufacturing.” With that context, it’s not hard to see how this business line suffered a ~20% drop in 
sales during the 2009 financial crisis and could suffer a sharp setback in a future downturn. 
 


 Fully-levered balance sheet. As with most potentially attractive “shorts,” SEE has a fully-levered 
balance sheet, with net debt/EBITDA approaching 4x. While not unreasonable for a packager, it leaves 
little flexibility and could become an issue in the event of a more serious macro deterioration, given the 
cyclicality of SEE’s Product Care segment. 


Intensifying Secular Headwinds  


On an almost daily basis, we are reminded of rapidly growing consumer awareness about the adverse impact 
to the environment from single-use plastics. In our view, SEE is among the worst positioned packagers in the 
face of this potential mega trend. The ultimate impact on SEE’s business is hard to quantify. But, we feel very 
comfortable arguing that industry volume trends for SEE’s Product Care unit will continue to worsen – and likely 
at an accelerating pace. SEE’s recent results even appear to show just that: Product Care segment volumes 
went from +6% in 2017 to flat in 2018 and -3% in 1H 2019. 


Active SEC Investigation   


In May, Sealed Air received an additional subpoena from the SEC relating to a previously disclosed 
investigation. As a result of the subpoena and an internal review by the Audit Committee, Sealed Air rather 
unceremoniously fired its CFO in June. For now, it appears the CFO’s termination was related to issues around 
SEE’s past auditor selection process (and the independence of the audit firm). We won’t claim to have special 
insight into the outcome of the investigation, but do note it’s a risk that investors seem to have largely written 
off (based on current valuation relative to peers and SEE’s own history). More recently, SEE changed auditors, 
seemingly to get ahead of a potential adverse outcome of the investigation. Again, it doesn’t surprise us that 
the SEC is investing SEE, given its relatively complex/aggressively-adjusted financials. 


Premium Valuation Despite All of the Above  


Sealed Air has historically – and still does – traded at a premium to most of its packaging peers. On a FCFE 
yield basis, SEE even trades near best-in-class Ball Corp (which is far less cyclical and arguably a beneficiary 
of sustainability trends). Stepping back, SEE’s valuation fails a pretty basic common-sense test: What would 
you pay for a levered, moderately cyclical stock with a decade of poor FCF generation, never-ending 
restructurings, rising secular headwinds and questionable accounting?
Memo: Short – Sealed Air                 August 15, 2019 
 


5 


In taking a fresh look at valuation, we focus largely on SEE’s FCFE yield relative to peers. We feel comfortable 
that using consensus FCFE estimates is conservative from the short point of view, given: 


 2019 numbers seem to generously back out yet another “one-time” payment ($59mm)  
 2020 assumes a 50% boost in FCF/share despite major working capital progress in recent years 
 Emerging cyclical and intensifying secular headwinds 


Next, we looked at SEE’s peer group – focusing on three key factors: cyclicality, secular trends (e.g. right or 
wrong side of sustainability, underlying end-market trends, etc.), and balance sheet leverage, shown below: 


Exhibit 3: Comparable Analysis 





Source: Upslope, Canalyst, Sentieo, Bloomberg, Company filings 
Note: Valuation data as of Aug. 15, 2019 (intra-day). 





Conclusion: SEE Appears Significantly Overvalued, with 30-40% Downside 


Based on the above, we think it would be perfectly reasonable for SEE to trade closer to or above a 2020 FCFE 
yield of 8%. Bulls would argue that margins and FCF are going to inflect (more than consensus?) and a 
turnaround is really happening. But…investors have heard the same old story for the better part of a decade. 
The fact is, underneath all the adjustments, SEE has not performed well – even in good economic times. It is 
more cyclical than almost all of its peers. It has an active SEC investigation. And, it’s levered.  


With all this in mind, SEE shares are worth no more than $29 (~33% downside), in our view. This target 
implicitly gives SEE credit for margin improvement and a wind-down of restructuring activities. It ignores 
worsening sustainability headwinds (consensus appears to assume flat/steady organic growth through 2021). 
And, it doesn’t really contemplate a material adverse outcome from the SEC investigation.  


Having followed Sealed Air for a number of years now, we can’t help but be reminded of the famous Charles 
de Gaulle quote on Brazil: “Brazil is the country of the future...and always will be.” That is exactly how we feel 
about Sealed Air. 





FCFE Yield LTM Net Secular
Ticker 2019 2020 Leverage Cyclicality Environment
BERY 12.7% 15.2% 3.8x Low Headwinds
AMCR 5.6% 6.3% 2.8x Low Headwinds
SLGN 8.3% 8.7% 4.1x Low Headwinds
SON 5.6% 7.1% 1.8x Medium Balanced
ATR 2.6% 3.2% 1.7x Low Balanced
BLL 3.7% 4.0% 3.7x Low Tailwinds
CCK 8.2% 8.8% 4.9x Low Balanced
OI 12.4% 16.0% 4.0x Medium Headwinds
ARD 9.2% 12.0% 5.4x Low Balanced


Primary Median 7.0% 7.9% 3.3x
Secondary Median 8.2% 8.8% 4.0x
All Comps Median 8.2% 8.7% 3.8x
Sealed Air SEE 3.6% 5.4% 3.6x Medium Headwinds


Primary


Secondary
Memo: Short – Sealed Air                 August 15, 2019 
 


6 


Key Risks to the Short 


 Successful turnaround – maybe it will be different this time 
 Significant, accretive acquisition(s) 
 Sale of the Company – packaging is a PE favorite, though valuation appears rich 
 Potential relief upon closure of SEC investigation 


 
IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES 
 


Certain accounts managed by Upslope Capital Management (“Upslope,” “we”) currently hold short 
positions in Sealed Air (SEE). These positions may change without notice and Upslope accepts no 
responsibility to update these materials. These materials are solely the opinion of Upslope and readers 
are encouraged to independently verify all facts and assertions. 


 
Upslope Capital Management, LLC is a Colorado registered investment adviser. Information presented is for 
discussion and educational purposes only and does not intend to make an offer or solicitation for the sale or 
purchase of any specific securities, investments, or investment strategies. Investments involve risk and, unless 
otherwise stated, are not guaranteed. Be sure to first consult with a qualified financial adviser and/or tax 
professional before implementing any strategy discussed herein. Past performance is not indicative of future 
performance. 
 
While Upslope believes all information herein is from reliable sources, no representation or warranty can be 
made with respect to its completeness. Any projections, market outlooks, or estimates in this presentation are 
forward-looking statements and are based upon internal analysis and certain assumptions, which reflect the 
views of Upslope and should not be construed to be indicative of actual events that will occur. As such, the 
information may change in the future should any of the economic or market conditions Upslope used to base 
its assumptions change.  
 
Any description of investment strategies in this presentation is intended to be a summary and should not be 
considered an exhaustive and complete description of the potential investment strategies used by Upslope 
discussed herein. Varied investment strategies may be added or subtracted from Upslope in accordance with 
related Investment Advisory Contracts by Upslope in its sole and absolute discretion. 
 
Any specific security or investment examples in this presentation are meant to serve as examples of Upslope’s 
investment process only and may or may not be trades that Upslope has executed or will execute. There is no 
assurance that Upslope Capital will make any investments with the same or similar characteristics as any 
investments presented. The investments are presented for discussion purposes only and are not a reliable 
indicator of the performance or investment profile of any composite or client account. The reader should not 
assume that any investments identified were or will be profitable or that any investment recommendations or 
investment decisions we make in the future will be profitable. Any index or benchmark comparisons herein are 
provided for informational purposes only and should not be used as the basis for making an investment decision. 
There are significant differences between Upslope’s strategy and the benchmarks referenced, including, but 
not limited to, risk profile, liquidity, volatility and asset composition. You should not rely on this presentation as 
the basis upon which to make an investment decision. 
 
There can be no assurance that investment objectives will be achieved. Clients must be prepared to bear the 
risk of a loss of their investment.  
 
These materials may not be disseminated without the prior written consent of Upslope Capital Management, 
LLC.
