1 
 





This research report expresses soley our opinions.  Use Soapbox Research opinions at your own risk.  In no event should Soapbox Research be 


liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information contained in this report.  We have a short interest in Whirlpool stock 


and therefore stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock declines.  Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last 


page of this report.  





Soapbox Research is always on the lookout for companies (and management)                                    


behaving badly.  While we don’t discriminate based on industry or geography,                                            


our most successful calls have been focused on consumer facing, easy to                                                                                              


understand businesses.  Take, for example, Newell Brands, whose stock has                                          


declined 60% following our report in November 2017.  Today, we have                                                           


identified another consumer business which we believe faces fundamental                                                          


issues but uses clever accounting tricks to conceal these problems from                                                     


investors: Whirlpool (“WHR” or “the Company”).   


Whirlpool has long been a well-recognized name in America’s kitchens and                                                  


laundry rooms.  In fact, in 2018, 54% of Whirlpool’s revenue came from                                                            


North America.  However, recent macro developments have caused issues                                                    


for WHR in North America, and we believe we are only in the early innings                                                                 


of the problems that lie ahead for the Company.    


Whirlpool has not been upfront with investors in communicating these issues.                                                 


Instead, the Company has focused on metrics that obfuscate the economic                                                   


realities of Whirlpool’s declining business and embellish results.  Not only                                                    


are these metrics misleading to investors, but Whirlpool’s reliance on these                                              


measures have led the Company to overcompensate management despite                                                          


poor performance.  Specifically, we will demonstrate: 


• Due to inappropriate addbacks, in 2018, the divergence between 


Ongoing EBIT and GAAP EBIT grew to a staggering 373%.   





• Made up metric “Ongoing EPS” was $17.88 / share more than 


GAAP EPS! 





• Competition from Samsung and LG will only continue to increase as 


they ramp up production at their new US factories, leading to 


margin deterioration for Whirlpool.  














Company: 


Whirlpool Corp  


Ticker: WHR 


Industry: 


Consumer 


Discretionary 


Stock Price as of 


9/10/2019: 


$147.34 


Market Cap: 


$9.3bn 


Daily Volume: 


95,904,721         


(3 month avg.) 


Price Target: 


$66.62 





Summary
2 
 





Whirlpool measures its value creation by focusing on three metrics: sales growth, EBIT margin, and FCF 


as a percentage of sales. Whirlpool presents these metrics at the beginning of its annual reports as can 


be seen in the excerpt below which appears within the first ten pages of WHR’s most recent 10-K.   





These measures also take center stage on earnings calls and investor presentations as Management tells 


shareholders they are making great progress in creating value. 


For example, on the 4Q-2018 earnings call, management touts,  


“We delivered very strong free cash flow of $853 million for the year, driven by disciplined 


working capital management including significant improvement in inventory and the favorable 


timing of certain payments. The actions we took in 2018 coupled with favorable exit rates in 


Europe give us confidence that we deliver results in 2019 that put us back on track to our long-


term goals.” 


This continues on the Q1-2019 earnings call as Mark Bitzer states,  


“Ongoing EBIT margin was 6.3% for the quarter, compared to 6% last year, driven by very strong 


price/mix.  Overall, we are very pleased with our first quarter results and believe we are well 


positioned to deliver on our full-year commitment.” 


…And again in Q2-2019: 


“In line with our long-term goal, we delivered global revenue growth excluding currency of 3.5%, 


a strong price mix more than offset unit volume declines.  Ongoing EBIT margin was 7% for the 


quarter, a year-over-year increase of approximately 30 basis points. Overall, we are obviously 


very pleased with our second quarter results and believe we are well positioned to deliver our 


upwardly revised full-year commitments.” 


The Spin Cycle: Whirlpool Focuses Investors’ Attention on Made up Metrics
3 
 


In addition to misleading investors by relying on Ongoing EBIT and free cash flow, we believe WHR relies 


on another made up metric, Ongoing Earnings Per Diluted Share to further mask WHR’s true business 


trajectory.  Whirlpool highlights this absurd metric on earnings calls and investor presentations and the 


sell-side community has come to rely upon it in establishing price targets and gauging Company 


performance.  For example, in WHR’s Q12019 Earnings Call, Marc Bitzer, WHR’s CEO started by boasting 


about “another quarter with strong results, including a record first quarter ongoing earnings per share 


of $3.11.” Then, a research note from JPMorgan followed that stated “We expect a positive reaction by 


the stock tomorrow… WHR reported 1Q Operating EPS of $3.11, above the Street’s $2.86 and our 


$3.03E.” 


On first look, these seem like perfectly reasonable metrics by which to judge business performance.  


However, a closer examination reveals that these seemingly standard measures are actually derived 


using numerous addbacks and adjustments at management’s discretion.   For example, despite 


presenting the margin expansion goal as “EBIT Margin”, digging deeper in the financials, we find that 


Management actually uses an obscure calculation of “Ongoing EBIT” to calculate this margin expansion 


metric.  The same goes for free cash flow, which relies on irregular adjustments not typically seen in free 


cash flow calculations.  


Naturally, as one would expect from made up metrics, these measures have conveyed a favorable story 


about Whirlpool and its prospects, and WHR’s stock price has appreciated more than 30% year-to-date.  


Sell side estimates have followed, increasing nearly 20% since the start of the year.  


However, a closer look reveals the absurdity of these metrics and WHR’s (and the market’s) overreliance 


on non-GAAP adjustments over multiple reporting periods.   





First, taking a closer look at the divergence between GAAP EBIT and Ongoing EBIT, we see that the 


difference has been growing over the last three years, and that in 2018, Ongoing EBIT was a staggering 


373% above GAAP EBIT.  





Scrubbing WHR’s Ongoing EBIT and Ongoing Earnings Per Diluted Share
4 
 


The components responsible for these large differences include an addback of goodwill impairment 


charges in 2018 as well as addbacks of restructuring expenses in 2016, 2017, and 2018.   


According to Management, Ongoing EBIT is meant to “exclude items that may not be indicative of, or 


are unrelated to, results from [WHR’s] ongoing operations and provide a better baseline for analyzing 


trends in [the] underlying businesses.”  However, upon closer inspection, we find the opposite to be 


true.  In fact, looking back over the last decade, WHR has incurred restructuring expenses every year 


since 2001!  Given this, we don’t understand why restructuring expenses are eliminated to arrive at 


Ongoing EBIT when they have clearly been an ongoing part of WHR’s business over multiple business 


cycles and have trended upwards over time as depicted below.   





The same deficiencies we have identified in WHR’s Ongoing EBIT metric also flow through to WHR’s 


Ongoing Business Diluted EPS.  On top of that, the Company also layers on absurd non-GAAP tax rates to 


further inflate the Ongoing Business Diluted EPS metric. For example, in 2018, the Company paid 


$138mm in GAAP taxes / $206mm in cash taxes.  However, to compute the Ongoing Business Diluted 


EPS, WHR inexplicably only subtracts out $73mm in taxes, which equates to a 2018 normalized tax rate 


of approximately 6.6%.  Considering that neither WHR’s GAAP tax rate nor its cash tax rate have ever 


been this low and are unlikely to ever reach such levels in the future, we think it is absurd to use a 6.6% 


rate to represent the ongoing business and do not understand the rationale behind doing so.   


Below, we highlight the divergent trend between WHR’s GAAP Diluted EPS and Ongoing Business 


Diluted EPS and the adjustments WHR uses to account for the differences:
5 
 

















The problem with WHR adding back restructuring expenses as if they were one-time items is twofold.   


First of all, many sell side analysts value WHR on either a forward EV / EBITDA multiple or using a 


combination of forward EV / EBITDA and P/E multiples.  WHR’s treatment of restructuring expenses as 


one-time items has resulted in a similar treatment by research analysts who add back these expenses to 


forecast EBITDA.  This has, in our opinion, resulted in erroneously inflated price targets.   


Second of all, as can be seen from the relevant excerpts taken from WHR’s proxies shown below, 


Ongoing EBIT, along with Free Cash Flow, which we discuss later, determine the short-term incentive 


component of management’s compensation:  


Relevance of Ongoing EBIT and Ongoing Business EPS
6 
 








Had $247mm of 2018’s restructuring expense not been added back into ongoing EBIT, WHR’s actual 


Ongoing EBIT would have been $1,072mm, falling below the 0% payout threshold.  The same is true for 


2017 when WHR added back $275mm of restructuring expenses.  In 2016, taking out the $173mm 


restructuring expense addback would have resulted in a payout of 19.4% instead of the 85% that 


actually occurred.   


In short, adding back restructuring expenses to calculate Ongoing EBIT has resulted in management 


taking money out of shareholders’ pockets and putting it in their own.  In its 2018 proxy, WHR disclosed 


that in 2019, the Company Performance Factor will increase to 200% from 150%, allowing for 


shareholders to be fleeced by Management to an even greater extent.  


For Ongoing Business EPS, we see similar implications.  As already mentioned, most sell-side analysts 


rely on EBITDA or a combination of EBITDA and P/E to set WHR’s price targets and assess the Company’s 


quarterly performance. Inflating this P/E metric by adding back restructuring expenses and using 


ridiculous tax rate assumptions has served to artificially increase stock price targets and portray 


Whirlpool’s performance to be better than reality.
7 
 


In addition to misleading the market, WHR’s Ongoing Business EPS calculation serves to further benefit 


management since it is a key performance indicator used in determining their compensation.  As we 


showed above, while ongoing EBIT and free cash flow are key determinants in Management’s short-


term incentive compensation, Ongoing Earnings Per Share is a key component when determining 


Management’s long-term incentives (see excerpt below from WHR’s 2019 proxy)   





For the 2016-2018 period, according to WHR’s proxy (excerpt below), the Company earned $42.96 in 


Cumulative Ongoing EPS, resulting in Management receiving 75% of the payout target.  However, if we 


back out the restructuring expense addbacks, and use cash taxes paid instead of the senseless tax-rate 


suggested by Management, we would have seen Cumulative Ongoing EPS equal to $29.57, and a 0% 


payout to Management.
8 
 





WHR’s shenanigans do not end with its addback of ongoing restructuring expenses to Ongoing EBIT and 


passing off artificially low tax rates as representative of the ongoing business.  The Company also 


extends its liberal financial metric definitions in characterizing Free Cash Flow.  Like Ongoing EBIT and 


EPS, Free Cash Flow is another key metric that Management uses to assess performance and plays a 


central role in the Company’s narrative to investors.  To calculate Free Cash Flow, WHR uses GAAP cash 


provided from operating activities after capital expenditures but also adds in proceeds from the sale of 


assets / businesses and changes in restricted cash, two measures which do not accurately reflect WHR’s 


ongoing business.   


When taken in combination with the Company’s (erroneous) rationale in adding back restructuring 


expenses to Ongoing EBIT, we find this view of Free Cash Flow seems rather ironic.  WHR eliminates 


restructuring expenses from Ongoing EBIT because it believes these are non-recurring (despite having 


recurred every year since 2001 and forecasted to continue).  However, WHR includes in Free Cash Flow 


proceeds from asset / business sales and changes in restricted cash which are indeed non-recurring 


items or do not actually represent cash available to the Company.      


Comparing Free Cash Flow reported by WHR and what we believe to be the true free cash flow 


generated by WHR shows a similar trend to our EBIT analysis: a large and growing discrepancy between 


the two measures.  





In its 10-K, Whirlpool notes that the “change in restricted cash is related to the private placement funds 


paid by Whirlpool to acquire majority control of Whirlpool China (formerly Hefei Sanyo) in 2014 and 


which are used to fund capital expenditures and technical resources to enhance Whirlpool China’s 


research and development and working capital, as required by the terms of the Hefei Sanyo acquisition 


completed in October 2014.”  Given this, WHR’s choice to include changes in restricted cash when 


Scrubbing WHR’s Free Cash Flow
9 
 


calculating free cash flow is especially puzzling since not only is this non-recurring in nature, but it 


doesn’t actually represent cash inflows to the Company.   








Similar with what we have seen with WHR’s Ongoing EBIT, its Free Cash Flow is the second key 


component in determining the short-term incentive portion of management’s compensation.   Had free 


cash flows been calculated without adding back asset sale proceeds or restricted cash flow changes, 


management would have earned payouts of 60%, 40% and 70% in 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively – 


significantly lower than the 83%,66% and 101% they actually realized. 


Additionally, aside from its impacts on Management pay, relying on WHR’s definition of Ongoing Free 


Cash Flow masks the true amount of cash that is available to WHR for stock repurchases, dividends and 


debt service which have all grown rapidly over the last three years.  Dividends and stock buybacks have 


contributed to keeping WHR’s stock price elevated.  We think declining free cash flows could jeopardize 


the Company’s ability to repurchase shares and maintain its 3.5% dividend yield.  Below, a comparison 


of WHR’s free cash flow with the Company’s debt levels, dividends and buybacks helps to illustrate why 


we are concerned.  











Our analysis shows that if we take away the made-up metrics that have embellished WHR’s headline 


numbers over the last several years, eliminate the nonsensical addbacks, tax rates, and “normalized” 


Whirlpool Business Fundamentals  





Relevance of Addbacks to Free Cash Flows
10 
 


figures, WHR’s business fundamental have suffered.  However, we believe that the worst is yet to come 


as competition from foreign entrants into the US market, namely LG and Samsung, intensifies.  


In order to understand the state of current and upcoming affairs, we need to look back to January 2018 


when in response to a complaint from Whirlpool, the Trump administration approved a combined tariff 


and quota on imported washing machines.  Under this tariff / quota, the first 1.2 million imported 


washing machines faced a tariff of 20%, with all subsequent washing machine imports facing a tariff of 


50%.  Initially, this worked out very well for Whirlpool as companies such as Samsung and LG that sell 


imported washers raised prices to help offset the cost of the tariffs.  Whirlpool also raised prices which 


without the cost of the tariff, led to improved margins for the Company as approximately 30% of its 


revenue comes from laundry appliances.   





Longer term however, the protectionist measures that Whirlpool pushed for ended up backfiring as both 


LG and Samsung decided to open factories in the US.  LG announced the completion of their Tennessee 


plant in May of this year:
11 
 





Both factories are expected to be running at capacity by early 2020 with each being able to produce 


about 1 million washers a year, meaning more competition for Whirlpool.   


Historically, Whirlpool has not contended well with competition.  The chart below shows that from 2002 


to 2006 when foreign appliance imports increased, Whirlpool’s North American EBIT margin declined 


over 5% despite help from the strongest housing market in history.
12 
 


In addition to increasing competition from domestic production by LG and Samsung, both companies 


are expected to continue to import the 1.2 million washers under the quota.  So between LG and 


Samsung alone, we will see a supply of 3.2 million washers in 2020.  Add to that the approximately 1 


million washers that GE produces in the US, and approximately 2 million washers from Whirlpool, and 


you get a supply of 6.2 million washers versus an annual US demand of about 4 million.   








Given that the tariffs are set to reduce in 2020 and expire in 2021, we expect that this excess supply will 


continue to build and translate to heavy promotions among the appliance manufacturers, resulting in 


deteriorating revenue and margins for Whirlpool.  We expect this decline to be worse than what we 


witnessed in the 2002 – 2006 time period since we don’t have a raging housing market to absorb some 


of this excess supply.   





Looking ahead to 2019, in its 2018 10-K, WHR Management initially stated that “for the full year 2019, 


[they] expect to incur up to $100 million of restructuring charges, as [they] reduce fixed costs primarily 


in the EMEA region.” However, in a July 22, 2019 press release, the Company increased its 2019 


restructuring expense estimate to $200mm without much explanation.  We note that in 2017 and 2018 


actual restructuring expenses came in at 38% and 24% ahead of the Company’s respective forecasts and 


thus would not be surprised if this trend continues in 2019.   


To get to a valuation for WHR, we start with sell side estimates for 2020 North America Revenues and 


North America EBIT of $11,515 and $1,376mm respectively, representing a 12% EBIT margin. Given the 


Valuation
13 
 


margin deterioration that WHR experienced from foreign competition previously – approximately 100 


bps a year (as depicted by the graph on page 11), we adjust North American EBIT by 2% to account for 


the increase in foreign competition that Whirlpool has started to encounter in 2019.  This results in a 


North American EBIT decrease of $230mm which flows through to 2020 estimated total company 


adjusted EBITDA to result in a company-wide EBITDA of $1,797mm. As we noted previously, sell-side 


adjusted EBITDA adds back restructuring costs, which we estimate to be around $100mm in 2020.  


Adjusting for this, we get to a company-wide estimated 2020 EBITDA of $1,697.   





According to Bloomberg (screenshot below), WHR is currently trading at a 7.8x multiple of its 2020E sell-


side consensus EBITDA, at the high-end of it’s historical five year EV / FY2 EBITDA range.   





Given the Company’s glum business prospects and questionable management payout practices, we 


believe that at most, Whirlpool should trade more in line with its five-year historical average multiple – 


6.9x.  Applying this to our 2020 estimated EBITDA, we get a price target of $66.62 for Whirlpool, 


representing just over 50% downside to WHR’s current price.
14
15 
 


Disclaimer: 


You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of Whirlpool declines. 


This report and all statements contained herein are the opinion of Soapbox Research, and are not statements of 


fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we set 


out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public 


information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly 


access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our 


report and do your own homework before making any investment decisions.  


As of the publication date of this report, Soapbox Research along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or 


indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize 


gains in the event that the price of Whirlpool’s stock declines. Use Soapbox Research at your own risk. You should 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to the securities 


covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be construed as 


investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we 


may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a 


solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 


jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our 


ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public 


sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock 


covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident 


by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure 


that our research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and 


completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such 


information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Soapbox Research 


materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value 


trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or 


international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  


This report should only be considered in its entirety. Each section should be read in the context of the entire 


report, and no section, paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its author to stand alone or to be 


interpreted in isolation without reference to the rest of the report. The section headings contained in this report 


are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in reference to the detailed statements of opinions in 


their respective sections.  


Soapbox Research makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 


any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Soapbox Research does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this 


report or any of the information contained herein.
