1/27


GeoTeam October 16, 2019


UP Fintech Holding Ltd. – TIGR – is a U.S. Listed China
Based Company Operating an Illegal Money Laundering
Scheme


geoinvesting.com/up-fintech-holdings-illegal-money-laundering-scheme/


Summary


UP Fintech Holding Limited (NASDAQ:TIGR) is a US listed China-based online
brokerage platform that has created an elaborate scheme to enable Chinese citizens to
trade in foreign securities, bypassing regulation in China.
TIGR is operating without the proper license(s) required for Chinese citizens to trade
foreign securities and has already been subject to a government investigation by the
China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC).
We provide evidence that TIGR’s competitors have shut down their businesses, which
we believe was a result of regulatory pressure. This evidence combined with our
research on the Chinese regulatory environment suggests that TIGR’s brokerage
platform could be shut down any day.
China CLEARLY restricts its citizens from converting RMB to USD for investment
purposes. Our investigator in China opened an account with TIGR and recorded
conversations with customer service. Our investigator was instructed to make
fraudulent claims to the local bank in China about the use of funds so that RMB could
be exchanged for USD and deposited into TIGR’s overseas trading account.
For the individual account holder, this is outright money laundering and nothing but
illegal, and could even cause enforcement action against people who have opened
brokerage accounts with TIGR. The fact that TIGR directs applicants to lie and break
the law is enabling the applicant to perform money laundering. Furthermore, in our
opinion, the fact that the platform facilitates this puts it at risk of violating anti-money
laundering laws.
The company seemingly used New Zealand licenses to book revenues from 2016 to
2018 that the company was unable to book from either U.S (where most execution and
clearing of trades happens through Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. (NASDAQ:IBKR))
and China (where most of TIGR’s clients are located and where the company does not
have the proper license(s) to provide brokerage services).
The majority of TIGR’s revenue are generated from commission revenue through its
relationship with Interactive Brokers, subjecting the company to significant risk due to
the zero commission wars taking place in the U.S. brokerage sector.
The company has made interest free loans to related parties including insiders, which
we view as a red flag for corporate governance.



https://geoinvesting.com/up-fintech-holdings-illegal-money-laundering-scheme/

http://portal.geoinvesting.com/companies/ibkr_interactive_brokers_group__inc_/overview
2/27





Background


UP Fintech Holdings Ltd (NASDAQ: TIGR) is a China-based online brokerage firm which
offers an app and online trading platform that enables Chinese investors to trade equities
and other financial instruments on US stock markets, the Hong Kong exchanges, and
multiple other exchanges in various countries.


In September 2019, the Chief Accountant of China’s State Administration of Foreign
Exchange (SAFE), Tianqi Sun, unequivocally warned that companies providing cross border
financial services without a Chinese license are engaging in illegal financial activity:


“If companies obtained overseas license(s) yet didn’t obtain our country’s license(s) to
provide cross-border financial services for our country’s consumers and investors, in
various business forms within our border, this is like driving without a license, and it is
an invasion to a country’s financial border and it is an invasion to a country’s financial
sovereignty, and it is an illegal financial activity. Relevant financial regulating
departments should seriously investigate and heavily punish this kind of driving-
without-license activities within our country, and foreign exchange administrative
department need to severely punish the rule and law-breaking activities that are related
to foreign currencies,”


Additionally, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, when asked specifically about
TIGR and other trading platforms, answered:


“…China’s <Securities Law> stipulates that no enterprise or individual may operate
securities business without the approval of the securities regulatory authority
under the State Council. China’s <Regulations on the Supervision and Administration
of Securities Companies> stipulates that overseas securities operating institutions that
operate securities business in China shall be subject to the approval of the securities
regulatory authority under the State Council.”


In another instance the CRSC stated:


“…we have not approved any domestic or foreign institutions to carry out
services for domestic investors to participate in overseas securities
transactions.”


The message is clear: It doesn’t matter if the securities business being operated is domestic
or foreign, as long as it conducts business on China’s territory, it needs to obtain adequate
license(s) from the Chinese government.
3/27


Despite clear warnings, TIGR is operating its “brokerage” firm without a PRC brokerage
license(s).  This means that TIGR might not be permitted to generate commissions revenue
in China.


However, we believe that TIGR developed a complicated scheme to bypass necessary
license requirements and book MOST of its revenue overseas through its overseas
license(s) and relationship with foreign brokers. TIGR went even as far as instructing clients
to blatantly disrespect PRC laws and lie to their local banks in China to avoid capital controls.
We provide evidence showing that TIGR’s client service representative explained to our
investigator, who lives in China and opened a TIGR account, how to lie about the “purpose of
funds” to his local bank in order to convert RMB to U.S. dollars so the investigator could
deposit funds into TIGR’s overseas trading account. The law in China is very clear. When
converting RMB to foreign currencies to send abroad, the “use of funds” cannot be for
investment purposes.


According to its prospectus, TIGR is “the largest online platform for trading U.S. securities
focusing on Chinese investors globally in terms of trading volume in 2017, with a market
share of 58.4%, and also one of the most recognized fintech brands among global Chinese
according to the iResearch Report.” The prospectus also stated, “Most of our customers are
PRC citizens resident in China”.


TIGR has obtained brokerage or financial advisory licenses in a few foreign jurisdictions,
including the U.S., and has “partnered” with Interactive Brokers (NASDAQ: IBKR) for the
execution and clearing of the trades. On the surface, this appears to make TIGR look
legitimate. However, we want to caution investors that TIGR’s efforts are masking a key
problem: The bulk of revenue TIGR generates is from foreign trading activities by Chinese
citizens living in China. Further, without a license TIGR is not allowed to take money from
Chinese investors to trade in overseas securities. Additionally, TIGR cannot earn book
brokerage revenue in China.


We believe TIGR’s conduct in China is putting the company at immediate risk of serious
enforcement action, a suspension or even a complete shutdown. We also believe that the
Chinese media will expose TIGR, potentially causing panic to TIGR’s current clients, leading
many to quickly close and withdraw money from their TIGR accounts.


TIGR’s current situation reminds us of Natural Health Trends (NASDAQ: NHTC).  NHTC
operated its business in China without a proper license. Earlier this year, the company’s
stock price imploded after PRC regulators took action to suspend its operations in China. We
actually originally broke the story of potential fraud at the company by exposing NHTC’s
efforts to coordinate what we believed to be an illegal multi-level marketing business within
China.



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1756699/000104746919001463/a2238128z424b4.htm
4/27


A key point to understanding the risks associated with investing in NHTC is that it didn’t have
a license to operate an MLM business in China, so it devised a way to bypass not having a
license, to still operate in China. The point: to operate business in China, one needs to have
a license. With TIGR, it’s even more important because it is a financial services company.


The fact that the trade tensions between the US and China is at heightened levels, increases
the likelihood that China will take action. Furthermore, given media reports that the US
government was considering delisting US-listed China-based companies, and restricting
pension funds from investing in them, increases the risk to TIGR’s operating and listing
status in the US.


Furthermore, earlier this year, Senator Rubio proposed a Bill (GEO’s work was referenced)
called Ensuring Quality In formation and Transparency for Abroad-Based Listingson our
Exchanges’’ or the ‘‘EQUITABLE Act’’, to ban Chinese & foreign firms that flaunt U.S. Laws
from U.S. Exchanges. So, when investing in TIGR, one now only has to worry about China
taking action against the company, but also need to conisder that U.S. regulators are on high
alert.


The Chinese Regulatory Environment


In order to put our research into perspective, it is useful to understand the regulatory
environment in China, as well as public comments issued by the CSRC about one of TIGR’s
competitors that were made two months after the competitor terminated its business. As we
will discuss later, TIGR is also mentioned in this notice (see exhibit B under section titled
“Regulator has commented on TIGR specifically”.  In short, the Chinese government is
becoming stricter on enforcing regulation on capital controls and operating licenses in the
brokerage industry.


It is widely known that China has been very strict on its capital controls (i.e. link), extremely
limiting the ability of citizens to transfer RMB out of the country.


Furthermore, we believe the Chinese government may choose to enforce capital controls
more stringently because of depreciating RMB in the ongoing trade war, and secondly,
because of reports the U.S. government is considering delisting US Listed China based
companies.


in September this year, it was reported that the Chief Accountant of China’s State
Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), Tianqi Sun, stated in a speech named “Fintech
and Cross-Border Financial Services”, that both domestic and overseas institutions need to
abide China’s laws by operating with adequate licenses. Although the statement was mainly
related to the cross-border payments, the government’s attitude toward any institution that
conducts cross-border financial services business is clear: It doesn’t matter if the



http://www.investopedia.com/us-traded-chinese-stocks-sink-amid-possible-delisting-4771797

http://www.marketwatch.com/story/white-house-discussing-limits-on-government-pension-fund-investments-in-china-report-2019-10-08

https://www.scmp.com/economy/china-economy/article/3012312/chinas-capital-outflow-controls-have-gone-extreme-former

https://fintech.caijing.com.cn/20190911/4615716.shtml
5/27


institution is domestic or foreign, as long as it conducts business on China’s territory,
it needs to obtain adequate licenses from the Chinese government. Below is the quote
from the article which was translated and paraphrased. Sun, warned:





“If companies obtained overseas license(s) yet didn’t obtain our country’s license(s) to
provide cross-border financial services for our country’s consumers and investors, in
various business forms within our border, this is like driving without a license, and it is
an invasion to a country’s financial border and it is an invasion to a country’s financial
sovereignty, and it is an illegal financial activity. Relevant financial regulating
departments should seriously investigate and heavily punish this kind of driving-
without-license activities within our country, and foreign exchange administrative
department need to severely punish the rule and law-breaking activities that are related
to foreign currencies.”





Going through TIGR’s Sign-Up Process


TIGR Provides online brokerage services in China in partnership with Interactive Brokers.
Our research indicates that TIGR is nothing but the agent to channel money out of China into
overseas trading accounts by illicit means. We do not believe TIGR’s business is
sustainable, since it is based on helping Chinese citizens circumvent its governments capital
control laws, but it gets even worse. Below is the general process of signing up for a global
TIGR account, along with wiring money into, trading on, and wiring money out of Tiger’s
trading platform:
6/27


We have obtained recordings that prove that TIGR’s customer service explicitly instructs its
customers to lie to their domestic bank. Our investigator was told during the sign-up process
to make false statements to the bank.


When our investigator contacted a TIGR customer service rep to inquire about how to
convert RMB to USD in order to deposit his money in a TIGR global account, the
investigator was told to lie about the usage of the funds.
When the investigator asked about how to wire the money from the domestic bank
account to the TIGR overseas trading account, the investigator was told to lie about the
use of proceeds.
After the exchanged foreign currency is transferred to TIGR’s global trading account, it
then can be wired back through Interactive Brokers’ platform.


Evidence that the company is helping clients lie on the usage of their
exchanged USD


Our investigator contacted a TIGR customer service rep to get clarification on how to open
an account on TIGR’s platform, which included how to convert RMB to USD to deposit into a
local bank account so that the money could be wired to TIGR’s foreign trading account. The
customer service rep explicitly told our investigator that most clients choose personal
travelling as funds usage purpose for their purchased USD using RMB. This happened
after our investigator explicitly expressed that investigator’s interest is to use the
purchased USD to invest in U.S. stocks.


As can be seen on the flow chart Exhibit A above, there are two steps involved before USD
can reach TIGR’s trading account to trade U.S. stocks: The client needs to 1) use their RMB
to purchase USD from China’s domestic bank; 2) wire the purchased USD to their TIGR
7/27


overseas trading account. Our investigator asked TIGR’s customer service for guidance on
how to proceed with these two parts.


(Step 1) Transcript excerpt: When Investigator Asked about Purchasing USD using RMB in
China’s Domestic Bank:


Investigator: So, purchasing USD we choose personal travelling, and the destination
we choose Hong Kong, because eventually the money will be transferred to Hong
Kong, right?


Customer Service: Yes.


(Step  2) Transcript excerpt: When Investigator Asked How to Choose the Usage
Purpose of the Exchanged USD’s (from RMB) during the Wiring Process, and
investigator explicitly stated that investigator is looking to use the deposited USD to
trade U.S. stocks:


Customer Service: Regarding the [purchased USD] wiring, it needs to be the
same as what you stated to your domestic bank when you purchased USD using
your RMB, and usually most clients choose overseas travelling.


Investigator: Choose overseas travelling, right?


Customer Service: can choose choices such as personal travelling, travelling for
personal reasons.


Investigator: It has multiple choices, like business travelling expense, official visiting
expense, etc


Customer Service: They are all good, you can choose one of them.





Investigator: Oh, personal travelling, personal vacation, personal family member
visiting, they are all good [choices]?


Customer Service: Yes, usually would choose personal traveling.


TIGR’s customer service rep clearly stated that, when purchasing USD using RMB from the
domestic bank, clients need to make sure the funds usage purpose disclosed to the
domestic bank is the same as the usage purpose that clients are going to choose when
wiring USD into TIGR’s trading account, and most people would choose personal travelling
as the usage.
8/27


These instructions are illegal, because the TIGR client representative understood that our
investigator wanted to purchase USD with RMB to trade foreign securities. The rep should
have told our investigator that RMB must not be converted to USD for investment purposes.
Specifically, the representative should have informed the investigator to choose the
appropriate box that would match with the funds usage of USD. Furthermore, the customer
service rep probably should have told our investigator that you cannot purchase USD with
RMB to trade foreign securities at TIGR and that the investigator could be subject to
penalties, ranging from monetary fines of 30% of the exchanged amount to criminal charges,
according to Decree No. 532 of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China, Article
39.


Article 39 To penalize foreign exchange evasion schemes, such as transferring foreign
exchange abroad in violation of the regulations or transferring domestic capital abroad
by fraudulent means, the foreign exchange administration agencies shall order the
foreign exchange in question to be repatriated and impose a penalty not exceeding
thirty percent of the amount involved in the evasion scheme; in the case of serious
violations, the penalty imposed will be in the range of more than thirty percent and
less than one hundred percent of the amount involved in the evasion scheme; in the
case of criminal offence, a criminal prosecution shall proceed.


Our investigator also inquired as to how the funds would be eventually wired back to his local
bank in China from TIGR’s overseas trading account. The answer in the following transcript
provides clarification on two matters:


1. Interactive Brokers provide clearing capabilities for TIGR global accounts
2. The investigator would have to use Interactive Brokers platform to wire money from 


TIGR’s overseas trading account back to the investigator’s local bank in China


Transcript excerpt: When Investigator Asked about How Investigator Could Wire the Money
on TIGR’s Trading Account Back to Investigator:


Customer Service: The clearing service provider for Tiger Broker’s global account is
Interactive Brokers. You will need to log on U.S. Interactive Brokers’ official website,
filling out the money withdrawing and related banking information [to withdraw the
money from TIGR’s overseas trading account].


Even though it is disclosed that Interactive Brokers is TIGR’s clearing service provider, we
find it  strange that during our investigation, clients of TIGR, who have their money in USD
on TIGR’s trading platform, need to log onto Interactive Brokers’ website in the US to wire
their money back to their local bank account in China. That begs the question:


1. Does TIGR even have the ability to wire money back to its customers in China?
2. Or does it have to do with TIGR not having the required license in China?



http://www.pbc.gov.cn/en/3688253/3689006/3709893/index.html
9/27


More concerning, what if Interactive Brokers, for whatever reason, decides to cease
providing clearing services for TIGR in the future? One reason we can think of is that China
regulators could demand Interactive Brokers to cease all cooperation with TIGR if they
determine that TIGR is advising its clients to lie about the funds usage purpose when
exchanging RMB to USD to trade in foreign securities. If this occurred, how could TIGR’s
clients be able to wire their money from TIGR’s foreign trading account back to themselves in
China? We believe the answer to this question is no, meaning if Interactive Brokers ceases
its partnership with TIGR for any reason, TIGR’s clients might not be able to wire the money
from TIGR’s trading account back to their domestic bank account in China.


As we will discuss next, the CSRC has warned PRC citizens who trade overseas securities
that, because of the lack of legal protections, Chinese citizens’ rights and interests will not be
adequately protected if disputes between investors and trading platforms occur.


Regulator has commented on TIGR specifically


The statement of SAFE’s chief accountant cited earlier in our report is unmistakably clear:
Whether you are a domestic or foreign entity, you must obtain the proper license(s) in order
to offer brokerage service to citizens in mainland China. Our research indicates that TIGR is
in clear violation of the SAFE official’s statements. In fact, CSRC (China Securities
Regulatory Commission) had already commented on TIGR specifically before.


In July 2016, CSRC had already posted comments on their website regarding certain online
brokers, including Tiger Brokers (TIGR), that provides trading services for overseas
securities.



http://www.csrc.gov.cn/pub/newsite/djffzqqhhdj/ffzqqhjs/201607/t20160726_301171.html
10/27


Translation [Paraphrased]
11/27


Question: Recently I’ve noticed that websites and mobile portals such as “Tiger Broker
[TIGR]”, “Futu Network”, and “Jimu Stock” provide U.S. and Hong Kong stock trading
services, can I participate in them?


Answer (from CSRC): Recently, some overseas securities operating institutions have
cooperated with domestic Internet companies to provide trading channels and services
for domestic investors to invest in overseas securities markets through the platform
websites or mobile apps of domestic Internet companies. China’s <Securities Law>
stipulates that no enterprise or individual may operate securities business without the
approval of the securities regulatory authority under the State Council. China’s
<Regulations on the Supervision and Administration of Securities Companies>
stipulates that overseas securities operating institutions that operate securities
business in China shall be subject to the approval of the securities regulatory authority
under the State Council. At present, apart from the Qualified Domestic Institutional
Investors (QDII) and the “Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect” mechanism, we have
not approved any domestic or foreign institutions to carry out services for domestic
investors to participate in overseas securities transactions. When domestic investors
participate in overseas securities market transactions through domestic internet
companies’ platform website or mobile portal, due to lack of corresponding legal
protections and that the investment accounts and funds being overseas, once disputes
occur, the rights and interests of investors will not be adequately protected. Please do
not participate in such investments to avoid losses.


According to the current laws and regulations, domestic residents can invest in
overseas securities markets by purchasing qualified domestic institutional investors
(QDII) fund product shares and participating in “Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect”
transactions. Please participate in the overseas securities market investment through
legal channels, so as not to be deceived.


Based on the answer provided by CSRC, it is clear to us that these online overseas trading
platforms, including TIGR, did not obtain necessary approvals from the PRC government to
provide services to Chinese investors living in China who trade overseas securities. The
CSRC also warned of the risks investors would face once disputes occur between them and
these trading platforms.


Comparable Online Brokers Have Shut Down in China


Case 1: “Jimu Stock”


“Jimu Stock” was a private China based online trading platform which did not have proper
licenses in China or abroad.
12/27


It’s worth noting that “Jimu Stock”, which was previously mentioned in the exhibit B  notice by
CSRC along with TIGR and Futu Network, was reported (by Sina Finance) to have shut
down its online trading services and was sold to another online brokerage business BBAE in
May 2016, another (non public) China-based online brokerage firm, which we believe is also
operating illegally. It is important to understand that BBAE bought “Jimu Stock” before CSRC
published the notice shown in Exhibit B. It is also important to note that “Jimu Stock”’s parent
company PINTEC, a p2p lending platform in China, was in communication with the CSRC
before the 2016 July notice, and specifically stated that the trading features on “Jimu Stock”
had already  been terminated in response to the media’s inquiry about the July notice. Based
on our knowledge, “Jimu” does not hold any Chinese or foreign stock brokerage licenses.


The Sina Finance report indicates that Jimu’s parent company dropped the brokerage
business after communication with regulators.





Translation [Paraphrased]:



http://finance.sina.com.cn/stock/y/2016-07-26/doc-ifxuhukv7518134.shtml
13/27


On July 26, CSRC issued a warning on overseas investment risks on its official
website. [It] stated that there are no legal guarantees for websites and mobile portals of
companies such as “Jimu Stock” and “Tiger Securities”. Regarding this issue, PINTEC
Group responded to the internet finance news center that the trading features on “Jimu
Stock” mobile application have been terminated.


In its response, PINTEC Group positioned itself as an intelligent financial service
provider. After business strategic repositioning, the Group is determined to focus on big
data processing and fintech research and development, providing enterprises and
consumers with the most efficient intelligent financial services and solutions. The
strategic focus is intelligence credit and digital asset allocation business.


The PINTEC Group has maintained close communication with the regulatory
authorities, taking into account regulatory requirements and the strategic positioning of
the Group. As a non-core business, “Jimu Stock”’s function involving US stocks trading
has been sold to a US licensed investment consulting company BBAE at the end of
May 2016. The user migration work stated in early June 2016, and this work has been
completed.


At present, the “Jimu Stock” APP’s trading function has been offline, but still retains the
market information function, and continues to provide timely and accurate information
services for users who pay attention to China and the global securities markets.


Case 2: “Meibao Jinrong”


Another China-based online trading platform called “Meibao Jinrong” (美豹金融) also
appears to have shut down its services, in this case as recently as 2018. Similar to “Jimu
Stock”, “Meibao Jinrong” did not have the required brokerage licenses in China or abroad.
The company “claimed” that it launched the U.S. license application process and users
therefore needed to liquidate their positions in their accounts and transfer the money out of
their “Meibao Jinrong” trading accounts. According to this article, the notice was issued in
January 2018. So far, more than one and half years later, we cannot find evidence that
indicates “Meibao Jinrong” has resumed servicing its previous customers. We don’t buy the
company’s excuse that its customers had to liquidate their accounts in order for “Meibao
Jinrong” to apply for a US license, and we believe the shut-down was a direct reaction to
regulatory pressure. We also believe the company realized that even if they had acquired a
US license, they still could not legally operate a stock trading platform in China without
required license in China. It’s clear to us that it’s getting tougher for companies to get away
with offering illegal cross-border brokerage services, even if they possess licenses in other
countries other than China.


 



https://www.jianshu.com/p/03b806d90c72
14/27





Translation [Paraphrased]


Dear User,


In order to provide our users with premium quality trading services, “Mei Bao” has
officially commenced our brokerage application process in the United States. After the
license is approved, the account system will be fully upgraded and the users will need
to open a new account to conduct future trading transactions.


Since stocks and funds cannot be transferred between the old and new account, users
will need to withdraw funds from the old account before the license is officially
approved to prepare for the upgrade of the system. We recommend that you withdraw
your funds before February 15th. Thank you for your support to “Mei Bao Finance” and
we wish you the best in your investments.


License Issues Persist


TIGR does not hold the appropriate license(s) to operate brokerage services in China. The
risk factors section of TIGR’s going public  prospectus stated that they might be subject to
license requirements by China’s regulatory body CSRC.



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1756699/000104746919001463/a2238128z424b4.htm
15/27


“…For instance, if certain of our activities in China were deemed by relevant regulators
as provision of securities brokerage services, future brokerage services, securities or
futures investment consulting services or stock option brokerage business, we might
be subject to licensing requirements from the CSRC.” – prospectus, p.18


Clearly there is a disconnect here: TIGR openly admits to providing brokerage services to
Chinese citizens without license(s) or being an approved exempt channel. TIGR seem
unable or unwilling to correctly interpret the specific statement made by SAFE’s Chief
accountant that regardless where a company wants to provide its financial services (whether
being in China or abroad), it has to possess proper licenses in China. Also, it appears that
the CSRC is fully aware of how TIGR is pursuing its brokerage business operations in China.


In connection with the license issues TIGR has received a rectification notice by the CSRC in
September 2016, and we believe concerns continue to persist.


“In July 2016, the CSRC posted an investor alert on its website warning investors that
except for certain investment channels approved by the CSRC under the PRC laws,
the CSRC has not approved any domestic or foreign institutions to provide services for
domestic investors to participate in overseas securities trading. In September 2016, we
received a rectification notice issued by the Beijing branch of the CSRC. Following
such notice, we took certain rectification measures in order to comply with the
requirements set forth therein, and we provided written responses to such authority
promptly. We communicate with the Beijing branch of the CSRC from time to time to
ensure our business follow their requirements. As of the date of this prospectus, we
have not received further written rectification requirements from the CSRC.” –
prospectus, p.18


Three years after this letter, the company has yet to receive a brokerage license in China.
We believe this risk factor will become a reality in the near future, especially given the trade
tension and a more stringent capital control policy. One thing is clear, according to the
comments made by CSRC and SAFE, TIGR appears to be conducting an illegal brokerage
business in China. It is possible that, upon a request from the CSRC, that the company
would need to temporarily suspend its current business or even shut down its business,
before it could try to obtain required license(s) from Chinese regulators.
16/27


“…However, we cannot assure you that the rectifications we have made will fully
satisfy the relevant regulatory authorities’ requirements and we cannot assure you that
we will not be subject to further investigation or scrutiny from regulators even though
we had not yet received any negative opinion or penalty for the activities of our PRC
entities or services provided to PRC investors so far. If we are required to make further
rectifications, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely
affected. If we fail to receive required permits in a timely manner or at all, or obtain or
renew any permits and certificates, we may be subject to fines, confiscation of the
gains derived from our non-compliant activities, suspension of our non-
compliant activities or claims for compensation of any economic loss suffered
by our customers or other relevant parties.” – prospectus, p.18


This was not the only time TIGR got regulatory attention. Throughout 2016 TIGR received
notices and inspection from SAFE regarding fund transfers.


”In connection with our customers’ transfer of funds, in March 2016, we received a
notice from the SAFE requiring us to review and report situations regarding our
customers’ account opening and fund transfers on our platform. Thereafter, the
regulator conducted an onsite inspection collecting information on our customers’
compliance with the relevant SAFE rules and regulations since the inception of our
business. We submitted the relevant materials as requested by the regulator by the
end of March 2016. In December 2016, the SAFE made another visit to our company
and we submitted some additional documents per its requirements. As of the date of
this prospectus, we have not received any further inquiries or notices from the SAFE
regulators. For more details of the notice aforementioned and our measures in
response thereto, please see “Regulations—PRC Regulations Relating to the
Individual Foreign Exchange.” Since the PRC authorities and the commercial banks
designated by the SAFE to conduct foreign exchange services have significant amount
of discretion in interpreting, implementing and enforcing the relevant foreign exchange
rules and regulations, and for many other factors that are beyond our control and
anticipation, we may face more severe consequences, including but not limited to
being asked to take additional and burdensome measures to monitor the source
and use of the foreign currency funds in the accounts of our customers or
suspend our operations pending an investigation or indefinitely. As a result, our
business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely
affected.” – prospectus, p.19


In our opinion, this setup is ridiculous and an offense to regulators. Most of TIGR’s clients are
Chinese citizens, but TIGR does not have a brokerage license in China. The clients trade
mostly in US securities through TIGR’s connection with Interactive Brokers. As of 2018, most
of the revenue generated by TIGR has been booked through New Zealand, where the
company holds licenses.



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1756699/000104746919001463/a2238128z424b4.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1756699/000104746919001463/a2238128z424b4.htm
17/27


It appears that TIGR is not exactly a broker, rather it is acting as an intermediary partnering
with Interactive Brokers that helps Chinese citizens exchange USD out of China to trade
overseas securities. Moreover, it also seems like the company was using the New Zealand
licenses to book revenue that the company was unable to book from either U.S (where most
execution and clearing of trades happen) and China (where most of clients are located and
where the company does not have a proper license(s) to provide brokerage services).


The Exhibit E below illustrates the strange setup of TIGR.


The manner of which TIGR has set up its business to earn revenue as well as the instruction
that TIGR’s customer service gave to our investigator regarding the funds usage purpose of
exchanged USD has led us to conclude that it is only a question of time until Chinese
regulators suspend or even shut down TIGR’s business. We also think it is possible that
Interactive Brokers could terminate their relationship with TIGR or that US regulators step in
18/27


as the climate in the China-US relationship continues to worsen. The latest news reports on
the Trump administration considering to delist Chinese companies from US exchanges
should be a concern to investors, especially for TIGR whose main business is to provide
Chinese clients an avenue to trade U.S stocks. TIGR discloses material weaknesses in their
internal controls, making the whole situation more concerning.


Numerous Customer Complaints


We have found countless customer complaints, including some where people say it is very
hard to transfer funds out of their TIGR overseas trading account into their mainland China
local bank account. Given that TIGR operates without licenses in China, its customers also
have no government protection in case something goes wrong.


Seemly Failed Yunji Inc (NASDAQ: YJ) IPO Subscription


On May 3, 2019, many customers went on TIGR’s official website and other investment
forums to complain about the subscribed new shares of YJ.


For example, one customer showed a screen shot from the TIGR app on the TIGR forum,
YJ’s share subscription page, that confirmed his/her subscribed share count is 3,100, but in
reality he/she only received 810 shares. This is about ¼ of what was confirmed by TIGR, yet
YJ’s new shares offering only decreased from the originally planned offering amount of 13.5
million ADSs to 11 million.


These are some more examples of customer complaints from TIGR’s forum and that TIGR’s
customer experience has not been favorable.


Tremendous Risk Ahead Regarding TIGR’s Commission Revenue



https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trade-china-limits/trump-considers-delisting-chinese-firms-from-u-s-markets-source-idUSKBN1WC1VP

https://www.jianshu.com/p/3b961a90007f

https://www.laohu8.com/post/903856135
19/27


The majority of TIGR’s revenue comes from commission fees the company charges its
customers for trading of securities. For example, in 2018, revenues from commissions were
78% of the total revenues, and for the first half of 2019, that percentage dropped to 62%.
Furthermore, we believe recent news in the U.S. brokerage sector putting pressure on
brokers to offer zero commission trading could be a huge threat to TIGR’s commissions
business in the future and its survival (if Chinese regulators don’t take action first). In fact,
IBKR already announced it will offer zero commission trading.


On October 1, 2019, The Charles Schwab Corporation (NYSE: SCHW), one of the largest
discount  brokerage firms in U.S.,  announced that, starting on October 7, 2019, the
company will eliminate commissions for the trading of U.S. stocks, ETFs, and Options. This
announcement sent the stocks of several other notable brokerage firms, including E*Trade
Financial Corp (NASDAQ: ETFC), TD Ameritrade Holding Corp (NASDAQ: AMTD), and
Interactive Brokers Group (IEX: IBKR), considerably lower on that day, as shown on the
Exhibit F below. Later on, TD Ameritrade and E*Trade followed suit and lowered the related
investment products’ commission to 0.


 



https://pressroom.aboutschwab.com/press-release/corporate-and-financial-news/conjunction-chuck-schwabs-new-book-invested-schwab-remove
20/27


Interactive Brokers already introduced its new offering, IBKR Lite, on September 26, 2019,
that includes features such as “Zero commissions on US exchange-listed stocks and ETFs”
and “Trading non-US stocks, options, futures and fixed income at the lowest commissions”.
IBKR Lite will be made available to U.S. residents in October. However, considering the
commission war between all these online US brokerage firms, we believe it’s just a matter of
time before Interactive Brokers will try expand this IBKR Lite offering to residents in other
countries, including China. Furthermore, TIGR and other brokers that offer services for
Chinese citizens to trade overseas securities might need to follow suit. Since Interactive
Brokers is TIGR’s clearing service provider, commissions split with Interactive brokers make
up the majority of TIGR’s total revenues in the past few years. We believe TIGR’s revenues
could get a major hit once IBKR decides to expand lower or 0 commission offering to the
customers in China.


According TIGR’s prospectus:


“Pursuant to the agreement with our primary clearing agent, Interactive Brokers, we
receive a portion of commission fees paid by our customers every time Interactive
Brokers executes and clears a trade order. For consolidated accounts, we receive
commissions from customers and pay the execution and clearing fees to our clearing
agents. For fully disclosed accounts, every time Interactive Brokers executes and
clears a trade, it collects the commissions, deducts a certain portion as execution and
clearing fees and returns the rest of the commissions to us.” – prospectus, p.86


This statement shows that Interactive Brokers would collect the trading commissions from
the fully disclosed accounts, and TIGR would collect the trading commissions from the
consolidated accounts. For those who are not familiar with these two accounts, below is the
description provided by TIGR’s prospectus (p.128):



https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190926005753/en/
21/27


Under the consolidated accounts, our customers only open accounts and place trades
with our platform. We are responsible for the “know your client”, or KYC, and anti-
money laundering, or AML, procedures including customer identity verification, account
approval and disapproval, record keeping, monitoring and supervision of the accounts
and other compliance functions, which are no less stringent than the procedures
performed for fully disclosed account customers. We work with Interactive Brokers and
other agents for order execution, clearing and settlement services. Consolidated
accounts offer more functions, products and services than fully disclosed accounts,
such as innovative financial instruments. With our advanced technology and third party
database, the account opening process for consolidated accounts is more efficient
and smooth.


Under the fully disclosed accounts, we provide a user-friendly trading interface and
infrastructure for the customers and we engage Interactive Brokers to perform the
execution, clearing and settlement services. We are responsible for technical support,
customer service and marketing to the fully disclosed account customers. We also
perform our own KYC procedures to verify the identity and financial condition of
potential customers. In addition to the account on our platform, each of our customers
also open a corresponding account with Interactive Brokers. Interactive Brokers is
required to perform key functions in respect of KYC and AML procedures including
customer identities verification, account approval and disapprovals and continuing
monitoring and supervision of the accounts.





The table below gives our reader a general sense on the breakdown commission revenues
from these two accounts.
22/27


It can be found that in the past three years from 2016 to 2018, commission revenues
accounts for 96%, 89% and 78% of TIGR’s total revenues, respectively. Among the
commission revenues, commissions revenues from fully disclosed accounts consist of 100%,
99% and 97% in 2016, 2017, and 2018, respectively. Thus, it is fair to say that TIGR’s
commission business is essentially relying on how much Interactive Brokers charges. If
Interactive Brokers decides to lower the commission for TIGR’s customers to close to 0, then
almost all the commissions that Interactive Brokers would normally collect by executing and
clearing TIGR’s customers’ trades would be gone, but in the meantime, Interactive Brokers
might still charge TIGR for the execution and clearing fees. Some might argue that the
percentage of commissions revenue as of the total revenues for TIGR has been decreasing
along the time. However, for a company like TIGR that does not have scale and has not
been profitable for years, a decline in its total revenues, which we believe will eventually
happen, would, in our opinion, eliminate any growth story and lead to investors abandoning
the stock.


Where the Company Sees Potential, We See Immense Risk


In the most recent Q2 2019 Earnings Call, the CFO of the company, John Zeng stated that
the company will see a diversification of revenue and strong interest income as the develops
more “Consolidated accounts”. While TIGR has high hopes of its Consolidated Accounts, we
believe this is a very risky move, especially for TIGR’s customers.


According to Prospectus:


While we maintain certain insurance for Top Capital Partners in New Zealand such as
professional liability insurance, directors’ and officers’ insurance, we do not maintain
any other insurance policies for any other entities, and for Top Capital Partners, there
is no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover potential losses.
In addition, customers of our consolidated accounts are not protected under the
scheme of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, or the SIPC, and we
have neither purchased any commercial insurance to cover similar risks. Under
the applicable laws and regulations in the relevant jurisdictions such as New Zealand,
the United States and China, we are not required to, and we do not, maintain any
insurance in relation to our business operations, such as data security insurance,
business interruption insurance, or liability insurance against liabilities arising from
customer complaints and litigation or other aspects of our business. Our current
insurance policies may not protect us against such losses and liabilities.


We have previously defined “fully disclosed accounts and consolidated accounts” in the
“Commission Revenue Risk” section of this report. While more consolidated accounts
mean more interest revenue for TIGR, it also means very limited protection for clients
participating in the consolidated accounts, as they are no longer covered by insurance nor by
Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC). According to SIPC’s website:



https://www.sipc.org/about-sipc/sipc-mission
23/27


SIPC was created under the Securities Investor Protection Act as a non-profit
membership corporation. SIPC oversees the liquidation of member firms that close
when the firm is bankrupt or in financial trouble, and customer assets are missing. In
a liquidation under the Securities Investor Protection Act, SIPC and the court-
appointed Trustee work to return customers’ securities and cash as quickly as
possible. Within limits, SIPC expedites the return of missing customer property by
protecting each customer up to $500,000 for securities and cash (including a $250,000
limit for cash only).


According to this Sohu article, on of November 1, 2018, the TIGR platform issued a notice
indicating that TIGR has officially become a non-disclosed Broker. After this “system
upgrade”, all customer accounts will be migrated to TIGR’s “Consolidated accounts” and
TIGR would be responsible for all client transactions and fund trusteeship. Though
theoretically speaking, this “Consolidated Account” is still covered by SIPC, in reality
customers would have no agreement with Interactive Brokers. This is extremely risky for
each client in two ways:


1. Clients are no longer protected by SIPC and would not be able to be insured nor be
eligible for up to 250 thousand-dollar claims for their Consolidated Accounts.


2. TIGR would operate without supervision and would have autonomy over the money in
its “Consolidated Account”. Who knows what could go wrong from that point on.


CEO and Other Related Parties Obtained Interest-Free Loans from
TIGR


On several occasions TIGR provided interest-free loans to related parties, including
companies controlled by management, and especially the CEO of TIGR directly.


According to prospectus:



https://www.sipc.org/about-sipc/statute-and-rules/statute

https://www.sipc.org/cases-and-claims/how-a-liquidation-works

http://www.sohu.com/a/274998922_100190264
24/27


Loans to Bluesea Fintech LLC, Alphalion Group Limited and Guangzhou 88
Technology Limited


We had short-term interest-free loans in an aggregate amount of US$1.8 million,
US$1.5 million and US$0.8 million to each of Bluesea Fintech LLC, Alphalion Group
Limited and Guangzhou 88 Technology Limited, respectively, as of December 31, 2018
to facilitate such entities’ daily operational cash flow needs. These three entities are
controlled by the management of a subsidiary of Ningxia Rongke.


ln the first quarter of 2019, we and our affiliates entered into a series of agreements
with respective parties regarding the investment in Alphalion Technology Holding
Limited. Under the agreements, we and our affiliates agreed to convert the short-term
interest-free loans to each of Alphalion Group Limited and Bluesea Fintech LLC into
equal value equity investment in their original parent company, Alphalion Technology
Holding Limited.


Loans to Officers and Directors


We extended interest-free loans to Mr. Tianhua Wu and officers of our VIE company
Ningxia Rongke, and its subsidiaries in China. The aggregate amount of the loans due
from these officers and directors was US$1.3 million and US$1.3 million as of
December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. All of these loans were repaid in full and
as of February 22, 2019 the aggregate amount of loans due from these officers and
directors was nil.





The interest-free loans made to related parties such as Bluesea Fintech LLC and Alphalion
Group Limited amounted to $3.3m USD that were later converted into equity investments in
the parent company Alphalion Technology Holding Limited.


Shareholders have received no information about what Alphalion Technology Holding Limited
actually does, nor do we know how much Alphalion is worth. This seems very worrisome to
us.


Interest-free loans made to the CEO and other officers of the VIE company Ningxia Rongke
amounted to $1.3 million. Though the loans were supposedly paid back in full in February 22,
2019. We still find it disturbing that insiders are frequently taking interest-free loans from the
company.


Conclusion


We have uncovered a range of issues that we believe make TIGR uninvestible. We believe
that we have proven that the company is conducting an illegal brokerage business, and  in
our opinion, essentially acting as an agent for Interactive Brokers to solicit money from
25/27


Chinese citizens. TIGR acquiring overseas license is nothing but a charade to portray
legitimacy to US investors and divert attention from the key issue that TIGR is not licensed to
provide any kind of trading services in foreign securities to Chinese citizens.


Our analysis on the Chinese regulatory environment suggests that regulatory action could be
imminent. Our recordings with TIGR’s customer service, where our investigator received
instructions to lie to the domestic bank, strongly support our view that TIGR will be shut down
soon.


The range of related issues we highlighted make TIGR seem unfit to be a publicly traded
company in the US.


Disclosure: Short TIGR at time of report.


Disclaimer:


Please be advised that GeoInvesting™ is a research and publishing firm, of general and
regular circulation, which falls within the publisher’s exemption to the definition of an
“investment advisor” under Section 202(a)(11)(A) – (E) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C.
77d(a)(6) (the “Securities Act”).  GeoInvesting™ is not registered as an investment advisor
under the Securities Act or under any state laws.  None of our trading or investing
information, including the Content, GeoInvesting™ Email, Executive Casts and/or content or
communication (collectively, “Information”) provides individualized trading or investment
advice and should not be construed as such. Accordingly, please do not attempt to contact
GeoInvesting™, its members, partners, affiliates, employees, consultants and/or hedge
funds managed by partners of GeoInvesting™ (collectively, the “Geoinvesting™ Parties”) to
request personalized investment advice, which they cannot provide.  The Information does
not reflect the views or opinions of any other publication or newsletter.


We publish Information regarding certain stocks, options, futures, bonds, derivatives,
commodities, currencies and/or other securities (collectively, “Securities”) that we believe
may interest our Users.  The Information is provided for information purposes only, and
GeoInvesting™ is not engaged in rendering investment advice or providing investment-
related recommendations, nor does GeoInvesting™ solicit the purchase of or sale of, or offer
any, Securities featured by and/or through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings and nothing we do
and no element of the GeoInvesting™ Offerings should be construed as such.  Without
limiting the foregoing, the Information is not intended to be construed as a recommendation
to buy, hold or sell any specific Securities, or otherwise invest in any specific Securities.
Trading in Securities involves risk and volatility. Past results are not necessarily indicative of
future performance.


The Information represents an expression of our opinions, which we have based upon
generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due
diligence and analytical processes.  Due to the fact that opinions and market conditions
26/27


change over time, opinions made available by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings
may differ from time-to-time, and varying opinions may also be included in the
GeoInvesting™ Offerings simultaneously.   To the best of our ability and belief, all Information
is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that we believe to be
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the applicable
Securities covered or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to
the issuer.  However, such Information is presented on an “as is,” “as available” basis,
without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. GeoInvesting™ makes no
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness or completeness of any
such Information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of
opinion are subject to change without notice, and GeoInvesting™ does not undertake to
update or supplement any of the Information.


The Information may include, or may be based upon, “Forward-Looking” statements as
defined in the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-Looking statements may
convey our expectations or forecasts of future events, and you can identify such statements:
(a) because they do not strictly relate to historical or current facts; (b) because they use such
words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect(s),” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “may,”
“will,” “should,” “anticipates” or the negative thereof or other similar terms; or (c) because of
language used in discussions, broadcasts or trade ideas that involve risks and uncertainties,
in connection with a description of potential earnings or financial


performance. There exists a variety of risks/uncertainties that may cause actual results to
differ from the Forward-Looking statements. We do not assume any obligation to update any
Forward-Looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise, and such statements are current only as of the date they are made.


You acknowledge and agree that use of GeoInvesting’s™ Information is at your own risk. In
no event will GeoInvesting™ or any affiliated party be liable for any direct or indirect trading
losses caused by any Information featured by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings. 
You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment
decision with respect to Securities featured by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings.
You represent to GeoInvesting™ that you have sufficient investment sophistication to
critically assess the Information. If you choose to engage in trading or investing that you do
not fully understand, we may not advise you regarding the applicable trade or investment. 
We also may not directly discuss personal trading or investing ideas with you. The
Information made available by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings is not a substitute
for professional financial advice. You should always check with your professional financial,
legal and tax advisors to be sure that any Securities, investments, advice, products and/or
services featured by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings, as well as any associated
risks, are appropriate for you.
27/27


You further agree that you will not distribute, share or otherwise communicate any
Information to any third-party unless that party has agreed to be bound by the terms and
conditions set forth in the Agreement including, without limitation, all disclaimers associated
therewith.  If you obtain Information as an agent for any third-party, you agree that you are
binding that third-party to the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement.


Unless otherwise noted and/or explicitly disclosed, you should assume that as of the
publication date of the applicable Information, GeoInvesting™ (along with or by and through
any Geoinvesting™ Party(ies)), together with its clients and/or investors, has an investment
position in all Securities featured by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings, and therefore
stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such Securities change in
connection with the Information.  We intend to continue transacting in the Securities featured
by and through the GeoInvesting™ Offerings for an indefinite period, and we may be long,
short or neutral at any time, regardless of any related Information that is published from time-
to-time.


Updates/Revisions


10/17/2019 – Tiger Brokers corrected to say UP Fintech Holdings Ltd in ‘Background’
section.
