Page 1 of 4	
  


Muddy Waters, LLC 
January 6, 2012 


(See important disclaimer on last page) 
 


Why Would FMCN Buy a Ginseng Plantation?  From One of its Employees? 
 
FMCN’s bizarre acquisition of a ginseng plantation at the Russian and North Korean 
border illustrates that FMCN’s acquisitions are not kosher.  The most troubling aspect of 
this acquisition is that the selling shareholders, who had purchased the plantation only 
five months earlier from the founders, included at least one FMCN employee.  Strangely, 
this company seems to have no operations; yet, most recently reported a net profit margin 
of 48.9% on $1.5 million in revenue.1  We therefore wonder what purpose the ginseng 
plantation entity serves, and whether there are ongoing improprieties associated with it.  
We encourage FMCN’s auditor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, to look at this acquisition for 
improprieties – along with examining the numerous other issues we have identified. 
 
On November 21, 2011, Muddy Waters labeled FMCN “The Olympus of China.”  
Olympus (7733 JT) is down by 57.6% since the October 14, 2011 revelation that it had 
deliberately overpaid by at least $1.3 billion for acquisitions.  An internal investigation of 
Olympus called management “rotten to the core”,2 and concludes that Olympus 
deliberately overpaid for acquisitions in order to hide losses.3   
 
FMCN has written off approximately $1.1 billion out of roughly $1.6 billion over at least 
21 acquisitions – in other words, FMCN itself has determined that it massively overpaid 
on almost two dozen occasions.  FMCN’s response to our reports has been that these 
overpayments were due to (still existing) management’s incompetence.  While we think 
that FMCN’s business model is flawed and that the Company is poorly managed, we do 
not believe that FMCN management’s destruction of shareholder value is in good faith.  
Consistent with management’s long history of misrepresentations (including booking 
acquisitions that FMCN never made) 4 and self-dealing, we believe that FMCN 
deliberately overpaid for numerous acquisitions, begging the question “What are 
FMCN’s true historical accounts?” 
 
  


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 There is no record of preferential tax treatment in the entity’s SAIC file; further, its registered capital is 
only $64,000 (RMB 500,000) as of its establishment date.  This would seem unlikely to qualify for 
2	
  http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/c61a2bd0-­‐1fb2-­‐11e1-­‐9916-­‐00144feabdc0.html#axzz1iLkPcBeH	
  
3 Thanks to John Hempton of Bronte Capital who provided a simple explanation for why companies may 
deliberately overpay for acquisitions, which is as follows: fake profits generate fake cash; however, 
companies can only get away with having a certain amount of fake cash on the balance sheet before they 
risk the auditors catching on.  Therefore the companies often make fake acquisitions – i.e., accounting 
entries that show cash payments many times the actual payments – in order to “spend” the fake cash and 
justify why the verifiable cash balances are lower than the reported profits would otherwise dictate. 
4 See Muddy Waters’s November 21, 2011 report on FMCN, pp.26-31.
Page 2 of 4	
  


Ginseng Plantation Acquisition History 
 
Hunchun Shengtai Ginseng Plantation Co. Ltd. (珲春盛泰人参种植有限公司) was 
incorporated on January 31, 2007 by a husband and wife team, Mr. Liu and Mrs. Xue.  
The couple is from the local area, Hunchun.  Hunchun, population 250,000,5 is in the far 
northeast of China, on the Russian and North Korean borders.   
 
Mr. Liu and Mrs. Xue registered the company with equity capital of $64,0006 (RMB 
500,000); however, they only paid-in $13,0007 (RMB 100,000).  While Mr. Liu and Mrs. 
Xue appear to be farmers, and these were likely large sums of money to them, it is 
curious as to why such a small company would arouse the attention of a multi-billion 
dollar market capitalization advertising powerhouse such as FMCN. 
 
Shengtai Ginseng’s scope of business (i.e., the range of activities for which it was 
approved and was allowed to conduct business) was “ginseng plantation.”  Shengtai 
Ginseng’s registered office8 was (and still is) in a desolate place near the border.  
According to Shengtai Ginseng’s SAIC file, it pays $73 (RMB 500) per month for the 
office. 
 
Below are photos of the area around Shengtai’s registered office. 
 





	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
5 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hunchun  
6 at 7.78 RMB. 
7 Id. 
8 The given address is Hunchun Border Economic Cooperation Zone, Number 2 Zone (吉林省珲春市边境
经济全区 2号小区).
Page 3 of 4	
  





 
 
On May 21, 2008, two individuals purchased the entirety of Shengtai Ginseng from Mr. 
Liu and Ms. Xue.  Although FMCN was not one of the new shareholders, the purchasers 
renamed the company Hunchun Focus Media Advertising Co. Ltd.  They also changed 
the scope of business from “ginseng plantation” to “building LCD television advertising 
production, distribution and outdoor advertising production and distribution.”  The new 
shareholders were Mr. Wang Feng and Mr. Chen Yu, with each owning 50%.  As part of 
the local registration procedures, Mr. Wang (who became Shengtai’s Legal 
Representative), had to submit his resume to SAIC.  According to the resume, Mr. Wang 
was an employee of Focus Media at the time he purchased half of Shengtai Ginseng’s 
shares.   
 
We do not know what transpired over five months after Messrs. Wang and Chen acquired 
Shengtai, but on October 21, 2008 Mr. Wang and Mr. Chen transferred ownership of 
Shengtai to FMCN.9  There is no indication in the SAIC files as to what the consideration 
for either transfer was.  The key open issues from this series of transactions are: 
 


• Why did a tiny ginseng plantation company merit FMCN’s attention? 
• How much did Wang and Chen pay for Shengtai? 
• How much did FMCN book for the acquisition of Shengtai, and how does that 


compare to the price Wang and Chen paid? 
• How much cash actually changed hands, and did Wang and Chen keep it or was it 


redirected elsewhere? 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
9 The acquiring entities were Shanghai Focus Media Advertising Co. Ltd., and Shanghai Focus Media 
Advertising Agency Co. Ltd.
Page 4 of 4	
  


Along with many issues we identified in prior years financial statements, we encourage 
FMCN’s auditor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, to closely examine the Shengtai 
transactions for improprieties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimer: 


Use of Muddy Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before 
making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. You should assume that as of the publication 
date of any report or letter, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, 
employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a short position in the stock (and/or options of 
the stock) covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of stock declines. 
Following publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we 
may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our recommendation. This is not an offer to sell or a 
solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in 
which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as 
an investment advisor. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and 
has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected 
persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, 
LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information 
or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, 
and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained 
herein. 


Before viewing the contents of this report, you agree that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the 
material herein shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. 
You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located 
within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC 
has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer 
shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any 
claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this report or the material herein must be filed within one (1) 
year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.
