Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM)
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA


Athenex Inc. v. Azar
Decided Aug 1, 2019


Amit P. Mehta United States District Court Judge


MEMORANDUM OPINION


I. INTRODUCTION
In 2013, Congress added Section 503B to the
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, creating a new
category of drug manufacturer known as an
"outsourcing facility." Such facilities are permitted
to sell large quantities of compounded drugs
directly to hospitals and health care professionals
without receiving premarket approval from the
Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), so long
as the facility satisfies certain statutory
requirements. One such requirement concerns
when an outsourcing facility can use a "bulk drug
substance"—that is, a drug's active ingredient—to
compound a drug product. In such cases, FDA
must declare there to be a "clinical need" for the
"bulk drug substance" as a precondition to
compounding with such substance.


Plaintiffs presently operate an outsourcing facility
that produces a drug product using the bulk drug
substance vasopressin. On March 4, 2019, FDA
announced that vasopressin is not a "bulk drug
substance for which there is a clinical need"
because already available on the market is an
FDA-approved drug that could be used to meet the
very patient needs that Plaintiffs claim make it
necessary to bulk compound using vasopressin.
FDA's decision, if valid, forecloses Plaintiffs from
selling their product. *22


Plaintiffs filed this action challenging FDA's
refusal to place vasopressin on the Section 503B
"clinical need" list. They contend that FDA's
inquiry improperly took the availability of a


branded drug product into account when assessing
"clinical need." Instead, Plaintiffs argue, the
"clinical need" inquiry should be confined to
simply asking whether there is a therapeutic use
for the bulk drug substance, and vasopressin easily
meets that standard. Alternatively, Plaintiffs
maintain that, even under FDA's reading of
"clinical need," vasopressin qualifies.


The court finds that FDA's method of determining
whether there is a "clinical need" for a bulk drug
substance gives effect to the unambiguously
expressed intent of Congress. The court also
concludes that FDA's exclusion of vasopressin
from the "clinical need" list was not arbitrary and
capricious. Accordingly, the court grants
Defendants' Cross-Motions for Summary
Judgment and denies Plaintiffs' Motion for
Summary Judgment.


II. BACKGROUND
A. Factual Background


1. Compounding


In the pharmaceutical drug industry, the term
"compounding" refers to the act of "combining,
admixing, mixing, diluting, pooling,
reconstituting, or otherwise altering of a drug or
bulk drug substance to create a drug." 21 U.S.C. §
353b(d)(1). The compounding of drugs performs
"an important role for patients for whom an FDA-
approved drug is not appropriate." Administrative
Record, ECF No. 35 [hereinafter R.], at 89. Take
the case of a person who is allergic to a particular
ingredient in an FDA-approved drug. Through
compounding, an approved drug can be
reconstituted to eliminate the allergen while still


1



https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities
delivering the drug's therapeutic benefit. Id.
Another example is that certain patient
populations may have difficulty ingesting a *3
drug in its approved pill form. Such a drug can be
compounded to liquid form for easier
consumption.


3


Historically, local pharmacists have been
responsible for compounding drugs, typically in
small quantities to fill the needs of individual
patients with valid prescriptions. That practice still
exists today. FDA has not in the past, nor does it
now, require local pharmacists to obtain regulatory
approval before creating and selling a
compounded drug product. See generally 21
U.S.C. § 353a (Section 503A of the Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act).


Over time, however, a new kind of drug
manufacturer emerged, one that compounded
drugs in bulk quantities and marketed such drugs
directly to hospitals and physicians. Even though
they manufactured on a larger scale, these bulk
compounders, like local pharmacists, were not
required to subject their compounded drug
products to "premarket review for safety,
effectiveness, and quality" by FDA before
bringing them to market. R. at 89.


2. Drug Quality and Security Act


The era of lightly regulated bulk compounding
ended following a tragic event. In 2012, the New
England Compounding Center ("NECC") in
Framingham, Massachusetts, produced
contaminated injections that caused a meningitis
outbreak, killing more than 60 people and
infecting hundreds more. See id. Within fourteen
months of the NECC outbreak, Congress passed
the Drug Quality and Security Act ("DQSA"),
which added Section 503B to the Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act ("FDCA"). Section 503B created a
new category of drug maker called an
"outsourcing facility." See 21 U.S.C. § 353b. An
outsourcing facility may compound drug products
in large quantities without obtaining a prescription
for "an identified individual patient[ ]." Compare


21 U.S.C. § 353b(d)(4)(C) with 21 U.S.C. § 353a.
Such facilities are *4  permitted to sell bulk
compounded drug products to health care
practitioners and hospitals as "office stock," for
providers to have available and to use on an as-
needed basis. See R. at 52.


4


Section 503B also enhanced FDA's authority to
regulate outsourcing facilities. An outsourcing
facility remains exempt from the FDCA's
premarket approval requirements and certain
labeling and supply-chain requirements, but only
if it satisfies eleven statutory criteria. See 21
U.S.C. § 353b(a) (exempting compounded drugs
from 21 U.S.C. §§ 352(f)(1), 355, and 360eee-1).
A non-exhaustive list of these criteria include: (1)
the manufactured drug is compounded at a facility
that is subject to specified FDA licensing,
reporting, fees, and inspection requirements, id. §§
353b(a)(1), (a)(9), (a)(11), 353b(b); (2) the
ingredients used in the compounding process meet
national standards, id. § 353b(a)(3); (3) FDA has
not deemed the drug to be unsafe, nor difficult to
compound, id. §§ 353b(a)(4), (a)(6); (4) "the drug
is not essentially a copy of one or more approved
drugs," id. § 353b(a)(5); (5) the drug is labeled in
accordance with statutory requirements, id. §
353b(a)(10); and (6) the drug will not be sold or
transferred by an entity other than the outsourcing
facility, id. § 353b(a)(8).


In addition to the foregoing requirements, Section
503B authorizes two ways in which to bulk
compound a drug. The first is known as "sterile-
to-sterile compounding." Under this approach, an
outsourcing facility starts with an FDA-approved
drug, disassembles it, and alters it into a finished
drug product for sale. The second method is
known as "bulk compounding." That process starts
with a "bulk drug substance," instead of an FDA-
approved drug. A "bulk drug substance" is an
ingredient that furnishes pharmacological activity
and is incorporated into a finished drug product to
achieve the intended purpose of compounding,
such as removal of an *5  allergen.  The FDA
requires that a drug must be "compounded in an


5 1


2


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353a-pharmacy-compounding

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353a-pharmacy-compounding

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-352-misbranded-drugs-and-devices

https://casetext.com/_print/athenex-inc-v-azar?_printIncludeHighlights=undefined&_printIsTwoColumn=true#N196720

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
outsourcing facility that does not compound using
bulk drug substances . . . , unless the bulk drug
substance appears on a list established by the
Secretary identifying bulk drug substances for
which there is a clinical need . . .," id. § 353b(a)(2)
(A)(i), or "the drug compounded from such bulk
drug substance appears on the drug shortage list,"
id. at (A)(ii). Thus, an outsourcing facility's legal
authority to compound using a bulk drug
substance depends in the first instance on a listing
determination by FDA.


1 A bulk drug substance is defined as "any


substance that is intended for incorporation


into a finished drug product and is intended


to furnish pharmacological activity or other


direct effect in the diagnosis, cure,


mitigation, treatment, or prevention of


disease, or to affect the structure or any


function of the body." 21 C.F.R. § 207.1


(synonymous with "active pharmaceutical


ingredient"). A finished drug product


means "a finished dosage form (e.g., tablet,


capsule, or solution) that contains at least


one [bulk drug substance], generally, but


not necessarily, in association with other


ingredients in finished package form


suitable for distribution to pharmacies,


hospitals, or other sellers or dispensers of


the drug products to patients or


consumers." Id.


3. FDA's Decision Not to List Vasopressin


Plaintiffs Athenex Inc. and its affiliated entities
operate an outsourcing facility that compounds
with a bulk drug substance called vasopressin.
Vasopressin "increase[s] blood pressure in adults
with vasodilatory shock . . . who remain
hypotensive despite fluids and catecholamines." R.
at 27. As a result of the DQSA, Plaintiffs cannot
continue to manufacture their bulk drug product
using vasopressin, unless FDA places it on the
"clinical need" list. The "drug shortage" list is not
at issue in this case.


Plaintiffs began the process to get vasopressin
listed years ago. In 2013 and 2014, FDA issued a
notice seeking nominations of bulk drug
substances to place on the "clinical need" list, and
FDA provided "more detailed information on what
it needs to evaluate a nomination." See R. at 1, 4.
In 2015, FDA again clarified the requirements for
a nomination. See id. at 9-13. Fifteen months later,
in January 2017, FDA issued an "interim
regulatory policy" for the "clinical need" list. See
id. at 34-45. The interim guidance placed each of
the nominated substances into one of three
categories: Category 1 substances signified those
under evaluation; Category 2 included *6
substances that raise significant safety risks; and
Category 3 identified substances without adequate
support for listing. See id. at 40-41. FDA
classified vasopressin as a Category 1 substance.
See id. at 45. For Category 1 substances, like
vasopressin, FDA stated that it "d[id] not intend to
take action against an outsourcing facility for
compounding a drug using a bulk drug substance"
during the interim review period. See id. at 43.
Therefore, Plaintiffs continued to manufacture
their bulk drug product while vasopressin
remained under review for "clinical need" listing.


6


As of early 2018, FDA had yet to explain how it
would determine whether a bulk drug substance
would qualify for the "clinical need" list. That
changed in March 2018, when the agency issued a
draft guidance document titled, "Evaluation of
Bulk Drug Substances Nominated for Use in
Compounding Under Section 503B of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act." See id. at 46-67.
The draft guidance stated that, if the bulk drug
substance is a component of an FDA-approved
drug product, the agency will consider two
threshold questions. FDA framed the first question
as follows:


3


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/regulation/code-of-federal-regulations/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-i-food-and-drug-administration-department-of-health-and-human-services-continued/subchapter-c-drugs-general/part-207-requirements-for-foreign-and-domestic-establishment-registration-and-listing-for-human-drugs-including-drugs-that-are-regulated-under-a-biologics-license-application-and-animal-drugs-and-the-national-drug-code/subpart-a-general/2071-what-definitions-and-interpretations-of-terms-apply-to-this-part

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
Id. at 60. FDA explained the reason for asking this
first question is that, "[u]nless an attribute of the
FDA-approved drug is medically unsuitable for
certain patients, and a drug product compounded
using a bulk drug substance that is a component of
the approved drug is intended to address that
attribute, there is no clinical need to compound
using that bulk drug substance." Id. As to the
second threshold inquiry, FDA would ask: *7


Id. at 60. If the answer to either threshold question
is "no," FDA stated, it would not list the bulk drug
substance. See id. If the agency determines the
answer is "yes" to both questions—or if the bulk
drug substance is not a component of an FDA-
approved drug product—the agency would make a
second inquiry. At this step, FDA would consider
various additional factors, including the "physical
and chemical characterization of the substance;
any safety issues raised by the use of the substance
in compounding; the available evidence of
effectiveness or lack of effectiveness of a drug
product compounded with the substance, if any
such evidence exists; and current and historical
use of the substance in compounded drug
products." Id. As to this second-step inquiry, FDA
said that it would "conduct a balancing test . . .
under which [it] would consider each factor in the
context of others and to balance them, on a
substance-by-substance basis, to determine


whether the substance is appropriate for inclusion"
on the "clinical need" list. Id.


Is there a basis to conclude, for each FDA-
approved product that includes the
nominated bulk drug substance, that (i) an
attribute of the FDA-approved drug
product makes it medically unsuitable to
treat certain patients for a condition that
FDA has identified for evaluation, and (ii)
the drug product proposed to be
compounded is intended to address that
attribute? 


7


Is there a basis to conclude that the drug
product proposed to be compounded must
be produced from a bulk drug substance
rather than from an FDA-approved drug
product? 


In August 2018, FDA announced its intention not
to include vasopressin on the "clinical need" list.
See id. at 109. The agency followed the two-step
inquiry described in the draft guidance. FDA
decided that vasopressin did not make it past the
first step. See id. FDA explained that the
nomination of vasopressin "[did] not identify an
attribute of Vasostrict," the FDA-approved drug
containing vasopressin, "that makes [Vasostrict]
medically unsuitable for patients." Id. Thus, there
was no "clinical need" to bulk compound with
vasopressin. FDA also specifically rejected the
need for vasopressin at a higher concentration than
the approved product. Id.


Plaintiffs submitted a comment challenging FDA's
intent to exclude vasopressin. Plaintiffs argued
that FDA had misinterpreted Section 503B and
that, properly understood, the statute simply
requires the agency to answer whether there is a
"clinical need" for the bulk drug substance itself, 
*8  without reference to the availability and
suitability of an FDA-approved product. Id. at
273-78. Thus, under Plaintiffs' reading,
vasopressin meets the standard of "clinical need"
simply because it has a demonstrated therapeutic
value. Id. Alternatively, Plaintiffs maintained that,
even under FDA's interpretation of Section 503B,
vasopressin qualified for listing. Specifically,
Plaintiffs asserted that Vasostrict was medically
unsuitable to treat certain patients because: (1)
Vasostrict contains chlorobutanol, an allergen for
some patients, and (2) it is not available in ready-
to-use form but must be diluted before use. See id.
at 256. Plaintiffs' product, they insisted, filled
these therapeutic gaps.


8


Rejecting both arguments, FDA issued a final
notice on March 4, 2019, stating that it would not
place vasopressin on the "clinical need" list. See
id. at 1600-05. As to Plaintiffs' statutory
interpretation argument, FDA adhered to its
understanding that "Congress intended for the


4


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
Agency" as part of the "clinical need" assessment
"to evaluate the need for outsourcing facilities to
use the bulk drug substances to compound drug
products." Id. at 69. With respect to Plaintiffs'
alternative position, FDA found lacking the
asserted needs for bulk-produced vasopressin.
FDA observed that there is available a
chlorobutanol-free formulation of Vasostrict, and
Plaintiffs "fail[ed] to explain why that formulation
would be medically unsuitable for patients who
have an allergy to chlorobutanol." See id. at 1604.
The agency also rejected the need for a ready-to-
use product, concluding that Plaintiffs "d[id] not
show that [Vasostrict], when not manufactured in
the ready-to-use form, is medically unsuitable for
certain patients." Id. at 1605. Furthermore, even if
Vasostrict were medically unsuitable, the agency
found that Plaintiffs did not "establish that drug
products in the relevant concentrations, including
ready-to-use products, cannot be prepared from
[Vasostrict]"—and instead must be prepared using
vasopressin. Id. Other commenters had noted that
a different outsourcing facility, owned by
PharMEDium, compounds a ready-to-use drug
with *9  Vasostrict as its starting material. Id. at
198. Consequently, FDA declined to find a
"clinical need" for bulk-compounded vasopressin
under Section 503B.


9


B. Procedural Background


On March 4, 2019, the very same day that FDA
announced its final decision not to list
vasopressin, Plaintiffs filed suit under the
Administrative Procedure Act ("APA") and moved
for a temporary restraining order and preliminary
injunction. See Compl. ECF No. 1 [hereinafter
Compl.]; see also Pls.' Mot. for Temporary
Restraining Order and Preliminary Injunction,
ECF No. 2. FDA agreed to stay any enforcement
action with respect to Plaintiffs' continued bulk
compounding of vasopressin until the court issued
a decision on the merits. See Joint Mot. to Enter
Scheduling Order, ECF No. 19. The court
therefore denied the motion and entered a
scheduling order for summary judgment briefing.


See Order, ECF No. 20; see also Order, ECF No.
22. The court also permitted Par Sterile Products,
LLC and Endo Par Innovation Company, LLC, the
owners of Vasostrict, to intervene as defendants.
See Order, ECF No. 20.


Plaintiffs filed their Motion for Summary
Judgment on March 18, 2019, see generally Pls.'
Mot., ECF No. 23 [hereinafter Pls.' Mot.], and the
Federal Defendants  and Defendants Par Sterile
Products and Endo Par Innovation Company filed
their motions on March 29, 2019, see FDA Def.'s
Mot., ECF No. 25 [hereinafter FDA Mot.]; see
also Par Defs.' Mot., ECF No. 27. The court held
oral argument on the motions on April 30, 2019.


2


2 The Federal Defendants are Alex M. Azar,


II, in his official capacity as Secretary of


Health and Human Services; the U.S.


Department of Health and Human


Services; Scott Gottlieb, in his official


capacity as Commissioner of FDA; and


FDA.


III. LEGAL STANDARD
In cases that involve review of final agency action
under the APA, the district court "sits as an
appellate tribunal" and "the entire case on review
is a question of law." Am. Biosci., Inc. v. *10
Thompson, 269 F.3d 1077, 1083 (D.C. Cir. 2001)
(internal quotations omitted). The court's review is
limited to the administrative record, and "its role is
limited to determining whether or not as a matter
of law the evidence in the administrative record
permitted the agency to make the decision it did."
Philip Morris USA Inc. v. FDA, 202 F. Supp. 3d
31, 45 (D.D.C. 2016) (cleaned up).


10


When reviewing an agency's interpretation of a
statute, the court employs the two-step inquiry set
out in Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources
Defense Council, 467 U.S. 837 (1984). See City of
Arlington v. FCC, 569 U.S. 290, 296-97 (2013).
At step one, the court must determine whether
"Congress has directly spoken to the precise
question at issue," and if Congress has, the court
"must give effect to the unambiguously expressed


5


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/_print/athenex-inc-v-azar?_printIncludeHighlights=undefined&_printIsTwoColumn=true#N196885

https://casetext.com/case/american-bioscience-inc-v-thompson#p1083

https://casetext.com/case/philip-morris-usa-inc-v-us-food-drug-admin-1#p45

https://casetext.com/case/chevron-inc-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc-american-iron-and-steel-institute-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc-ruckelshaus-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc

https://casetext.com/case/city-of-arlington-v-fed-commcns-commn-8#p296

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
intent of Congress." Chevron, 467 U.S. at 842-43.
The court must "employ the traditional tools of
statutory construction to interpret the statute and
to resolve any ambiguities." Dist. of Columbia v.
Dep't of Labor, 819 F.3d 444, 449 (D.C. Cir.
2016). It must analyze "the language itself, the
specific context in which that language is used,
and the broader context of the statute as a whole."
Robinson v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U.S. 337, 341
(1997). Furthermore, for a plaintiff to prevail
under Chevron step one, it "must do more than
offer a reasonable or, even the best, interpretation;
it must show the statute unambiguously forecloses
the [agency's] interpretation." Village of
Barrington v. Surface Transp. Bd., 636 F.3d 650,
661 (D.C. Cir. 2011) (emphasis in original).


If Congress has not spoken directly to the issue—
because "the statute is silent or ambiguous"—the
court, at Chevron step two, must side with the
agency if its answer "is based on a permissible
construction of the statute." Chevron, 467 U.S. at
843. An agency receives deference at Chevron
step two if it has "offered a reasoned explanation
for why it chose [its] interpretation." Village of
Barrington, 636 F.3d at 660. *1111


IV. DISCUSSION
A. Chevron Step One


1. The Provision's Plain Meaning


The court starts with the "language itself."
Robinson, 519 U.S. at 341. The disputed portion
of Section 503B requires "the drug [to be]
compounded in an outsourcing facility that does
not compound using bulk drug substances . . .
unless the bulk drug substance appears on a list
established by the Secretary identifying bulk drug
substances for which there is a clinical need . . . ."
21 U.S.C. § 353b(a)(i). Plaintiffs interpret the
phrase "bulk drug substances for which there is a
clinical need" to require FDA to focus exclusively
on the bulk drug substance without looking to
"which branded drugs exist at the time." See Pls.'
Mot., Pls.' Mem., ECF No. 23-1 [hereinafter Pls.'
Mem.], at 18. Plaintiffs reason that because


"clinical need" modifies "bulk drug substance,"
FDA must ask only whether there is a clinical
need for vasopressin, i.e., whether vasopressin is
needed for patient treatment, and nothing more.
See id. at 15-17. By that standard, Plaintiffs
maintain, vasopressin easily qualifies, as
evidenced by the fact that it is an active ingredient
in an FDA-approved drug. See id. at 18; see also
Compl. ¶ 54. Defendants, on the other hand,
understand the provision to require FDA to
consider whether a finished bulk drug product
containing vasopressin is necessary relative to
FDA-approved products containing vasopressin.
See FDA Mot., FDA Mem., ECF No. 25-1
[hereinafter FDA Mem.], at 17-18.


The term "clinical need" does not lend itself to a
straightforward reading. It is not defined in the
FDCA. Nor does it appear anywhere else in the
United States Code. Turning to the dictionary for
guidance, "clinical" means "relating to the
observation and treatment of actual patients rather
than theoretical or laboratory studies," OXFORD
DICTIONARY,  and "need" means *12
"circumstances in which something is necessary;
necessity," OXFORD DICTIONARY.  Thus,
Congress required FDA to determine whether a
bulk drug substance is "necessary" for the
"treatment of actual patients." That question,
however, begs another one: "Necessary" relative
to what? Whether something is "necessary" cannot
be determined in a vacuum. The presence or
absence of "need" must be measured against some
point of reference. Is vasopressin "necessary" as a
bulk drug substance in the sense that physicians
"need" it to treat patients? The answer is "yes."
Vasopressin has therapeutic value for patients and
therefore it is "needed" for treatment. On the other
hand, is vasopressin "necessary" as a component
of a bulk drug product such that, without it,
physicians would be unable to treat patients? The
answer is "no." The FDA-approved drug
Vasostrict can serve the same clinical purpose as


312


4


6


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/case/chevron-inc-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc-american-iron-and-steel-institute-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc-ruckelshaus-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc#p842

https://casetext.com/case/dist-of-columbia-v-dept-of-labor-2#p449

https://casetext.com/case/robinson-v-shell-oil-co#p341

https://casetext.com/case/village-of-barrington-v-surface-trans-bd#p661

https://casetext.com/case/chevron-inc-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc-american-iron-and-steel-institute-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc-ruckelshaus-v-natural-resources-defense-council-inc#p843

https://casetext.com/case/village-of-barrington-v-surface-trans-bd#p660

https://casetext.com/case/robinson-v-shell-oil-co#p341

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/_print/athenex-inc-v-azar?_printIncludeHighlights=undefined&_printIsTwoColumn=true#N197046

https://casetext.com/_print/athenex-inc-v-azar?_printIncludeHighlights=undefined&_printIsTwoColumn=true#N197055

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
Plaintiffs' product. Thus, whether there is a
"clinical need" for a particular bulk drug substance
depends on how one frames the question.


3 https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition


/clinical (last visited July 31, 2019).


4 https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition


/need (last visited July 31, 2019).


To address this ambiguity, the court looks to the
statutory purpose of the term "clinical need."
United States v. Cordova, 806 F.3d 1085, 1099
(D.C. Cir. 2015). Congress plainly thought that
there are some bulk drug substances for which
there is a "clinical need" and others for which
there is not. Otherwise, why else would Congress
direct FDA to answer the question? Congress
therefore meant for the "clinical need" inquiry to
perform a sorting function. FDA's understanding
of "clinical need" carries out this purpose;
Plaintiffs' does not. This becomes clear when a
bulk drug substance is thought of as an active
pharmaceutical ingredient. See 21 C.F.R. § 207.1
(defining "bulk drug substance" the same as
"active pharmaceutical ingredient"). An "active
pharmaceutical ingredient" is "any substance that
is intended for incorporation into a finished drug
product and is intended to furnish pharmacological
activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis,
cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of
disease, or to affect the structure or any function
of *13  the body." Id. Under Plaintiffs' reading,
there always will be a "clinical need" for any
compoundable active pharmaceutical ingredient
because, by definition, such an ingredient is one
that "furnishes pharmacological activity" or effects
"diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or
prevention of disease." In other words, it delivers
some therapeutic benefit. So, for example,
Plaintiffs say, there is a "clinical need" for
vasopressin because it is used to treat life-
threatening and emergency conditions, such as
vasodilatory shock, diabetes insipidus, and
gastrointestinal bleeding. See Compl ¶¶ 3, 54. By
the same logic, there is a "clinical need" for
ibuprofen, because it is used to reduce fever and


treat pain or inflammation. But reading "clinical
need" in this way does not create a category of
active pharmaceutical ingredients for which there
is not a "clinical need." Only when the question
considers the actual way in which the active
pharmaceutical ingredient supplies a therapeutic
benefit—by its administration as a finished drug
product—does the inquiry produce the kind of
categorization that Congress surely envisioned.


13


Plaintiffs balk at this analysis, arguing that the
agency's framing of "clinical need" improperly
replaces "bulk drug substance," as that term
appears in Section 503B(a)(2)(A), with the term
"compounded drug product." See Pls.' Reply
Mem. Supporting Pls.' Mot. and Opp'n to Defs.'
Cross-Mots., ECF No. 30 [hereinafter Pls.' Reply],
at 9-11. More concretely, Plaintiffs argue that
FDA's approach improperly focuses on
vasopressin as incorporated into a drug product,
and not strictly as a bulk drug substance. This
construction, Plaintiffs argue, is not faithful to
Section 503B's plain text. Id.


To be sure, FDA's approach to "clinical need"
involves considering the bulk drug substance as a
finished product, and the term "finished product"
does not appear in Section 503B(a)(2)(A). The
court, however, must read a statute to give its
words the effect that Congress intended. See
United States v. Braxtonbrown-Smith, 278 F.3d
1348, 1352 (D.C. Cir. 2002) (stating *14  that the
court "must avoid an interpretation that
undermines congressional purpose considered as a
whole when alternative interpretations consistent
with the legislative purpose are available") (citing
United States v. Am. Trucking Ass'ns, 310 U.S.
534, 543 (1940) ("[E]ven when the plain meaning
did not produce absurd results but merely an
unreasonable one 'plainly at variance with the
policy of the legislation as a whole' this Court has
followed that purpose, rather than the literal
words.") (citation omitted)). Here, as discussed,
Plaintiffs' reading would produce the unreasonable
result that there is a "clinical need" for every bulk
drug substance because, by definition, a bulk drug


14


7


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/regulation/code-of-federal-regulations/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-i-food-and-drug-administration-department-of-health-and-human-services-continued/subchapter-c-drugs-general/part-207-requirements-for-foreign-and-domestic-establishment-registration-and-listing-for-human-drugs-including-drugs-that-are-regulated-under-a-biologics-license-application-and-animal-drugs-and-the-national-drug-code/subpart-a-general/2071-what-definitions-and-interpretations-of-terms-apply-to-this-part

https://casetext.com/case/us-v-braxtonbrown-smith#p1352

https://casetext.com/case/us-v-amer-trucking-assns#p543

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
substance is one "intended to furnish
pharmacological activity or other direct effect in
the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or
prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or
any function of the body." 21 C.F.R. § 207.1.
Plaintiffs' interpretation thus draws no actual
distinction among bulk drug substances—there is
a "clinical need" for all. Only when "clinical need"
is assessed against the availability and suitability
of an approved drug does the term perform the
classifying function that Congress intended.
Defendants' reading therefore faithfully adheres to
Section 503B's text, while Plaintiffs' does not.


2. The Provision in Context


Viewing the term "clinical need" in its statutory
context lends further support to Defendants'
reading of Section 503B, and further frustrates
Plaintiffs' interpretation. See King v. Burwell, 576
U.S. ___, ___, 135 S. Ct. 2480, 2489 (2015)
(stating "oftentimes the meaning—or ambiguity—
of certain words or phrases may only become
evident when placed in context") (citing FDA v.
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S.
120, 132 (2000)) (internal quotations omitted). *1515


a. Bulk compounding as an exception within an
exception


Critical to the court's interpretation of "clinical
need" is how the subsection containing that
provision, 503B(a)(2)(A)(i), lines up with other
parts of Section 503B. The very first sentence of
Section 503B exempts outsourcing facilities from
the FDCA's new-drug approval process, certain
labeling requirements, and certain supply chain
requirements. See 21 U.S.C. § 353b(a) (exempting
compounded drugs from 21 U.S.C. §§ 352(f)(1),
355, and 360eee-1). Products made by outsourcing
facilities are thus an exception to the FDCA's
usual requirements for new drug products. Next,
Section 503B(a)(2) requires outsourcing facilities
to compound "in an outsourcing facility that does
not compound using bulk drug substances,"
generally, subject only to enumerated exceptions.
21 U.S.C. § 353b(a)(2) (emphasis added). Section


503B(a)(2)(A)(i)-(ii) specifies the exceptions,
authorizing compounding with a bulk drug
substance—but only if FDA lists the bulk drug
substance on the "clinical need" list, or the drug
compounded from the bulk drug substance appears
on FDA's "drug shortage" list.


As the above recitation shows, Congress viewed
compounding with a bulk drug substance as an
exception within an exception. Section 503B's
initial exception exempts from the FDCA's new-
drug requirements compounded drug products that
start with an FDA-approved product. The
exception to this exception is compounding with a
bulk drug substance. See 21 U.S.C. § 353b(a)(2)
(A)(i)-(ii) ("The drug is compounded in an
outsourcing facility that does not compound using
bulk drug substances . . . unless . . .) (emphasis
added). Outsourcing facilities may resort to
compounding with a bulk drug substance only if:
FDA determines that there is a "clinical need" for
the bulk drug substance, or FDA places the
compounded drug product on its "drug shortage"
list. As the terms "need" and "shortage" imply,
Congress meant for FDA to approve compounding
with a bulk drug substance not as a matter of
course. See Gustafson v. *16  Alloyd Co., Inc., 513
U.S. 561, 575 (1995) (stating the principle of
construction that a "word is known by the
company it keeps"). FDA's approach to assessing
"clinical need" is consistent with this design.


16


Under Plaintiffs' interpretation, however, "clinical
need" loses its character as an exception within an
exception. According to Plaintiffs, a "clinical
need" exists for a bulk drug substance if it has
some therapeutic value. See Pls.' Mem. at 18. But,
if that were so, then the term "clinical need" would
not connote a modest "list" but an extensive
catalog of active ingredients. According to
Plaintiffs, that catalog would include every active
ingredient contained in an FDA-approved drug
plus active ingredients that are "not components of
FDA-approved drugs . . . if their clinical need is
shown some other way[.]" Id.  FDA could keep
only "unproven, fringe ingredients" off the list. Id.


5


8


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/regulation/code-of-federal-regulations/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-i-food-and-drug-administration-department-of-health-and-human-services-continued/subchapter-c-drugs-general/part-207-requirements-for-foreign-and-domestic-establishment-registration-and-listing-for-human-drugs-including-drugs-that-are-regulated-under-a-biologics-license-application-and-animal-drugs-and-the-national-drug-code/subpart-a-general/2071-what-definitions-and-interpretations-of-terms-apply-to-this-part

https://casetext.com/case/king-v-burwell-2#p2489

https://casetext.com/case/fda-v-brown-williamson-tobacco-corp#p132

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-352-misbranded-drugs-and-devices

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/case/gustafson-v-alloyd-co#p575

https://casetext.com/_print/athenex-inc-v-azar?_printIncludeHighlights=undefined&_printIsTwoColumn=true#N197186

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
Such a reading, however, swallows Congress's
general directive that an outsourcing facility "not
compound using bulk drug substances . . . ." 21
U.S.C. § 353b(a)(2) (emphasis added). And it
would mean that Congress authorized large-scale
compounding with a wide array of bulk drug
products through the "clinical need" list. If
Congress had intended to sanction such an
expansive practice, the court would have expected
it to say so more clearly. See Whitman v. Am.
Trucking Ass'ns, 531 U.S. 457, 468 (2001)
("Congress, we have held, does not alter the
fundamental details of a regulatory scheme in
vague terms or ancillary provisions—it does not,
one might say, hide elephants in mouseholes."). 
*1717


5 Plaintiffs never identify how many


different bulk drug substances would


appear on the "clinical need" list, if the


court were to accept their reading. When


FDA invited nominations for the "clinical


need" list, commenters submitted 2,000


bulk drug substances for consideration. See


R. at 38. Defendants referred the court to


the "Orange Book," a 1,500-page


document listing every approved drug


product under Section 505 of the Food,


Drug, and Cosmetic Act. See U.S.


DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND


HUMAN SERVICES, APPROVED


DRUG PRODUCTS (2019),


https://www.fda.gov/media/71474/downloa


d (last visited July 31, 2019). Whatever


number of active ingredients the Orange


Book recognizes, the total surely exceeds


the number that Congress had in mind.


Plaintiffs also point to the three additional criteria
adjoined with the "clinical need" list: that the bulk
drug substance must comply with a monograph,  if
applicable; it must be manufactured at a properly
registered establishment; and it must be
accompanied by a valid certificate of analysis.
Plaintiffs argue that the "clinical need" list, like
the three additional criteria adjoining it, should
focus exclusively on the bulk drug substance. See


Pls.' Mem. at 20 (citing 21 U.S.C. § 353b(a)(2)
(B)-(D)). This argument carries little weight
because, like the other statutory criteria, the
agency's interpretation places the bulk drug
substance at the center of its "clinical need"
analysis by determining whether the bulk drug
substance will fill a gap in a clinical setting. That
the agency takes the qualities of approved
products into account to make that assessment
does not result in a conflict between FDA's
interpretation of "clinical need" and the other three
criteria contained in Section 503B(a)(2)(B)-(D).


6


6 A "drug monograph" is a "publication that


specifies for a drug (or class of related


drugs) the kinds and amounts of


ingredients it may contain, the conditions


and limitations for which it may be offered,


directions for use, warnings, and other


information that its labeling must contain.


The monograph may contain important


information concerning interactions with


other drugs." https://medical-


dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/drug+mon


ograph (last visited July 31, 2019).


b. FDA's involvement in making the "clinical
need" list


Another feature of Section 503B that supports
Defendants' interpretation is how Congress
directed FDA to go about creating the "clinical
need" list. FDA must: (1) "publish[ ] a notice in
the Federal Register proposing bulk drug
substances to be included on the list, including the
rationale for such proposal"; (2) "provide[ ] a
period of not less than 60 calendar days for
comment on the notice"; and (3) "publish[ ] a
notice in the Federal Register designating bulk
drug substances for inclusion on the list." 21
U.S.C. § 353b(a)(2)(A)(i)(I)-(III). These
procedural prerequisites *18  make clear that
Congress intended for FDA to apply its expertise
in determining whether a bulk drug substance fills
a "clinical need." Defendants' reading is consistent
with Congress's intent.


18


9


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/case/whitman-v-american-trucking-associations#p468

https://casetext.com/_print/athenex-inc-v-azar?_printIncludeHighlights=undefined&_printIsTwoColumn=true#N197209

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
Plaintiffs' construction of Section 503B, on the
other hand, would make the agency's expertise
largely irrelevant to the listing process. As
Plaintiffs would have it, FDA must classify any
active ingredient in any approved drug as a bulk
drug substance for which there is a "clinical need."
See Pls.' Mem. at 18. If that is what Congress
intended, then why would it have instructed FDA
to announce its "rationale" for each proposed
listing and subject the proposed listing to public
scrutiny? Such notice and comment would be a
meaningless exercise for the active pharmaceutical
ingredients found in FDA-approved drugs.
Congress clearly wanted FDA to play a
substantive role in the listing process. Only
Defendants' approach allows FDA to perform that
function.


Plaintiffs acknowledge that, under their reading,
the "clinical need" listing of most bulk drug
substances would not require FDA's expertise. See
Hr'g Tr., ECF No. 36 [hereinafter Hr'g Tr.], at 26-
27 (arguing that FDA will do "some work that's
difficult and . . . some work that's easy"); see also
Pls.' Reply at 27. Nevertheless, Plaintiffs contend
that "[t]he fact that some cases are easy because
the rationale is immediately apparent, and some
are not does not make it pointless to use notice
and comment for the whole enterprise, when that
procedure can accommodate both without
disrupting patient care." Pls.' Reply at 27. But that
reading seems implausible. Congress could not
have meant for FDA to proceed through notice
and comment when listing all bulk drug
substances, when that time-consuming and
resource-intensive process would serve a
meaningful purpose only for the rare, "difficult"
case of a bulk drug substance that is not found in
an FDA-approved drug product. Id. The court
must assume that Congress did not impose a
burdensome procedural requirement simply for the
sake of imposing it. Cf. Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal.
v. U.S. Postal Service, 467 U.S. 512, 524 (1984)
(stating that there is "no reason to believe that
Congress *19  intended to impose a meaningless


procedural requirement . . ."); Prof'l Air Traffic
Controllers Org. v. Fed. Labor Relations Auth.,
685 F.2d 547, 563-64 (D.C. Cir. 1982) ("Congress
did not intend to erect meaningless procedural
barriers to effective agency action.").


19


Moreover, a related provision suggests that if
Congress really wanted all active ingredients
found in FDA-approved products to automatically
appear on the "clinical need" list, it passed up a
straightforward way to express that intent. Section
503B's neighboring provision, Section 503A,
permits traditional compounders, like licensed
pharmacists, to compound "for an identified
individual patient." 21 U.S.C. § 353a(a). For that
practice, Congress required traditional
compounders to use a "bulk drug substance" that
"compl[ies] with the standards of an applicable"
monograph; if such monograph does not exist,
then the compounder may use "drug substances
that are components of drugs approved by the
Secretary"; and, if no monograph exists and the
drug substance is not a component of an FDA-
approved product, then the drug substance must
"appear on a list developed by the Secretary
through regulations issued by the Secretary . . . ."
Id. § 353a(b)(1)(A)(i)(I)-(III). Section 503A thus
spells out three different categories of bulk drug
substances that can be compounded for an
individual patient, only one of which requires
FDA pre-approval.


As this provision demonstrates, Congress knows
how to permit compounding with drug substances
found in safe and effective FDA-approved
products, and it also knows how to define
substances that must "appear on a list developed
by the Secretary." Section 503B reflects the latter
approach but not the former. Congress did not
include in Section 503B, as it did in Section 503A,
an allowance for outsourcing facilities to
compound using bulk drug substances that either
comply with the standards of an applicable
monograph or "are components of drugs approved
by the Secretary." Instead, Congress mandated an
FDA listing before use of a bulk drug substance


10


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/case/franchise-tax-board-of-california-v-usps#p524

https://casetext.com/case/professional-air-traffic-controllers-organization-v-federal-labor-relations-authority#p563

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353a-pharmacy-compounding

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
for *20  mass compounding. This fundamental
difference between Sections 503A and 503B
supports Defendants' interpretation of "clinical
need" as requiring more than a mere showing of a
bulk drug substance's therapeutic value.


20


Plaintiffs dismiss the significance of the different
text in Section 503A. They argue that the general
absence of a pre-production notice-and-comment
process in Section 503A (except in Section
503A(b)(1)(A)(i)(III)) makes sense because it
would be nonsensical to require a local pharmacist
to await a rulemaking process by FDA before
compounding a drug. By contrast, Plaintiffs insist,
in the context of Section 503B "there is no reason
not to use the default notice and comment
procedure for all bulk drug substances in the
context of 503B." Pls.' Reply at 27.


This argument is unpersuasive for two reasons.
First, it misses the point of the textual difference
between the two provisions. If Congress wanted
outsourcing facilities to manufacture using bulk
drug substances already recognized in a drug
product approved for safety and efficacy, it had an
easy way to do so—it could have simply used the
same text found in Section 503A in Section 503B.
Instead, it created a new "clinical need" standard.
The court must presume that this textual
difference reflects a purposeful choice by
Congress not to equate "clinical need" with
Section 503A's standards. Second, Plaintiffs'
argument does not explain why Congress would
insist on a time-consuming notice-and-comment
process for bulk drug substances found in drug
products whose safety and efficacy are
established. As discussed, no good purpose is
served by requiring FDA to certify hundreds, if
not thousands, of bulk drug substances already
contained in approved drugs. Congress
presumably would not require an agency to
commit its resources to a perfunctory rulemaking
process. The textual differences between Sections
503A and 503B therefore support Defendants'
reading of "clinical need." *2121


c. Plaintiffs' interpretation renders the "drug
shortage list" superfluous


Yet another contextual feature of Section 503B
bolsters Defendants' interpretation: the "drug
shortage list." Congress allowed outsourcing
facilities to compound with a bulk drug substance,
without undergoing notice and comment, if the
drug compounded from the bulk drug substance
appears on the "drug shortage list in effect under
section 356e of this title at the time of
compounding, distribution, and dispensing." See
21 U.S.C. § 353b(a)(2)(A)(ii). The drug shortage
list predates the DQSA, and its requirements are
codified in 21 U.S.C. § 356e. That provision
directs the Secretary to maintain a list of drugs
that are in short supply in the United States for
various listed reasons, including regulatory delay,
shortage of an active or inactive ingredient, delay
in shipping of the drug, or demand increase for the
drug. See id. § 356e. The list must include the
name of the drug in shortage, its manufacturer, the
reason for the shortage, and the estimated duration
of the shortage. Id. § 356e(b).


Plaintiffs' interpretation of "clinical need," if
accepted, would violate a basic rule of statutory
construction: "[E]very word and every provision is
to be given effect and that none should needlessly
be given an interpretation that causes it to
duplicate another provision or to have no
consequence." Nielsen v. Preap, 586 U.S. ___,
___, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (cleaned up and
citation omitted). Recall, under Plaintiffs'
understanding of "clinical need," FDA would be
required to list every bulk drug substance found in
an FDA-approved drug. That list would be long. If
the "clinical need" list were to contain hundreds of
active ingredients, then the drug shortage list
would have little or "no consequence." Id. Not
because there would be no drug shortages. But
because any active ingredient contained in a drug
placed on the shortage list already is likely to
appear on the "clinical need" list because of its
therapeutic value. Stated differently, FDA rarely, if
ever, would need to authorize compounding based


11


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-356e-drug-shortage-list

https://casetext.com/case/nielsen-v-preap-2#p969

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
*23


21 U.S.C. § 353b(d)(2). As a result of the
"essentially a copy" provision, unless the drug
product appears on the shortage list, outsourcing
facilities can compound using a bulk drug
substance that is a component of an approved drug
only if the bulk-compounded drug supplies to "an
individual patient a clinical difference" from the
approved drug. Id. Congress left it to medical
practitioners to make the "clinical difference"
determination. Id.


on a drug shortage, because the *22  active
ingredient contained in such a scarce drug already
will be on the "clinical need" list and greenlighted
for use. Thus, the statutory allowance for using a
bulk drug substance based on drug shortage would
serve little or no function under Plaintiffs'
interpretation.


22


Plaintiffs respond that, under their reading of
"clinical need," the drug shortage list still would
have utility. For instance, there could be future
drug product innovations where the component
bulk drug substance is not yet placed on the
clinical need list due to the required notice-and-
comment period, but there is an immediate need
for the drug itself due to shortage. See Hr'g Tr. at
30-33. Is this scenario possible? Maybe. But it is
doubtful that Congress intended for the drug-
shortage listing to cover only outlier scenarios,
such as when a drug manufacturer comes to
market with a new FDA-approved product but
does not produce enough of it to meet demand
during the time period the product's active
ingredient is under review for placement on the
"clinical need" list. When Congress passed the
DQSA, it understood the importance of the drug
shortage list. Congress could not have not
intended for the "clinical need" list to fully eclipse
the drug shortage list, leaving the latter as a mere
"backstop" to the former. See id. at 33.


d. The "essentially a copy" provision


To support their interpretation, Plaintiffs point to a
provision that limits outsourcing facilities to
producing a "[compounded] drug [that] is not
essentially a copy of one or more approved drugs."
See 21 U.S.C. § 353b(a)(5). The statute defines
"essentially a copy of an approved drug" to mean:


(A) a drug that is identical or nearly
identical to an approved drug, or a
marketed drug not subject to section
353(b) of this title and not subject to
approval in an application submitted under
section 355 of this title, unless, in the case
of an approved drug, the drug appears on
the drug shortage list in effect under
section 356e of this title at the time of
compounding, distribution, and
dispensing; or 


23


(B) a drug, a component of which is a bulk
drug substance that is a component of an
approved drug or a marketed drug that is
not subject to section 353(b) of this title
and not subject to approval in an
application submitted under section 355 of
this title, unless there is a change that
produces for an individual patient a
clinical difference, as determined by the
prescribing practitioner, between the
compounded drug and the comparable
approved drug. 


Plaintiffs argue that FDA's "clinical need"
interpretation makes redundant the "essentially a
copy" provision. They contend that the
"essentially a copy" definition ensures that
outsourcing facilities will not compound drug
products that rival FDA-approved drugs, so the
clinical need provision cannot fulfill the same
purpose. See Pls.' Mem. at 22-26. By drawing a
comparison to approved drugs during the "clinical


12


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-356e-drug-shortage-list

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
need" inquiry, Plaintiffs maintain, FDA "disturbs
the balance Congress struck when it made the
policy decision of how best to account for the
competing interest in encouraging the use of the
drug approval process." See id. at 23. Defendants,
on the other hand, assert that the "essentially a
copy" provision is consistent with its "clinical
need" interpretation. Their reading, they say,
ensures that health practitioners will only use the
compounded drug for patients who need the
compounded drug to fill therapeutic gaps left by
an FDA-approved drug. See Hr'g Tr. at 64.


Plaintiffs are correct that the "essentially a copy"
provision works to protect the new drug approval
process and, by extension, provides a market
advantage to FDA-approved drugs over those
produced by outsourcing facilities. Compare R. at
108 (FDA justifying "clinical need" *24
interpretation to protect drug approval process)
with FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION,
COMPOUNDED DRUG PRODUCTS THAT
ARE ESSENTIALLY COPIES OF APPROVED
DRUG PRODUCTS UNDER 503B OF THE
FEDERAL FOOD, DRUG, AND COSMETIC
ACT: GUIDANCE FOR INDUSTRY 4 (January
2018),
https://www.fda.gov/media/98964/download (last
visited July 31, 2019) [hereinafter Essential Copy
Guidance] (FDA stating that the essentially a copy
provision "protects the integrity and effectiveness
of the new drug . . . approval process[]"). But the
fact that FDA's method of determining "clinical
need" furthers that same purpose is not fatal to the
agency's interpretation. "In some cases,
redundancy may reflect the broad purpose of a
congressional statute." Nat'l Ass'n of Clean Water
Agencies v. EPA, 734 F.3d 1115, 1126 (D.C. Cir.
2013). Here, multiple provisions within Section
503B reflect Congress's intent that bulk
compounded drugs be used primarily to fill gaps
left by FDA-approved drugs. Perhaps the clearest
such expression is the general rule, discussed
above, that outsourcing facilities "not compound
using bulk drug substances . . . ." 21 U.S.C. §


353b(a)(2). That rule creates a clear market
advantage for approved drugs. Congress also
required outsourcing facilities to sell their drug
products directly to hospitals and physicians for
use as "office stock," and expressly prohibited
them from using wholesalers to make sales. Id. §
353b(a)(8). Wholesalers are critical to the drug
supply chain and cutting off that path of
distribution limits an outsourcing facility's ability
to sell its product. In short, like the "essentially a
copy" provision, these other conditions constrain
the commercial activities of outsourcing facilities
relative to FDA-approved drug manufacturers.
That FDA's understanding of "clinical need" has a
similar market effect therefore does not conflict
with Congress's overall design.


24


Moreover, FDA's method of determining "clinical
need" easily co-exists with the "essentially a copy"
provision. As a general rule, the "essentially a
copy" provision prohibits *25  outsourcing
facilities from producing a compounded drug "a
component of which is a bulk drug substance that
is a component of an approved drug." Id. §
353b(d)(2)(B). In other words, a compounded
drug cannot be made with a bulk drug substance if
such substance already is contained in an
approved product. The exception to that general
rule is if the compounded drug entails a change
from the approved product "that produces for an
individual patient a clinical difference, as
determined by the prescribing practitioner . . . ."
Id. FDA's "clinical need" determination mirrors,
but does not duplicate, the "essentially a copy"
provision. It asks whether the bulk drug product
fills a gap of medical unsuitability left by an
approved drug and, if so, whether that gap cannot
be filled by compounding with the approved drug.
Thus, both the "essentially a copy" provision and
FDA's "clinical need" inquiry are directed at
identifying whether the compounded product is
one that fills a therapeutic purpose unmet by the
approved drug. The two provisions therefore
complement each other in furthering the statutory
purpose.


25


13


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/case/natl-assn-of-clean-water-agencies-v-envtl-prot-agency-2#p1126

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/statute/united-states-code/title-21-food-and-drugs/chapter-9-federal-food-drug-and-cosmetic-act/subchapter-v-drugs-and-devices/part-a-drugs-and-devices/section-353b-outsourcing-facilities

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
Plaintiffs complain that reading Section 503B in
this way is impermissible because, through its pre-
market "clinical need" inquiry, FDA is in effect
making the "clinical difference" determination that
the statute leaves to treatment providers. The
agency is thus impermissibly regulating the
practice of medicine, say Plaintiffs. See Pls.' Mem.
at 27. Not so. Take the case of vasopressin. FDA's
decision not to recognize a "clinical need" for
vasopressin does not interfere with a physician's
decision whether to treat a patient with the
approved product, Vasostrict, or a compounded
version of Vasostrict that meets a patient's
individual need. FDA's vasopressin decision only
regulates the type of drug that reaches the
marketplace. Such a decision rests well within
FDA's regulatory authority under the FDCA, and
it does not intrude on the *26  practice of
medicine.  See United States v. Evers, 643 F.2d
1043, 1048 (5th Cir. 1981) ("[W]hile the [FDCA]
was not intended to regulate the practice of
medicine, it was obviously intended to control the
availability of drugs for prescribing by
physicians.").


26
7


7 Relatedly, Plaintiffs argue that the agency's


determination of "medical unsuitab[ility]"


is an unlawful regulation of medicine. See


Pls.' Reply at 33. But the inquiry focuses


on whether the approved drug is unsuitable


for a patient population; it does not make a


clinical determination about a specific


patient.


* * *
"A provision that may seem ambiguous in
isolation is often clarified by the remainder of the
statutory scheme . . . because only one of the
permissible meanings produces a substantive
effect that is compatible with the rest of the law."
United Sav. Ass'n of Tex v. Timbers of Inwood
Forest Assocs., Ltd., 484 U.S. 365, 371 (1988).
Here, the broader structure of Section 503B, as
well as its relationship to Section 503A, compel


the court to conclude that FDA's interpretation of
"clinical need" is the only interpretation
"compatible with the rest of the law."


e. Legislative History


In addition to a statute's text and structure,
legislative history is a relevant consideration at
Chevron step one. See Sierra Club v. EPA, 551
F.3d 1019, 1027 (D.C. Cir. 2008) ("Although
Chevron step one analysis begins with the statute's
text, the court must . . . exhaust the traditional
tools of statutory construction, including
examining the statute's legislative history . . . .")
(internal quotation marks omitted). The legislative
history for the DQSA is sparse. Neither chamber
produced a committee report. Yet, no one disputes
that the event that motivated Congress to enact the
DQSA was the deadly meningitis outbreak caused
by the contaminated injections produced by the
New England Compounding Center ("NECC").
See The Fungal Meningitis Outbreak: Could it
have been Prevented? Before the Subcomm. on
Oversight and Investigations of the H. Comm. on
Energy and Commerce, 112  Cong. 181 (2012)
[hereinafter House Hearing] (Chairman Stearns 
*27  stating, "we convene this hearing . . . to
examine the recent outbreak . . . linked to
contaminated products made by [NECC] . . . the
first question we all ask is, Could this have been
prevented? . . . the answer appears to be yes"); see
also Hr'g Tr. at 42; see also Compl. ¶ 17. NECC,
and other compounders like it, had grown beyond
the traditional notion of a local pharmacist
compounding individual prescriptions. See House
Hearing (Margaret Hamburg, former FDA
Commissioner, stating "the industry has evolved
well beyond the neighborhood pharmacist"). By
amending the FDCA, Congress wished to
strengthen federal regulatory authority over bulk
compounders that produced drugs on a large scale
that were not subject to the FDA's new-drug
efficacy and safety standards.


th


27


14


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/_print/athenex-inc-v-azar?_printIncludeHighlights=undefined&_printIsTwoColumn=true#N197426

https://casetext.com/case/united-states-v-evers#p1048

https://casetext.com/case/united-savings-association-of-texas-v-timbers-of-inwood-forest-associates-ltd#p371

https://casetext.com/case/sierra-club-v-epa-4#p1027

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
FDA's method of determining "clinical need"
better comports with the DQSA's primary
objective of protecting public safety. Plaintiffs'
interpretation, if accepted, would substantially
constrain FDA's judgment and expertise with
respect to the "clinical need" list, and
concomitantly would enable outsourcing facilities
to compound using a wide array of bulk drug
substances to create drug products that are not
subject to any premarket efficacy or safety review.
FDA's view, by contrast, grants the agency a more
prominent role before a bulk compounded drug
hits the market, and favors compounding with an
FDA-approved product that has undergone
rigorous premarket efficacy and safety review.
FDA's approach better achieves the public health
and safety objective that Congress had in mind
when it passed the DQSA. Cf. Thompson v. W.
States Med. Ctr., 535 U.S. 357, 369 (2002)
("Preserving the effectiveness and integrity of the
FDCA's new drug approval process is clearly an
important governmental interest, and the
Government has every reason to want as many
drugs as possible to be subject to that approval
process. The Government also has an important
interest, however, in permitting the continuation of
the practice of *28  compounding so that patients
with particular needs may obtain medications
suited to those needs.").


28


For their part, Plaintiffs rely on a comment by
Senator Lamar Alexander that the DQSA was not
intended to "limit access to quality compounded
drugs for providers and patients or alter the
practice of medicine." Pls.' Mem. at 19 (citing 159
Cong. Rec. S8072 (daily ed. Nov. 18, 2013)). That
general statement does not, however, carry the
weight Plaintiffs attribute to it. In fact, right before
making this statement, Senator Alexander said that
"I want to make clear that all involved on this
legislation have no intent of limiting patient or
provider access to quality compounded drugs that
fill a clinical need." 159 Cong. Rec. S8072
(emphasis added). The Senator's statement leads


the court right back to where it began—when is
there a "clinical need" for a drug compounded
from a bulk drug substance?


* * *
For the foregoing reasons, the court finds that
Defendants prevail at Chevron step one. FDA's
method of determining "clinical need" for a bulk
drug substance by referring to the approved
product is supported by the text, structure, and
purposes of Section 503B.


B. Chevron Step Two


In the interest of completeness, the court proceeds
to Chevron step two. Defendants also would
prevail at Chevron step two, if the statute were to
remain ambiguous after employing the traditional
tools of statutory construction. For the reasons
already discussed, FDA's interpretation of
"clinical need" is "based on a permissible
construction of the statute." Chevron, 467 U.S. at
843.


Further, as required to receive Chevron deference,
the agency "offered a reasoned explanation for
why it chose [its] interpretation." Village of
Barrington, 636 F.3d at 660. In its *29  final notice
excluding vasopressin, FDA explained that it
formulated its methodology to avoid
"unnecessarily expos[ing] patients to the risks
associated with drug products that do not meet the
standards applicable to FDA-approved drug
products for safety, effectiveness, quality, and
labeling and would undermine the drug approval
process." R. at 108. FDA also explained that it
sought to determine whether compounding must
occur with a bulk drug substance, as opposed to
the FDA-approved product, because the statute
requires the FDA to "determine that there is a
clinical need for outsourcing facilities to
compound a drug product using the bulk drug
substance." Id. (emphasis in original omitted).
These explanations suffice to show that the agency
had reasonable grounds for its construction of
"clinical need."


29


15


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/case/thompson-v-western-states-medical-center#p369

https://casetext.com/case/franchise-tax-board-of-california-v-usps#p843

https://casetext.com/case/village-of-barrington-v-surface-trans-bd#p660

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
Plaintiffs offer no new arguments at Chevron step
two that they did not raise at Chevron step one.
See Pls.' Mem. at 28-29. Those arguments did not
persuade the court at the first step, and they fare
no better at the second step.


C. FDA's Decision to Exclude Vasopressin from
the "Clinical Need" List was Not Arbitrary and
Capricious


Alternatively, Plaintiffs challenge FDA's decision
to exclude vasopressin from the "clinical need" list
as arbitrary and capricious, even under the
agency's approach to assessing "clinical need." See
Pls.' Mem. at 30-37. Under the "narrow" arbitrary
and capricious standard of review, the court may
not "substitute its judgment for that of the
agency," but must instead determine whether the
agency "examine[d] the relevant data and
articulate[d] a satisfactory explanation for its
action including a rational connection between the
facts found and the choice made." Motor Vehicle
Mfrs. Ass'n of U.S., Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted). An agency
action is "arbitrary and capricious" and will be set
aside if the agency "has relied on factors which
Congress has not intended it to consider, entirely
failed to consider an important aspect of the
problem, offered an *30  explanation for its
decision that runs counter to the evidence before
the agency, or is so implausible that it could not be
ascribed to a difference in view or the product of
agency expertise." Id.


30


Plaintiffs contend that their vasopressin drug
product meets a "clinical need" even under FDA's
interpretation for two reasons. First, Plaintiffs
argue that Vasostrict is medically unsuitable for
certain patients because it contains the allergen
chlorobutanol, thereby giving rise to a "clinical
need." See Pls.' Mem. at 35-37. But in denying
listing, FDA identified a chlorobutanol-free
version of Vasostrict. R. 1604. It noted that
vasopressin's sponsor had "fail[ed] to explain why
that formulation would be medically unsuitable for


patients who have an allergy to chlorobutanol." Id.
Plaintiffs do not appear to dispute this agency
finding, as they do not contest it in their reply
brief. See generally Pls.' Reply. FDA's explanation
satisfies the arbitrary and capricious standard.


Second, Plaintiffs assert that their product is
available in a ready-to-use, intravenous version,
which offers safety benefits for patients relative to
Vasostrict. To support this contention, Plaintiffs
point out that vasopressin has been designated a
"high alert" drug that presents a serious risk of
patient harm from preparation or administration
error. See Pls.' Mem. at 30-35; see also R. at 464.
Their ready-to-use version, Plaintiffs claim, is
safer than Vasostrict, which requires dilution
before intravenous delivery. As Plaintiffs put it,
their drug product "giv[es] emergency rooms an
option other than [Vasostrict's] 16-step process . . .
resembling compounding on the fly." See Pls.'
Mem. at 31.


FDA considered Plaintiffs "ready-to-use" claim
but rejected it.  First, the agency found that
commenters did not "identify a basis to conclude
that there is an attribute of [Vasostrict] that *31
makes [it] unsuitable such that patients need a
compounded drug product." R. at 1599. As the
agency put it, manufacturing a drug that is ready-
to-use to "improve[] efficiency" or to "address the
possibility that the approved drug might be
mishandled by a medical professional" is not
addressing clinical need. Id. at 1605 (emphasis
added). Instead, the ready-to-use capability just
provides an "advantage[], relative to the approved
drug product[]." Id. at 1599. Even though
Plaintiffs may have demonstrated that ready-to-
use is advantageous, that does not mean that
Vasostrict—because it is not ready-to-use—is
medically unsuitable. The FDA's view on this
issue is not "so implausible that it could not be
ascribed to a difference in view or the product of
agency expertise." State Farm, 463 U.S. at 43.


8


31


8 Plaintiffs incorrectly assert that FDA did


not consider the "high alert" designation of


vasopressin. Pls.' Mem. at 31, 33. FDA


16


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/case/motor-vehicle-manufacturers-association-of-united-states-inc-v-state-farm-mutual-automobile-insurance-company-consumer-alert-v-state-farm-mutual-automobile-insurance-company-united-states-department-of-transportation-v-state-farm-mutual-automobile-ins#p43

https://casetext.com/_print/athenex-inc-v-azar?_printIncludeHighlights=undefined&_printIsTwoColumn=true#N197645

https://casetext.com/case/motor-vehicle-manufacturers-association-of-united-states-inc-v-state-farm-mutual-automobile-insurance-company-consumer-alert-v-state-farm-mutual-automobile-insurance-company-united-states-department-of-transportation-v-state-farm-mutual-automobile-ins#p43

https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
may not have used the words "high alert,"


but it certainly recognized and addressed


Plaintiffs' argument that its ready-to-use


product fills a "clinical need." See R. at


1598-99 ("[T]he comments contended that


[ready-to-use] products compounded from


bulk drug substances can reduce the risk of


medication errors or contamination,


decrease access times, and increase


efficiencies in healthcare facility


operations. They state these advantages are


particularly important for drugs in


emergency settings."). --------


Second, and as importantly, the agency found that
the commenters did not show that the proposed
drug product "must be made from a bulk drug
substance rather than by diluting the approved
drug." R. at 1599. Another drug supplier,
PharMEDium Services, operates an outsourcing
facility that compounds Vasostrict into a ready-to-
use formulation. See id. at 1599; see also id. at
198. Plaintiffs have not asserted that their ready-
to-use bulk compounded product meets a clinical
need that PharMEDium's sterile-to-sterile
compounded product does not. See Pls.' Mem; see
also Pls.' Reply (not mentioning PharMEDium's
product). FDA's rejection of a "clinical need" for
vasopressin therefore was not arbitrary and
capricious.


V. CONCLUSION
For the reasons set forth above, the court denies
Plaintiffs' Motion for Summary Judgment, ECF
No. 23, and grants Defendants' Cross-Motions for
Summary Judgment, ECF Nos. 25 and 27. A final
order accompanies this Memorandum Opinion.
Dated: August 1, 2019


/s/_________ 


Amit P. Mehta 


United States District Court Judge


17


Athenex Inc. v. Azar     Case No. 19-cv-00603 (APM) (D.D.C. Aug. 1, 2019)



https://casetext.com/case/athenex-inc-v-azar
