Disclaimer 
 


By downloading from or viewing material on this website you agree to the following Terms of Service. Use of Culper Research's ("Culper") 
research is at your own risk. In no event should Culper or any affiliated party be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any 
information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence, consult your own financial, legal, and tax advisors 
before making any investment decision with respect to transacting in any securities covered herein. You should assume that Culper (possibly 
along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a 
position in any securities covered herein. Following publication of any research, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered 
herein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation, conclusions, or opinions. 
Research is not investment advice nor a recommendation or solicitation to buy securities. To the best of our ability and belief, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, 
and who are not insiders or connected persons of the securities covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of 
confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. 
Culper makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard 
to the results to be obtained from its use. Research may contain forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, and opinions with 
respect to among other things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer faces and the potential impact of those issues on 
its future business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, 
access to capital markets, market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions may prove to be 
substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties beyond Culper's control. All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Culper does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information 
contained herein. You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information 
(whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following 
link — http://www.culperresearch.com The failure of Culper to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall 
not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to 
be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision 
and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and 
jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related 
to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


2 
 


ProPetro Holding Corp (PUMP): Friends & Family First at this Permian Cesspool 


There’s an accountant in this town … I take my taxes in. He hands me an envelope. I go to the 
elevator, open it up. It’s $5,000. When you see a man named Alan Douglas [ProPetro Audit 
Committee member and signatory on multiple undisclosed entities], don’t make a big deal 


out of it. Alan Douglas was my answer to prayer … Don’t make a spectacle of that please, he’s 
a very private guy. I was forever changed because of that check. 





– ProPetro CEO Dale Redman, March 21, 2017 


 
ProPetro Holding Corp (“ProPetro”, “PUMP”, “the Company”) is a Midland, Texas-based provider of hydraulic 
fracturing (“fracking”) and other services to upstream oil and gas producers. In August 2019, the Company 
announced that it would be unable to file its Q2 form 10-Q due to an internal probe of "expense reimbursements 
and certain transactions involving related parties or potential conflicts of interest." On October 9, the Company 
announced, “substantial completion of fact finding for previously disclosed internal review,” including an 
“improved organizational structure.” ProPetro shares rallied +19.5% on the day, as investors mistakenly viewed 
this announcement as a sign that governance issues are contained and squarely in the Company’s past. We believe 
otherwise: ProPetro’s internal review was a farce, and shares are ultimately worthless. 
 
ProPetro’s release touted an “improved organizational structure,” yet not a single member of the management 
team was terminated, and changes made appear to be largely in name only. Dale (Jackie) Redman remained CEO, 
Jeffrey Smith merely moved to a newly-created CAO role from his CFO role, father and son duo David and Sam 
Sledge  kept their roles as COO and Director of Investor Relations, respectively, and finally Morgan Stovall, 
daughter of Jeffrey Smith, remained in her position as Corporate Controller. In an October 2018 interview, Redman 
claimed ProPetro succeeds via two key principles: “First, taking care of your people. Second, taking  care of your 
customers and their needs and exceeding expectations. As you do that, you’ll be successful.” We’ve found that at 
ProPetro, “taking care of your people” applies primarily to friends and family, as in October 2019, Reuters reported 
that the Company would be laying off 150 employees, even as a group of pals and relatives earned $31.7 million 
in the past two years alone. In our view, these actions are consistent of a management team that prefers to 
maintain their standing at Midland’s Green Tree Country Club rather than maintain any regard for shareholders.  
 
We find it farcical that the Company’s October 9 press release named management as co-investigators alongside 
the Audit Committee in the probe, given that management themselves ought to be the very subject of the probe. 
Even so, ProPetro investors ought to recognize the name Alan Douglas, ProPetro board member and member of 
the Audit Committee. What investors may not know is that Dale Redman himself stated that Douglas is his 
personal accountant, while Douglas is listed as signatory on multiple undisclosed, purportedly outside entities 
that name ProPetro executives, employees, and board members.  
 
Our own investigation of the Company revealed at least 9 additional entities that were created by and/or 
repeatedly name CEO Jackie “Dale” Redman, Jeffrey Smith, and at least 8 other current or former ProPetro 
employees, managers, and board members as affiliated individuals. Some of these entities share or shared 
common addresses and phone numbers with those of ProPetro’s corporate headquarters, despite no public 
affiliation with the Company. As these entities are undisclosed and appear directly involved in the oil and gas 
business, their existence raises related party concerns, underscores the Company’s abysmal disclosures and self-
enriching practices, and suggests a Company engaged in far more long-standing and widespread malfeasance than 
investors believe. 



https://youtu.be/Esmh14AsTH4?t=1760

https://www.mrt.com/business/oil/article/ProPetro-Pioneer-announce-strategic-deal-13389717.php
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


3 
 


FloCap Injection Services, LLC is “a leading provider of specialty chemicals and capillary tubing services to oil and 
gas production companies.” FloCap was headquartered at the same address as ProPetro’s corporate 
headquarters, while its formation documents list both CEO Jackie Dale Redman and Smith as managing members. 
 
Energy Entrepreneur Fund 1, LLC was formed in January 2015 and remains active. Formation documents name 
former CAO Ian Denholm, former board chair Spencer Armour, CEO Dale Redman, and Jeff Smith as members. 
Alan Douglas – who is a current board and Audit Committee member (and Redman’s personal accountant) – signs 
off on EEF1’s documents. To be clear, management has been involved with two board members – one of whom 
is on the Audit Committee supposedly responsible for the Company’s internal probe – in an outside entity.  
 
Ener-Coil, LLC was a provider of capillary tubing services (a component of well servicing), whose Facebook page 
shows it also shared an address with ProPetro’s headquarters. Its listed directors include Redman and Thomas E 
Kelly, who was an original founder of ProPetro. Kelly was also listed alongside Redman as co-member 
“Kellyredman, LLC.” Kelly is the father of Emily Kelly (now Emily Lester), who has been an Executive Assistant at 
ProPetro since May 2007. 
 
South of the Border Materials, LLC was created by Redman, Smith, and four additional ProPetro employees. 
 
Clarabby Development, LLC, Dahlia Development, LLC and Conquistador Capital, LLC were created by former 
Chief Accounting Officer Ian Denholm. In December 2018, Clarabby sold two properties to ProPetro in what we 
view as – still to this day – undisclosed related party transactions. Moreover, we find it highly puzzling that in 
October 2019, the Company claimed both that its internal probe was substantially complete, while an 
investigation of these entities and transactions remained ongoing. 
 
HR Double S, LLC is headquartered at the apparent home of Jeffrey Smith, and lists CEO Dale Jackie Redman and 
James Shrauner – who is also a founder of FloCap – as members. Lore Venture Group LLC was formed in April 
2013 and names ProPetro’s former Chief Accounting Officer Ian Denholm and CAO Jeff Smith as the two sole co-
members. D&J Realty, LLC lists a mailing address at the aforementioned home of Jeffrey Smith, but Jackie Dale 
Redman remains the registered agent, listing what appears to be his residential address as the registered address. 
Note that despite the presence of “Realty” in the name, this does not refer to the previously disclosed real estate 
entities, PD Properties and South Midkiff Partners LLC. Finally, Red Hogg LLC names Dale Redman as managing 
member, while Audit Committee member Alan Douglas again signs Red Hogg’s filings.  
 
Notwithstanding the numerous governance questions that remain, fundamentals are rapidly deteriorating. In Q2 
2018, Redman stated that “This is not a downturn” and “we've got a lot more demand than that 20th fleet going 
into '19.” To that end, in December 2018, ProPetro purchased an additional 8 fleets for $333 million. However, 
the Company is now guiding Q4 to utilization of just 18 to 20 fleets from 28 on hand. We find this to be emblematic 
of a highly promotional management team with little regard for shareholder capital. On Friday, October 18, 
Reuters reported that the Company was under SEC investigation relating to disclosures, internal financial controls 
and public reporting. Given an SEC investigation, non-current financials, and numerous governance and 
fundamental concerns, we believe investors have not considered the potential that ProPetro has difficulty 
raising capital on attractive terms, if at all. In our view, given the Company’s self-enriching and inexplicably 
opaque practices, over $100 million in Q2 net debt, prolific cash burn, and worsening fundamentals, shares are 
ultimately worthless. As such, we are short ProPetro.
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


4 
 


Sham Internal Review Provides Investors with False Reassurances  
 
ProPetro is a Midland, Texas-based provider of fracking and other oilfield services to upstream oil and gas 
companies. 99% of the Company’s revenues originate in the Permian Basin, where the Company claims to hold 
longstanding customer relationships. The Company was formed in April 2007 as a holding company for ProPetro 
Services, Inc. and was privately owned until its acquisition by PE firm Energy Capital Partners (ECP) in March 2013. 
ProPetro then IPO’d in March 2017. In January 2019, the Company completed the purchase of Pioneer Energy’s 
pressure pumping assets for $110 million and 16.6 million shares of stock, providing Pioneer with 17% ownership 
of ProPetro. The purchased assets included 8 fleets with 510,000 HHP, four coiled tubing units, and an equipment 
maintenance facility.  
 
On August 8, 2019, the Company announced preliminary Q2 2019 results. With this announcement, the Company 
noted that it would be unable to file its Form 10-Q on time, due to (author emphasis): 
 


an ongoing review by the audit committee of the Company’s board of directors which initially focused 
on the disclosure of agreements previously entered into by the Company with AFGlobal for the purchase 
of DuraStim® hydraulic fracturing fleets and effective communications related thereto. 


 
62 days later, on October 9, the Company announced the substantive completion of its eternal review, touting an 
improved organizational structure. Shares were up 19.5% on the day, as investors took the view that the 
announcement was a signal that ProPetro’s governance issues were in the rearview mirror. We believe otherwise. 
In our view, both (1) management involvement and (2) audit committee entanglements collectively dispense 
with any notion that the internal probe was a true investigation. 
 
On the former management involvement, note that the Company’s October press release includes management 
as a fact supplier to the probe, whereas the August release did not:  
 


The Audit Committee and management have not identified to date any items that would require 
restatement of the Company’s previously reported balance sheets, statements of operations, statements 
of shareholders’ equity or statements of cash flows. 


 
We have three concerns: First, the probe described is akin to a human centipede, given that management 
themselves are the subject of the probe, as Redman and Smith were wrongfully on the beneficial end of $370,000 
in Company funds. Second, the statement stipulated that the $370,000 was “since the Company’s initial public 
offering in 2017.” Should a more extensive review be found necessary, it would require substantial time and effort. 
Finally, the inclusion of the weasel words “to date” is concerning, especially as the Company still has not filed its 
Q2 Form 10-Q. 
 
Lest there be any doubt that the fox is in the henhouse, not only is the “internal probe” compromised by 
management presence, the Company’s audit committee itself fails the laugh test. In March 2017, Dale Jackie 
Redman gave a half-hour talk to a group at Market Place Midland. Around the 29 minute mark of talk, which was 
uploaded to YouTube, Redman mentions Alan Douglas as someone who, while he was “in the depths,” gave 
Redman an envelope with $5,000 in it. See page 1 of this report or the video liked directly above for the full quote.  
 
Not only is Redman’s touting of this gift followed by a request to “not make a spectacle of it” illustrative of his 
highly promotional nature, but Douglas has been a member of ProPetro’s board of directors since March 2017. 
Moreover, Douglas is listed as the accountant on many of the undisclosed entities we list above and describe in 



https://youtu.be/Esmh14AsTH4?t=1760

https://www.jmcpa.com/team-members/alan-e-douglas-cpa
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


5 
 


further detail later in this report. See the following examples from Energy Entrepreneur Fund 1, LLC and Red Hogg, 
LLC, respectively, each of which remain active entities: 
 


Energy Entrepreneur Fund 1, LLC: 
 





Red Hogg, LLC: 
 


 
 
To be clear: Alan Douglas is a member of ProPetro’s Audit Committee responsible for the Company’s internal 
probe, while he is also Redman’s personal accountant, and signs off on undisclosed outside entities which list 
ProPetro executives, employees, and board members as members. 
 
It’s thus telling that the Company, in our view, made no changes of substance despite claiming an “improved 
organizational structure.” See previous and current positions: 
 


 
 
On August 30, 2019, ProPetro’s general counsel, Mark Howell, agreed to resign from the Company, effective 
September 29. It is notable that this resignation was filed after market close on Labor Day weekend, while the 
letter was accepted not by CEO Redman, but the Chairman, Phillip Gobe. We are of the view Howell’s resignation 
is indicative of far more extensive issues than what investors recognize at this time. Finally, the Company’s internal 


Insider Previous Current


Phillip A. Gobe Board Chairman Executive Chairman


Dale Redman Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer


Jeffrey Smith Chief Financial Officer Chief Administrative Officer


Darin G. Holderness N/A Interim Chief Financial Officer


Newton "Trey" Wilson III N/A General Counsel


Elo Omavuezi Director of Financial Reporting Chief Accounting Officer


David Sledge Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer


Sam Sledge Director of Investor Relations Director of Investor Relations


Morgan Stovall Corporate Controller Corporate Controller
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


6 
 


review stemmed from the Company’s agreement with AFGlobal and Diamondback Energy, Inc. for DuraStim 
fracking fleets. On September 30, 2019, Diamondback’s COO Michael Hollis resigned, which appears suspect in 
consideration of ProPetro’s internal probe. We have heard, but are unable to confirm, rumors that this resignation 
is in connection with undisclosed considerations that Hollis received directly from ProPetro.  
 
In the afternoon of October 14, 2019, Reuters reported that the Company would be cutting 150 jobs, or ~9.5% of 
staff, yet “No senior executives were affected by the job cuts, which were unrelated to the accounting probe.” 
This came as the below group of 7 “friends and family” collected $31.7 million over just the past 2 years: 
 


 
 
Nevertheless, the sham probe and “reorganization” seemed to be enough of a fig leaf to pacify investors and the 
sell side. Per note we reviewed: 
 


We believe this news will be seen as a relative positive versus market concerns. We see this as a positive 
given Dale Redman has strong relationships with the E&Ps. Additionally, we believe it will be viewed 
positively that incremental internal deficiencies were not discovered, at this time. 


 
Per an additional sell-side analyst: 
 


This announcement should remove a large overhang … These remaining transactions under review involve 
real estate transactions, but not any of the company's customers or vendors … The company's real estate 
transactions were already well known and previously disclosed and thus we see these as less of an issue. 
Given that more issues were not discovered and restatements are unlikely, we view the internal review 
as better than most investors feared. 


 
The analyst’s claims of real estate transactions being “already well known and previously disclosed” we believe to 
reference the Company’s related party transactions involving PD Properties and South Midkiff Partners LLC, from 
whom ProPetro leases its corporate offices. This relationship has been disclosed in the Company’s proxy 
statement. However, we found a concerning number of entities apparently involved in the oil & gas or related 
businesses created or directly tied to ProPetro co-founders Jackie Dale Redman (CEO) and Jeffrey D. Smith (former 
CFO, now CAO), in addition to numerous other ProPetro employees and ProPetro board members. It is extremely 
telling that the Company has not disclosed any of these entities, which we profile below. 





Position Name
2018 Total 


Compensation


2017 Total 


Compensation


CEO Dale Redman $5,464,397 $8,237,815


CFO Jeffrey Smith $2,611,119 $4,948,097


COO David Sledge $2,501,705 $4,516,159


CAO Ian Denholm $835,348 $596,296


Sales Manager Jordan Frosch $530,511 $438,212


IR Director Sam Sledge $717,481 ???


Corporate Controller Morgan Stovall $338,873 ???


$12,999,434 $18,736,579Total
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


7 
 


Executives, Employees, and Board Members Involved in Several Undisclosed Entities 
 
FloCap Injection Services LLC 
 
FloCap Injection Services was formed in June 2014 and remains an active entity with the right to transact business 
in Texas. The company claims to be founded “by an executive management team with a combined 75 years of 
experience … Through its capillary division, FloCap precisely applies production chemicals in a formation and 
supports gas lift applications, a growing production optimization methodology.” The company is registered with 
the US Department of Transportation as a carrier of hazardous materials, and in October 2018, FloCap merged 
with two other chemical companies to form Imperative Chemical Partners, LLC. The public information report 
names Dusty Floyd, Jackie D Redman, James W Shrauner, and Jeffrey D Smith as managing members: 
 


 
 
FloCap’s website displays James Shrauner as President and Dusty Floyd as Vice President, but nowhere are 
ProPetro’s Jackie Redman or Jeffrey Smith mentioned: 
 


 
 
Shrauner’s LinkedIn confirms both his FloCap employment and services offered:  
 



https://safer.fmcsa.dot.gov/query.asp?searchtype=ANY&query_type=queryCarrierSnapshot&query_param=USDOT&original_query_param=NAME&query_string=2556925&original_query_string=FLOCAP%20INJECTION%20SERVICES%20LLC

https://www.pehub.com/2018/10/hastings-backed-wadeco-impact-and-flocap-merge-and-form-imperative-chemical-partners/

https://mycpa.cpa.state.tx.us/coa/

http://www.flocap.com/
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


8 
 


 
 
We’ve also confirmed that James is directly related to Bryan Shrauner, who is a Flowback Manager at ProPetro:  
 


 
 
We were unable to find a listed address on the Company’s website, perhaps for good reason, yet Bloomberg lists 
FloCap’s address at 1706 South Midkiff, Building C:
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


9 
 


ProPetro is located at building B at the same address: 
 


 
We searched the SEC database and found zero historical mentions of “FloCap” in ProPetro or any other company’s 
filings. Given FloCap (1) is an active business entity which holds itself out as a service provider to companies such 
as ProPetro, (2) shares or at one point shared an address with ProPetro, and (3) names both ProPetro’s CEO and 
former CFO as Managing Members, though neither ProPetro nor FloCap discloses these relationships publicly, we 
believe investors deserve greater disclosure regarding ProPetro’s relationship with FloCap. We share the same 
sentiment with the entities that follow below.  
 


Energy Entrepreneur Fund 1, LLC 
 
Energy Entrepreneur Fund 1, LLC (EEF) was formed in January 2015 and remains in existence today: 
 


 
 
As shown, ProPetro’s former General Counsel Ian Denholm is listed as registered agent, yet the entity also lists 
Spencer Armour, Dale Redman, and Jeff Smith as members. This is the first instance in which we see a board 
member – former Chairman of the Board, Spencer Armour – listed:
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


10 
 


 
 
We believe this indicates not only board member knowledge, but direct involvement in the same side enterprises 
that ProPetro’s CEO and CFO have been engaged in under the surface. 
 
Ener-Coil, LLC 





Ener-Coil’s Facebook page holds itself out as “Ener-Coil LLC Capillary Tubing Services.” Broadly, capillary tubing 
services are provided to O&G companies such as ProPetro and intend to maximize production and reduce costs 
by delivering chemicals in a more effective manner. The page also lists its address at 1706 S Midkiff Rd, Midland, 
Texas 79701, which is the same address as ProPetro’s corporate headquarters, as we noted above. Directors listed 
include Redman and an individual named Thomas E Kelly, who shares a PO Box with Redman: 
 


 
 
Tom Kelly is listed as a board member in the Company’s original 2005 articles of incorporation, while a May 2017 
presentation for an apparent new venture, “Alpha Seven Energy” also  claims that “In 2013, Mr. Kelly co-founded 
ProPetro Service with headquarters in Midland Texas.” 
 


 
 
We are unclear as to why these dates conflict. However, we also see Thomas E Kelly appear as registered agent 
for Kellyredman, LLC, which was formed in 2008 and lists Dale Redman as a member: 
 


 



https://www.facebook.com/pages/Ener-Coil-LLC-Capillary-Tubing-Services/162542500431627

https://www.slideshare.net/SeanPhillips32/5-vital-steps-to-investing-in-oil-and-gas
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


11 
 


 
Finally, Kelly’s daughter Emily, now married as Emily Lester, has been employed as an Executive Assistant at 
ProPetro since May 2007, just one month after ProPetro was formed: 
 


 
 
We again find the Company’s lack of historical mentions of Thomas Kelly or his daughter to be concerning given 
his original ties to the Company, Redman, and Smith. 
 


South of the Border Materials, LLC 
 
South of the Border Materials, LLC was formed in September 2011, and lists its address at 5305 Green Tree Blvd: 
 


 
 
5305 Green Tree Boulevard is a 4,300 square foot single family home, while Redman’s listed address, 6826 Island 
Circle is a residential, 4,500 square foot home. We also see this Green Tree address appear in connection with HR 
Double S, LLC, as we will detail later in this report. South of the Border’s original articles of incorporation list the 
following members (screenshots cropped for brevity, available per Texas Secretary of State): 
 





 



https://www.mrt.com/lifestyles/weddings-and-celebrations/article/Kelly-Lester-7457454.php

https://www.realtor.com/realestateandhomes-detail/5305-Green-Tree-Blvd_Midland_TX_79707_M80645-69184

https://www.zillow.com/homedetails/6826-Island-Cir-Midland-TX-79707/50134334_zpid/

https://www.corporationwiki.com/Texas/Midland/adam-munoz/68875532.aspx

https://www.sos.state.tx.us/corp/sosda/index.shtml
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


12 
 


 
As it pertains to the four other names listed in the articles of incorporation, Adam Munoz’s LinkedIn claims he has 
been employed as ProPetro’s Director of Business Development and Technical Services since October 2010: 
 


 
 
Additionally, Oscar Dominguez’s LinkedIn claims that he has also been at ProPetro since 2010: 
 


 
 
We were unable to find a LinkedIn profile for Roger Dominguez, but Zoominfo claims he also, at least at one point 
in time, was employed as a Manager at ProPetro: 





 
Jeffrey Smith signed the company’s annual information form, providing again what appears to be his own home 
address, as well as the phone number (432) 688-0012: 
 



https://www.zoominfo.com/p/Roger-Dominguez/-1789118899
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


13 
 


 
 
Curiously enough, this is ProPetro’s own corporate contact number: 
 


 
 
To summarize: in 2011, ProPetro’s CEO and CFO formed an entity, along with other existing ProPetro employees, 
which lists its office address at the apparent home, at that time, of CFO Jeffrey Smith, while its contact number is 
ProPetro’s corporate contact number. We again found zero mentions of “South of the Border Materials” in any of 
the Company’s SEC filings.  
 
Clarabby Development, LLC / Conquistador Capital, LLC / Dahlia Development, LLC 
 
On October 3, Chief Accounting Officer Ian Denholm resigned. The separation agreement reads much like any 
other, with the exception of one particular section, which states: 
 


The Company agrees that this Agreement includes a release of any and all known negligence claims, 
breach of fiduciary or other duty claims, contractual claims (express and implied), fraud and 
misrepresentation claims.  However, the Company does not release, on behalf of itself or the Company 
Parties, any claims for which the basis for which is unknown to the Company due to any fraud, 
misrepresentation, concealment, or failure to disclose by Denholm. The Company acknowledges that 
Denholm has notified the Company of transactions involving Clarabby Development, LLC, Clarabby 
Holdings, LLC, Conquistador Capital, LLC  and Dahlia Development, LLC, Denholm and Adam Cunyus (the 
“Clarabby Transactions”) … Denholm specifically represents that he will assist the Company with respect 
to its investigation of the Clarabby Transactions. 


 
With respect to the above entities, Clarabby, Dahlia, and Conquistador Capital all remain active entities which list 
Ian Denholm as member. Midland County property records indicate that in December 2018, Clarabby Holdings 
LLC sold ProPetro two different properties, first at Stokes Av 3502 W, and second at Midkiff Road 0 S. The two 
properties in question list market values of $25,050 and $97,650, respectively: 
 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1680247/000110465919053592/a19-19705_1ex10d6.htm

http://iswdataclient.azurewebsites.net/webProperty.aspx?dbkey=midlandcad&stype=name&sdata=propetro&time=201910301007054&id=R000004587

http://iswdataclient.azurewebsites.net/webProperty.aspx?dbkey=midlandcad&stype=name&sdata=propetro&time=201910301014001&id=R000004586
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


14 
 


 
 
These transactions were never disclosed by the Company in its 2018 Form 10-K or proxy statement. That said, we 
find it all the more troubling that at the time of Denholm’s resignation, the Company claimed its internal probe 
was substantially complete, while at the same time, Denholm’s separation agreement states he will assist in an 
ongoing investigation of these transactions. The Company again failed to disclose these transactions when given 
the opportunity in October 2019. 
 
HR Double S, LLC 
 
HR Double S, LLC was formed in June 2010 and dissolved in September 2017. The entity names Jackie D Redman 
and Jeffrey D Smith as Members, as well as James W Shrauner, who we noted previously held himself out publicly 
as President of FloCap Injection Services. HR Double S’s listed address, 6804 Executive Ct, is the home of Jeffrey 
Smith, per Midland County property records: 
 


 
 
We again found zero mentions of “HR Double S” in any SEC filings, especially concerning given the now recurring 
relationships we see between Redman, Smith, and Shrauner, all of which reside outside of ProPetro’s disclosures. 
 
Lore Venture Group LLC 
 
Lore Venture Group LLC was formed in April 2013 and remains in existence. The entity names Ian Denholm (former 
Chief Accounting Officer who resigned in August 2019) and Jeff Smith as members: 
 



http://iswdataclient.azurewebsites.net/webProperty.aspx?dbkey=midlandcad&stype=situs&sdata=EXECUTIVE%20CT|6804|&time=201910301215019&id=R000105961
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


15 
 


 
 
We again question why this entity’s purpose and why it has not been disclosed. 
 
D&J Realty, LLC 
 
D&J Realty, LLC is another Redman and Smith entity which lists its mailing address as 6804 Executive Court, the 
apparent home of Jeffrey Smith. Jackie D Redman remains the registered agent, with his apparent home address 
listed as well. The vagueness here is concerning, and we believe ProPetro’s management and board ought to 
disclose the exact nature of these entities to the investing public. 
 
Red Hogg, LLC 
 
Red Hogg, LLC was registered in October 2006 and remains in existence today. Dale Redman is the registered 
agent and lists a residential single-family home as the entity’s registered address. As explained above, board and 
Audit Committee member Alan Douglas signed Red Hogg’s annual information form in 2018.
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


16 
 


Promotional Management Amid Deteriorating Fundamentals 
 
Much like Dale Jackie Redman’s numerous undisclosed entities, we find that his public management history is oft-
neglected by investors. The Company’s proxy statement states that: 
 


He was a co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of Downhole Injection Systems, LLC, which was sold in 
2004. Prior to that, Mr. Redman was President and Chief Executive Officer of Reef Chemical Company 
from 1993 to 1998. 


 
We found sparse information about Redman’s involvement in these two entities, apart from the speech that 
Redman gave in March 2017. While Redman is considered by investors to be a high-quality operator, in Redman’s 
own words, his experience leaves much to be desired: 
 


I had a business… Then there was a little downturn in 1999. You can put yourself in a position where you’re 
not calling the shots, and that’s what I had done. I owned 35% of the company at that time, and oil went 
from $30 to $8 pretty quick. My stock in that company went from about $10 million to March 3 of 1999 
… not that I save dates … my board comes to me and says, “you’re going to go to your banker, he’s going 
to write down his note. And you are going to fire every customer that is over 60 day pay.” I had already 
gone to my banker and said “this is gonna get tough. We’re gonna bust the leverage ratio coverage. Don’t 
go anywhere, we’re gonna get through it. But we need to go to interest only and weather this storm” … 
Well my board said, that’s not what we’re gonna do. You’re fired. So everything I thought I knew was over.  


 
Fast forward to ProPetro and we view many of his statements to be particularly promotional in nature. See for 
example from the Company’s Q2 2018 conference call, August 8, 2018: 
 


Let me be clear, this is not a downturn. And this game is just getting started. We're in the infancy of this 
transition. And so we've got a lot more demand than that 20th fleet going into '19. 


 
Again at the Barclays energy conference in September 2018, Redman stated that ProPetro was miraculously 
immune to industry-wide pressures and had “the best visibility than anybody [sic]” in this business: 


 
All the panic that you're seeing around other peer groups as they're talking about price concessions, spot 
market prices coming down. And we're just not seeing that type of situation with our dedicated fleet 
model and the history we have with this customer base and our performance that's differentiating. 
 
Calendar. Guys, we should have the best visibility than anybody in this business, and we do because of 
who we work for and because of the performance our people have on location. There shouldn't be a lot 
of guesswork in our business. 


 
In December 2018, the Company placed $400 million behind these statements with the purchase of Pioneer 
Energy’s pressure pumping assets. $333 million was associated with the pumping assets and $67 with the real 
estate facilities and other assets. At the time of acquisition, management guided to an incremental 6.5 fleets in 
operation, with a “cash flow” (EBITDA less maintenance capex) contribution of ~$12 million, at its full run-rate: 


 
We do believe that these initial profitability levels will have opportunity for considerable upside as we 
ramp up run-rate activity and efficiency throughout 2019. As such, we expect 2019 exit rate annualized 



https://youtu.be/Esmh14AsTH4?t=956
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) October 31, 2019 


17 
 


per fleet metrics for the full 8 fleets of revenue of $65 million to $68 million, EBITDA of $16 million to $18 
million and maintenance CapEx of $4.5 million to $5.5 million. 


 
Investors ought to find this purchase highly concerning for three reasons. First, the Company paid $333 million for 
net “cash flow” (which isn’t true cash flow) contribution of just $12 million, or a 28x multiple for the assets. Second, 
the Company is again levering its balance sheet into an industry-wide downturn, while these problems could be 
magnified under the Company’s inability to file financials and reported ongoing SEC investigation. Finally, the 
Company is now guiding to just 18 to 20 fleet utilization for Q4 2019, even as ProPetro’s supposedly seasoned 
management, differentiated business model, and “best visibility than anybody in this business [sic]” was supposed 
to be immune from this very scenario. The sell-side attributes this lack of utilization to industry-wide issues: 
 


The active fleet guidance for 4Q19 (18-20 vs prior 22.5) is worse than expected (-25% q/q). However this 
is likely indicative of the industry headwinds (E&P budget exhaustion; overall industry weakness) more 
than a ProPetro specific issue. 


 
However, energy consultancy Primary Vision estimates that of the current 365 US fracking fleets, 60 could be idled 
by year-end, implying a decrease of just 16%, while ProPetro’s guide implies a far greater decrease of 26%. In 
our view, this data confirms what we have heard from on-the-ground sources: ProPetro customers are putting 
business out for tender. As governance issues persist and the Company’s balance sheet comes under greater 
scrutiny, we believe ProPetro is in the early innings of this pain. Simply put, even without consideration of the 
Company’s multitude of governance concerns and worsening fundamentals, we believe ProPetro is already a 
broken business. From 2015 through Q2 2019, the Company has burned $587 million of cash flow (note 2018 is 
pro forma for acquired assets): 
 


 
 
Amid further industry-wide and Company-specific issues, ProPetro’s liquidity and ultimate solvency ought to come 
into greater focus; we believe ProPetro is not a recovery story, it’s a restructuring story.  
 
As of August 6, 2019 (latest disclosed), the Company held $130 million of debt on its revolver with total capacity 
of $300 million. A springing fixed charge coverage ratio applies when excess availability falls below either (i) 10% 
of the facility size or (ii) $22.5 million. As shown above, the Company burned $143 million of cash in Q1 2019 and 
$32 million in Q2 2019, even as utilization was 27.0 fleets and 25.6 fleets, respectively. The Company is now 
guiding to utilization of just 18 to 20 fleets, so we estimate $50 million of quarterly cash burn to be relatively 
conservative in the near term. Even at this rate, the Company would encounter covenant issues in 2020. 
 
With numerous corporate governance failings, inability to file financials, and a reported ongoing SEC investigation, 
an additional capital raise would likely prove punitive. Coupled with ProPetro’s historical inability to produce cash 
flow and a utilization outlook that has reversed course from ebullient to dismal, we believe the Company’s equity 
is ultimately worthless. 


ProPetro Cash Flows 2015 2016 2017 2018 Q1 2019 Q2 2019


Cash from Operations 81 11 109 393 36 115


Capital Expenditures 63 46 305 593 179 146


Free Cash Flow 18 (35) (196) (200) (143) (32)


Cumulative Free Cash Flow (17) (213) (413) (555) (587)
