Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 





These Terms of Use govern current reports published by Muddy Waters Research and supersede any prior Terms of Use for older reports of Muddy Waters 
Research, which you may download from the Muddy Waters Research’s website. 


 
The reports on this website have been prepared by Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters Capital”).  We refer to Muddy Waters Research and Muddy Waters Capital collectively 
as “Muddy Waters” and individually these entities are referred to as a “Muddy Waters Entity”.  You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Muddy Waters report, 
Muddy Waters Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants), Muddy Waters Related Persons clients 
and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors have a short position in one or more of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives 
related to one or more of these securities), and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of a Covered Issuer 
decline or appreciate. Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and/or the Muddy Waters Related Persons intend to continue transacting in the securities of Covered Issuers for 
an indefinite period after an initial report on a Covered Person, and such person may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position and views as stated 
in the research report published by Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital will update any report or 
information on its website to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Muddy Waters Related Person.  Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that report.  All reports 
are for informational purposes only.  Under no circumstances should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments. 


Muddy Waters Research is an online research publication that produces due diligence-based reports on publicly traded securities, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC is an investment 
adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The reports are the property of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity that published that report.    This website is 
owned by Muddy Waters Research.  The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely attributable to the applicable Muddy Waters Entity and are not attributable to any 
Muddy Waters Related Person (defined below) (other than the applicable Muddy Waters Entity). 


By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research on this website is at your own risk. You (or any 
person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold harmless Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and its affiliates and related parties, including, but not limited to any 
principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Muddy Waters Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses 
(including trading losses) attributable to any information on this website or in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any 
securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this website. You 
further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use. 
If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If 
you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same 
Terms of Use. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor any Muddy Waters Related Person (including Muddy Waters Capital) 
are offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through this website or reports on this website. Muddy Waters Research is affiliated with Muddy Waters Capital. 
Muddy Waters Capital is an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Muddy Waters 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Muddy 
Waters Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial 
situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and Muddy Waters Capital has no such knowledge about you. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO (each a “Permitted Recipient”).  In 
relation to the United Kingdom, the research and materials on this website are being issued only to, and are directed only at, persons who are Permitted Recipients and, without 
prejudice to any other restrictions or warnings set out in these Terms of Use, persons who are not Permitted Recipients must not act or rely on the information contained in any of the 
research or materials on this website.  


The research and reports presented on this website express the opinion of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity only.  Reports are based on generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s ability and belief, 
all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that the applicable Muddy Waters Entity believe to be accurate and reliable, and 
who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or 
indirectly). However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied.  With respect to their respective research reports, Muddy Waters 
Research and Muddy Waters Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and 
neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital undertakes to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.  


In no event shall Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, 
indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any information on this website. This limitation of liability 
applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons. You accept all risks in relying on 
the information on this website. 


You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, 
or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained research published by Muddy 
Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms 
of Use. You further agree that any dispute between you and Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website 
or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to 
submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, 
given that Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates are based in San Francisco, California. The failure of Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital to exercise or enforce any 
right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree that each Muddy Waters Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these 
Terms of Use. If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give 
effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law 
and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to this website or the material on this 
website must be filed within one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred.
Page 1 of 26  


Manulife: An Insurance Company on Trial for its Life 
 
 


 
Report Date:   
 
October 4, 2018 





 
Stock Price (USD):  
 
$18.05 


 
Company:  
 
Manulife Financial Corporation  





Market Cap (USD):  
 
$35.8 billion 


 
Tickers:  
 
MFC US / MFC CN 
 


Average Daily Volume (USD, 90-Day):   
 
$126.9 million 
 


Industry:   
 
Financial Services—Insurance  
 





 
 
Introduction 
 
We all have things from the 90s we’d take back if we could. For some, it was wearing Zubaz (see below); 
for others, it was paying to see Ace of Base in concert.  Right now, some senior Canadian insurance 
executives are ruing a particular type of insurance contract from that era.
Page 2 of 26  


Muddy Waters is short Manulife Financial Corp. (“MFC”).  MFC’s life insurance subsidiary, The 
Manufacturers Life Insurance Company (“Manulife”), just concluded a trial that could significantly 
damage its earnings, capital, creditworthiness, business, and solvency – per its own expert’s sworn 
affidavit.  We believe a verdict is likely by the end of this year.  There are therefore material risks to the 
financial wellbeing of MFC.  We do not believe investors are aware of these risks, nor do we believe they 
have been priced into MFC shares.    
 
At issue is one of Manulife’s insurance contracts, which was purchased by a hedge fund called Mosten 
Investment LP.1  Should Mosten prevail, it could lead to billions of dollars of losses at Manulife, which 
could greatly impair its future earnings and affect its capital adequacy ratios.  The trial judge is expected to 
render his decision by the end of 2018.  The crux of the litigation is not about a particular claim.  Rather, 
the issue is whether Mosten (or other owners of similar policies) can force Manulife to provide it with what 
would likely be one of the highest yielding short-term investment grade products in the developed world. 
 
Per Manulife’s own expert witness, Manulife is effectively on trial for its life.   
 
Mosten owns a specific insurance contract from 1997, the Architect IIe universal life insurance policy.  
Mosten argues it can deposit an unlimited amount of money with Manulife and receive an annualized 
guaranteed return of at least 4.00% (and possibly a good deal higher) with one-month liquidity 
according to its reading of the contract.  If Mosten prevails, it could sell an unlimited amount of limited 
partnership interests backed by the Manulife insurance contract, and likely become the most lucrative 
money market fund in the developed world!2   
 
These terms alone could financially cripple Manulife, which would take losses (a) on a cash basis, quarter 
after quarter, on the negative carry: i.e., the difference between the amount paid to Mosten and Manulife’s 
own rate of return, and (b) immediately on an accrual basis, since upon each inflow, Manulife would need 
to record a loss equal to the present value of the projected negative carry plus other administrative expenses 
(e.g., trading costs and credit-related losses).  The accrual of these losses will affect capital ratios. Assuming 
a CAD 1M LIBOR of 1.052% would mean a negative 2.948% spread on potentially billions!3  Based on 
examples presented by Manulife’s own expert witness (see Quantifying the Damage (in the words of 
Manulife’s own expert witness) below), we believe these losses could reach the billions if Mosten receives 
billions of inflows.4   
 
However, it could get even worse for Manulife.  Mosten argues that it is entitled to receive an 0.85% bonus 
each year on the policy anniversary.  Based on an aggressive reading of the Mosten’s reading of the contract, 
a) Mosten may deposit this money the day before the policy anniversary, b) withdraw the money 30 days 
after the anniversary, and c) there is no limit on how much money Mosten may deposit for the bonus.  
Moreover, we believe Mosten has multiple such insurance contracts, meaning that if it prevails, it could 
slosh money among these policies in order to collect multiple 0.85% bonuses in the same year. 
																																																								
1 While Mosten is an unknown player in the hedge fund industry, it is connected to an experienced Canadian venture 
capitalist who, we believe, can raise significant amounts of money.  Even if Mosten cannot raise significant amounts 
of money, other, more established parties could use a declaratory judgment in Mosten’s favor and purchase a similar 
contract, or Mosten could sell its rights, title and interest to a more established party. 
2 Based on 1-month Canadian LIBOR at 1.05200% as of September 26, 2018. 
3 The spread between 1-month Canadian LIBOR at 1.052% and 4.00%. While Manulife could invest in longer-term 
securities that yield a higher interest rate, we believe this could be unwise, given Manulife would then need to bear 
that duration risk, which may be significant.  
4 We believe a Mosten limited partnership interest with approximately a one-month tenor yielding 4.00% per annum 
would be one of the compelling investments globally.  Non-CAD investors could hedge their currency risk and sell 
CAD forward to their own currency while still likely receiving a higher rate (currency-adjusted) when compared to 
similar investments in their home currency.
Page 3 of 26  


 
What does this mean for Manulife?  If Mosten wins outright at trial and raises institutional money, this 
could negatively impact earnings, affect Manulife’s capital adequacy ratio and potentially threaten 
Manulife’s current and future life insurance business, as customers question Manulife’s financial strength.  
If Manulife’s capital adequacy ratio fell to a low enough level, the Canadian insurance regulator could 
prevent Manulife from paying dividends to MFC, which in turn would affect MFC’s ability to pay dividends 
to its shareholders.  
 
Warren Buffett has said, "There are a lot of ways to lose money in insurance, and the industry is resourceful 
in creating new ones" (emphasis added) and "The unpredictability of our legal system makes it impossible 
for even the most conscientious insurer to come close to judging the eventual cost of long-tail claims." 
 
Based on our review of the affidavits, briefs of law, and discussions with Canadian counsel, Muddy Waters 
believes Manulife has found one of those ways to lose money, and it is impossible for anyone to predict the 
billions of Canadian dollars that Manulife could lose if Mosten is victorious.  We believe that if Mosten 
wins and raises billions for its fund, Manulife’s annual losses from this contract could also number in the 
billions.  The market appears to be unaware of this risk, and therefore, has not priced it in. 
 
 
Summary 
 
The Manulife Trial is about the Architect IIe universal life insurance policy issued by Aetna Life Insurance 
Company of Canada (“Aetna Canada”), which MFC acquired in 2004.5  Aetna Canada sold one of these 
universal life insurance policies to a Canadian doctor in 1997.  The Canadian doctor held onto the policy 
until 2010, when Mosten bought the policy from the doctor, knowing full well the potential for “investment” 
in a low interest rate environment.  That’s where our story begins, and only a court ruling or a settlement 
will tell us where it ends. 
 
Mosten is the plaintiff and is seeking a declaratory judgment that its interpretation of its rights under the 
contract is correct, and therefore Manulife is bound to allow unlimited inflows from Mosten.  If Mosten 
prevails, Mosten (and other owners of identical policies) will have the ability to deposit unlimited amounts 
of capital with Manulife and earn at least 4.00% per annum (and possibly a good deal higher).  In other 
words, Manulife’s potential losses would be unlimited, particularly if it continues to be unable to invest 
Mosten’s money at the rate it is paying.  The amount that Mosten may deposit would not be capped at $100 
million, $1 billion, or even $100 billion.  Moreover, if Mosten is successful in another of its claims, it could 
take advantage of an additional 0.85% policy anniversary bonus multiple times per year.  In theory, Mosten 
could acquire several contracts with identical terms, except for different policy anniversaries.  That would 
allow Mosten to potentially recycle its capital over and over again to receive the 0.85% multiple times a 
year.  If Mosten wins, it could bleed Manulife into multiple credit downgrades or even insolvency (albeit 
unlikely, since Mosten’s investors would not benefit if this occurred), assuming a persistently low interest 
rate environment. Additionally, even without a credit downgrade, a Mosten victory followed by a large 
capital raise could severely impact Manulife’s capital adequacy ratio, and the Canadian insurance regulator 
has the power to limit Manulife’s ability to pay dividends to MFC, which could in turn impact MFC’s 
ability to pay dividends to its shareholders. 
 
This would likely have a damaging spillover effect to Manulife’s insurance business.  Potential life 
insurance customers in their 30s who expect to live into their 80s would be taking credit risk if they buy a 
policy from Manulife.  Another problematic scenario could be whole life insurance policyholders in their 
50s.  Due to the credit risk, they could be tempted to redeem their Manulife policies for cash value and buy 
																																																								
5 Aetna Canada was acquired by Maritime Life in 1999, and Manulife acquired Maritime Life in 2004.
Page 4 of 26  


policies from other insurers.  In effect, if Mosten wins at trial, there could be a “run on a bank” in the form 
of a chain of redemptions in Manulife’s life insurance business.  The speed of that exodus would depend 
on a number of factors, including the timing of appeals and press coverage.  We believe the impact to 
Manulife’s life insurance business could be significant and severe. 
 
Even if Manulife’s customer base is completely unaffected, but Mosten raises a large amount of capital to 
deploy into the Manulife contract, Manulife would be less cash-profitable: i.e., Manulife would realize 
immediate reportable losses equal to the difference between the 4.00% or higher rate of guaranteed return 
per annum and Manulife’s own, lower return on its investments, multiplied by the capital raised by Mosten. 
Manulife’s capital adequacy ratios would also be significantly impacted, as Manulife will need to reserve 
capital against the net present value of its liabilities to Mosten.  A favorable ruling on the 0.85% policy 
anniversary bonus would obviously exacerbate the problem.  Therefore, Manulife would seemingly be at 
risk of credit rating downgrades.  If Manulife were downgraded, more customers would likely leave, and 
the cycle would repeat.   
 
In an absolute worst-case scenario, a Mosten trial victory becomes a death spiral for Manulife.  If Mosten 
wins the trial, future customers might buy insurance elsewhere and existing customers might cash out their 
policies.  If Manulife loses future customers or existing customers leave, profitability would suffer, and the 
capital base would shrink.  At the same time, Manulife’s profitability would immediately shrink because of 
the negative spread between the guaranteed return paid to Mosten and the amount earned on its investments, 
while Manulife would also be required to hold more capital to offset the Mosten liabilities.  If Manulife’s 
available capital shrinks as a result of the negative spread and capital requirements, and especially if Mosten 
raises a significant funds, Manulife might suffer a credit downgrade, barring equity injections from MFC.  
Equity raises would, of course, dilute MFC shareholders. 
 
To summarize, in Muddy Waters’s view, an outright Mosten trial victory could severely impact Manulife’s 
profitability, wreak havoc on its capital adequacy ratios, cause MFC equity dilution, and potentially lead to 
credit downgrades.  These events could have a significant impact on the debt, preferred and equity of 
Manulife’s holding company, Manulife Financial Corporation (MFC US and MFC CN). 
 
Do Not Take Our Word for It; Listen to Manulife’s Own Expert 
 
In a June 2017 affidavit filed by Manulife6, Leslie P. Rehbeli, an actuarial partner from Oliver Wyman, a 
well recognized management consultancy, said the following: 
 


• “Life insurers with significant minimum interest rate guarantees [such as Manulife] would not be 
able to invest in sufficiently high yielding assets, in today’s interest rate environment, in order to 
honor these high interest commitments; 


• Life insurers would therefore be required to establish significant additional provisions on their 
balance sheet, in respect of the additional deposits that would be expended to be made, to provide 
for the shortfall in investment income between what they earn on their invested assets and what 
they credit in the form of the minimum interest rate guarantees; 
[. . .] 


• The increase in provisions that insurers would be required to establish would materially reduce the 
net worth of those life insurers, which in turn would reduce the financial strength of those 
companies relative to minimum regulatory capital requirements; 


																																																								
6 See Section 4.5 of Expert Report of Leslie P. Rehbeli, FCIA, FSA, MAAA, on Actuarial Matters Concerning 
Universal Life Side Accounts, dated June 29, 2017, that is filed as Exhibit B to the Affidavit of Leslie P. Rehbeli, 
sworn on June 29, 2017 filed in Mosten Investment LP v. The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company O/A Manulife 
Financial, Q.B. 1597 of 2016 (Judicial Centre of Saskatoon).
Page 5 of 26  


• This reduction in financial strength would eventually cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings 
of these life insurers, which in turn would trigger a reduction in confidence of investors, customers 
and agents of the life insurer.  This could ultimately result in reductions in sales, increases in 
customers terminating their contracts, increase pressure on the liquidity of the company and reduce 
ability to raise capital; 


• This cascading sequence of events ultimately has the potential to cause the insurer to become 
insolvent . . .”  


 
Will Manulife lose at trial?  We honestly don’t know, and it is extremely difficult to handicap a trial.  
However, based on our review of the affidavits, briefs of law, and discussions with Canadian counsel, 
Muddy Waters believes there is real potential for Mosten to prevail on at least some of its claims at trial.  
We believe Manulife has some potentially powerful arguments involving Canadian precedent for 
interpreting contracts – specifically looking beyond the plain language of the contract to the “factual matrix” 
and other factors – but on a plain language reading of the contract, we believe Mosten should prevail.  
 
 
Summary of Key Contractual Terms and Summary of Mosten and Manulife’s Primary Arguments 
 
Below, we have attempted to summarize the plain English terms of the Mosten-Manulife contract and each 
party’s key legal arguments.  Investors should read the rest of this report and the publicly filed briefs and 
affidavits in their entirety.  The following tables and this report itself are an attempt to summarize thousands 
of pages of material filed by Mosten and Manulife, and both these tables and this report itself are based on 
our views, which could be influenced by our short position in MFC.  We are not Canadian lawyers, and 
nothing in this report should be construed as legal advice.
Page 6 of 26  


The following table is a brief summary of the Mosten-Manulife Insurance Contract: 
 


Brief Summary of Mosten-Manulife Insurance Contract 
 


• The Mosten-Manulife Insurance Contract is a universal life insurance contract that combines 
life insurance with various investment options 


• The contract contains a life insurance component held in a tax-exempt account and a separate 
taxable account 


• Premiums are paid to the tax-exempt account and used to pay life insurance premiums 
• Premiums may be added at any time by the policy owner 
• Additional lives may be added to the policy by the policy owner 
• Annually, on the policy’s anniversary, Manulife conducts a tax-exempt test, and any excess 


premiums are moved from the tax-exempt account to the taxable account 
• Premiums can be moved from the taxable account to the tax-exempt account in order to protect 


the tax-exempt account’s tax-exempt status 
• Both accounts have investment options, which include U.S. equities, Canadian equities and a 


range of fixed income options, including a 10-year term account that guarantees a return of 
4.0% per annum   


• Amounts in the tax-exempt account are entitled to an investment bonus of 0.85% on the policy 
anniversary 


• Withdrawals can be made on five business days’ notice, except when withdrawals are in excess 
of $200,000.  Those types of withdrawals can be held for 30 days. 


• Changes in investment types are permitted and are subject to market value adjustments; 
however, market value adjustments appear to apply only when the policy owner is changing 
from a higher rate option to a lower rate option and not when the policy owner withdraws 
capital 
 


 
 
Insurance contracts are particularly complex and contain multiple defined terms.  The summary above is 
only an overview the material terms we believe are needed to understand the arguments made by Mosten 
and Manulife.  It does not include all of the key terms of the contract.
Page 7 of 26  


Below is a brief summary of Mosten’s and Manulife’s legal arguments: 
 


Mosten’s Key Legal Arguments 
 


• Mosten focuses on the plain English 
language of the contract. 


• The contract has multiple purposes and 
one of those purposes is investment. 


• It has the right to make additional 
premium payments to the contract at such 
amounts and at such times as Mosten 
determines. 


• There is no limit on the amount that can be 
held by or for Mosten in the tax-exempt 
forming part of the Contract.  


• Manulife is not entitled to limit or refund 
any premiums or funds held in the 
Contract, absent a request by Mosten; and 


• Mosten is entitled to the 0.85% investment 
bonus that is based on the amount in the 
account on a particular date and not on a 
weighted average balance. 


• The contract never had, or in the 
alternative, has lost its exempted tax status 
under the Canadian Federal Tax Act and 
the accompanying regulation. 


• Therefore, Manulife can no long transfer 
premiums to the taxable account or 
increase the amount of life insurance. 


• Therefore, Manulife must instead (a) hold 
all funds paid under the contract within a 
single pool and there is no distinction 
between the tax-exempt pool and the 
taxable pool.   


• Therefore, the money should not be swept 
to the taxable account.  If all of the 
premium stays in one pool, the timing of 
the payments is irrelevant and Mosten 
should still receive the 0.85% investment 
bonus. 


Manulife’s Key Legal Arguments 
 


• Manulife focuses on the agreement as a 
whole, including the surrounding 
circumstances. 


• “Premiums” are used to pay the life 
insurance.  The investments were an 
incidental portion of the contract. 


• Insurance companies are not permitted to 
take deposits.  Taking unlimited premiums 
for deposit as investment is illegal for 
insurance companies in Canada. 


• Manulife’s administrative rules do not 
allow for the balance in the taxable account 
to exceed five years of minimum premium 
payments, which should be taken into 
account under Canadian law.   


• “Securitization” of insurance policies is 
illegal “trafficking.”  


•  Mosten’s plan runs contrary to the long-
established purpose of life insurance and 
the nature of insurance contract.  Manulife 
argues that the purpose of “life insurance” 
is to insure “mortality risk”. 


• Since the Great Depression, the regulation 
of financial services in Canada has been 
regulated by the “Four Pillars” model.  
Each “pillar” reflects an inherently 
different service.  Insurance and investing 
are separate pillars. 


• The purpose of the taxable account is to 
facilitate the exempt tax treatment on the 
other portion of the policy.   


• If Mosten’s reading of the contract is 
deemed valid, Manulife, the Canadian life 
insurance industry, policyholders and the 
Canadian public would be adversely 
affected.   


 
 
We note that both Mosten and Manulife have other arguments set forth in their briefs and affidavits.  The 
foregoing is just a brief summary of a much larger litigation.  We include a more detailed summary of these 
later in this report.  We encourage you to review the public filings made to the court and draw your own 
conclusions.
Page 8 of 26  


More Detailed Background on Universal Life Insurance and The Mosten-Manulife Contract 
 


Background on Universal Life Insurance 
 
In the late 1990s, a number of Canadian insurers heavily marketed an alternative to traditional term and 
whole life insurance, called “universal” life insurance.   
 
Universal life insurance was different from term and whole life insurance because it combined life insurance 
with various investment opportunities.  In Canada, contracts typically included a life insurance component, 
plus a feature that provided investment options that would grow on a tax-exempt basis and were designed 
to provide flexibility to the policy owner.  As stock markets roared in the late 1990s, these insurance 
contracts with an investment component were marketed as an alternative to term and whole life insurance 
policies.  Term and whole life insurance policies are more closely tied to interest rates, and when compared 
to the roaring stock market of the 1990s, these traditional life insurance products were not as attractive to 
investors and savers. 
 
Under these universal life insurance contracts, a policy owner’s premiums were allocated into two separate 
pools: the first pool, which is referred to as the “Fund Value”, consisted of the tax-exempt investments, and 
the second pool, which is referred to as the “Carrier Fund”, consisted of taxable investments.  Premiums 
could be paid by the policy owner into the contract and those premiums would first be applied to the Fund 
Value (i.e. the tax-exempt pool) and then applied to the Carrier Fund (i.e., the taxable pool) if no further 
amounts could be invested on a tax-exempt basis.  Premiums were also used to cover the life insurance 
portion of the insurance contract.   
 
Under certain universal life contracts, the owner of the policy can change the person whose life is insured 
or add another individual (e.g., a family member or minor child).  Importantly, there are no specific 
limitations in the contract.  The policy owner can also increase and decrease the amount of life insurance.  
Certain contracts also had a stipulation that “you may make additional premium payments at any time 
when this policy is in force.”7  These specific terms are in the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
 


The Mosten-Manulife Contract  
 


History of the Mosten-Manulife Contract 
 
At its inception, the Mosten-Manulife Contract neither belonged to Mosten nor was it guaranteed by 
Manulife.  The contract was issued on November 19, 1997 by Aetna Canada to a Canadian doctor (the 
“Original Policyowner”).8 
 
Following MFC’s acquisition of Maritime Insurance in 2004 (i.e., the insurer that acquired Aetna Canada 
in 1999), Manulife became the insurer of the contract, and on January 28, 2010, Mosten acquired all rights 
and privileges of the contract from the Original Policyowner via an assignment.9  As of the date of the 
assignment, Mosten became the policy owner and beneficiary under the contract.  Manulife accepted the 
change of ownership on February 22, 2010. 10  On July 19, 2010, a second life insured, Michael Hawkins, 


																																																								
7 See page 6.2 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
8 See page 4 of the Notice of Originating Application on October 6, 2017 in respect of Mosten Investment LP v. The 
Manufacturers Life Insurance Company o/a Manulife Financial Q.B. No. 1597 of 2016 (formerly Q.B. No. 1519 of 
2017 (the “Notice of Originating Application”). 
9 See page 4 of the Notice of Originating Application. 
10 See page 4 of the Notice of Originating Application.
Page 9 of 26  


was added to the Mosten-Manulife Contract.  At the time, Mr. Hawkins was the President of Mosten’s 
general partner. 11 
 


Two Pools of Capital: A tax-exempt pool and the “Carrier Fund” 
 
Under the Mosten-Manulife Contract, the tax-exempted status of the first pool was assessed annually on 
the anniversary of the contract.   
 
If there was an excess of premiums in the first pool (i.e., an excess of premiums above the permitted limits 
under the Canadian Income Tax Act to maintain tax-exempt status), those excess premiums would be 
transferred to the Carrier Fund and invested on a taxable basis.12  Similarly, if there was a shortfall of 
premiums in the first pool (e.g., because the policy owner forgot to pay the premium that year), amounts 
would be transferred from the second pool to the first pool to assure that the policy owner did not forfeit 
his policy and/or that he was achieving the maximum tax status of the first pool. 13 
 
The policy owner was permitted to select investment programs for both the first pool and the second pool.  
One of those investment options was a 10-year term account that had an “annual rate [that] will not be less 
than 90% of the yield of 10 Year Government of Canada Bonds less 1.75%, subject to a minimum of 4%” 
(emphasis added).14  Given current interest rate levels and the formula in the contract, the interest rate on 
this 10-year term account is 4% per annum.  More importantly, the Mosten-Manulife Contract further states 
that “[Manulife] reserve[s] the right to discontinue at any time any Investment Account except the 
Guaranteed Interest Amounts which We guarantee will always be available to You.”15  In other words, 
the contract expressly states that Manulife will honor the 10-year term account at 4% per annum as long as 
the policy is in effect.  Because of the ability to add insured lives, Mosten seems to be able to extend the 
policy’s effectiveness many years into the future. 
 


Unlimited Premium Language 
 
Under the Mosten-Manulife Contract, the contract states, “you may make additional premium payments at 
any time when this policy is in force.”16  This provision is extremely important to Mosten’s argument that 
Mosten can fund either the first pool or the second pool with unlimited premiums.  Manulife counters that 
the implication of “premium” is that it can only be a payment related to the underlying purpose of life 
insurance, and therefore implies a limit on the amount of funds that may be held in the Carrier Fund.   
 
The contract on its face seems to provide for no limitation on premiums that can be paid into the contract.  
The contract clearly states that premiums payments can be paid at any time,17 and the contract states that 
“Transfers to the Carrier Fund will be subtracted from and to the Carrier Fund as required to keep the 
maximum amount in the tax exempt Investment Accounts.” 18  Therefore, the contract itself seems to 
suggest that one of the Carrier Fund’s purposes is to hold any premiums paid that would affect the 
tax-exempt nature of the first pool.  Based on our reading, premiums should first be deposited into the 
tax-exempt account and transferred to the Carrier Fund if this would impact the tax-exempt status of the 
first pool.  


																																																								
11 See page 4 of the Notice of Originating Application. 
12 See pages 3.2 and 3.3 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
13 See page 3.3 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
14 See page 5.1 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
15 See page 5.1 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
16 See page 6.2 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
17 See page 6.2 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
18 See page 3.3 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract.
Page 10 of 26  


 
 Cash Withdrawals and the Market Value Adjustment (or lack thereof) 
 
Even though the term to receive the guaranteed interest of 4% is 10 years, the account effectively provides 
30-day liquidity.  The Mosten-Manulife Contract is clear about withdrawals.  The contract states “The 
effective date of withdrawal will be within five business days after Your written request is received at Our 
head office.”  The contract goes onto say “For withdrawals of amounts over $200,000, We reserve the right 
to delay the processing by up to 30 days.”  Most importantly, withdrawing money from the Guaranteed 
Interest Account sooner than 10 years does not reduce the amount of interest to which the policy holder is 
entitled.  The only adverse impact, which seemingly does not apply in this interest rate environment, is a 
“Market Value Adjustment”.  The language is as follows: 
 


“Market Value Adjustment 
A Market Value Adjustment is applicable to the Guaranteed Interest Accounts for transfers or Cash 
Withdrawals or if You cancel the policy for the Cash Surrender Value.  It is done when the current 
interest rate is higher than the interest rate associated with a particular Premium Allocation. 
The Market Value Adjustment will be determined separately for each amount being withdrawn or 
transferred.  The adjustment is the Account Value associated with the Premium Allocation 
multiplied by the interest rate differential multiplied by the number of complete months remaining 
in the investment term divided by 12.” (emphasis added) 
 


To our surprise, the contract only provides for a market value adjustment when you change from a lower 
interest rate to a higher interest rate.  Based on our reading, it does not provide for a market value adjustment 
when you withdraw cash.  See the bolded language above that says, “It is done when the current interest 
rate is higher than the interest rate associated with a particular Premium Allocation.”19 
 
In our opinion, the Manulife contract provides long-term interest rates with short-term duration.   
 


The Mosten-Manulife Contract’s Investment Bonus 
 
There is yet another wrinkle in the Mosten-Manulife Contract.  Under the terms of the contract, Mosten is 
entitled to an investment bonus that could turn out to be quite material.  In the sixth year or later of the 
contract, if the amount of life insurance is greater than or equal to $100,000 (which is in the case of the 
contract at issue) the investment account will be credited with an amount equal to the Net Account Value 
multiplied by the Bonus Percentage, which is equal to 0.85%.  (The Bonus Percentage is equal to the 
“lesser of 1.75% or [(Earned Rate – 3%) x 0.3 + 0.55%].”20  The Earned Rate is equal to 4.0%, as discussed 
above, and therefore, the Bonus Percentage is equal to 0.85%.)  This investment bonus is only paid on the 
tax-exempt pool (or Fund Value) and not on the taxable pool (or the Carrier Fund).  
 
Mosten’s lawyers argue the following: first, there is no language in the contract that states this investment 
bonus will be pro-rated or based on the average capital balance of the investment account over the calendar 
year, and second, based on the contract, this bonus is paid once a year on the entire balance in the tax-
exempt account. Therefore, if Mosten is allowed to contribute unlimited premiums as per its other 
arguments, it will be allowed to receive this investment bonus on a theoretically unlimited balance, as long 


																																																								
19 “Premium Allocation” is defined as the “portion of the Net Premium directed toward a particular Investment 
Account.”  See Page 5.1 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract.  Under the Mosten-Manulife Contract, “You can change 
the Premium Allocation from time to time.  The minimum portion that can be allocated to an Investment Account is 
ten percent of the Net Premium.”  See Page 5.1 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
20 See Page 5.6 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract.
Page 11 of 26  


as the balance is in the tax-exempt account on the business day immediately preceding the policy 
anniversary.   
 
Based on our reading of the contract, and we would be no more than an “average insured” in our review 
(more on this later), we did not see any language that suggests the investment bonus was to be paid on an 
average capital balance over the preceding year.  Based on our reading, this investment bonus is paid based 
on the Net Account Value at a single point in time. That means that Mosten can add premiums immediately 
before the payment date, receive the bonus and then withdraw cash in accordance with the contract’s 
withdrawal provisions.  
 
The timing of the payment of the investment bonus is important.  Mosten argues that the investment bonus 
should be paid on the day before the “Policy Anniversary”, because on the Policy Anniversary, the “Tax-
Exempt Tests” are performed and any additional amounts in the tax-exempt account are moved from that 
account to the taxable account (i.e., the Carrier Fund).  Under the contract, premiums are deposited into the 
tax-exempt account.  Those premiums stay in that account until those amounts are moved on the Policy 
Anniversary, which is defined as every November 19th.  Below is a summary of Mosten’s analysis of the 
contract: 
 


• Policy Date is defined in the contract as November 19, 1997. 
• Policy Anniversary is defined as the anniversary of the Policy Date, which is every 


November 19th. 
• Policy Year is defined as “the period of time between two Policy Anniversaries.  Policy 


Year 1 begins on the Policy Date and ends on the day before the first Policy Anniversary.”21  
Therefore, each Policy Year ends on November 18th. 


• The Fund Value technically doesn’t change until the Exempt Test is performed, which is 
each Policy Anniversary, which is November 19. 


• Funds aren’t swept from the tax-exempt account to the Carrier Fund until the performance 
of the Exempt Test, which is each Policy Anniversary (i.e., November 19). 


• Therefore, if money is in the tax-exempt account as of November 18, then it is part of the 
Fund Value and entitled to the Investment Bonus. It only gets swept out on November 19. 


 
If the court deems Mosten’s arguments to be valid, Mosten would be able to deposit an unlimited amount 
of premiums into the tax-exempt account before November 18 of each year, receive a 0.85% bonus on that 
amount on November 19 of each year and almost immediately withdraw the funds including the bonus.22 


Assuming Mosten has other insurance contracts with identical or substantially similar terms, it could repeat 
this process multiple times per year.  Theoretically, if Mosten has an insurance contract for each month, it 
could earn the bonus monthly.23  A 0.85% bonus every month would be equivalent to a 10.69% annualized 
return (i.e., 12 times 0.85%, compounded monthly).  If Mosten raised $1 billion and could earn the bonus 
under 12 different contracts 12 times per year, Manulife would be paying approximately $106.9 million 
dollars a year to Mosten.  Those amounts would be immediately reportable losses for Manulife.  Mosten 
would be entitled to these payments for the term of the contract, which is the life of the insured, but 
theoretically, Mosten could add insured to its contract(s), which means there would effectively be no 
																																																								
21 See Page 2.2 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
22 See Page 5.5 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
23 Mosten’s ability to repeat this process on a monthly basis may be limited.  We note that premiums are subject to a 
premium tax, and in this contract, the premium tax is borne by Mosten.  The current premium tax in Saskatchewan is 
higher than 0.85%.  In order for this investment strategy to be economically feasible, Mosten would need to redomicile 
to a jurisdiction with a lower premium tax.  For example, South Dakota has a premium tax of 2% on the first $200,000 
of premium and 0.08% tax on any amounts in excess of the first $200,000.
Page 12 of 26  


termination date for these contracts.  Manulife would have no way to hedge this liability unless short-term 
rates rose to double-digit levels.   


 
Quantifying the Damage (in the words of Manulife’s own expert witness) 
 
On June 29, 2017, Manulife filed a sworn affidavit of an expert witness named Leslie P. Rehbeli (the 
“Rehbeli Affidavit”).  Based on Mr. Rehbeli’s curriculum vitae filed as Exhibit A to the Rehbeli Affidavit, 
Mr. Rehbeli is a partner with the actuarial practice of Oliver Wyman and leads the Canadian Actuarial 
Practice of Oliver Wyman based in Toronto, Ontario.24  Mr. Rehbeli has over 25 years of experience in the 
insurance industry and is a former employee of Manulife Financial. 25 
 
Mr. Rehbeli’s expert report is attached as exhibit B to the Rehbeli Affidavit, and in Section 8.2 of that 
expert report, Mr. Rehbeli provided an example of the potential damage that a Mosten victory at trial would 
bring.  We have summarized Mr. Rehbeli’s example below. 
 


Potential Losses for each $100 million deposit into a Carrier Fund Paying Guaranteed Interest of 
4.5% 


 
As of June 2017, Mr. Rehbeli, a Manulife expert witness, estimated that a $100 million deposit into the 
Carrier Fund would cause “an immediate reported loss to the insurer in excess of $45 million.” 26  Mr. 
Rehbeli also estimates that a $100 million deposit would reduce “available capital” by $45 million and 
increase “required capital” by $70 million. 27  We will explain in more detail later the meanings of “available 
capital” and “required capital”, but these amounts are metrics used by the OSFI to measure the capital 
adequacy of life insurers under the Life Insurance Capital Adequacy Test (“LICAT”) guidelines.   
 
In calculating the immediate loss of $45 million for each $100 million, Mr. Rehbeli made the following 
assumptions: 28 
 


• The $100 million will be deposited into the Carrier Fund; 
• All of the $100 million will be invested at a 10-year guaranteed interest option of 4.5%29; 
• The $100 million deposit immediately increases both the insurer's assets and its liabilities by $100 


million. At first, this appears to have no impact on income or surplus because both assets and 
liabilities increase by the same amount; 


• The 4.5% guaranteed rate exposes the insurer to interest rate risk; 
• The insurers need to buy investments to earn investment income to cover this interest rate risk; 
• Insurers will buy a mix of bonds, including bonds issued by the Government of Canada, bonds 


issued by provinces and bonds issued by corporations; 


																																																								
24 See Rehbeli Affidavit, Exhibit A. 
25 See Rehbeli Affidavit, Exhibit A. 
26 We note that Manulife has entered into a joint defense agreement with Industrial Alliance, who is another Canadian 
life insurer that issued similar insurance products and is also in litigation with another limited partnership that holds a 
similar insurance contract.  The Rehbeli Affidavit was also filed in that case, and the 4.5% guaranteed rate appears in 
the insurance contract of Industrial Alliance.  See Rehbeli Affidavit, Exhibit B, Section 8.2.  We try to provide 
equivalent calculations later in this report.  
27 See Rehbeli Affidavit, Exhibit B, Section 8.2. 
28 See Rehbeli Affidavit, Exhibit B, Section 8.2. 
29 This 4.5% originates from an Industrial Alliance contract.  Industrial Alliance and Manulife have entered into a 
joint defense agreement, since Industrial Alliance is being sued under a similar contract.  The Rehbeli Affidavit was 
also filed in that case.
Page 13 of 26  


• Insurers would invest the proceeds primarily in 10-year debt rated “A” by debt rating agencies to 
match the maturity profile of the liability; 


• “A”-rated debt yielded at the time 3.3% per annum (this is based on a CAD yield curve as of June 
2017); 


• In the first year, investment losses would be 0.1% and investment expenses would be 0.1%, which 
would result in a loss of 1.4% in the first year (i.e., earnings of 3.3% minus 4.5% paid to Mosten 
minus 0.1% for investment losses minus 0.1% for investment expenses); 


• Under the Standards of Practices for valuations, actuaries are required to use reasonable 
conservative estimates, the loss of 1.4% would be increased by a 0.1% margin for conservativism, 
resulting in a percentage loss of 1.5% per year initially; 


• The percentage loss would reduce slowly over the years as interest rates are assumed to increase; 
• These losses would be assumed to continue for the full life expectancy of the insured; 
• Based on these assumptions, the insurer would be required to set up approximately $60 million of 


additional liabilities to account for future investment income shortfalls; 
• The $60 million increase in liabilities immediately translates to an immediate pre-tax loss of 


approximately $60 million for every $100 million of deposits into the Carrier Fund; 
• Assuming the loss is tax-deductible, the after-tax loss would be $45 million; and  
• In other words, retained earnings and available capital and surplus would be reduced by $45 


million. 
 
In fairness to Manulife, Canadian interest rates have risen since June 2017, meaning that the negative carry 
would decrease.  According to Bloomberg, as of September 17, 2018, the Canadian Financial A+ 10-year 
implied yield was 3.615% per annum, and Manulife Financial Corporation, which is currently rated A- has 
a CAD-issued bond maturing on August 20, 2029 that is currently yielding 3.554%.30  Based on these two 
data points, we would estimate 10-year implied yield of Canadian financials issuing “A”-rated debt to be 
approximately 3.6% per annum as of the date of this report, which is a difference of 0.3% from the example 
in Manulife’s Rehbeli Affidavit.  We also note that the example in the Rehbeli Affidavit used a 4.5% rate, 
when the rates at issue in the Manulife trial are 4.0% or 4.85%. 
 
We have previously mentioned that Mosten is arguing that it is entitled to a 4.0% guaranteed interest rate.  
Mosten also argues in its brief that it is entitled to a 0.85% investment bonus as of the anniversary of the 
policy.  Therefore, there is a potential that Mosten would be entitled to a 4.85% guaranteed rate if the trial 
judge found in its favor.  There is also a potential that Mosten could receive this investment bonus more 
than once a year (see above).  
 
Based on this revised yield information and the different guaranteed rates in the Mosten trial, we used Mr. 
Rehbeli’s assumptions and estimated the current impact of a $100 million deposit into the Carrier Fund.  
We would note that one of Rehbeli’s assumptions utilized the yield curve available to him as of June 2017 
and the methodology for calculating Manulife’s losses.  We did not have access to that yield curve or 
Rehbeli’s methodology associated with his loss calculation.  We do have most of his other inputs, which 
he stated in his assumptions.  In order to create a rough approximation of losses, we assumed a linear 
relationship between the estimated first-year losses (in percentage terms) below and the dollar losses per 
$100 million of deposits. See footnote 6 of the following table. 
 
We also note that Mosten is arguing that it has short-term liquidity under the contract, which the Rehbeli 
Affidavit doesn’t seem to consider, it seems difficult to assume that Manulife could invest that much 
money in 10-year paper, and thus might find itself paying for Mosten deposits through short- and 


																																																								
30 As of September 17, 2018, based on bid price, as reported by Bloomberg.
Page 14 of 26  


medium-term bonds.  We believe if Rehbeli had taken this into account, Manulife’s potential losses could 
be even higher per $100 million. 
 
We have restated Rehbeli’s assumptions in table format and footnoted our assumptions.   
 





Rehbeli’s 
Assumption 
(assumes the 
guaranteed 


Industrial Alliance 
rate of 4.5%)1 


Muddy Waters’s 
Assumptions 


(based on Rehbeli’s 
assumptions except for 


current yields and a 
guaranteed rate of 


4.0%) 


 
Muddy Waters’s 


Assumptions 
(based on Rehbeli’s 
assumptions except 


for current yields and 
a guaranteed rate of 


4.85%)2 
 


Deposit Size 
 


$100 million 
 


$100 million $100 million 


Guaranteed Rate (%) 4.5% 4.0% 
 


4.85%2 
 


10-year “A” bond yield 
(%) 3.3% 3.6%


3 3.6%3 


Credit Losses (%) -0.1% -0.1% 
 


-0.1% 
 


Investment Expenses 
(%) 


-0.1% -0.1% -0.1% 


Estimated First Year 
Loss (%) -1.4% -0.6%


4 -1.45%4 


Actuary Adjustment (%) -0.1% -0.1% -0.1% 
Adjusted Estimated First 


Year Loss (%) 
-1.5% -0.7%5 -1.55%5 


Pre-Tax Loss for each 
$100 million -$60 million -$28 million


5 -$62 million6 


Tax Rate (%) 
 


27% 
 


27% 27% 


After-Tax Loss per $100 
million 


-$45 million -$20.44 million7 -$45.26 million7 


 
1 Assumes a 4.5% guaranteed rate, which originates from a lawsuit with Industrial Alliance, which is 
another Canadian life insurer that issued similar insurance products.  Industrial Alliance has entered into a 
joint defense agreement with Manulife and is also at trial over a contract with similar terms.  The Industrial 
Alliance contract had a guaranteed rate of 4.5%. 
2 Assumes a guaranteed rate of 4.0% and that the guaranteed rate is increased to 4.85% by an annual 0.85% 
investment bonus on the policy anniversary. 
3 The “10-Year “A” bond yield is based on Muddy Waters’s estimates using two data points: (1) as of 
September 17, 2018, the Canadian Financial “A+” 10-year implied yield was 3.615% per annum and (2) 
an outstanding issuance of Manulife Financial Corporation, which is currently rated “A-” and matures on 
August 20, 2029 that is currently yielding 3.554%.  Yields are in Canadian dollars.
Page 15 of 26  


4 “Estimated First Year Loss (%)” is based on the 10-year “A” bond yield (%) minus Guaranteed Rate (%) 
minus Credit Losses (%) minus Investment Expenses (%). 
5 “Adjusted Estimated First Year Loss (%)” means Estimated First Year Loss (%) minus the Actuary 
Adjustment (%). 
6 When calculating the “Pre-Tax Loss for each $100 million” for Muddy Water’s Assumptions, we used 
the following formula:  
Pre-Tax Loss for each $100 million = MW’s Adjusted Estimated First Year Loss (%) / Manulife’s Adjusted 
Estimated First Year Loss (%) x Manulife’s Pre-Tax Loss for each $100 million 
7 “After-Tax Loss per $100 million” is calculated using the following formula: 
 Pre-Tax Loss for each $100 million = After-Tax Loss per $100 million x (1- Tax Rate (%)) 
  


 
Based on our assumptions, (a) for each $100 million deposited into the Carrier Fund by Mosten and 
assuming a 4.0% interest rate, we would estimate an after tax-loss of $20.44 million, and (b) for each $100 
million deposited into the Carrier Fund by Mosten and assuming a 4.85% interest rate, we would estimate 
an after tax-loss of $45.26 million.  Our calculations are based on Rehbeli’s assumptions and the 
assumptions set forth in the chart and footnotes above.  We note that these calculations are based on a 
number of important assumptions (e.g., Manulife’s assumptions are correct and there is a straight-line ratio 
between the interest rate deficit and Manulife’s assumed dollar losses).  We also note that these numbers 
were not prepared by an actuary and are based on publicly available information that we could source at 
the time of this report. 
 
Putting aside our estimates and focusing on those of Manulife’s expert, the potential impact is staggering.  
Per those estimates, if Mosten won its trial and was able to deposit $1 billion into the Carrier Fund, using 
Manulife’s own numbers, that could mean a loss of $450 million.  That is approximately 35.7% of MFC’s 
2Q18 net income.31  A Mosten victory and a $3 billion deposit in one quarter would result in a negative net 
income quarter based on most recent numbers.  
 
 Explanation of the LICAT Ratio, “Available Capital” and “Required Capital” 
 
Previously, we mentioned that Mr. Rehbeli estimated that a $100 million deposit would reduce “available 
capital” by $45 million and increase “required capital” by $70 million. 32  Canada’s Insurance Companies 
Act requires federally regulated life insurance companies to maintain adequate capital or to maintain an 
adequate margin of assets over liabilities, and OSFI codifies these capital requirements in the LICAT 
guideline.  According to Mr. Rehbeli: 
 


“The LICAT guideline establishes standards, using a risk-based approach, for measuring 
specific life insurer risks and for aggregating the results to calculate the amount of a life 
insurer's regulatory "required capital" to support these risks. The amount of capital targeted 
by the LICAT is meant to allow an insurer to survive a 1-in-200-year adverse event. LICAT 
also defines which components of the insurer's capital structure can be counted as 
"available capital" to satisfy the "required capital" benchmark.” 


 
The health of a life insurance company is measured by a ratio of “available capital” to “required capital”, 
which is referred to as the LICAT Ratio.  When understanding math formulas, it often helps to visualize 
those formulas.  Below is a visualization of the LICAT Ratio: 
 


																																																								
31 Manulife reported net income of $1,262 million in the second quarter of 2018.  See Manulife’s 2Q2018 
Shareholder Report. 
32 See Rehbeli Affidavit, Exhibit B, Section 8.2.
Page 16 of 26  


LICAT Ratio = 
Available Capital 
Required Capital 


 
Mr. Rehbeli also provided a summary of the LICAT Ratio in Section 7.4.1. of his expert report, where he 
said: 
 


“at the highest level a simple metric is used to capture how well capitalized an insurer is: 
the ‘LICAT ratio’ is the ratio of company's available capital over its required capital.  OSFI 
establishes a supervisory target of 100% for that ratio, meaning that insurers must have 
available capital at least equal to 100% of required capital, but OSFI expects insurers to 
hold capital above the supervisory target ratio.  If an insurer's LICAT ratio falls below 
100%, this serves as a signal to OSFI on the deterioration of the insurer's capital position 
and the insurer will receive increased scrutiny from OSFI.  A LICAT ratio falling below 
90% casts serious doubt on the insurer's ability to fulfill its insurance contract obligations 
and OSFI may trigger further regulatory intervention, possibly culminating with 
discontinuing the insurer's operations and initiating a search for an orderly transfer of the 
insurer's business to one or more well capitalized insurers. 
 
The LICAT ratio also serves as a primary indicator of insurers' financial strength to credit 
rating agencies and shareholders.  An insurer seeking a high rating from a ratings agency 
will need a LICAT ratio materially in excess of the supervisory target, likely in the range 
of 115% to 125%.  A high ratio is also an essential element for garnering consumer and 
investor confidence.”33 


 
This quote puts into context Mr. Rehbeli’s statement that available capital would decrease by $45 million 
due to the earnings hit, and regulatory required capital would increase by $70 million.  Mr. Rehbeli said 
that for every $100 million, the numerator of the LICAT Ratio would shrink by $45 million and the 
denominator would increase by $70 million, assuming his assumptions summarized above.  Unfortunately, 
Manulife does not separately report its “available capital” and “regulatory capital” in its quarterly reports, 
but based on simple math, when you decrease your numerator and increase your denominator by at the 
same time, the LICAT Ratio has the potential to decline dramatically.   
 
In fairness, Manulife currently has a healthy business.  According to its Second Quarter Report to 
Shareholders, dated June 30, 2018: 
 


“Reported a Life Insurance Capital Adequacy Test (“LICAT”) ratio of 132% for The 
Manufacturers Life Insurance Company (“MLI”) as at June 30, 2018 compared with 129% 
as at March 31, 2018 
 
As at June 30, 2018, the LICAT ratio for MLI was 132%. The three percentage point increase in 
the ratio compared with March 31, 2018 was due to a variety of factors including organic capital 
growth from earnings, a net capital issuance, and a decrease in required capital, primarily due 
to the reduction of alternative long-duration assets in our portfolio asset mix, among other 
initiatives.”34 (emphasis added) 
 


We note that Manulife was able to increase its LICAT Ratio by growing earnings (i.e., increasing available 
capital) and reducing its “required capital” (i.e., the denominator in the LICAT Ratio) through the 


																																																								
33 See Section 7.4.1. of Exhibit B of the Rehbeli Affidavit. 
34 See Page 3 of Manulife Financial Corporation’s Second Quarter Report to Shareholders, dated June 30, 2018.
Page 17 of 26  


“reduction of alternative long-duration assets.”  This begs an important question.  If Mosten wins at trial 
and ends up adding billions into the Carrier Fund, how does this impact Manulife’s LICAT Ratio? 
 
 
Primer on Canadian Contractual Interpretation 
 
In order to assist the assessment of Mosten and Manulife’s arguments, we summarize what we believe are 
the standards for contractual interpretation in Canada.  We are not Canadian-qualified lawyers, so the 
following summary is a lay person’s reading of the applicable cases.  We have provided citations for further 
research. 


Under Canadian law, there are three primary precedents that we believe govern contractual interpretation 
in this specific trial.  Those three precedents are Sattva Capital Corp. v. Creston Moly Corp., [2014] 2 SCR 
633, 2014 SCC 53 (“Sattva”), Ledcor Construction Ltd. v. Northbridge Indemnity Insurance Co., [2016] 2 
SCR 23, 2016 SCC 37 (“Ledcor”) and Sabean v. Portage La Prairie Mutual Insurance Co., [2017] 1 SCR 
121, 2017 SCC 7 (“Sabean”).  


In our view, Sattva is slightly different from Ledcor and Sabean, in that Ledcor and Sabean relate to standard 
form contracts (often referred to as “contracts of adhesion”), while Sattva was a negotiated contract between 
two sophisticated parties presumably represented by counsel.  That distinction from Sattva is important 
because, in standard contracts, one party has all of the leverage by virtue of writing the contract (in this 
case, the insurer) and the other party may not negotiate the terms (i.e., the contract is “take it or leave it”).   


In Sattva, where the contract was negotiated between two sophisticated parties, the court sought to 
determine the surrounding circumstances, i.e., what was understood and intended by the parties at the time 
they entered into the contract.35  Sattva’s holding seems to be that the plain meaning of words in the contract 
are not necessarily dispositive.  However, the Ledcor court seems to have held that in contracts of adhesion, 
less credit should be given to surrounding circumstances because of the lack of negotiation, and therefore, 
more credit should be given to the ordinary and grammatical meaning of the terms.36   


In our view, the Canadian Supreme Court set forth the following three steps for contract interpretations: 


1. First, one must consider the ordinary and grammatical meaning of the terms, in the context of the 
agreement as a whole, including the surrounding circumstances.37 


2. Second, if there is ambiguity, apply the general rules of contract construction to resolve the 
ambiguity.38 


3. Third, if ambiguity still remains after applying step 2, apply the contra proferentem rule, 39 which 
is Latin for “against the offeror” or in this particular case, “interpret against Manulife.”  In 
circumstances where ambiguity remains at this step 3, courts generally interpret the contract against 


																																																								
35 See paragraph 47 of Sattva, which says “a decision-maker must read the contract as a whole, giving the words used 
their ordinary and grammatical meaning, consistent with the surrounding circumstances known to the parties at the 
time of formation of the contract. Consideration of the surrounding circumstances recognizes that ascertaining 
contractual intention can be difficult when looking at words on their own, because words alone do not have an 
immutable or absolute meaning”. 
36 See paragraph 69 of Ledcor. 
37 See id. 
38 See paragraph 50 of Ledcor, which says “Where, however, the policy’s language is ambiguous, general rules of 
contract construction must be employed to resolve that ambiguity.” 
39 See paragraph 51 of Ledcor, which says “Only if ambiguity still remains after the above principles are applied can 
the contra proferentem rule be employed to construe the policy against the insurer.”
Page 18 of 26  


the person who drafted the contract because that person had control and opportunity to resolve the 
ambiguity before the contract was ever signed.40    


Sabean is also an interesting case.  Similar to Ledcor, it involves interpreting an insurance contract.  In 
Sabean, the court decided for the plaintiff and stated there was no ambiguity.  In our view, Sabean stands 
for the view that insurance contracts should be interpreted in the same way the average person being insured 
would understand them.  The Sabean decision reads “The insurer cannot rely on its specialized knowledge 
of the jurisprudence to advance an interpretation that goes beyond the clear words of the policy. The 
overriding principle for the interpretation of standard form insurance contracts is that where the language 
of the disputed clause is unambiguous, reading the contract as a whole, effect should be given to that clear 
language. The words used must be given their ordinary meaning, as they would be understood by the 
average person applying for insurance, and not as they might be perceived by persons versed in the niceties 
of insurance law.” 41   


Manulife argues that “premium” refers only to payments that could reasonably be assumed to fund the life 
insurance portion of the contract.  However, the court could find that a policy owner would understand 
“premium” to mean any and all monies paid to Manulife, especially if an average insured viewed the policy 
as an investment (rather than just a life insurance policy).   


We now summarize the arguments of both sides and analyze the law as best as we can, reiterating that we 
are not Canadian lawyers. 


Mosten’s Claims against Manulife 


Mosten has two sets of claims against Manulife: 
 


1. First, Mosten argues: 
 
(a) it has the right to make additional premium payments to the Contract at such amounts and at 


such times as Mosten determines; 
(b) There is no limit on the amount that can be held by or for Mosten in the Carrier Fund (defined 


below) forming part of the Contract;  
(c) Manulife is not entitled to refund any premiums or funds held in the Contract, absent a request 


by Mosten; and 
(d) Mosten is entitled to the 0.85% investment bonus described earlier. 


 
2. Second, Mosten claims that: 


 
(a) the Mosten-Manulife Contract never had, or in the alternative, has lost its exempted tax status 


under the Canadian Federal Tax Act and its accompanying Regulation; 
(b) Therefore, Mosten further asserts that, if these allegations are correct, Manulife can no long 


transfer premiums to the Carrier Fund or increase the Additional Sum Insured; and 
(c) Therefore, Mosten argues that Manulife must instead (a) hold all funds paid under the Mosten-


Manulife Contract within a single pool and there is no distinction between the tax-exempt 
pool and the taxable pool.  Therefore, even if you don’t agree with the intricate definitional 
argument about the 0.85% investment bonus, that is irrelevant because the money should not 


																																																								
40 See paragraph 12 of Sabean. 
41 See the decision in Sabean.
Page 19 of 26  


be swept to the Carrier Fund.  If all of the premium stay in one pool, the timing of the payments 
is irrelevant and Mosten should still receive the 0.85% investment bonus. 


 
In our view, Mosten’s first claim is far more damning for Manulife than its second claim.  If the court 
decides in Mosten’s favor, the first claim opens the door and exposes Manulife to unlimited liability, while 
the second claim simply provides an alternative theory that Mosten is entitled to the 0.85% bonus if the first 
argument doesn’t prevail.  If Mosten is successful with its first claim, Mosten can ask Manulife to pay 4% 
interest on an unlimited amount of money and receive a 0.85% bonus on a short-term deposit.  If Mosten is 
successful with its second claim, Mosten has a second theory to support its claim that it is entitled to the 
0.85% investment bonus.   
 
We will walk through the facts of first claim at a high level and provide an overview of Manulife’s counter 
arguments.  As for Mosten’s second claim, we view this claim as secondary, but still relevant.   
 


Mosten’s First Claim: The Right to Make Unlimited Payments Into the Contract and Invest those 
Amounts at 4% per Annum 


 
Mosten argues: 
 


(a) it has the right to make additional payments to the Mosten-Manulife Contract at such amounts 
and at such times as Mosten determines; 


(b) There is no limit on the amount that can be held by or for Mosten in the Carrier Fund (defined 
below) forming part of the Mosten-Manulife Contract; and 


(c) Manulife is not entitled to refund any premiums or funds held in the Contract, absent a request 
by Mosten; and 


(d) Mosten is entitled to the 0.85% investment bonus described earlier. 
 
Based on our reading of the contract and basic principles of contract interpretation, we believe that Mosten’s 
first claim has merit and potentially exposes Manulife to a significant amount of risk.  We believe that this 
risk should have been disclosed to MFC debt and equity holders, and we believe there is a material risk to 
Manulife’s business if Manulife loses at trial.   
 


Mosten’s Arguments in Favor of Unlimited Payments into the Contract 
 
Mosten argues that “the Contract is (and UL contracts generally are) a unique type of insurance product.  It 
is neither term life insurance nor whole life insurance.  The components of the Contract, which are the 
benefits provided to the policy owner, are both permanent life insurance protection and flexible investment 
opportunities. While one investment element is the ability to tax-shelter growth on certain funds 
accumulated in the Contract, this is only one of other investment opportunities under the Contract.” 42   
 
To refresh, under the terms of the Mosten-Manulife Contract, premiums can be paid to a tax-exempt account 
called the “Fund Value,” which includes the life insurance and tax-exempt portion of the contract.  For 
certain tax and administrative reasons (based solely on our plain reading of the contract), those premiums 
are automatically moved or can be directed to the Carrier Fund, which is a taxable option.  The amounts in 
the Carrier Fund can be moved back to pay the premiums on the life insurance or tax-exempt portions, and 
when amounts are deposited in the Carrier Fund, those amounts can be invested in various investment 
options, including a 10-year term account that yields 4% per annum.  
 


																																																								
42 See paragraph 6, page 2, Mosten Reply Brief of Law, dated August 31, 2018.
Page 20 of 26  


The issue is whether the Carrier Fund is supposed to be a “side account” that is only incidental to the 
Investment Account, which holds the life insurance and the tax-exempt investments, or is it an additional 
separate investment option?  May Manulife cap the amounts deposited into the Carrier Fund despite any 
language in the contract stating such a cap? 
 
Our understanding of Canadian law is as follows.  The first question in contract interpretation is “what does 
the contract say?  (i.e., consider the ordinary and grammatical meaning of the terms, in the context of the 
agreement as a whole, including the surrounding circumstances)”.  If and only if the contract is ambiguous, 
then one can look to other areas of contract interpretation.   
 
Second, if contractual ambiguity exists (and we would argue that it really doesn’t in this case), then a court 
may consider the general rules of contract construction, which include the intent of the parties.  Parties may 
also argue that such contractual provision should be void against public policy or that the contract is void 
because it violates applicable law (e.g., contracts for murder are per se void ab intio).   
 
Finally, if there is still ambiguity, the court should apply the contra proferentem rule, which would mean 
siding against the party that drafted the contract.  See the discussion related to Ledcor and Sabean under 
“Primer on Canadian Contract Construction” above. 
 
On the contract’s face, the Carrier Fund looks to us, Mosten and probably thousands of other “average 
insured” to be an investment option.  The following is an excerpt from the Mosten-Manulife Contract on 
the Carrier Fund: 
 


“Carrier Fund 
The Carrier Fund is a special account that holds funds in excess the maximum allowable 
tax exempt value calculated by the annual exempt test.  During the first Policy Year, We 
will credit the Carrier Fund any premiums that exceed the maximum premium determined 
by Us on the Policy Date.  You may base the Carrier Fund on any one of the available 
Investment Accounts.  The Money Market Account will be the default basis.  You may 
change the basis for the Carrier Fund up to twice each year at no charge.  However, a 
Market Value Adjustment may apply if you change the Carrier Fund from a Guaranteed 
Interest Account basis. 
 
The Carrier Fund investment return is as described in the corresponding Investment 
Account section, subject to the same guarantees.  However, the Carrier Fund will not be 
entitled to any Investment Bonus.  Account Deductions will not be made from the Carrier 
Fund.  The Carrier Fund is not included in the calculation of the Fund Value.  The Carrier 
Fund will be paid to You and Your estate when the contract terminates. 
 
The investment income of the Carrier Fund is subject to annual accrual taxation. 
 
Cash Withdrawals may be made from the Carrier Fund, subject to Market Value 
Adjustment if the Carrier Fund has a Guaranteed Interest Account basis.  Withdrawal 
Charges do not apply. 
 
Each year, the exempt test is reduce as described in the Exempt Status provision.  Transfers 
are made from or to the Carrier Fund as required to keep the maximum amount from the 
Investment Account in proportion to the Account Values.  Transfer from the Carrier Fund
Page 21 of 26  


will be in proportion to the Premium Allocation.  Transfer fees will not apply.  Market 
Value Adjustments may apply to the transfers involving a Guaranteed Interest Account.”43 


 
On its face, in plain English, the Carrier Fund seems to be an investment option.  You can deposit premium, 
and if you don’t meet the exempted test, those premiums go into the Carrier Fund and you can select an 
investment option up to twice a year.  You seemingly don’t need a law degree to interpret this contract.   
 
We believe that a judge applying the standard in Ledcor and Sabaen would agree.  In Sabean, the court 
wrote “an average person applying for insurance” should be the lens by which we interpret these insurance 
contracts. 44  
 
We have also previously mentioned that the Mosten-Manulife Contract reads, “you may make additional 
premium payments at any time when this policy is in force” 45 and it also states that “We reserve the right 
to discontinue at any time any Investment Account except the Guaranteed Interest Account which We 
guarantee will always be available to You.” 46 
 
In our view, this should be an open and shut case.  We see no ambiguity and the contract clearly states that 
Mosten has the right to invest and that investment can be made at the guaranteed rate of 4.0% per annum.  
Additionally, Mosten argues that it is entitled to an 0.85% investment bonus.  
 
For the avoidance of doubt, let’s assume the contract is still ambiguous.  We would then apply the second 
principle of contract interpretation, which under Ledcor and Sabean is to apply the general rules of contract 
construction to resolve the ambiguity.  Mosten’s lawyers argue that if you apply the general rules of contract 
construction, you would examine the following: 
 


1. The Original Illustration of the Contract to the Original Policyowner:  When the Original 
Policyowner received his contract, he received an “illustration” (i.e., an example) of how the 
contract was intended to work.  According to Mosten’s brief: 


 
“The Illustration includes a projection of the potential investment/savings that 
could be accumulated under the Contract. That projection was based upon a death 
benefit payable of $1,000,000 with a level guaranteed (i.e. fixed) cost of insurance. 
 
The Illustration contemplated that $12,000 would be paid into the Contract for 29 
years (being a sum of $348,000) from age 37 to age 65. The total cost of insurance 
(COI -- which, as described above included the cost of the life insurance protection 
and the administration fees) was $3,510 per year, payable over the entire 64 year 
projected time period of the Illustration. The sum of the cost of insurance was 
$224,640. Under the Illustration, the payments made into the Contract would 
exceed the total cost of insurance by in excess of $120,000, with that excess 
amount serving a pure investment function. 
 
If the assumed return of 8% was achieved each year, the Illustration further 
indicated that the $348,000 (less the $224,640 cost of insurance) paid into the 
Contract would accumulate, at age 100, savings though the investments available 
under the Contract in the amount of $22,123,092. The total payable on death at age 


																																																								
43 See page 3.3 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
44 See the court’s decision in Sabean. 
45 See page 6.2 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract. 
46 See page 5.1 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract.
Page 22 of 26  


100, then, was $23,123,092 (being the $1,000,000 death benefit plus the 
investment savings of $22,123,092). 
 
The Illustration does not contain any indication that there was a limit to the amount 
that could be paid into the Contract.”47 


 
In other words, if we were the “average insured” in Ledcor or Sabean and we received this 
illustration, we would clearly see that premiums were not limited and that there was an investment 
component to this contract. 
 


2. The predecessor and successor to the standard contract purchased by the Original 
Policyowner:  Mosten’s lawyers argue Aetna (Manulife’s predecessor) purposefully removed 
restrictions to adding additional premiums in the current contract (relative to the predecessor 
contract), and therefore allowed for the ability to add unlimited premiums.  This contract was part 
of a series of products issued by Manulife’s predecessor, and each contract in the series had iterative 
differences.  
 
The predecessor contract read, “You may make additional premium payments at any time while 
this policy is in force, subject to any limitations as we may determine” (emphasis added).48  
 
In the Mosten-Manulife Contract and its subsequent iteration, the bolded language “subject to any 
limitations as we may determine” was removed.  We believe this strengthens Mosten’s argument 
that they should have the right to add unlimited premiums; and 
 


3. Manulife’s Publication on Universal Life Insurance at the time the Original Policyowner 
purchased the contract.  Mosten’s lawyers actually reference Manulife’s own marketing materials 
at the time in which the Contract was issued, even though Aetna was the original issuer of the 
Contact.  Manulife’s marketing material stated: 


 
“There’s a way to simplify your financial planning through one, convenient 
insurance solution designed to meet both your life insurance and investing needs. 
It’s called universal life insurance – a blend of two key financial planning elements 
in a single, straightforward policy. 
 
[...] 
 
The purpose of a universal life insurance policy is two-fold. It provides long-term 
protection to protect the legacy you’re building for those you care about. It also 
gives you the opportunity to invest and build additional wealth over time, within 
the same policy.” 49 


 
Manulife’s marketing materials also contemplate premiums well in excess of life insurance premiums, 
which seemingly contradict its argument that “premium” should only refer to amounts paid for life 
insurance. 50  





																																																								
47 See paragraphs 161 to 166 from Mosten’s Brief of Law, dated August 17, 2018. 
48 See paragraph 168 from Mosten’s Brief of Law, dated August 17, 2018. 
49 See paragraph 172 from Mosten’s Brief of Law, dated August 17, 2018. 
50 See paragraph 172 from Mosten’s Brief of Law, dated August 17, 2018.
Page 23 of 26  


If we were applying the second step of the test set forth in Ledcor and Sabean and we looked at general 
rules of contractual interpretation, we would examine the parties understanding and intent at the time in 
which they entered into the contracts.  Based on the arguments set forth above, if the court moved to the 
second step of contractual interpretation, we believe it would still find for Mosten. 
 
Finally, even if the court found there was contractual ambiguity at step one and step two of the test under 
Canadian law, the court would then apply the contra proferentem rule.  Under the contra proferentem rule, 
given this is a standard contract that was drafted by a predecessor of Manulife, the court seemingly would 
have to find for Mosten.  We believe that Mosten has some strong arguments. 
 
Unfortunately, God made lawyers. 
 
 
A Summary of Manulife’s Arguments 
 
Manulife set forth a number of arguments in favor of their clients, which include the following:51 
 


1. “Premiums” are used to pay the life insurance premiums.  Premiums should only be deposited 
if they are to be used to pay life insurance premiums and should not be deposited for investment 
purposes.52  Manulife further argues that the premiums deposited cannot be infinite because no one 
can live forever.  Mosten considers that premiums are “the consideration paid by an insured in 
exchange for the suite of features provided under the Contract, including investment of an insured’s 
contributions to the Contract.”53   
 
With respect to Manulife’s arguments, we would apply the rule set forth in Sabean and ask how the 
average insured view the definition of “premium”.  At the time of the contract, it was 1997, the 
stock market was going well, and the insurance pitch was likely, “Buy this insurance, keep your 
money invested and we’ll invest your premiums in the Carrier Fund.”   
 
We also note that under this contract a policy owner may add additional insured lives.  This contract 
is not that different than a family plan for your cell phone.  You may keep adding lines (or in this 
case, lives) whenever you want.  The Contract theoretically can go on forever, and therefore, in our 
review, the premiums could be infinite.   
 


2. Insurance Companies are not permitted to take deposits.  Manulife argues that it is a federally-
regulated insurer under the Insurance Companies Act and as a federally-regulated insurer, it is 
prohibited from taking deposits.54  Whether or not the Carrier Fund is a deposit instrument is a 
question of Canadian law, but we would argue that Manulife would not be the first financial 
institution to test the limits of the law.  Even if this were prohibited by Canadian law, it should be 
Manulife’s regulatory issue, and should not interfere with Mosten’s contractual rights. 
 


3. Manulife’s administrative rules do not allow for the balance in the Carrier Fund to exceed 
five years of minimum premium payments.  Manulife argues that Manulife never intended for 


																																																								
51 We note that we have not covered every single argument made by Manulife and Mosten in this research piece.  To 
do so would mean restating the entirety of each side’s briefs and replies.  Based on our reading of the filings with the 
court, we are attempting to summarize the key points for our readers. 
52 See paragraph 12, page 3 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 30, 2018. 
53 See paragraph 13, page 3 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 30, 2018. 
54 See paragraph 28, page 7 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 17, 2018.
Page 24 of 26  


there to be unlimited premiums and that is evidenced by their in-house administrative rules. 55  We 
would argue that their in-house administrative rules are irrelevant.  First, we found no reference to 
the administrative rules in the insurance contract.  Second, had Manulife, as the sophisticated party 
who drafted the contract, intended there to be a limit, then it should have included that limitation 
in the contract.  It didn’t.  Therefore, this limitation should not be read in later when it suits 
Manulife. 


 
4. Manulife argues that the “securitization” of insurance policies is illegal “trafficking.”  


“Trafficking” is commonly defined as the practice of buying insurance policies from the owners at 
discounts and holding them in hopes of making a profit upon the insureds’ deaths.  The economics 
behind trafficking generally revolve around the death of an individual, and there are certainly moral 
issues around seeking profit as a result of another’s death.  That said, Mosten is not seeking to 
benefit from anyone’s death.  This trial is about the Carrier Fund.  Additionally, while this argument 
by Manulife is likely intended to garner sympathy from the court, at the time Mosten acquired the 
contract, “trafficking” was not illegal in Saskatchewan where Mosten is domiciled and the trial is 
being held. 56 


 
5. Mosten’s plan runs contrary to the long-established purpose of life insurance and the nature 


of insurance contract.  Manulife argues that the purpose of “life insurance” is to insure “mortality 
risk”. 57  We technically don’t disagree, but this is semantics and seems to be an example of why 
people don’t like lawyers.  Mosten’s lawyers argue that the purpose of “insurance” is to insure 
“risk” including financial and interest rate risk.58  Mosten also notes that the Carrier Fund terminates 
at the time of the insureds’ death.  The purpose of the Carrier Fund is to insure certain risks and 
that this type of “insurance” still terminates at death.  From our perspective, this argument does not 
change the terms of the contract nor does it give Manulife the right to modify the contract. 


 
6. Life insurance is subject to special regulatory treatment. 59 Manulife argues that since the Great 


Depression, the regulation of financial services in Canada has been regulated by the “Four Pillars” 
model.  Each “pillar” reflects an inherently different service.  Banks, for example, are subject to 
short-term liquidity risk because funds are effectively demand deposits, where a customer can 
withdraw their funds immediately.   Insurers, on the other hand, maintain longer term risks and are 
better situated for forecasting the probability of future events.  Banks are allowed to take deposits, 
and insurers insure long-term risk, argues Manulife.  Manulife argues that only banks can take 
deposits.  
 
This argument is made earlier, but it is repeated in a more forceful manner in Manulife’s brief of 
law.  First, even if we assume Manulife’s argument is correct, its regulatory issue should not give 
it the ability to modify the contract when that contract is no longer profitable.  Second, this was a 
contract of adhesion.  Aetna (Manulife’s predecessor) crafted the terms and presented it to The 
Original Policyowner.  When Aetna drafted the contract, it should have been cognizant of the 
bargain it was striking.  The insurer simply underestimated the long-term risk.  You can see this in 
guaranteed rate language, which says Manulife will pay “annual rate [that] will not be less than 
90% of the yield of 10 Year Government of Canada Bonds less 1.75%, subject to a minimum of 
4%.”60  Embedded in this language is Manulife’s assumption that the 10-year rate will never go 


																																																								
55 See paragraph 29, page 7 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 17, 2018. 
56 See paragraph 30, page 7 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 17, 2018. 
57 See paragraph 33, page 8 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 17, 2018. 
58 See paragraphs 32-49, page 9-13 of the Mosten Reply Brief of Law, August 31, 2018. 
59 See paragraphs 35-42, pages 10-12 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 17, 2018. 
60 See page 5.1 of the Mosten-Manulife Contract.
Page 25 of 26  


below 4.0%, as well as, a 10% haircut on the yield and an additional 1.75% spread that Manulife 
would gladly pocket if rates were at the same level as in the late 1990s.  Again, from our 
perspective, this argument does not change the terms of the contract nor does it give Manulife the 
right to modify the contract. 
 


7. Life Insurance is subject to special tax treatment.61  Manulife argues that the purpose of the 
Carrier Fund is to facilitate the exempt tax treatment on the other portion of the policy.  We don’t 
find this argument compelling because the Carrier Fund could have more than one purpose and that 
other purpose is investment.  If there wasn’t an investment purposes, then the contract would not 
offer a variety of options, including investing in U.S. equities, Canadian equities and the 10-year 
term account at 4% per annum.  
 


8. The purpose of Carrier Fund is a side account.62  Manulife argues that the Carrier Fund was 
created as an administrative solution to the exempt tests previously mentioned.  The Carrier Fund 
was a temporary contractual mechanism to solve for passing the exempt tests.  Manulife states that 
“policyholders could also use the Carrier Fund to prefund their future annual minimum premiums.” 
63  First, if we accepted this argument, isn’t Manulife admitting that this is in some way a deposit 
account, albeit a temporary account?  Second, if the Carrier Account is meant to be a temporary 
account, then why does it have the options to fund 5-year and 10-year investment options?  We 
agree that the side account has an administrative purpose, but that does not mean that it serves only 
that purpose.  


 
9. Manulife argues that if Mosten’s reading of the contract is deemed valid, Manulife, the 


Canadian life insurance industry, policyholders and the Canadian public would be adversely 
affected.  First, WE COMPLETELY AGREE, but we note that this is not an argument to modify 
this contract.  We are currently at the 10-year anniversary of the Lehman Brokers’ bankruptcy, and 
while we do not think Manulife is Lehman Brothers, we do not view this as a valid legal argument 
for contract modification.  Rather, it is a great argument for why MFC’s securities should reprice.   


 
Manulife states that Mosten’s reading of the contract would have a “significant negative impact on 
Manulife.”64  We agree. 
 
Manulife also states that this “would have a significant financial impact on Canadian policyholders 
and the beneficiaries who rely on the proceeds of life insurance policies.”65  We agree.  We believe 
many of these policyholders would surrender their policies for their cash value, which would put a 
further strain on Manulife.  We also believe that purchasers of Manulife policies would think twice 
before buying Manulife policies if this affected their credit rating.  As a whole, we view a Mosten 
victory at this trial to be a “Sword of Damocles” that will hang over Manulife’s entire insurance 
business as Mosten ramps up its fundraising after a trial victory.  None of these arguments gives 
Manulife the ability to modify the contract.  


 
Mosten’s Second Claim: The Tax-Exempt Account is Not Tax-Exempt 


 
Mosten claims that the tax-exempt account never had, or in the alternative, has lost its tax-exempt status.  
As a result, the contractual provisions related to the exempted test and the deposits from the Fund Value to 


																																																								
61 See paragraphs 43-46, pages 12-13 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 17, 2018. 
62 See paragraphs 47-56, pages 13-15 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 17, 2018. 
63 See paragraph 50, page 14 of the Manulife Brief of Law, August 17, 2018. 
64 See paragraph 58, Manulife Brief of Law, dated August 17, 2018. 
65 See paragraph 62, Manulife Brief of Law, dated August 17, 2018.
Page 26 of 26  


the Carrier Fund are not applicable since Manulife is only obligated to transfer to the Carrier Fund in order 
to satisfy the tax-exempt status.  Therefore, any premiums deposited should remain in the Fund Value 
account, then those amounts should be entitled to the Investment Bonus, which is equal to 0.85% of the 
value on deposit.  
 
As previously discussed, we view this claim to be precautionary on Mosten’s behalf because Mosten could 
already have contractual grounds to get the investment bonus.  In our opinion, Mosten does make strong, 
albeit technical arguments that the exempted tests were not passed, and Manulife admits to certain 
administrative failures.66   
 
 
Conclusion 
 
Muddy Waters is short Manulife Financial Corporation (NYSE: MFC) because we believe its securities do 
not price in the significant risk posed by the Mosten Trial.  Trials are always hard to handicap; however, 
we believe there is a reasonable chance that Mosten prevails.   
 
If Mosten wins and the worst-case scenario comes to pass, in the words of Manulife’s own expert, this trial 
comes down to the following: 
 


• “This reduction in financial strength would eventually cause rating 
agencies to lower credit ratings of these life insurers, which in turn would 
trigger a reduction in confidence of investors, customers and agents of the 
life insurer.  This could ultimately result in reductions in sales, increases 
in customers terminating their contracts, increase pressure on the liquidity 
of the company and reduce ability to raise capital; 


• This cascading sequence of events ultimately has the potential to cause the 
insurer to become insolvent . . . ” 67 





																																																								
66 Manulife openly states that the system that Manulife has in place “was not designed to automatically perform the 
corrective actions” and that “Manulife staff must manually implement corrective actions.”  Manulife goes on to 
admit that “[t]his manual implementation process typically takes up to 7 business days, but can take longer 
depending on the number of policies in the queue, staff availability, and quality control procedures.” See paragraph 
62, page 15, Manulife Brief of Law, dated August 17, 2018. 
67 See Section 4.5 of Expert Report of Leslie P. Rehbeli, FCIA, FSA, MAAA, on Actuarial Matters Concerning 
Universal Life Side Accounts, dated June 29, 2017, that is filed as Exhibit B to the Affidavit of Leslie P. Rehbeli, 
sworn on June 29, 2017 filed in Mosten Investment LP v. The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company O/A 
Manulife Financial, Q.B. 1597 of 2016 (Judicial Centre of Saskatoon).
