Disclaimer 
 
By downloading from or viewing material on this website you agree to the following Terms of Service. Use of Culper Research's ("Culper") 
research is at your own risk. In no event should Culper or any affiliated party be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any 
information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence, consult your own financial, legal, and tax advisors 
before making any investment decision with respect to transacting in any securities covered herein. You should assume that Culper (possibly 
along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a 
position in any securities covered herein. Following publication of any research, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered 
herein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation, conclusions, or opinions. 
Research is not investment advice nor a recommendation or solicitation to buy securities. To the best of our ability and belief, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, 
and who are not insiders or connected persons of the securities covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of 
confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. 
Culper makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard 
to the results to be obtained from its use. Research may contain forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, and opinions with 
respect to among other things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer faces and the potential impact of those issues on 
its future business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, 
access to capital markets, market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions may prove to be 
substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties beyond Culper's control. All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Culper does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information 
contained herein. You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information 
(whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following 
link — http://www.culperresearch.com The failure of Culper to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall 
not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to 
be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision 
and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and 
jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related 
to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) November 14, 2019 


2 
 


ProPetro Holding Corp (PUMP): Q3 Disclosures Cast Further Doubt on Internal Review 
 
In our view, ProPetro’s preliminary Q3 results confirm our original report: the internal review was a sham, while 
the Company continues to circle the wagons, failing to lay out the full extent of related party transactions. We 
published our original report on October 31. Yesterday, the Company disclosed–well, would you look at that–it 
has identified $3.6 million in additional related party transactions not previously disclosed. 
 
We called out these transactions in our original report, as Ian Denholm sold 2 properties to the Company in late 
2018, and Denholm’s employment agreement stipulated that he would assist in the ongoing investigation of these 
transactions. As we earlier stated, we found it highly puzzling that the Company declared “substantial completion” 
of its internal probe while this investigation remained ongoing. 
 
Today, we find it even more puzzling that after we called the Company out on its inconsistencies, it revealed these 
previously undisclosed millions of dollars in transactions after the review was supposedly substantially complete. 
How could the Company claim to have not previously identified these during the original internal review, given 
that it was already investigating these transactions in connection with Denholm’s resignation? Given the 
nonsensical explanation of this supposed pattern of events, we believe that ProPetro continues to knowingly 
mislead investors. 
 
Further, the Company again amended its language regarding who conducted the probe by citing not “the audit 
committee and management” as previous, but the “audit committee … with assistance of independent outside 
counsel and accounting advisors" as if this exonerates Audit Committee member Alan Douglas from the conflicts 
of interest we called out both as (1) Redman’s personal accountant, and (2) signatory on undisclosed entities.  
 
Finally, regarding these supposedly newfound, previously undisclosed related party transactions, we find it highly 
convenient for ProPetro that of the numerous undisclosed entities we identified in our original report, the 
Company wheeled out only the entity and transactions involving the former Chief Accounting Officer: the only 
person no longer getting paid a salary by ProPetro. 
 
Regarding the SEC investigation, it appears that much like the former Chief Accounting Officer’s transactions, 
ProPetro was unwilling to disclose these items until outside coverage forced its hand. In our view, these are the 
actions of a management team that continues to be allergic to engaging transparently with shareholders. 
 
We note that the Company’s disclosures regarding the SEC investigation state that the SEC is “requesting that the 
Company provide certain documents, including documents related to the Company’s internal investigation 
(referenced in the Company’s August 8, 2019 Current Report on Form 8-K) and related events.” Investors ought 
to recognize that the SEC is not only concerned with the subject matter of the Company’s internal probe (i.e. 
related party transactions) but is investigating the internal probe itself, confirming our original view that the 
probe was a sham. Given that the SEC has the ability to subpoena records from the Company itself, a power we 
lack, we believe the agency will be capable of raising far more questions than what we’ve already identified 
publicly, questions which remain largely unanswered. To reiterate from our November 4 report: 
 


1. Given Alan Douglas is a signatory on multiple undisclosed entities that name ProPetro executives and 
employees, how does the Board justify Douglas’s role as both (a) an “independent director” per NYSE 
listing standards and (b) a member of the Audit Committee responsible for the recent “internal review”?  


 



https://img1.wsimg.com/blobby/go/cc91fda7-4669-4d1b-81ce-a0b8d77f25ab/downloads/Culper_PUMP_10-31-2019.pdf?ver=1572876334964
Culper Research ProPetro Holding Corp (NYSE:PUMP) November 14, 2019 


3 
 


2. How much has CEO Dale Redman paid to Alan Douglas in each of the past 3 years, given their numerous 
undisclosed professional and personal entanglements? 


 
3. By what conditions did the Company declare “substantial completion of fact finding for [its] internal 


review” given the myriad of conflicts of interest and related-party entities that remain undisclosed? 
 


4. How much did ex-Chief Accounting Officer Ian Denholm receive from property sales to ProPetro? Given 
Denholm’s separation agreement stated, “that he will assist the Company with respect to its investigation 
of the Clarabby Transactions,” by what conditions did ProPetro also declare “substantial completion of 
fact finding for previously disclosed internal review”? 
 


5. How many of ProPetro’s vendors were owned, in part or in full, by ProPetro executives, board members, 
or employees as of year-end 2018? 
 


6. How many ProPetro employees are immediate family members of other ProPetro executives, board 
members, or employees? 


 
7. What is the extent of ProPetro’s contractual relationship with Diamondback Energy? 


 
In August 2019, the Company stated that the delay in Q2 financials could result in an internal weakness, though it 
said nothing of 2018. Now, due to “at least two material weaknesses” wherein “at least one of these material 
weaknesses existed as of December 31, 2018,” the Company admits that investors ought to no longer rely on the 
2018 annual report. As for re-filing its 2018 financials,  as well as Q2 and Q3 2019 reports, the Company “does not 
currently expect to be in a position to file amended, delinquent or future SEC filings prior to the end of 2019.” 
 
That said, time appears to be running out on what we see as the Company’s attempts to avoid substantive 
discussion as fundamentals continue to worsen. Despite purchasing $400 million in assets in January 2019, 
ProPetro burned $54 million in free cash flow in the quarter, worse than our $50 million estimate, and significantly 
worse than Q3 2018, in which the Company produced $67 million in free cash flow. Finally, this $54 million in cash 
burn was on average utilization of 25.1 fleets vs. the 18 to 20 that the Company guided for Q4 2019. Nevertheless, 
CEO Redman remained his usual promotional self: 
 


Although the current market for our services is challenging and the market is increasingly oversupplied 
from an equipment perspective, we remain confident that our differentiated service model, ability to pull 
through new technologies to the wellsite, and our operational efficiency position us to compete 
effectively and continue to support our customers’ operations. 


 
We continue to believe that the Company will look to raise capital in 2020, which ought to be a precarious task 
given worsening cash burn, financial statements which will remain past due into 2020, and a now confirmed SEC 
investigation. As such, we believe the Company’s time for engaging promotionally while remaining disinterested 
from substantive discussion of governance and disclosures is nearing its end. We remain short ProPetro.
