SAAS WARS
“A New Era In SAAS/ Cloud 


Investing Has Begun” 
Short Pagerduty (PD)
Alarms Around A SAAS/Cloud Bubble Keep 
Increasing
• Here is Zero Hedge article from Monday pointing out that valuations 


are now at 2000 levels
• Goldman Sachs chief equity strategist raised the same concerns 


tuesday
• The Economist made a case on Thursday
• Alarms are one thing but timing a bubble is obviously tricky. Valuation 


alone never cuts it.



https://www.zerohedge.com/news/2019-06-16/tech-bubble-20-software-stock-valuations-are-back-year-2000-levels

https://www.cnbc.com/2019/06/17/goldman-sachs-technology-stocks-are-overvalued.html

https://www.economist.com/business/2019/06/22/business-services-like-zoom-and-slack-make-for-better-listings
But Signs That The Game Has Changed in 
Cloud/SAAS Are Clearly Mounting
• VC’s are exiting at stampede level pace. Supply is definitely becoming 


a big problem
• Problem child’s are now emerging in a once bulletproof sector. Where 


before SAAS/CLOUD investors could throw a dart at the wall and reap 
giant gains, the sector has suddenly seen a few fallen angles. Just ask 
investors in Nutanix, Cloudera, Pivotal Software, and Zuora how they 
feel about SAAS investing today. All four names have been cut in half 
in half in the last few months. Two of those in the last two weeks 
alone.
There Is No Denying an Increasingly Competitive 
SAAS/Cloud Landscape Is Now More of An Issue
• The decade long era of blindly investing in a SAAS that will replace some legacy 


on-premises provider has come to an end.
• Now everyone going public claims they will be the next Salesforce.com or 


Servicenow platform cloud software company. “Newly Public Crowdstrike Wants 
to Become the Salesforce.com of Cybersecurity”- Techcrunch, June 17


• If every one of the 50+ public cloud/saas names and several hundred private 
ones is going to be the next Salesforce/Atlassian/Servicenow, what’s going to be 
left the giants? You don’t need to be great at math to figure out we’ve finally 
reached a point where there isn’t enough platform left to go around. 
• This theme alone is good enough to warrant a view that a major valuation 


correction is around the corner in SAAS/Cloud, but we’ve been looking for one 
perfect example that encapsulates all this. Meet PagerDuty…



https://techcrunch.com/2019/06/12/newly-public-crowdstrike-wants-to-become-the-salesforce-of-cybersecurity/
Investment Thesis
• PD is a very good point solution for on-call alert routing


• However, this is a smaller market than advertised, with limited ability to differentiate
• Recent growth has been driven by pricing changes, but this is a risky strategy as demonstrated by history


• PD increased effective pricing per paid user by changing its pricing structure in Sept 2018
• When PD raised prices in 2015, it led to slowing user additions and revenue growth


• PD is in two strategic boxes
• First, PD needed to drive accelerating revenue growth immediately before its IPO, so it raised prices and gave customers 


incentives to buy larger packages before the price increase was implemented
• Second, PD needs to expand from its point solution to become a platform in order to justify its 40x LTM revenue multiple


• Large SAAS competitors see this and are responding. This may be the first public equity market example of 
SAAS on SAAS direct war.
• Atlassian bought Opsgenie in September 2018, and just recently cut price dramatically to highlight its value versus PD
• Other platform competitors are offering very low cost alternatives as well


• PD cannot cut its price to compete, or it would signal major deceleration in its metrics, right before its 
investors and employees are due to unload their shares (10/8/19 lock-up expiry, likely to be waived though)
PagerDuty Pricing Strategy Perception vs. 
Reality 
• Perception


• “PagerDuty: A Micro Case Study in Not Raising Prices” (SAASTR: Feb 23, 2019)
- With respect to PD pricing respected SAAS guru asks “Had it doubled like Dropbox? Subtly increased by playing with tiers like 


Mailchimp? Ramped up pricing on the enterprise editions?”
- Concludes that none of the above have been the case and that ‘value’ based pricing has been figured out by PD since 2011


• Reality is very different
• Pagerduty advertised self-serve pricing per user has increased drastically over the years. X-large used to be $12 per user for 


25 users. Current core on-call cheapest option is nearly 3x that. Pricing has always been in flux. They in fact are guilty of all 
three pricing concerns initially posited by the ‘Godfather of SAAS’.



https://www.saastr.com/why-is-pagerduty-so-expensive/
PagerDuty Increased Pricing Notably in 2015


3/19/15 9/6/15
This Hurt 2016 Results (But PD won’t quantify 
by how much)
We experienced decreases in our renewal and expansion rates in 2016, as 
compared to 2015, following an increase in subscription prices in 2015


- PD S-1


In 2016, Opsgenie followed PD’s lead by increasing prices.  So, even when 
competitors were also raising price, PD had difficulty growing after implementing 
a price increase.


Opsgenie 2015 pricing Opsgenie 2016 pricing
Opsgenie, Currently Owned by Atlassian, CUT 
prices ~40% Since Oct 2018 Acquisition Closed
They seem to be going for the jugular, with a 
90% discount to PD’s prices(!)


This comes directly from Opsgenie’s
website.  They are offering a 75-90% 
discount for a mid-sized and large 
users!  How can PD compete?
For 10k users Atlassian is willing to go down to 
$4.60 per user a month on their Enterprise tier
Atlassian’s Strategy Seems to Be Bearing Fruit


Posted April 8:
PD CEO Standing In Front of Customer Logos 
During Recent Summit Keynote
Atlassian Highlighting Some Recent PD 
Competitive Wins On the Opsgenie Landing Page
VictorOps, recently acquired by Splunk, is also 
competing on price
(x)matters also seems to be targeting PD


• https://www.xmatters.com/pagerduty
• “PagerDuty was built for small teams to receive alerts, not for enterprises to 


take action.”



https://www.xmatters.com/pagerduty
Don’t forget the free OSS competitors from 
the LinkedIn (and others):
• Linkedin has built their own in-house product here and open sourced 


it. Three weeks ago they added mobile interface for incident 
management.
Of course there are several startups experimenting 
with even more aggressive pricing models:
• Here is one that only charges based for on-call team members. So, if a 


company has 20 engineers but only two are on-call at a given time, 
you only pay for those two users.
A Strategic Dilemma


“Lots of businesses could be great $10 million, $20 million businesses, but they’re not 
allowed to be,” he added. “[They’ve] got to be $200 million or $500 million or a billion ... 
One of the reasons you get into entrepreneurship is to control your own destiny to some 
degree, to not have to go work for somebody else, to not have to collect a paycheck from 
somebody else. And so the thing is, when you go take money, you’re working for someone 
else again, instantly.”-Jason Fried, CEO Basecamp


- “More Start-Ups Have an Unfamiliar Message for Venture Capitalists: Get 
Lost”- NY Times Jan, 2019
PD is a great small business, but it must become an extremely successful 
software platform company in order to justify its incredible valuation (40x 
trailing revenues) and big name VC and Institutional Investors( Andreessen 
Horowitz, Accel, Bessemer Ventures, Trowe Price) investments.



https://www.vox.com/2019/1/23/18193685/venture-capital-money-kills-business-basecamp-ceo-jason-fried

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/11/technology/start-ups-rejecting-venture-capital.html
Other platforms don’t want this to happen!


• Splunk, Servicenow, Atlassian and others also sport very high 
valuations and need to keep their growth rates high
• They cannot tolerate another competitor, especially one that has a 


established point solution already in place in many technology 
companies
Given the strategic risks, why did PD push pricing 
last Fall?  Simple– to look good for the IPO!


Trends Were Going the Wrong Way through mid 2018.  Declining 
dollar retention rates would have alarmed investors.  The easiest way 
to reverse that trend?  Increase effective pricing!
New Pricing Structure


• PD’s head of pricing gives us some good background on their price 
increase and “Pricing Structure Issues”
• The video of this October 2018 presentation titled, “Don’t Cargo Cult 


Your Pricing” can be found here.



https://www.heavybit.com/library/video/dont-cargo-cult-your-pricing/
So What Happened?
• PD renamed their most popular customer plan ‘Standard’ as ‘Platform Business’ and cut that price by $10, but at same time removed 


existing functionality that now needs to be purchased a la carte. This move was clearly designed to boost dollar based retention 
ahead of the IPO by getting existing customers to renew and/or expand ahead of price hike and to incentive upgrades to higher tiers. 
Replicating all the old ‘Standard’ tier functionality post September 2018 now costs $74.99 a month per user for an annual 
subscription. That’s a 50% self-serve price increase framed as a 20% price cut.


• This significant effective price increase, Atlassian/Splunk acquisitions of pure play competitors, Atlassian’s strategic partnership 
with Slack, and PagerDuty’s $90 million “institutional Unicorn” pre-IPO round all occurred in a less than 2.5 month window. The 
future competitive landscape for the space was massively changed at the end of last summer, and once it was clear PagerDuty 
would remain independent, pre-IPO moves (pricing changes/institutional raise) were set into motion.


• How they frame it (if you were Atlassian, how would you interpret this?): “We wanted to show our customers that we are a platform 
and we wanted to show them we have new products that are coming out”- Tugce Erten, Director of Pricing, PagerDuty



https://www.heavybit.com/library/video/dont-cargo-cult-your-pricing/
Digging Deep Into The Numbers 


• March 11, 2019 exchange with SEC: “For example, the number of users per 
customer varied widely from approximately 100 to more than 20,000 for 
customers with more than $100,000 in ARR for the nine months ended October 
31, 2018, with a mean and median number of users of approximately 950 and 
415, respectively.” 
• S1: “As of January 31, 2019, we had more than 11,000 customers globally, with 


228 customers having ARR in excess of $100,000, and 12 customers having ARR in 
excess of $1,000,000. Our 10 largest customers represented approximately 11% 
of our revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019, and no single customer 
represented more than 5% of our revenue in the same period, highlighting the 
breadth of our customer base.”
• S1: “We estimate our total addressable market is over $25 billion. To calculate our 


total addressable market, we multiply our estimate of 85 million potential users 
by our average revenue per user for the financial year ended January 31, 2019.”
Interpreting the Data


• PD’S TAM Disclosure is based on $294 ARPU for FY 2019. Based on PD’s S1 
disclosures of 350k in Q3 and 380k users in Q4, Q4 ARPU across the 
average 365k users is $370. 
• PD’s SEC correspondence disclosures reveal that 192k users (950 


users/customer X 203 $100k ARR customers)  or 55% of all paid users
come from approximately 2% of customers. The median disclosure allows 
you to further conclude that roughly 50% of users come from .9% of 
customers.
• PD’s customer concentration disclosures combined with SEC 


correspondence disclosures reveal that some of PD’s largest user count 
customers are paying < $120 per user per annum, or roughly 1/3 Q4 ARPU.
Pagerduty Faces a Looming Commodity 
Pricing Problem in On-Call
• Spok, a leading publicly listed provider of wireless paging services 


(yes, physical pagers) to the healthcare vertical, discloses their annual 
ARPU at $85 for 2018.  PD ARPU is 4x that. 
• At PD’s median customer size for $100k+ ARR customers (55% of total 


paid users as of Oct 31, 2018) Atlassian has now set the bar at $180 
for enterprise customers. At 1,000 users the price drops to $120 per 
year. PD ARPU is 2x-3x that.  Assuming PD has to match this pricing, 
we expect to see ARPU deteriorate going forward. 
• Ubiquitous Collaboration/Productivity tools Slack/MS Office 365 have 


enterprise ARPU of $108/$144 per annum. PD ARPU is 2.5x-3-5.x 
that.
Shifting Competitive Landscape Means PD’S 
Recent Overearning Not Sustainable
• PD has been overearning in a benign competitive environment. This is a case of strong 


first mover advantage coupled with meaningful Fortune 500 penetration. The smaller 
self-serve pricing customer long tail is presently subsidizing blue chip high-volume 
customer commodity paging core model.


• At scale, a stand alone competitor would need to accept 50% gross margins and burn 
significant capital to compete effectively. The current VC Unicorn-driven investing model 
isn’t going to aggressively fund competition whose best possible outcome for a market 
like this is reaching a $300m-$500m valuation.  (PD private capital raised $173.6 m/ 
Opsgenie raised $10m and VictorOps $33m over similar time frames; (x)matters just did 
a $40m raise)


• Self-serve pricing customers in the 50-1,000 user range have been overpaying. 
Bootstrapped Opsgenie and VictorOps didn’t have luxury of being able to exploit this.


• Atlassian/Splunk don’t have this problem. They are large and more revenue diversified 
SAAS players who can leverage vast installed customer bases to cross-sell adjacent 
products with drastically lower customer acquisition cost.
How does this change the Economic Model?


• Atlassian’s decision to transparently advertise volume-based pricing 
exerts downward pressure on ARPU’s. Splunk/Atlassian’s ability to 
bundle broader related DevOps products will exert even further 
pressure on pricing.
• This will lead to long-term Gross Margins in the 50%-70% range vs. 


85% today, and require declining operating margin forecasts for 
FY2021 and beyond.
• TAM assumptions also likely to garner increased scrutiny as the IPO 


shine fades. Analysis will shift from “How big is the TAM?” to “How 
much greenfield space is actually left, and in how many pieces will it 
be divided?”
Some Basic What If Math to Consider…


• Under existing operating structure PD would start incinerating cash if 
ARPU’s came under notable pressure


fiscal 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
avg yearly customers 9291 10653 12251 13843 15366
users/customer 24 31 33 34 38
avg yearly users  219988 330085 398578 472913 577426
revenues/user/mo 31 30 33 36 37
revenues/customer/mo 722 935 1075 1236 1384
revenues ($MM) 81 119 158 205 255


Revenues @ $25/user/mo 99 120 142 173
Cost of Revenue 22 25 29
Gross Profit 98 117 144
Opex 200 230 265
EBIT -102 -113 -120


Revenues @ $15/user/mo 59 72 85 104
Cost of Revenue 22 25 29
Gross Profit 50 60 75
Opex 200 230 265
EBIT -150 -170 -190
What Are Management’s Thoughts On All 
This?  They’re not saying much…
• From their perspective, the less transparency the better, especially until the lock-up expires and 


insiders can sell stock
• PD didn’t provide paid user metrics in their first quarterly report.
• PD didn’t discuss ARPU trends on their first quarterly call.
• PD didn’t address September 2018 pricing structure change impact on recent quarterly results. 


Where are renewals stacked? What’s the tailwind? How did the lowest tier effective 5 free user 
addition impact reported paid user growth in IPO disclosures?


• CEO provided a very evasive response to current ‘pricing environment’ question on q1 conference 
call.


• Meanwhile…… on June 3rd PD pulled their self-serve $99 Enterprise pricing off their website and 
replaced it with ‘contact sales’. After the earnings call, they changed it back again. It appears the 
huge advertised price difference between them and Atlassian’s enterprise packages has already 
created a pricing strategy issue for PD. Pull self-serve pricing so all enterprise tier customers can 
call to seek available steep volume discounts or toe the line on your advertised ’value based’ 
platform company aspiring tiers ? Pursuing the former course of action will alarm investors while 
the latter benefits competitors.
What’s Atlassian’s Strategy Team Thinking?
• Jira Software is the industry standard in project management. As the leading collaboration tool 


enabling continuous delivery of applications, it’s a critical component of the DevOps toolchain. 
Over the years Atlassian has complemented Jira with other(Jira Service Desk, Statuspage, 
Confluence, Trello) widely adopted software collab/development tools. Atlassian is a platform 
company.


• On-call was a natural expansion for Atlassian broader product suite as it literally adds one more 
tool to their developer tool belt driven business model. Atlassian made the call to exit competing 
with Slack, another critical tool in DevOps incident response chain, and instead partnered with 
them and acquired an equity stake. A month later they bought Opsgenie.


• To be anything more than a popular and reliable point product PagerDuty must horizontally 
expand into markets currently dominated by the likes of Atlassian or Slack.


• At the current size of the on-call market and with their vast installed customer base across global 
DevOps community Atlassian can afford to pursue a strategy that involves resetting the entire 
existing pricing model in the on-call market. That’s precisely what they are doing. The collateral 
damage in all of this ends up being Pagerduty’s platform aspirations.
Remember Technology Switching Costs Are 
Clearly Not A Problem
• “Due to the low complexity of implementation and integration of our 


platform with our customers’ existing infrastructure, revenue from 
professional services has been immaterial to date.” -PD S1
Don’t Forget…


• PD was hacked 4 years ago, and took a full three weeks before 
informing their customers.


https://www.theregister.co.uk/2015/07/31/incident_managers_pagerd
uty_pwned/
• PD was recently listed as one of 7 ‘discouraged/banned’ applications 


in a Microsoft internal memo. https://www.geekwire.com/2019/no-
slack-microsoft-puts-rival-app-internal-list-prohibited-discouraged-
software/



https://www.theregister.co.uk/2015/07/31/incident_managers_pagerduty_pwned/

https://www.geekwire.com/2019/no-slack-microsoft-puts-rival-app-internal-list-prohibited-discouraged-software/
Sell-Side Take


• Piper: A large TAM, clear and tangible value proposition, and 
favorable competitive dynamics can drive sustained 40%+ revenue 
growth. A “highly strategic asset" for the likes of ServiceNow, 
Microsoft, Alphabet, Cisco, and VMware.
• RBC: As PagerDuty expands their offerings beyond IT on-call 


management, we believe they have the opportunity to be a multi-
product platform vendor. 
• William Blair: Potential for more than $20B in spending on operations 


platforms for digital businesses, which gives PagerDuty room for 
sustained 20%+ growth for several years.
Our Counter


• Tiny TAM: Slack S1 lists their TAM at $28b. On-call is a small subset of that, 
making the $25b TAM cited by PD unachievable. More likely, it is $2b-$3b (20ml 
users X $155 per yr) users  based on current penetration, rapidly increasing SAAS 
leader based pricing competition, and low barriers to entry.
• PD is not even remotely a “Strategic Asset” for Mega Cap technology companies. 


The sell-side (shockingly!) hasn’t done their homework. MSFT owns Linkedin
which has open-sourced their solution and acquired Github. ServiceNow has 
Twilio enabled “Notify”. The rest of them would simply buy Atlassian (and 
Opsgenie) if they wanted to even move the needle.
• AWS is always looming broader threat in space: They offer Cloudwatch


(Monitoring), Lambda (Automation), Cognito (Users) and SNS (Notifications). AWS 
builds primitives and then productizes them-- if the TAM was appealing they’d be 
in it. Which would be ironic considering PD was born out of one co-founders stint 
as Amazon e-com engineer 10 yrs ago. At some point AWS may leapfrog all 
existing point offerings here with something far more comprehensive.
Valuation


• Opsgenie was sold for $295m
• Victorops was sold for $120m
• (x)matters just took a $40m series D investment, implying [$500m]
• So how do you get to $4.8 billion market cap for PD?  YOU DON’T!
Summary


• PD effectively increased price in September 2018 in order to put “lipstick on the pig” for 
its IPO


• Atlassian acquired a major competitor and then cut price aggressively and last month 
launched targeted campaign providing transparent volume-based discounts


• In a transparent and competitive pricing environment PD’s ARPU’s are not sustainable. 
• The timing of pricing structure changes ensures smooth renewal and overall operating 


metrics throughout IPO lockup window, while masking real-time changes in the 
competitive environment and immediate pricing pressures.


• VC investors should be highly motivated sellers considering immediate and severe risks 
to advertised economic growth model coinciding with IPO. This is a strong candidate for 
a pre-IPO lockup expiry secondary.


• We expect dollar renewal rates to drop SIGNIFICANTLY as PD laps new pricing structure 
renewals and the stock to re-rate to < 20x revenues, or more than 50% downside
