Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


A Suspect Biotech with a Phase 2 Farce, Incredulous 


Trial Investigators, and Warning Signs of Potential Fraud


December 18, 2019 | contact: reports@seligman.com | previous reports: https://seekingalpha.com/author/seligman-investments  


THIS ARTICLE REPRESENTS THE CURRENT OPINIONS OF SELIGMAN INVESTMENTS CONCERNING ALLAKOS, INC. (ALLK). Funds and accounts managed by 


Seligman Investments currently have short positions in ALLK and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Although Seligman 


Investments does not expect to announce in the future any changes to its opinion concerning ALLK, that is subject to change at any time. Following publication of this article, 


Seligman Investments intends to continue transacting in ALLK’s stock, and it may cover its short position and/or be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of 


the views stated herein. This article is for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice or a recommendation to purchase or sell any particular 


security or to pursue any particular investment or trading strategy. Seligman Investments cannot guarantee that any projection or opinion expressed in this article will be 


realized. Seligman Investments’ opinions are based on the public information, sources, the interviewed individuals and social media posts cited in this article, but Seligman 


Investments cannot and does not provide any representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy of those materials. In no event shall Seligman Investments or any of 


its affiliates be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising 


out of or in any way connected with any information in this article. We believe the experts we spoke with are reliable sources of information with respect to Allakos. However, 


we cannot and do not provide any representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy of the information they have provided to us. The quotations of experts used in this 


article do not reflect all information they have shared with us, including, without limitation, certain positive comments and experiences with respect to Allakos. In addition, the 


experts have typically received compensation for their conversations with us and may have conflicts of interest or other biases with respect to Allakos, which may give them an 


incentive to provide us with inaccurate, incomplete or otherwise prejudiced information. The former employees of Allakos that we spoke with have been separated from the 


company for at least 6 months and thus the information they have provided may be stale. The quotations of experts used in this article are based on Seligman Investments’ 


notes of conversations with such experts and may not represent a precise transcript of those conversations. We have not conducted any diligence or other verification with 


respect to the social media posts included in this article with respect to Allakos. Thus, we cannot and do not provide any representations or warranties with respect to the 


accuracy of such social media posts. The social media posts used in this article do not reflect all information the persons posting have shared on social media, including, 


without limitation, certain positive comments and experiences with respect to Allakos. In addition, the persons posting may have conflicts of interest or other biases with 


respect to Allakos, which may give them an incentive to post inaccurate, incomplete or otherwise prejudiced information on social media.


Related parties and affiliates of Seligman Investments manage other funds and accounts aside from those managed by Seligman Investments. These other funds and 


accounts may have (i) a long, neutral, or short position in ALLK’s stock or other securities and instruments and/or (ii) different opinions concerning ALLK than those expressed 


in this article. In addition, such other accounts may trade in the same securities or instruments of ALLK at the same time, in the same or opposite direction or in a different 


sequence as the accounts managed by Seligman Investments. SELIGMAN INVESTMENTS is a brand used by Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC, which is 


registered as an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


$6.5B market cap | $132/share | $30/$140 52wk hi/low | $66M ADV, 30d avg |  8.5mm shares short/31% of float as of 12/17/19* 


1Source: Bloomberg, all market data in report as of close 12/17/19
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


“My main reservation about the phase 2 data presentation…it’s like when you get a letter in the 


mail that says you’re inheriting $5 million from your long lost relative. It’s amazing but it can’t be 


right…One of the things about this company – they were the CRO* for this trial. Which is 


interesting. They didn’t use one. This doesn’t normally happen. The company was actively 


involved during the trial. They were involved and aggressive. I don’t want to go into subjective 


things. There were lots of circumstances.”  


– Allakos ENIGMA Phase 2 Trial Investigator and prominent physician/key opinion leader (KOL) in the 


eosinophilic gastritis/esophagitis (EG/EoE) space, commenting on ALLK’s publicly released trial results


“There’s a lot of grandstanding. There’s not a lot here. There’s a lot of information that they’re 


not showing. The data is odd and doesn’t give you confidence…It looks to me like they 


manipulated these numbers to look good…The data is cherry-picked and dishonest…There are 


consistent problems throughout the presentation. It’s sketchy. You couldn’t do this for a clinical 


publication. This would not be publishable because you can’t draw conclusions from it.” 


– PhD/scientist we engaged to analyze Allakos’ trial data, who previously conducted due diligence at 


one of the largest biotech companies


“Do eosinophils cause EG? Great question…EG and EoE symptoms are the trickiest thing. 


They’re so heterogeneous and hard to measure. I was surprised that Allakos showed robust 


symptom change with such heterogeneous symptoms. It deserves some scrutiny.”


– Another ENIGMA trial investigator, one of six we spoke to, also a prominent KOL


Source: Seligman expert consultations / *Contract research organization


2
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


“[My daughter] has been on this trial drug AK002 for a year now and no doubt it is doing its 


job as I don’t want to discourage anyone from it to deplete eosinophils but after seeing her 


latest visual view from her endoscopy I am horrified…truly horrified […] and then I feel so 


bad she put herself into a trial with a drug that is not even FDA approved to be like a guinea 


pig and it appears right now the drug is not working [...] what is really causing her to have 


elevated eosinophils??”


– October 21, 2019 post by parent of a patient who completed the Allakos Phase 2 ENIGMA trial in 


EG/EoE as well as the open label extension study. ENIGMA topline results were released on August 


5, 2019. The extension study is ongoing but some participants or their families have publicly 


shared their results on Facebook. We wonder why Allakos withheld P2 endoscopy outcomes, as 


ENIGMA investigators and patient posts indicate the data was collected.


“My son was in the trial and when he got open label drug, he started out with promising 


results but eventually eosinophils came back and all symptoms returned […] hard to know 


for sure why the drug stopped working for him.”


– October 21, 2019 post by another parent of a patient in the ENIGMA trial. The patient also  


“finished the open label trial” and “got the highest dose,” per a follow up post.


Source: Facebook posts, “Eosinophilic Gastritis Support Group” https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/; Seligman expert consultations


“I haven’t seen anything like this before. Scientifically they are relatively weak. There’s 


been no chatter in our field about their trial results. No one follows this company. There 


are not a lot of research scientists involved…No one’s sent me any emails, no questions. 


Since their results came out, there’s been no discussion. No one’s talked about it. 


Normally patients even go nuts and send me emails…I am skeptical. I personally don’t 


know how this could be worth billions. It’s crazy.”


– Allakos ENIGMA Phase 2 Trial Investigator and prominent KOL in the EG/EoE space


3



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Executive summary 


Introduction to Allakos


22 WARNING SIGNS FOR INVESTORS:


1. The failure of AK001, the precursor to Allakos’ lead AK002 program and the canary in the coal mine. 


AK001/AK002 are virtually identical Siglec-8 antibodies. The company has buried the results for the two 


AK001 studies it conducted, but our research indicates a debacle - followed by its lead pre-ipo investor 


dumping its entire stake at $2.48/share in August 2017; the company valuing itself at 93 cents/share weeks 


later, suggesting a valuation range of $31-83MM; cash dwindling to two months, requiring a bailout by 


remaining investors; and a new CEO, COO, CFO, CMO, and VP Clinical Ops. Yet a mere 11 months after this 


chaos, ALLK was re-packaged around “AK002” and a new, questionable phase 1 study in *healthy* 


volunteers and taken public – a benchmark feat of Wall Street hocus-pocus.


2. Allakos has a checkered history of conducting small, low-credibility trials, marked by a striking level of what 


we consider to be discrepancies, omissions, cherry-picking, and other red flags.


3. The company appears to have conducted the ENIGMA phase 2 EG/EGE trial itself and served as its “own 


CRO,” with at least four different trial investigators expressing concerns around the company’s conduct and 


the trial’s integrity and compliance, describing it as “aggressive,” “stupid,” “dishonest,” or as something that 


“won’t fly with the FDA,” and their own reactions as “shocked” and “very bothered.” Based on investigators’ 


concerns, we conducted further due diligence on whether biopsies were sent to the company itself or a panel 


of independent, third-party pathologists – and are troubled by what we found.


4. Flagrant nepotism in key clinical roles, filled by the Chief Medical Officer’s son and daughter. The daughter’s 


profile states “class of 2012” in college. The children received options for 100k shares, worth ~$13MM at 


$130/share. We question why a public company didn’t pick more qualified executives for its core function, 


and note the unusual geographic location of all three family members relative to Allakos’ only listed office.


5. Poor controls as well as Allakos’ role in running the study itself rendered the ENIGMA trial – purportedly 


randomized and double-blind - essentially unblinded, making the already subjective endpoint of patient-


reported symptom scores a sham. The FDA has cautioned that “Suspicion of inadvertent unblinding can be a 


problematic review consideration for the FDA when assessing PRO endpoints.” Shockingly, a parent posted 


about speaking to Allakos - the co-founder plus what we infer to be contact with the CMO - which if true 


would strike us as reckless and raise concerns about trial tampering and Allakos’ conduct in general. 


Pages


8-22


23-33


34-46


47-55


56-61


62-77


4
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Executive summary (cont’d)


6. What appears to be a last minute, unexplained expansion of the ENIGMA trial, with insufficient time for new 


patients to complete the study’s pre-specified protocol, then followed by the exclusion of patients for a 


cherry-picked “Per Protocol” group around which the topline results are framed – a curious scenario given 


Allakos’ role in running the study, nepotism, unblinding – and as we detail later, the role of one or two 


patients in barely pushing the study into statistical significance, despite n=65, according to a number of 


biostatisticians we consulted, including two known for identifying discrepancies or fraud in clinical trials. 


7. The ENIGMA trial allowed steroid use in a liberal, widespread manner, rendering the results utterly flawed and 


compromised as steroids are the standard of care for EG/EGE and rapidly reduce eosinophil levels and 


symptoms. Biostatisticians, trial design experts, and ENIGMA trial investigators echoed concerns of steroids 


as a confounding factor. Absurdly, greater than 10mg of Prednisone use was an exclusion criteria, yet 


doctors pre-dosed patients with an amount 8X or higher prior to infusion of AK002.


8. The August 5th ENIGMA topline results provide a master class in fatal discrepancies and internal 


contradictions. The red flags are so numerous that we consider the presentation to be little more than sleight 


of hand. We have never seen the sheer number of warning signs in a single trial’s results as we do here.


9. Aside from discrepancies, the trial results are compromised by 1) glaring omissions, 2) cherry-picked 


measures, and 3) statistical gimmicks and obfuscation, making a mockery of standard biotech disclosure and 


indicative of a trial where all is not as it appears.


10.Since the superficial ENIGMA release on Aug 5th, Allakos has yet to follow up with proper data at a medical 


conference or in a peer-reviewed publication, which we find alarming relative to standard practice. The 


company has had three key opportunities to fill in gaping holes and failed to do so. The scraps of additional 


data which have been shared raise more questions than answers, with red flags beyond those in the Aug 5th


package. Alarmingly, critical information from Aug 5th – such as p-values – keeps shifting, suggesting a lack 


of data integrity, incompetence, or worse. Further, the Aug 5th presentation appears to have now been deleted 


from the Allakos site, replaced by one less than half the length and missing key data in the original.


11.Aside from shifting and instable p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other 


reasons. The only real attempt at filling in gaps is a new slide with PRO response rates over time. However, 


the curves demonstrate that the response rates are flimsy and clinically irrelevant, strain credibility on other 


counts, and expose new discrepancies and contradictions that further undermine the ENIGMA results and 


cast doubt on the company’s conduct.
5


Pages


78-86


87-107


108-115


116-121


122-129


130-140
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Executive summary (cont’d)


12.Allakos’ representation of only one drug-related serious adverse event in the ENIGMA trial conflicts with 


numerous Facebook posts by trial participants or their families. If a company misreports one critical piece of 


data, we wonder what else may be misreported: there is rarely just one cockroach. We are concerned that 


Allakos raised ~$400MM days after the ENIGMA results with disclosure that appears to be flatly contradicted 


by patients.


13.Allakos reported a lack of vomiting at baseline and end of treatment in the ENIGMA trial and omitted 


“vomiting” in the list of adverse events - representations which are wildly inconsistent with patient accounts 


on Facebook. Trial investigators were incredulous at Allakos’ claim, raising worrying questions for investors 


given that vomiting is one of the most prevalent symptoms in the EGID patient population.


14.Unclear and shifting trial timelines, in apparent violation of the pre-specified protocol, suggestive of cherry-


picking timeframes to engineer favorable results. The pre-specified protocol was already concerning given 


that tissue eosinophil and PRO endpoints were to be measured at different intervals. Given the numerous red 


flags around Allakos’ conduct and the trial’s integrity, we find the lack of clarity worrisome – and wonder if 


cutting the data at the original interval would have led to trial failure.


15. The ENIGMA trial used a fatally flawed PRO questionnaire whereby patients self-assessed their symptoms. 


Demonstrating symptom improvement is necessary per recent FDA guidance for EGID trials. The use of a 


reliable, validated PRO questionnaire is a pivotal determinant of how the FDA will evaluate Allakos’ results, 


and Allakos’ PRO was neither.


16. Significant trial design problems beyond a faulty PRO. The ENIGMA endpoints were superficial relative to 


competing EGID trials and FDA guidance, which incorporate a more robust battery of symptom, histologic, 


and endoscopic measures, even in phase 2. In particular, Allakos’ failure to disclose endoscopy data – which 


trial investigators told us was collected – is worrisome. Papers by even ENIGMA investigators attest to the 


accuracy of endoscopic scoring.


17. The ENIGMA trial design lacks credibility and relevance for other reasons, which we expect to haunt the 


company in phase 3. The trial enrolled patients 18 and above, an odd choice given the prevalence of EG/EoE 


in patients <18 and recent FDA guidance on the importance of including adolescents in EGID trials. Trial 


investigators expressed incredulity at other aspects of the cohort selected, stating that it was atypical and 


marked by discrepancies. We get the sense that Allakos went out of its way to cherry-pick an 


unrepresentative population, and given that ALLK ran the study itself, we wonder if it was even randomized.
6


Pages


141-145


146-151


152-155


156-162


163-165


166-170
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Executive summary (cont’d)


18.The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data. Allakos has touted AK002’s powers in reducing blood 


eosinophils, but has withheld data ever since a phase 1 in healthy volunteers – remarkable silence given that 


subsequent AK002 trials have included it as an endpoint, not to mention it being a standard feature of 


competing trials. The ENIGMA trial disclosed baseline blood eosinophil levels, but shared ending ones only 


for tissue. Blood eosinophils are easily measured in CBC panels, while tissue biopsies are vulnerable to bias, 


irregular cell distribution, cherry-picking – and the pathologist’s conflicts of interest. We detail uncomfortable 


questions lurking behind Allakos’ strident assertions of AK002’s inhibitory abilities.


19.The mystery of the missing mast cell data. The Allakos story hinges on AK002’s ability to remove both 


eosinophils and mast cells, as both express Siglec-8. Either Siglec-8 inhibition works or it doesn’t. Company 


materials suggest that mast cells are the driver of eosinophil “activation and recruitment.” Yet given the 


centrality of mast cells to the story, the company’s reluctance to share basic data mirrors the lack of 


disclosure on blood eosinophils. The scraps of data shared are troubling, and notably omit tryptase levels –


the only relevant measure of mast cell activity. One of the world’s top mast cell research scientists dismissed 


the Aug 5th ENIGMA mast cell claims as “not significant, relevant, or clinical effects.”


20.The ENIGMA tissue eosinophil reductions are suspiciously higher than shown in previous AK002 data from 


cell culture experiments and animal models. Allakos claims 97% reduction in tissue eosinophils, yet is 


reluctant to share blood eosinophil counts. In our opinion, the ENIGMA eosinophil reductions are simply too 


good to be true and fail the smell test – a sentiment shared by trial investigators.


21.Even if one assumes AK002 isn’t a P3 flop, it’s commercial future is bleak as a me-too late-mover drug in a 


crowded space. Investigators stated that 6-8 hour infusions, monthly for life, render it dead-on-arrival. A 


realistic EG/EoE TAM implies at most $100-200MM in AK002 US sales. Influential ENIGMA investigators were 


devastating in stating that AZN’s benralizumab and REGN’s dupilumab are far ahead, and pointed to a long 


list of competing EoE/EG trials that ALLK investors appear unaware of. We encourage investors to study 


recent P2 data for dupilumab (Oct 2019) and benralizumab (Apr 2019) – stronger than AK002’s ENIGMA 


results - and to watch for upcoming data from competing trials.


22.Allakos appears to have a pattern of not playing by the rules, beyond those pertaining to trials. In addition to 


making a mockery of biotech disclosure practices, compliance, and data integrity, we note 1) the suspicious 


timing of a recent option grant, which raises concerns of backdating and “spring-loading”; 2) apparent 


violation of rules for papers at medical conferences; and 3) questionable behavior with regard to Reg FD.


7


Pages


171-180


181-192


193-197


198-209


210-215
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm


Allakos is an early-stage, one-drug biotech company with a ~$6.5B market cap based on the 


recent results of a phase 2 trial with 65 patients. Its sole program is AK002, also known as 


antolimab, a monoclonal antibody that targets the Siglec-8 receptor on eosinophils and mast 


cell, two types of white blood cells that play a role in immune and inflammatory response. The 


company is predicated on two assumptions: 1) elevated numbers of eosinophils and mast cells 


drive certain conditions and their symptoms, and 2) by purportedly reducing these cell counts, 


AK002 leads to symptom improvement.


Introduction to Allakos


8



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm


Allakos feels that eosinophils and mast cells play a role in many diseases, but is mainly 


focused on eosinophilic gastrointestinal diseases (EGID’s). The lead indication for AK002 


comprises eosinophilic gastritis (EG) and eosinophilic gastroenteritis (EGE). On August 5th, the 


company announced top-line results for its Phase 2 ENIGMA trial in EG/EGE, with teaser data 


provided for eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), for which it expects to conduct a separate trial. The 


company is currently conducting an open-label extension study in EG/EGE, which appears to 


be its only active trial. Allakos hopes to start a phase 3 in EG/EGE and phase 2/3 in EoE, both in 


2020 – all with AK002, its sole program.


Introduction to Allakos


9



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: Bloomberg stock chart


ENIGMA Phase 2 top-line results


The August 5th ENIGMA results stated the trial met its endpoints of tissue eosinophil and 


symptom reduction. Despite being a mere phase 2 trial with n=65, the stock doubled within a 


day and nearly tripled in a week. The company provided only superficial top-line data, marked 


by an extraordinary number of what we believe to be discrepancies, omissions, cherry-picked 


statistics, and other red flags that we detail in this article. Nonetheless, the company pulled off 


an astonishing ~$400MM secondary within days of the release. Raising such a large amount 


strikes us as bold and reckless, given the escalated legal stakes if certain ENIGMA trial 


representations made on August 5th – such as endpoint p-values, adverse effects, prevalence of 


key symptoms - were ever proven to be false or fraudulent.


Introduction to Allakos


10
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: CapitalIQ screen of all public biotech companies globally, as of 12/17/2019


A screen of all public biotech companies worldwide suggests that at ~$6.5B market cap, 


Allakos is not only the most expensive pre-revenue biotech on the planet, but appears to be the 


most expensive globally based on just phase 2 data, and the 32nd most richly valued overall. 


With n=65 in its ENIGMA trial, investors are valuing the company at $100MM per phase 2 patient 


data point. If Allakos were an oncology, gene therapy, and CBD company rolled into one we 


could perhaps understand investors’ high expectations.


Introduction to Allakos


*MDCO LTM $0, historically >$650MM/year


11


Company Name Market cap LTM revenue


Amgen Inc. (NasdaqGS:AMGN) 144,292         23,395                


AbbVie Inc. (NYSE:ABBV) 132,251         32,867                


CSL Limited (ASX:CSL) 88,505           8,539                  


Gilead Sciences, Inc. (NasdaqGS:GILD) 83,753           22,365                


Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated (NasdaqGS:VRTX) 56,444           3,620                  


Biogen Inc. (NasdaqGS:BIIB) 53,611           14,233                


Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NasdaqGS:REGN) 40,351           7,622                  


Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NasdaqGS:ALXN) 24,302           4,736                  


Grifols, S.A. (BME:GRF) 20,942           5,409                  


Incyte Corporation (NasdaqGS:INCY) 19,668           2,108                  


Celltrion, Inc. (KOSE:A068270) 19,661           825                     


Seattle Genetics, Inc. (NasdaqGS:SGEN) 19,403           801                     


BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (NasdaqGS:BMRN) 14,977           1,603                  


Genmab A/S (CPSE:GMAB) 14,476           532                     


Galapagos NV (ENXTAM:GLPG) 13,758           943                     


Exact Sciences Corporation (NasdaqCM:EXAS) 13,464           724                     


Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NasdaqGS:ALNY) 12,994           169                     


Chongqing Zhifei Biological Products Co.,Ltd. (SZSE:300122) 11,216           1,315                  


Sarepta Therapeutics, Inc. (NasdaqGS:SRPT) 10,089           365                     


Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc. (NasdaqGS:NBIX) 9,992             676                     


BeiGene, Ltd. (NasdaqGS:BGNE) 9,957             430                     


Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NasdaqGS:IONS) 8,993             821                     


BioNTech SE (NasdaqGS:BNTX) 8,609             157                     


Shenzhen Kangtai Biological Products Co., Ltd. (SZSE:300601) 8,322             267                     


Amarin Corporation plc (NasdaqGM:AMRN) 7,659             364                     


ACADIA Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NasdaqGS:ACAD) 7,104             300                     


argenx SE (ENXTBR:ARGX) 6,983             72                       


Walvax Biotechnology Co., Ltd. (SZSE:300142) 6,913             154                     


Hualan Biological Engineering Inc. (SZSE:002007) 6,820             534                     


The Medicines Company (NasdaqGS:MDCO) 6,740             -                     


Arrow head Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NasdaqGS:ARWR) 6,605             169                     


Allakos Inc. (NasdaqGS:ALLK) 6,450             -
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


As we dug into Allakos, we took note of its curious history and dramatic ascent from near-death 


just two years ago. After the failure of its AK001 Siglec-8 antibody in 2017, its lead pre-IPO 


investor indicated it would not invest any more cash and dumped its entire stake at $2.48/share, 


in Aug 2017; we believe this firm’s principal was ALLK’s then-Chairman; the company nearly 


ran out of cash; and the remaining venture capital-led board flushed the management team. In a 


pre-IPO letter to the SEC, Allakos’ lawyers – who requested “FOIA confidential treatment”  –


described turbulent internal dynamics and revealed that at the time of this shift to AK002 in 


2017, the company “had no lead indication identified.” The company did a bridge financing with 


remaining investors, presumably near the 93 cents/share the company valued itself a few weeks 


after the lead investor fled. Whether one uses $0.93 or $2.48, our math suggests that those who 


knew Allakos best valued it between $31-83MM as recently as ~2 years ago in Aug 2017.


Introduction to Allakos


Source: SEC correspondence https://sec.report/Document/0001193125-18-200129/; ALLK S-1 indicated 33.5MM shares (33.5MM x $0.93=$31MM, 33.5MM x $2.48 = 
$83MM),  https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518219134/d447521ds1a.htm


“In connection with the management team transition, the Company reevaluated its lead product candidate 


at the time, AK001. In June 2017, due to the greater activity of the Company’s other product candidate, 


AK002, as compared to AK001, the Company decided to focus its development efforts on AK002 and 


discontinued the development of AK001. At this time, as a result of the shift to AK002, the Company had 


no lead indication identified.”


“During this time frame the Company’s cash resources continued to dwindle, which constrained its activities 


and limited its plans. At one point, in August 2017, the Company’s cash resources were sufficient only to 


support two more months of operations and required the Company to conduct a bridge financing with its 


existing investors.”


“August 31, 2017 Valuation…The resulting estimated fair value of the Company’s common stock was 


$0.93 per share…”


12



https://sec.report/Document/0001193125-18-200129/

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518219134/d447521ds1a.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


A pair of venture capital firms owned more than half the stock, and installed their colleagues of 


7+ years as CEO and COO, along with a new CFO, CMO, and VP Clinical Operations. The haste 


with which the new regime took Allakos from “zero to hero” is remarkable. With the story 


quickly repackaged around a “new” hasn’t-failed Siglec-8 antibody – supported by the requisite 


phase 1 study in healthy volunteers and “promising preclinical animal data in December 2017 in 


a mouse model of the lead indication of EG/EGE”1 – the company raised a Series B financing at 


$7.93/share ($266MM valuation, by our math), and managed to go public in July 2018 with a day-


one close of $35, all within a year of not even having a lead indication. Perhaps parachuting in 


two former vc’s from the firm with the largest stake at IPO is all it takes for an instant scientific 


and clinical turnaround, or perhaps investors would be wise to exercise caution. To understand 


which scenario was more likely, we spoke with an ENIGMA trial investigator, a prominent 


physician and KOL. We characterize the level of incredulity as off the charts:


Introduction to Allakos


Source: 1 https://sec.report/Document/0001193125-18-200129 ; Bloomberg; Seligman expert consultations; ALLK press releases


“My main reservation about the published phase 2 data…it’s like when you get a letter in the 


mail that says you’re inheriting $5 million from your long lost relative. It’s amazing but it can’t 


be right. In typical data, you never see data like this. It’s unheard of to see data this strong. I 


do a lot of research and even in a mice system you don’t see this type of data. It’s just 


remarkable. In some ways it’s too good to believe. I’m an expert in the area and one of the 


leaders. We typically don’t see this. Sometimes, something is too good to be believe. 


Sometimes, you know, I say wow, I’d like to see this reproduced. I’m concerned at how 


striking the data is. I just have this concern - how could they have data like this?”


– Allakos ENIGMA Phase 2 Trial Investigator and an influential physician/KOL in the eosinophilic 


gastritis/esophagitis space, commenting on the company’s publicly released trial results


13



https://sec.report/Document/0001193125-18-200129
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Six ENIGMA trial investigators. 


─ We asked each to carefully study and opine upon the ENIGMA topline results publicly released on Aug 5th


─ Three are prominent physicians/KOL’s in the EGID space


─ Our calls suggest an interesting divergence between multiple investigators’ actual opinions and what they 


may be asked or willing to say in potential broker or company-sponsored commentary


Three experts in statistical analysis of clinical trails


─ Two professors of mathematics/statistics/biostatistics


─ Two are known for identifying discrepancies or fraud in trials


─ All are extensively published with decades of experience


Four scientists and researchers, including one of the most prominent worldwide in Allakos’ space


─ All have extensive expertise in trial design and analysis


─ One conducted scientific due diligence at one of the largest biotech companies


Two other experts


─ A scientist/former employee of Allakos


─ An expert in biotech due diligence


An intensive review of the clinical literature, public filings, transcripts, and press releases


All former employees were at least six-months removed from the company, per best practice research and compliance guidelines. All experts agreed to not 


provide any information which is inconsistent with any non-disclosure, confidentiality, or other agreements or understandings. We mask their names to 


respect their privacy.


We expanded our investigation to include consultations with six ENIGMA trial investigators, 


who we estimate enrolled at least half of the patients in the trial. We also spoke with or engaged 


on a project basis: three experts in statistical analysis of clinical trials, including two known for 


identifying discrepancies or fraud, as well as four scientists and researchers. All discussions 


were restricted to publicly published trial results and conducted in accordance with best-


practice research/compliance guidelines, including monitoring of calls as deemed necessary.


Introduction to Allakos


14
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


1. Unusual fixation on short sellers


─ At a group meeting, we asked the CEO a clarification question about steroid use as a confounding factor in 


the ENIGMA trial. He erupted into a riff on short-sellers and taunted people to “short our stock.”


─ At its February 2019 investor day, Allakos allegedly refused entry to an analyst with a sell rating


─ At a small but influential November 2019 EGID conference in Cincinnati, Allakos employees were observed 


to be aggressively trying to interfere with investor conversations with KOL’s, per an eyewitness account.


2. Paranoia about investor scrutiny and basic Q&A


─ ALLK does not hold quarterly earnings calls, much less announce earnings dates, an anomaly with a high 


hit rate in predicting biotech blow up or fraud, in our experience.


─ Amazingly, Allakos failed to announce the Oct 22nd ENIGMA presentation at UEG in Barcelona, its first 


opportunity since the Aug 5th topline results to disclose more than superficial information. Companies with 


positive trial data usually promote and seek out investor attention at marquee medical conferences.


─ We consider the lack of UEG notification, slides, or an 8-K filing to be a very likely Reg FD violation. The 


sell-side appears to have been in the dark, as well.


─ August 5th ENIGMA presentation appears to have now been deleted from the Allakos IR site


3. A remarkable lack of clinical publications, much less validation or interest from the KOL community


─ The Allakos website and clinical literature are a barren desert beyond a few meaningless AK002 posters


─ Credible biotech’s have a long list of publications by KOL’s staking their reputations on serious science.


─ Difficult to find anything on Siglec-8 not published by the co-founder of Allakos and a tiny inner circle, which 


we find unusual for a mechanism with the purported significance of AK002.


We took note of other indicia, which we have historically associated with frauds and promotes 


and found helpful in discriminating “real” vs. “vaporous” biotech companies. We make no 


allegation that Allakos is a fraud, and emphasize that our inference of any such indicia or 


warning signs is strictly our opinion based on our research, which we encourage readers to 


independently verify.


Introduction to Allakos


Source: Seligman meetings, expert consultations, and other research and analysis; ALLK website, press releases, and SEC filings 15
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


4. An aversion to peer-review by a credible medical journal


─ Alarmingly, the company has still not published proper ENIGMA data in a peer-reviewed medical journal, 


nor for any prior AK001 or AK002 trials we can locate


─ The superficial information shared to date would almost certainly be rejected for publication


5. Negligible historical R&D, and only asset licensed for almost nothing – reliable indicators of 


something amiss, as credible science/drugs/platforms require investment proportional to their 


potential


─ ALLK has a $6.5B market cap and a mere 42 employees in R&D per its last 10K, or $156MM per R&D head


─ S-1 states that AK001/AK002 were licensed in Dec 2013 with payments of $300K as of March 2018 and 


“may be required to make aggregate additional milestone payments of up to $4.0 million.”


─ In 2016 and 2017, pivotal years for AK002 development, only $3MM and $5MM in AK002-related costs are 
disclosed, and only $15MM and $19MM of total R&D


6. A trivial number of employees relative to market cap, relatively brief operating history, and high 


executive turnover


─ LinkedIn employee count timeline shows 45 employees at time of IPO in July 2018


─ Only 79 employees currently per LinkedIn (as of 12/17/19), or $82MM market cap per employee


7. Sell-side information vacuum with infrequent, superficial coverage - unusual for a $6B market cap


─ Only four firms cover the stock: the three IPO underwriters plus a PR firm with a colorful history: “LifeSci 


invited 70 female promotional models from prestigious modeling agencies…we made a serious mistake…”1


Introduction to Allakos


Source: Bloomberg, CapitalIQ; ALLK SEC filings; Linkedin; 1 https://www.fiercebiotech.com/biotech/lifesci-advisors-aim-for-model-behavior-after-serious-mistake 16



https://www.fiercebiotech.com/biotech/lifesci-advisors-aim-for-model-behavior-after-serious-mistake
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Jan 29, 2019 press release on AK002 P2 results in two other urticaria cohorts


“Top-line data are presented below; more detailed results from the study will be presented at an upcoming 


medical conference.”
Source: http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-2-results-patients-cholinergic


Feb 11, 2019 press release on AK002 P2 results in a fourth urticaria cohort


“Efficacy data from the Xolair failure cohort are presented below; more detailed results from the study will be 


presented at an upcoming medical conference.”
Source: http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-2-results-ak002-patients-xolair


Feb 19, 2019 press release on AK002 P1 results in indolent systemic mastocytosis


“Data for the combined cohorts are presented below; more detailed results from the study will be presented at an 


upcoming medical conference.”
Source: http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent


May 7, 2019 press release on AK002 P1 results in allergic conjunctivitis


“Data are presented below; more detailed results from the study will be presented during the conference call 


being held today and at an upcoming medical conference.”
Source: http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent


Jan 7, 2019 press release on AK002 P2 results in subgroup of chronic spontaneous urticaria patients


“Top-line data are presented below; additional results from the study will be presented at an upcoming medical 


conference.”
Source: http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-2-results-cohort-xolair-naive


Source: CEO comments from August 2019 broker-sponsored meeting. Comments are paraphrased from notes, not a precise transcript, subject to errors typical of such recollection, and may not be relied 


upon as an accurate rendition of statements made.


We were further troubled by ALLK’s pattern of releasing superficial trial data and dangling a 


proper presentation at “an upcoming medical conference” - only to not follow through. We 


asked the CEO a polite question in August about steroid use in the ENIGMA trial, and found his 


reaction surprising. He stated that he was tired of the question and blamed short sellers and 


their “intentional lies”; that the company has disclosed more data than anyone else; that the 


FDA was absolutely not concerned about steroids as a confounding factor (in contradiction to 


FDA EGID guidance, as we shall cover); that he asked investors if more data was necessary and 


they said no; that ALLK would publish more detailed data when he went to NYC in a few weeks; 


and that anyone who didn’t believe him should “short our stock.” No such data was published, 


and Allakos appeared to be a no-show a few weeks later at a key NYC healthcare conference.


Introduction to Allakos


17



http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-2-results-patients-cholinergic

http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-2-results-ak002-patients-xolair

http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent

http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent

http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-2-results-cohort-xolair-naive
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-12-04/u-s-biotech-firm-allakos-said-to-weigh-options-including-sale; Bloomberg stock chart; ALLK Form 4’s filed 12/3/19 https://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/browse-


edgar?action=getcompany&CIK=0001564824&type=&dateb=&owner=only&count=40; 8-k for new lease https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019045534/allk-8k_20191204.htm


Two weeks ago on Dec 4th, ALLK stock jumped 40% after Bloomberg indicated the company “is 


sounding out interest from potential buyers including global pharmaceutical and biotechnology 


companies.” Although we are unaware of any early-stage biotech which has not been sounding 


out interest since the day it was founded, we found the timing of the leak curious – coming one 


day after a series of Form 4’s disclosing massive RSU grants to the management team. The 


grants were made three business days prior, on the Friday after Thanksgiving for 312k RSU’s, 


worth $43MM after the leak. Allakos has a pattern of suspect grant timing, including one we 


detail later which poses interesting legal questions for officers and directors (p.211). We found 


the leak questionable for another reason: the very same day, ALLK entered into a 10 year lease 


agreement with payments we estimate at ~$70MM. We wonder why a management team 


supposedly in active m&a discussions would commit to such a large, long-term deal.


Introduction to Allakos


Bloomberg leak


RSU grant date


18



https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-12-04/u-s-biotech-firm-allakos-said-to-weigh-options-including-sale

https://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/browse-edgar?action=getcompany&CIK=0001564824&type=&dateb=&owner=only&count=40

https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019045534/allk-8k_20191204.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-12-04/u-s-biotech-firm-allakos-said-to-weigh-options-including-sale; https://blinks.bloomberg.com/news/stories/Q20CFRT0G1KX; 
LinkedIn profile of LifeSci analyst quoted in article https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam-slutsky-91113941/; https://www.allakos.com/news/press-release/121317/; https://www.biocentury.com/bc-
extra/politics-policy/2016-02-04/industry-leaders-take-stand-against-sexism; https://www.thestreet.com/investing/stocks/for-these-small-cap-biotech-ceos-stock-promotion-not-drug-development-was-
priority-no-1-14082476


The circumstances around the leak are curious for other reasons. The Bloomberg article stated 


the company is working with a “a financial advisor” according to “people who asked to not be 


identified.” The same afternoon, Bloomberg published a second article framed on the thoughts 


of a 2015 college graduate and analyst at LifeSci Advisors, who rattled off a list of potential 


acquirers – the proverbial laundry list of large caps. The article failed to disclose LifeSci’s 


relationship with ALLK, although a revision added that LifeSci provides investment banking 


services to ALLK and that funds managed by its affiliates have a “financial interest” in ALLK. 


We do not know whether LifeSci is the “financial advisor” in the Bloomberg leak, but in general 


find stock promotion via paid equity research more appropriate for questionable micro-caps 


and question why ALLK works with a firm of LifeSci’s notoriety.


Introduction to Allakos


“More than 230 leaders of the biopharma industry have signed an open letter expressing outrage and 


calling for an end to the use of ‘scantily clad’ female models and dancers at professional networking 


events. The letter was circulated…in response to the LifeSci Advisors After Party…‘where young, female 


models were brought in to escort the guests…” -”Industry leaders take stand against sexism”, Biocentury 
2/4/2016


“These stock promotion firms, in turn, hired writers to publish cheerleading articles that did not 


publicly disclose payments….what is amazing and troubling about the SEC's enforcement action is the deep 


involvement and brazen misbehavior of biotech CEOs… Here are some of the worst and most noteworthy 


offenders, culled from the SEC's complaints…In the SEC complaint targeting Lidingo… NeoStem CEO 


Robin Smith hired Lidingo… Most recently, Smith has was named co-chair of an advisory board on 


gender diversity in biotech formed by LifeSci Advisors…” – “For These Small-Cap Biotech CEOs, Stock 
Promotion, Not Drug Development, Was Priority No. 1”, TheStreet.com 4/11/2017


19



https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-12-04/u-s-biotech-firm-allakos-said-to-weigh-options-including-sale

https://blinks.bloomberg.com/news/stories/Q20CFRT0G1KX

https://www.linkedin.com/in/sam-slutsky-91113941/

https://www.allakos.com/news/press-release/121317/

https://www.biocentury.com/bc-extra/politics-policy/2016-02-04/industry-leaders-take-stand-against-sexism

https://www.thestreet.com/investing/stocks/for-these-small-cap-biotech-ceos-stock-promotion-not-drug-development-was-priority-no-1-14082476
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: https://www.evaluate.com/vantage/articles/news/astras-mistakes-mount-0; https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-12-06/frayed-gasket-delaying-astra-s-zs-9-shows-perils-of-
pharma-m-a; Seligman expert consultations


Whichever potential suitors LifeSci has in mind for Allakos, we doubt Astra Zeneca will be 


one – nor others who observed its experience The CEO of Allakos previously ran ZS Pharma, 


which he sold to Astra Zeneca in 2015 for $2.7B (that is, less than half of ALLK’s current 


valuation). The President/COO, Chief Medical Officer, and Chief Commercial Officer of Allakos 


are all ZS alumni. ZS was purportedly on the cusp of approval for its hyperkalemia drug at the 


time of sale, but instead the deal turned out to be a high-profile disaster for AZN. Bloomberg 


filed FOIA requests which conveyed a troubling compliance approach at ZS. A former M&A 


executive from a large pharma company, who we consulted for color on Allakos management, 


shared his experience buying a different company where the Allakos CEO was previously the 


lead venture capital investor: it “was dressed up,” “none of the drugs worked,” “I’d be more 


cautious” buying another drug from “that team.”


Introduction to Allakos


20


“The $2.7bn takeout of ZS in 2015 looks like a bad misstep now that ZS-9, the sole asset involved, has just received its second 


US complete response letter…While the ongoing disaster of the ZS acquisition…” – Evaluate Group article, 3/17/17


“When AstraZeneca PLC paid $2.7 billion for an experimental drugmaker in 2015, it had its sights set on a potential blockbuster 
medicine. Instead, it got a Texas factory riddled with defects and two scathing reviews from U.S. regulators rejecting 


the treatment…The facility run by ZS Pharma in Coppell, Texas, is at the heart of the Food and Drug Administration’s 


objections…The trouble began in March 2016 when an FDA inspection report cited a “reddish-brown substance’’ resembling 


rust in the tanks at the Texas facility. Reactors that were supposedly clean were found to be “soiled’’ with a white 


residue…When inspectors returned to the facility, they found a number of new issues including a worn-out, torn reactor gasket 


with pieces missing…Black particles were scattered on the face of the gasket, and the plant’s facilities weren’t maintained 


to ensure the quality of products.” – Bloomberg investigative article, 12/6/17


“The company was dressed up, in retrospect. Should we have raised alarm bells that other acquirers gave up, maybe. They 


had done a lot of work. None of the drugs worked and the whole thing is dead. It was not a smart deal for us. If I was going 


to go back to that team to buy another drug, I’d be more cautious.” – Former M&A executive a large pharmaceutical 


company



https://www.evaluate.com/vantage/articles/news/astras-mistakes-mount-0

https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-12-06/frayed-gasket-delaying-astra-s-zs-9-shows-perils-of-pharma-m-a
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The leaks suggest that ALLK is loathe to enter phase 3 territory and is in a “hail-mary” phase 


with every incentive to kick up dust before scrutiny arrives in the form of FDA review. The fuse 


from P2 hype to reality is short. With no call since the Aug 5th ENIGMA results, the radio silence 


has been deafening. The Q3 release on Nov 12th was a few sentences with no next steps, no 


mention of peer-reviewed publication, no mention of a proper data package. The last timeline 


was shared on August 5th, stating an end of P2 FDA meeting in 4Q19/1Q20, and 1Q20 start for 


P3 in EG/EGE and P2/P3 in EoE. We wonder if this meeting has occurred, when these trials will 


start, and what they will look like – will the FDA allow the pivotal trials to be an ENIGMA-like 


farce, or will reality catch up to Allakos? We noted Facebook posts that share troubling 


endoscopic findings of patients in the AK002 EG/EGE extension study – patients on drug for as 


long as a year. If the FDA requires endoscopic endpoints in the P3 design, we expect investors 


will demand endoscopy data from P2 – which investigators indicate was collected, but which 


the company has withheld.


Introduction to Allakos


“The data set is obviously incomplete. Things are not included. There’s no histology or 


endoscopic reporting. No biomarkers. I’m sure it was collected. I’d be surprised if it wasn’t collected 


as typically it would be…The FDA will use endoscopic findings more than eosinophil levels [in 


phase 3]. They are very objectively and quantitatively measurable, especially for EoE where there’s a 


score and they’re developing one for EG.” 


– ENIGMA Phase 2 Trial Investigator/KOL familiar with the FDA’s approach to eosinophilic gastrointestinal 


disease (EGID) trials, commenting on ALLK’s superficial P2 endpoints and his opinion on likely P3 design.


Source: Seligman expert consultations; ALLK website, press releases, and SEC flings


“Endoscopic data were collected but haven’t been released yet.”
– Another ENIGMA trial investigator/KOL


21
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


In the interim, we caution that Allakos is a gastroenterology company with a phase 2 trial – and 


note the absence of acquisitions remotely near this market cap which are not in oncology or 


gene therapy, or after a mere P2. Historical deal tables are easily found in sell-side notes, and 


we find the color below from an ENIGMA trial investigator more illuminating – and consistent 


with the poor attendance at ALLK’s presentations in late Oct at UEG and ACG: 


Introduction to Allakos


“I haven’t seen anything like this before. Scientifically they are 


relatively weak. There’s been no chatter in our field about their trial 


results. No one follows this company. There are not a lot of research 


scientists involved. No one’s sent me any emails, no questions. Since their 


results came out, there’s been no discussion. No one’s talked about it. 


Normally patients even go nuts and send me emails. No one’s said anything 


about it. I am skeptical. I personally don’t know how this could be worth 


billions. It’s crazy.”


– Allakos ENIGMA Phase 2 Trial Investigator and KOL in the EGID space


Source: Seligman expert consultations 22
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Executive summary 


Introduction to Allakos


22 WARNING SIGNS FOR INVESTORS:


1. The failure of AK001, the precursor to Allakos’ lead AK002 program and the canary in the coal mine. 


AK001/AK002 are virtually identical Siglec-8 antibodies. The company has buried the results for the two 


AK001 studies it conducted, but our research indicates a debacle - followed by its lead pre-ipo investor 


dumping its entire stake at $2.48/share in August 2017; the company valuing itself at 93 cents/share weeks 


later, suggesting a valuation range of $31-83MM; cash dwindling to two months, requiring a bailout by 


remaining investors; and a new CEO, COO, CFO, CMO, and VP Clinical Ops. Yet a mere 11 months after this 


chaos, ALLK was re-packaged around “AK002” and a new, questionable phase 1 study in *healthy* 


volunteers and taken public – a benchmark feat of Wall Street hocus-pocus.


2. Allakos has a checkered history of conducting small, low-credibility trials, marked by a striking level of what 


we consider to be discrepancies, omissions, cherry-picking, and other red flags.


3. The company appears to have conducted the ENIGMA phase 2 EG/EGE trial itself and served as its “own 


CRO,” with at least four different trial investigators expressing concerns around the company’s conduct and 


the trial’s integrity and compliance, describing it as “aggressive,” “stupid,” “dishonest,” or as something that 


“won’t fly with the FDA,” and their own reactions as “shocked” and “very bothered.” Based on investigators’ 


concerns, we conducted further due diligence on whether biopsies were sent to the company itself or a panel 


of independent, third-party pathologists – and are troubled by what we found.


4. Flagrant nepotism in key clinical roles, filled by the Chief Medical Officer’s son and daughter. The daughter’s 


profile states “class of 2012” in college. The children received options for 100k shares, worth ~$13MM at 


$130/share. We question why a public company didn’t pick more qualified executives for its core function, 


and note the unusual geographic location of all three family members relative to Allakos’ only listed office.


5. Poor controls as well as Allakos’ role in running the study itself rendered the ENIGMA trial – purportedly 


randomized and double-blind - essentially unblinded, making the already subjective endpoint of patient-


reported symptom scores a sham. The FDA has cautioned that “Suspicion of inadvertent unblinding can be a 


problematic review consideration for the FDA when assessing PRO endpoints.” Shockingly, a parent posted 


about speaking to Allakos - the co-founder plus what we infer to be contact with the CMO - which if true 


would strike us as reckless and raise concerns about trial tampering and Allakos’ conduct in general. 


Pages


8-22


23-33


34-46


47-55


56-61


62-77


23
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the precursor to Allakos’ lead AK002 program and the 
canary in the coal mine. AK001/AK002 are virtually identical Siglec-8 antibodies. The company 
has buried the results for the two AK001 studies it conducted, but our research indicates a 
debacle - followed by its lead pre-ipo investor dumping its entire stake at $2.48/share in 
August 2017; the company valuing itself at 93 cents/share weeks later, suggesting a valuation 
range of $31-83MM; cash dwindling to two months, requiring a bailout by remaining 
investors; and a new CEO, COO, CFO, CMO, and VP Clinical Ops. Yet a mere 11 months after this 
chaos, ALLK was re-packaged around “AK002” and a new, questionable phase 1 study in 
*healthy* volunteers and taken public – a benchmark feat of Wall Street hocus-pocus.


Given that AK001 and AK002 were in simultaneous development, Allakos’ decision to first 
advance AK001 into clinical studies suggests it had evidence indicating better inhibition. If the 
compound they seem to have believed was the better bet flopped spectacularly in phase 2, the 
questions for AK002 - as well as the entire Siglec-8 premise – become uncomfortable.


The failure of AK001 in 2017 was an existential event that threw Allakos into crisis. We 
emphasize that this occurred roughly 11 months prior to IPO in July 2018. If a public biotech 
company halted the only meaningful trial for its lead compound, after which its lead investor 
fled, followed by a CEO departure and a new COO, CFO, CMO, and VP Clinical Operations, we’d 
expect the stock to plummet 90%. Yet Allakos now sports a share price 50-100x greater than 
the $2.48/share or 93 cent/share benchmarks around Aug 2017.


Allakos is among the greatest rising-from-the-ashes stories in biotech history. The speed of the 
reversal from Siglec-8 fiasco to Siglec-8 victory has been swift – and worthy of investigation.


24
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


A Phase 2, Multicenter, Open-Label, Extension Study to Evaluate the Safety and Tolerability of AK002 


in Patients With Eosinophilic Gastritis and/or Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03664960?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=1


Allakos lists 8 studies on ClinicalTrials.gov, summarized below in rough chronological order. 


We begin with the two for AK001 before investigating those for AK002.


A Phase 2, Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled, Study to Evaluate Multiple Doses of 


AK001 in Patients With Moderate to Severe Nasal Polyposis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02734849?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=8


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


AK001Apr 2016 – Jan 2018


A Phase 1, Single Ascending Dose and Multiple Dose Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, 


Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of AK002 in Patients With Indolent Systemic Mastocytosis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=7


AK002Jun 2016 – Dec 2018


A Phase 1, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Single Ascending and Multi Dose Study to Evaluate the 


Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of AK002 in Healthy Participants


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02859701?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=6


AK002Aug 2016 – May 2017


A Phase 1, Randomized, Double-Blind, Controlled, Single Ascending Dose Study to Evaluate the 


Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of AK001 in Subjects With Atopic 


Disease


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02563938?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=4


AK001Sep 2015 – Mar 2016


A Phase 1b, Open-Label, Multiple Dose, Proof-of-Concept Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, 


and Pharmacodynamics of AK002 in Patients With Atopic Keratoconjunctivitis, Vernal 


Keratoconjunctivitis, and Perennial Allergic Conjunctivitis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=5


AK002Feb 2018 – Aug 2019


An Open-Label, Pilot Study to Assess the Efficacy and Safety of AK002 (Siglec-8) in Subjects With 


Antihistamine-Resistant Chronic Urticaria


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03436797?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=3


AK002Jan 2018 – Nov 2018


A Phase 2, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study to Evaluate the 


Efficacy, Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacodynamic Effect of AK002 in Patients With Eosinophilic 


Gastritis and/or Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=2


AK002Jul 2018 – Jun 2019


AK002Nov 2018 – Apr 2020E


Start – Completion Date Drug Official Title Per ClinicalTrials.gov


Source: ClinicalTrials.gov
25



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03664960?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=1

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02734849?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=8

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=7

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02859701?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=6

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02563938?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=4

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=5

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03436797?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=3

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=2
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos strikes us as having gone to great lengths to prevent investors from discovering the 


outcomes of the two studies for AK001. We understand the reticence, as both AK001 and 


AK0002 are essentially identical antibodies that bind to Siglec-8. If AK001 was an abject flop, 


that could create uncomfortable questions for AK002 and the entire Siglec-8 mechanism of 


action upon which Allakos is premised. We found nothing in Allakos’ S-1 or subsequent 


filings that mention either AK001 study, nor any AK001 data, posters, or publications on the 


ALLK website or in their other materials. We found a description of AK001 in a 2016 press 


release – not available on ALLK’s site – which begs the question, how is AK001 any different 


from AK002 as a Siglec-8 antibody?


“The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-ascending-dose study enrolled 34 subjects to 


evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of AK001 in a range of potentially active doses and to 


obtain early signals of pharmacodynamic activity.” – Press release 1/19/2016


January 2016 press release states that dosing completed in phase one AK001 study in atopic disease. 


The study design suggests the generation of material data on the Siglec-8 hypothesis.


Source: https://www.rivervest.com/allakos-successfully-completes-dosing-in-phase-1-clinical-trial-of-ak001-and-announces-expansion-of-its-executive-team/; 
http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-ak002-met-all-prespecified-primary-and


“AK001 is a therapeutic antibody that targets a receptor present on eosinophils and mast cells. Binding 


of antibody to this receptor causes inhibition of mast cell activity and selective depletion of activated 


eosinophils. AK001’s action is highly specific to mast cells and eosinophils and has potential to be of 


benefit in a wide spectrum of conditions where these cells are involved. AK001 has demonstrated activity in 


proprietary pre-clinical models of severe allergic diseases.” – Press release 1/19/2016


Description of AK001 in press release sounds virtually identical to AK002 description in 8/5/19 release


“The Company’s lead antibody, AK002, targets Siglec-8, an inhibitory receptor selectively expressed 


on human mast cells and eosinophils. AK002 has been shown to inhibit mast cells and deplete 


eosinophils.” – Press release 8/5/2019


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


26



https://www.rivervest.com/allakos-successfully-completes-dosing-in-phase-1-clinical-trial-of-ak001-and-announces-expansion-of-its-executive-team/

http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-ak002-met-all-prespecified-primary-and
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The Allakos S-1 was artfully written to avoid specific mention of either AK001 study, with 


amazingly vague disclosure of AK001 at all. The company appears to have begun work on 


AK001 and AK002 simultaneously, and chose to advance AK001 first – clearly suggesting 


that their pre-clinical data showed greater activity than AK002. Common sense would dictate 


that AK001 was discontinued because the first two studies were a bust. If AK001 was trialed 


first because it showed greater inhibitory activity, and still flopped, we wonder what that 


indicates for AK002. 


“We initially began developing two product candidates, AK001 and AK002, both of which are 


monoclonal antibodies targeting Siglec-8. These compounds entered clinical trials in 2015 and 2016, 


respectively. Due to the greater activity of AK002, we decided to focus our development efforts on AK002 and 


discontinued the development of AK001 in 2017.” – Allakos S-1 filed July 17, 2018


Allakos S-1 is nebulous about AK001 


The most material clinical data available at the time of IPO in July 2018 would be for AK001. Given that AK001 


was discontinued in 2017, we are surprised at the S-1’s lack of candor about the two AK001 studies and their 


results. We can imagine no disclosure for an early-stage biotech which is more relevant and material to 


investors than the failure of its key clinical trials to date. We are amazed that Allakos managed to IPO with 


such brief and obscure language – especially as this information would have been available to its lead pre-


IPO investor, which chose to then exit its entire stake just 11 months before the IPO at a fire-sale price.


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


Source: ALLK S-1 filing 27
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Although we can find no results for the AK001 atopic disease study, we managed to locate 


information on the second AK001 study, a phase 2 in nasal polypsis, on the EU Clinical 


Trials Register. The results indicate that the study was a disaster and was halted early after 


40 of 70 patients were enrolled. The then-CEO departed in what appears to have been a 


board-driven purge of the executive team. 


AK001 description – how is this meaningfully different from AK002?


Source: https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/trial/2016-000460-42/results; red ours for emphasis


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


28



https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/trial/2016-000460-42/results
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We find the failure notable given that Allakos’ then-CEO touted the eosinophil and mast cell-


enriched nature of nasal polyps, making them the perfect target for a Siglec-8 inhibitor. We 


find it further notable for the adverse events profile. Although the EU entry specifically calls 


out that the trial was not terminated early for safety concerns, we wonder if the need to 


emphasize this is the tell. While the placebo arm indicates a similar percentage of AE’s, the 


distribution tends to minor ones whereas active arm AE’s suggest that AK001 completely 


backfired in the very symptoms that matter: nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, upper respiratory tract 


infection, lymphadenopathy, asthma, dyspnea, nasal congestion, nasal obstruction, and 


facial pain. 


Source: https://www.rivervest.com/allakos-initiates-phase-2-trial-of-ak001-in-patients-with-nasal-polyposis/; https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/trial/2016-
000460-42/results; red outs for emphasis


“Advancing AK001 into a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients is an important milestone …” said Chris Bebbington 


Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer of Allakos [...] “The novel mechanism by which AK001 works is ideally suited 


for the treatment of nasal polyps, which are highly enriched for eosinophils and mast cells.” – Press release 
9/8/2016


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


29



https://www.rivervest.com/allakos-initiates-phase-2-trial-of-ak001-in-patients-with-nasal-polyposis/

https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/trial/2016-000460-42/results
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The failure of AK001 appears to have been a critical and existential event for Allakos. We 


believe the company realized sometime in 2H 2016 or early 2017 that AK001 was a dud. Its 


lead investor indicated in May 2017 that it would not invest any further capital, and a few 


months later presumably the same investor dumped its entire stake at $2.48/share. Two 


weeks later the board replaced the CEO and co-founder, and appointed a new COO, CFO, 


CMO, and VP Clinical Operations – suggestive of a company in freefall.


Lead pre-IPO investor indicated that it would not invest any further capital and that it was seeking to 


liquidate its entire stake.


“In late May 2017, one of the Company’s lead investors indicated that it would not invest any additional capital in the 


Company and notified the Company of its intention to seek to sell its entire equity interest in the Company. The loss of this 


lead investor and the impact of its efforts to sell its equity stake were expected to have a negative impact on the Company’s 


ability to raise a new round of financing.” – Correspondence with SEC pre-IPO by ALLK’s lawyers, 
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518200129/filename1.htm


In August 2017, presumably the same lead investor exited its stake at $2.48/share. 


“On August 3, 2017, one of the Company’s lead investors successfully completed the sale of all of its shares of Series A preferred 


stock in an arms-length transaction at approximately $2.48 per share.” – Correspondence with SEC pre-IPO by ALLK’s lawyers,
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518200129/filename1.htm


Two weeks later, ALLK announced that the board replaced the CEO and co-founder and appointed a new 


COO and CFO. A new Chief Medical Officer and VP Clinical Ops joined as well – a total overhaul and reset 


indicative of a company that was floundering.


Source: https://www.allakos.com/news/press-release/081517/


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


30



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518200129/filename1.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518200129/filename1.htm

https://www.allakos.com/news/press-release/081517/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Correspondence between Allakos’ lawyers and the SEC provided further color on the 


company’s turbulent internal dynamics just months before the IPO – and why the lawyers 


requested FOIA confidential treatment of their letter. The letter reveals that at the time of the 


shift to AK002 following the failure of AK001 in June 2017, the company didn’t even have a 


lead indication defined for AK002. It reveals that in August 2017 – we repeat, 11 months 


before the IPO – the company was down to two months of cash and had to conduct a bridge 


with existing investors. The company valued itself at 93 cents/share on Aug 31, 2017 – a 


notable haircut from the $2.48/share its lead investor fled with a few weeks prior.


Source: SEC correspondence https://sec.report/Document/0001193125-18-200129/


“In connection with the management team transition, the Company reevaluated its lead product candidate 


at the time, AK001. In June 2017, due to the greater activity of the Company’s other product candidate, 


AK002, as compared to AK001, the Company decided to focus its development efforts on AK002 and 


discontinued the development of AK001. At this time, as a result of the shift to AK002, the Company had 


no lead indication identified.”


“During this time frame the Company’s cash resources continued to dwindle, which constrained its activities 


and limited its plans. At one point, in August 2017, the Company’s cash resources were sufficient only to 


support two more months of operations and required the Company to conduct a bridge financing with its 


existing investors.”


“August 31, 2017 Valuation…The resulting estimated fair value of the Company’s common stock was 


$0.93 per share…”


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


31



https://sec.report/Document/0001193125-18-200129/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


If a public biotech company halted the only meaningful trial for its lead compound, after 


which its lead investor liquidated its entire stake, followed abruptly by the departure of its 


CEO and a new COO, CFO, CMO, and VP Clinical Operations, we’d expect the stock to 


plummet 90%. Yet, 11 months later with just a phase 1 study in healthy volunteers and 


“promising preclinical animal data in December 2017 in a mouse model of the lead indication 


of EG/EGE”, ALLK’s underwriters still managed to take it public in July 2018 with a day-one 


close of $35 – a benchmark feat of Wall Street hocus-pocus given the valuations between 93 


cents and $2.48 in Aug 2017. Irrespective, we believe that Allakos’ reticence to provide detail 


on AK001 points to a far larger problem: there is no meaningful difference between AK001 


and AK002. Both are antibodies targeting Siglec-8. Given AK001’s failure, Allakos could 


never have gone public without a “new” compound around which to build a story. 


• The company’s lack of candor renders the purported difference between AK001 and AK002 a mystery. Given 


that both Siglec-8 antibodies were in development at the same time, the decision to prioritize AK001 for 


clinical trials clearly suggests Allakos had data indicating superior anti-eosinophilic activity than AK002.


• In order to unravel the mystery of AK001 vs. AK002, we examined Allakos’ patent filing. The key patent 


– “Anti-Siglec-8 Antibodies And Methods Of Use Thereof” – references an IgG4 humanized antibody and an 


afucosylated IgG1 humanized antibody. We spoke with a former employee of Allakos who indicated that 


AK001 is the IgG4 Siglec-8-binding antibody, and AK002 is the IgG1 Siglec-8-binding antibody.


Source: Bloomberg; https://sec.report/Document/0001193125-18-200129; https://patentimages.storage.googleapis.com/cf/56/74/4d8edce6d6fc6f/US9546215.pdf


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


32



https://sec.report/Document/0001193125-18-200129

https://patentimages.storage.googleapis.com/cf/56/74/4d8edce6d6fc6f/US9546215.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Given that both are antibodies targeting the same receptor, the explanation that AK002 


exhibits “greater activity” strikes us as contrived and implausible. Allakos appears to have 


admitted as much, as we located a 2019 paper by the co-founder plus the CSO/ex-CEO and 


other ALLK staff which compared the anti-Siglec-8 activity of an IgG1 (“AK002”) vs. IgG4 


(“AK001”) antibody on eosinophils. Not surprisingly, the study indicated that both versions 


of the antibody exhibited virtually identical levels of activity on eosinophils – a troubling fact 


for those who believe that AK002 is meaningfully different than the failed AK001 program.


• Annexin is a marker used to detect cells in apoptasis 


(cell death). Vertical axis indicates increase in 


eosinophils in apoptasis


• White circles are healthy subjects and eosinophilic 


subjects are in red.


• The plots for IgG4 and IgG1 are essentially identical.


Source: https://www.jacionline.org/article/S0091-6749(18)31741-X/fulltext


Warning sign #1: The failure of AK001, the canary in the coal mine for AK002


33



https://www.jacionline.org/article/S0091-6749(18)31741-X/fulltext
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting small, low-credibility trials,
marked by a striking level of what we consider to be discrepancies, omissions, cherry-picking, 
and other red flags.


The ENIGMA phase 2 trial in EG/EGE is the first time the investor community reacted with 
great enthusiasm to an ALLK trial read-out. We caution investors to closely examine Allakos’ 
previous trials, without which the recent results cannot be properly understood. Such a review 
points to a clear and troubling pattern, of which the EG/EGE trial is the most extreme example. 
The pattern is marked by:


1. Spurious study design with single-arm, open-label protocols and small sample sizes. Single 
arm means there’s no placebo control, and open-label means the trial isn’t blinded. In other 
words, study patients and their doctors know the patient is on the drug being studied, and 
there’s nothing to compare it to.


2. A fixation on subjective end-points, where patients report how they feel on a questionnaire 
(“PRO” or Patient Reported Outcome). Given that patients know they’re receiving the drug 
versus being blinded, such PRO’s in an open-label context are biased and worthless except for 
fluffy, promotional press releases.


3. An ongoing failure in trials to disclose obvious and critical data beyond the PRO, without 
which even the most basic determination of each trial’s outcome cannot be made.


34
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #2 (cont’d): Allakos has a checkered history of conducting small, low-credibility 
trials, marked by a striking level of what we consider to be discrepancies, omissions, cherry-
picking, and other red flags.


4. A breathtaking failure to share top-line data on each endpoint for these studies. We cannot 
recall a biotech company listing several endpoints at the start of a trial, and then failing to 
specify if the trial even met those endpoints. The only endpoint that Allakos typically releases 
is – you guessed it – patient-reported outcomes.


5. A pattern of promising that additional data will soon be shared “at an upcoming 
conference,” without it ever subsequently being shared anywhere that we can locate.


What Allakos has historically disclosed is so vague and selective that it would not pass muster 
for inclusion at a credible medical conference or journal, and would likely be viewed as a farce 
by the FDA. We wonder what makes the company so reticent. Investors have become 
enthusiastic that the EG/EGE top-line data is credible as they believe it’s the first blinded, 
placebo-controlled study for which Allakos has released top-line results, while being unaware 
of the phase 2 dud for AK001. In subsequent sections we detail how the ENIGMA EG/EGE study 
merely repeats the same Allakos pattern, and in more troubling ways.


35
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


A Phase 2, Multicenter, Open-Label, Extension Study to Evaluate the Safety and Tolerability of AK002 


in Patients With Eosinophilic Gastritis and/or Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03664960?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=1


Allakos lists 8 studies on ClinicalTrials.gov, summarized below in rough chronological order. 


We investigate each of the four AK002 studies preceding ENIGMA and detail a clear pattern.


A Phase 2, Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled, Study to Evaluate Multiple Doses of 


AK001 in Patients With Moderate to Severe Nasal Polyposis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02734849?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=8


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


AK001Apr 2016 – Jan 2018


A Phase 1, Single Ascending Dose and Multiple Dose Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, 


Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of AK002 in Patients With Indolent Systemic Mastocytosis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=7


AK002Jun 2016 – Dec 2018


A Phase 1, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Single Ascending and Multi Dose Study to Evaluate the 


Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of AK002 in Healthy Participants


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02859701?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=6


AK002Aug 2016 – May 2017


A Phase 1, Randomized, Double-Blind, Controlled, Single Ascending Dose Study to Evaluate the 


Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of AK001 in Subjects With Atopic 


Disease


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02563938?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=4


AK001Sep 2015 – Mar 2016


A Phase 1b, Open-Label, Multiple Dose, Proof-of-Concept Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, 


and Pharmacodynamics of AK002 in Patients With Atopic Keratoconjunctivitis, Vernal 


Keratoconjunctivitis, and Perennial Allergic Conjunctivitis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=5


AK002Feb 2018 – Aug 2019


An Open-Label, Pilot Study to Assess the Efficacy and Safety of AK002 (Siglec-8) in Subjects With 


Antihistamine-Resistant Chronic Urticaria


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03436797?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=3


AK002Jan 2018 – Nov 2018


A Phase 2, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study to Evaluate the 


Efficacy, Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacodynamic Effect of AK002 in Patients With Eosinophilic 


Gastritis and/or Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis


https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=2


AK002Jul 2018 – Jun 2019


AK002Nov 2018 – Apr 2020E


Start – Completion Date Drug Official Title Per ClinicalTrials.gov


Source: ClinicalTrials.gov
36



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03664960?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=1

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02734849?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=8

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=7

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02859701?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=6

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02563938?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=4

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=5

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03436797?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=3

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=2
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The shift to AK002 began with a phase 1 study to evaluate the compound’s activity. Allakos 


states that all doses “resulted in complete depletion of blood eosinophils one hour after 


administration” – an exciting claim that has convinced investors of AK002’s anti-eosinophil 


properties. Upon closer examination, however, the study raises more questions than it 


answers, and the data disclosed is so sparse and selective that we consider it a farce.


Source: Allakos S-1 filing , https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518219134/d447521ds1a.htm; red outs for emphasis.


Where’s the multi-dose data - did 


dose escalation impact safety? What 


did dose-response curve look like?


The company must have 


collected data on tissue 


eosinophil levels, yet shows 


only blood eosinophils.


The trial lasted 112 days, yet blood eosinophil 


levels are shown for only one arbitrary interval –


1 hour post-infusion. What happened to 


eosinophil levels after 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, etc?


Impossible to determine 


the meaning of “minimal 


duration eos depletion”.


Steroids drive dramatic eosinophil reductions and 


are a confounding factor - were they 


administered prior to infusion as in ENIGMA?


Why were only healthy 


volunteers tested 


versus patients with 


elevated eosinophils?


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


37



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518219134/d447521ds1a.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We find Allakos next trial – a phase 1 evaluating AK002 in indolent systemic mastocytosis 


(ISM) – just as questionable, continuing the company’s pattern of small, open-label trials 


with selective and troubling levels of disclosure. Shockingly, the top-line press release for 


the trial in February 2019 declared the results “positive” yet failed to state whether AK002 


reduced eosinophil or mast cell levels, despite such histologic response rates being 


outcome measures. We find this absurd as the release even states that “Indolent systemic 


mastocytosis (ISM) is a disorder caused by increased numbers and activation of mast cells 


throughout the body.” We see no reason for the failure to disclose unless AK002 failed to 


impact eosinophil and mast cell counts.


1. Open-label, single-arm trial with only 25 participants per ClinicalTrials.gov


Red flags


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=7


2.The trial specified various histologic outcome measures such as eosinophil and basophil (similar to mast 


cells) levels, yet Allakos’ press release was conspicuously silent on the results.


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=7; red outs for emphasis.


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


38



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=7

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=7
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


3.The press release provided data for only the multiple-dose cohort with a mere 11 patients, leaving out detail 


for the patients in the single ascending dose cohort. The obvious implication is that the other cohort failed, 


even using the low bar of PRO’s in an unmasked trial setting. The opening sentence of the releases states 


“Allakos Inc. (NASDAQ: ALLK), a biotechnology company developing AK002 for the treatment of eosinophil and 


mast cell related diseases, today announced positive multiple dose Phase 1 results in patients with indolent 


systemic mastocytosis (ISM), a debilitating disorder caused by the release of inflammatory mediators from mast 


cells.” (press release: http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent)


Red flags continued (2/3): Phase 1 trial evaluating AK002 in indolent systemic mastocytosis 


4.In place of mast cell reduction or other histologic data, the only “data” presented is median change from baseline 


based on three symptom questionnaires, exhibiting the company’s ongoing fixation on subjective, 


unreliable PRO’s (patient-reported outcome measures) versus more credible evidence of efficacy. Comically, 


N=8 in the table below. 


Press release: http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent; red ours for emphasis.


5. Even the sparse PRO data presented is suspect. Note the asterisk we have circled above stating that “*The 


MSQ [Mastocytosis Questionnaire – brackets ours] was not available for use in 3 patients” – a mysteriously-


phrased caveat. Historically, we have found these types of unexplained exclusions to be indicative of 


cherry-picking in order to fabricate positive study results. Given that N only equals 8, the 3 missing PRO’s 


indicate that over a quarter of the questionnaires weren’t even included.


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


39



http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent

http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


6. For the third questionnaire used, the company merely provides an outcome summary along 4 categories, 


perhaps because listing each survey item in the PRO would expose the methodology for what it is. We located 


the full Mc-QoL PRO in a medical journal, and survey items include “less capable,” “choice of clothes,” 


“uncomfortable in public,” “burdened by symptoms,” “fear of wrong treatment,” and “feel concerned” –


more appropriate for a science fair than a robust clinical trial.


Red flags continued (3/3): Phase 1 trial evaluating AK002 in indolent systemic mastocytosis 


Press release: http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent,


Mc-QOL PRO: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26797792


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


40



http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-1-results-ak002-indolent

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26797792
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Around the time of the Phase 1 mastocytosis “read-out” earlier this year, Allakos trickled out 


a series of press releases with top-line results for its Phase2a AK002 trial in chronic urticaria 


(hives or skin rash). Yet another small study lacking a control arm, the company’s claims 


and cherrypicked disclosure strike us as suspicious. The market seems to have agreed, with 


the stock falling 9% with the first press release on January 7th 2019 and 30% overall by the 


third urticaria results release in mid-February.


Sources: 1https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4248510/ ; 2http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-
2-results-cohort-xolair-naive; 3https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29431202; 4 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24522090


• The study included four urticaria cohorts, each with miniscule sample size: Xolair-naïve (n=13), cholinergic 


urticaria (n=11), dermatographic urticaria (n=10), and Xolair refractory chronic spontaneous urticaria (n=11). 


• Antihistamines are a frontline treatment for urticaria, yet patients were allowed to use them during the 


study, making it impossible to assess the impact of AK002 vs. antihistamines and rendering the study useless. 


Steroids, another urticaria treament1 and confounding factor, also appear to have been allowed.


• The press releases began with “data” on the Xolair-naïve subgroup2. The only primary outcome measure is 


once again a patient survey to measure urticaria symptoms, without any information shared about 


AK002’s effect on mast cells, despite their role as the primary effector cell for the condition3. Refusal to 


disclose any histologic response rates – even directional – is a consistent and worrisome pattern.


• The study used three different surveys/PRO’s yet the release disclosed response rates from only one, the 


Urticaria Control Test (UCT). We wonder why similar data was withheld for the other clinical tools 


employed, the UAS7 (Urticaria Activity Score) and AE-QoL (Angioedema Quality of Life Questionnaire).


─ We find it unusual that the principal investigator for the study, Marcus Maurer, is also listed in a paper4 as 


having helped develop the UCT instrument, e.g., he’s using his own scale to assess the outcome of a study 


he’s being paid to conduct.


─ While the release touts complete response rates of 92% using UCT scores, the methodology lacks 


credibility, using a misleading definition of “complete response” which is actually a relative response 


reported by the patient vs. the physician: “UCT complete response was defined as a greater than 3-point 


improvement from baseline and a score of 12 or greater.”3


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


41



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4248510/

http://investor.allakos.com/news-releases/news-release-details/allakos-announces-positive-phase-2-results-cohort-xolair-naive

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29431202

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24522090
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Following the read-outs for the urticaria and mastocytosis trials in Jan/Feb 2019, Allakos 


reported “positive” results for its severe allergic conjunctivitis (SAC) trial in May – the last 


results before the EG/EGE read-out in August. Yet another low-credibility phase 1 study with 


a tiny sample size (n=29) and no control, Allakos talked up the study results but once again 


shared little beyond improved scores on subjective questionnaires. The company’s press 


release and presentation provided another master class in omissions, cherry-picking, and 


spin.


Of many red flags, we note that the trial’s endpoints appear to have changed midway. ClinicalTrials.gov 


states that one of the trial’s outcome measures was “changes from baseline in absolute peripheral blood 


counts of eosinophils and basophils” – essential information given the company’s claims that elevated 


eosinophil and mast cell levels cause an inflammatory cascade.


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=5; red ours for emphasis.


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


42



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=5
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: Allakos 8-k filing https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019016591/allk-ex991_7.htm, red box ours for emphasis.


Yet when Allakos released the results of the SAC phase 1 in May 2019, the endpoint for 


eosinophil and mast cell blood counts is curiously missing, replaced by a physician 


questionnaire instead. On the study results call, the CEO stridently asserted they had shown 


blood eosinophil reduction, making the now-disappeared endpoint and lack of associated 


information even more troubling. This is the same pattern as in the mastocytosis study –


listing cell levels in blood as an endpoint and then staying radio silent.


“We've recently put out a series of clinical data releases, including today's. The upshot is we've shown 


rapid depletion of blood eosinophils in all of those studies […] So what we're doing if you go to the 


right side is our antibody, AK002, will pharmacologically activate the inhibitory function of Siglec-8. So this 


will antagonize activating signals to the cell. The upshot of this is it kills the eosinophils and broadly 


inhibits mast cells […] What we're focused on are mast cells and the eosinophils. And our drug clearly 


kills eosinophils and does it quite rapidly. What we've also demonstrated is that we have broad 


inhibition of the mast cell. So what we're trying to do with AK002 is to take mast cells and the eosinophils 


out of the equation. And by doing that, we would disrupt the inflammatory cascade and allow the tissues to 


calm down and heal.” – Allakos CEO, May 7, 2019 results call (source: Capital IQ/Bloomberg transcripts)


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


43



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019016591/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: Allakos May 7, 2019 trial results call, Capital IQ/Bloomberg transcripts


Just as worrisome, the trial allowed patients to use other drugs which are treatments for 


allergic conjunctivitis, including steroids, making it impossible to determine whether these 


drugs or AK002 drove the purported improvement in symptom scores. We wonder whether 


patients were also allowed to use Dupixent (dupilumab), given the CEO’s less-than-100% 


certain response when asked for clarification on the study results call.


The trial’s inclusion criteria (#5) allowed other conjunctivitis medications as well as dose modification. 


The exclusion criteria (#10) explicitly carved out an exception for steroid use.


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=5; red ours for emphasis.


Timothy Francis Lugo


And I think you mentioned this in response to Sam's question, but just to make sure I had it correct. The patients who 


were on DUPI entering this study then who were not on DUPI during the study, and so the benefit we're seeing is not on 


the top DUPIXENT as well? It's in those patients that have been weaned off it before entering the study?


Robert Alexander, Allakos CEO


Yes. That's right, Tim. I believe there was no -- I believe they're able -- they're allowed to stay on their topical steroids 


during the study, but not dupilumab or any biologic.


In response to a simple question about whether Dupixent was allowed during the trial, the CEO 


responded twice with his belief versus a straightforward answer with no ambiguity.


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


44



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=5
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/history/NCT03379311?A=10&B=11&C=Side-by-


Side#StudyPageTop


Source: Johns Hopkins Division of Allergy and Immunology,  


http://jhuasthmaallergy.jhmi.edu/allergicreactions/pollen-chartmidatlantic.pdf


Peak allergens by type, monthlyTracked changes in ClinicalTrials.gov indicate 


trial completed recruitment in Sept/Oct


American College of Allergy, Asthma, and 


Immunology states that the first line of treatment 


is avoiding allergens like pollen


Source: https://acaai.org/allergies/types/eye-allergy


The SAC trial’s design appears to be flawed in another crucial manner. Enrollment began in 


late February and ended in Sept or early October per ClinicalTrials.gov. Recruitment began 


just as the peak pollen season kicked off, and ended just as peak allergy season concluded. 


Given that allergens are a trigger for allergic conjunctivitis, we question whether the trial’s 


questionnaires – lacking a control group – measured nothing more than typical seasonal 


improvement in allergy symptoms.


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


45



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/history/NCT03379311?A=10&B=11&C=Side-by-Side#StudyPageTop

http://jhuasthmaallergy.jhmi.edu/allergicreactions/pollen-chartmidatlantic.pdf

https://acaai.org/allergies/types/eye-allergy
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Despite these red flags, Allakos’ SAC study results call was promotional featuring two KOL’s 


who appeared to be reading a spoon-fed script, which we found over the top to the point of 


being unseemly – including the assertion of a “turnaround” of a patient’s “systemic 


disease” within “hours.” We note an amusing moment where the principal investigator went 


off-script during the Q&A and stated that a mere 2% of his practice would be candidates for 


the drug, contradicting his earlier hyperbole as well as the company’s TAM claims, followed 


by quick tap dancing by the Allakos CEO and COO, who earlier introduced the Harvard 


immunologist as having developed the standard of care and as the author of “more than 800 


peer-reviewed publications and more than 100 books and chapters.”


“The data are quite striking, quite impressive. And we, as investigators, were thunderstruck…”


“This is shockingly robust in terms of reduction and the signs and symptoms….”


“So in summary, you can see that there's definitely impressive clinical activity….”


“I have not seen something work as nicely as this […] It's something that's new and exciting….”


“And the medication itself seems to be extremely effective at a very low risk to the patient in our experience thus 


far, which is also particularly exciting.”


“It's neat to see how quickly the medication works…remembering the first patient enrolled in the study who 


was particularly miserable and particularly vocal in communicating how miserable he was about the disease. 


Within the hours of his infusion was already describing to us how much better he had felt with respect to 


his allergy. So, a very significant turnaround for him as well as in his systemic disease as well.


Analyst: I was just wondering what percentage of your SAC patients you will use this drug and - if it does 


become available eventually. […] Stephen Foster: 2% of my practice.”


Source: Allakos May 7, 2019 trial results call, Capital IQ/Bloomberg transcripts


Warning sign #2: Allakos has a checkered history of conducting low-credibility trials with numerous red flags 


46
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #3: The company appears to have conducted the ENIGMA phase 2 EG/EGE trial 
itself and served as its “own CRO,” with at least four different trial investigators expressing 
concerns around the company’s conduct and the trial’s integrity and compliance, describing it 
as “aggressive,” “stupid,” “dishonest,” or as something that “won’t fly with the FDA,” and their 
own reactions as “shocked” and “very bothered.” Based on investigators’ concerns, we 
conducted further due diligence on whether biopsies were sent to the company itself or a 
panel of independent, third-party pathologists – and are troubled by what we found.


Allakos appears to have served as its own contract research organization (CRO) for this trial, in 
contrast to standard industry practice, which led physicians who served as trial investigators to 
express concerns around the company’s conduct. 


Trial investigators we spoke with appeared to feel duped upon discovering that they had been 
interacting with Allakos staff vs. CRO employees. One described the company’s conduct as 
“aggressive” and hinted at other concerns which he felt uncomfortable elaborating. 


A second investigator was “shocked’ and described the behavior as “stupid” from a compliance 
and audit standpoint and as a red flag that “won’t fly with the FDA.” A third was “very 
bothered” and used the word “dishonest.”


Given Allakos’ unusual and “aggressive” involvement with the study, we conducted further due 
diligence on whether biopsies were sent to the company itself or a panel of independent, third 
party pathologists, given well-known issues around bias and subjectivity in biopsy 
measurements. 


47
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #3 (cont’d): Allakos appears to have conduced the ENIGMA trial itself versus a 
CRO


To our surprise, a trial investigator/KOL indicated that a single individual served as the central 
reader and measured tissue samples for eosinophil and mast cell levels. Our research leads us 
to believe that the pathologist is someone with financial ties to Allakos, based on a conflict-of-
interest disclosure.


CRO’s serve as independent third parties to assure a clinical trial’s compliance and integrity 
regarding trial protocol, patient inclusion and exclusion criteria, blinding, and essential audit 
and assessment standards. Not using an independent third party to provide checks and 
balances reminds us of a company serving as its own auditor, or a fund serving as its own 
administrator.


48
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Our research indicates that the vast majority of clinical trials (>90%) employ a contract 


research organization, a fact reinforced by Allakos’ own trial investigators who indicated that 


this was the first company-sponsored study they had ever been involved with where the 


company ran the study themselves and served as its own CRO. We find this odd given 


statements in the Allakos 10K:


We rely on third-parties to conduct our clinical trials and those third-parties may not perform


satisfactorily, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such trials, research and


studies.


We do not have the ability to independently conduct our clinical trials. We currently rely on third-


parties, such as CROs, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical


investigators, to conduct our clinical trials of AK002 and expect to continue to rely upon third-parties


to conduct additional clinical trials of AK002 and our other product candidates. Third-parties have a


significant role in the conduct of our clinical trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data.


These third-parties are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our


agreements, we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that any such third-


party will devote to our clinical trials.


Warning sign #3: Allakos appears to have conducted the ENIGMA trial itself versus a CRO


Source: Allakos 10K filed 3/14/2019


49
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We were first alerted by one of the trial investigators who we consulted as part of our 


research. This doctor, a prominent KOL (key opinion leader) in the field, assumed that he 


had been interacting with CRO staff all along and was surprised when he discovered that 


they were in fact Allakos employees. 


Source: Seligman expert consultations 


The KOL indicated that this was unusual and the company was “aggressive,” and hinted at other 


concerns which he felt uncomfortable elaborating.


“One of the things about this company – they were the CRO for this trial. Which is interesting. They didn’t use one. This doesn’t 


normally happen. The company was actively involved during the trial. They were involved and aggressive.  I don’t want to 


go into subjective things. There were lots of circumstances.”


He stated this was the only time he had seen a biotech company play this role itself


“Companies fall into three categories. One, the company comes in, hires a CRO. The CRO doesn’t know what’s going on and I know 


more than CRO and CRO hassles you with details. Two, a company uses a CRO but the company’s on top of it and it’s a pleasant 


experience. You deal with knowledgeable people. Then the third group, Allakos. N=1. Only this company. It was all company 


people running the study. It’s the only time I was ever involved in a study like this. I’ve been involved in over two dozen 


company-sponsored studies. I can’t say it was pleasant working with them because they were very self-centered about 


things.”


He again commented on Allakos staff being “aggressive” and his surprise at discovering they didn’t work 


for a CRO


“They were aggressive. They carried out the study quickly. They got patients fast, and analyzed data in an unbelievably fast manner. 


All the reps were on top of things. They were very motivated. I thought it was unusual. I didn’t realize they were their own CRO. 


I asked them. I asked them, “Which company are you with?” and they said they’re employees of Allakos and I was 


surprised. I’d never seen this before. These guys are businesspeople. They think we made a couple hundred million and this 


could be one of these.”


Warning sign #3: Allakos appears to have conducted the ENIGMA trial itself versus a CRO


50
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We double-checked our research with a second trial investigator, who also initially assumed 


that Allakos used a CRO. When we asked him to verify, he asked his staff and confirmed that 


he had actually been dealing with Allakos employees. He stated he was “shocked” and 


described Allakos’ conduct as problematic from an FDA standpoint.


Source: Seligman expert consultations 


The doctor indicated this his center always deals with a third party CRO for compliance reasons


“We dealt with someone from Allakos. I assumed it was a third party. We always deal with a third party CRO that makes sure 


there’s compliance with internal and external protocols and inclusion/exclusion criteria.” 


He viewed Allakos’ behavior as unusual, “stupid” from a compliance and audit standpoint, and a red flag 


that “won’t fly with the FDA.”


“It should be a third party to prevent bias. I don’t know why they didn’t use a third party. I’d say 95% of time it’s a third party. 


It’s never the company. We’ve conducted so many trials. It’s never been the company. It’s one of the biases that you definitely 


want to remove. Inherent bias from internal review shouldn’t exist in these trials. This would be a huge red flag in phase three 


and the FDA wouldn’t like it. They would be stupid to have their own people do compliance, assessment, and auditing. It 


just won’t fly with the FDA.”


He added that he was “shocked,” and that he counsels even tiny biotech startups to follow standard 


operating procedure and use a CRO.


“We have 130 active studies currently. Just in the past five years, we’ve probably done 20 trials. Large ones with more than 1,000 


people. All twenty of those were with a third party CRO. That’s the standard. That’s standard operating procedure. I’m advising 


very tiny biotech companies, and I’m even telling them, you want a third party CRO. These are startups. That’s the right 


thing to do. I was shocked to see that Allakos served as their own CRO.”


Warning sign #3: Allakos appears to have conducted the ENIGMA trial itself versus a CRO


51
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We then asked a third investigator, who was unaware that the center’s staff had been 


interacting with Allakos employees during the trial. The doctor put us on hold and called the 


nurse who served as the facility’s clinical research coordinator. When the nurse confirmed 


the role of Allakos employees, the doctor’s tone abruptly changed into one that we would 


characterize as somber and disturbed, similar to someone who realizes they’ve been duped.


Source: Seligman expert consultations 


The doctor was “very bothered” and felt Allakos’ behavior was dishonest


“I believe the site monitors were employees of Allakos. I just asked my clinical research coordinator. The person who came 


for site visits is an Allakos employee. My patient coordinator worked directly with Allakos. If it was an Allakos person and 


not a CRO I’d be very bothered by that. It wouldn’t be honest.”


The doctor’s clinical research coordinator also mentioned the involvement of a contractor. We asked if 


the clinical research coordinator could locate this person’s card. The card had the person’s name with 


no company affiliation, at which point the doctor became quiet and seemed unsettled. We located the 


individual’s LinkedIn profile, which also failed to list a current company.


“Monitor visits to check paperwork were a contract person. The name on the card is [name redacted]. The card doesn’t have a 


company name on it for the CRO.”


Warning sign #3: Allakos appears to have conducted the ENIGMA trial itself versus a CRO


52
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We also asked a fourth investigator, an influential KOL in the EGID space. Unlike the other 


investigators, he appeared to know all along that Allakos conducted the study themselves 


and seemed uncomfortable when we raised the topic. He hypothesized that Allakos “would 


have” blinded some employees and unblinded others – a notion we find absurd given the 


small number of employees at Allakos (45 per LinkedIn around study start in mid-2018, 79 as 


of Dec 2019), not to mention nepotism in key clinical roles as we detail in the next section. 


Nonetheless, the investigator did not defend Allakos’ conduct, highlighted the critical 


importance of blinding, and stated he didn’t know why the company chose this route.


Source: Seligman expert consultations; LinkedIn 


Warning sign #3: Allakos appears to have conducted the ENIGMA trial itself versus a CRO


53


“Allakos mostly did the study themselves and contracted out services as 


needed. I’m not at liberty to disclose what they did themselves versus 


contracting out. Access to the data needs to be very strict. You can only see some 


things if you’re on the blinded team versus the unblinded team. Allakos would have 


had people who were blinded and not blinded. I can’t speak to why they did it 


this way.” – ENIGMA investigator and KOL
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos role and conduct raises troubling questions about the trial's integrity and 


compliance. Given its unusual and “aggressive” involvement with the study, we conducted 


further due diligence on whether biopsies were sent to the company itself or a panel of 


independent, third party pathologists, given well-known issues around bias and subjectivity 


in biopsy measurements. To our surprise, a trial investigator and KOL indicated that a single 


individual served as the central reader and measured tissue samples for eosinophil and 


mast cell levels.


Source: Seligman expert consultation; abstract link https://ash.confex.com/ash/2015/webprogramscheduler/Paper83985.html; red ours for emphasis.


The investigator indicated that biopsies were sent to one person. We were uncertain from his 


comments whether this individual was formally an Allakos employee, or merely equivalent to one.


“They had a central reader. It was one person at their company. Someone who’s published in the area. They’re fairly well 


regarded for a company representative. The person works for a for-profit pathology lab. Everything was done by this person. 


I don’t know the details. You should look at abstracts the company has published. The pathologist is an author on one.”


We followed the KOL’s advice and identified the abstract, which lists two pathologists, one of whom we 


believe to be the one that received biopsies and conducted cell counts under microscope.


Warning sign #3: Allakos appears to have conducted the ENIGMA trial itself versus a CRO


54



https://ash.confex.com/ash/2015/webprogramscheduler/Paper83985.html
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Amazingly, both pathologists are recipients of research funding from Allakos, which they list 


in a 2018 conflict of interest disclosure. Given the obvious conflict of interest, we question 


the integrity of the tissue eosinophil reductions that Allakos claims in the ENIGMA trial.


Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5812326/


Warning sign #3: Allakos appears to have conducted the ENIGMA trial itself versus a CRO


55



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5812326/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #4: Flagrant nepotism in key clinical roles, filled by the Chief Medical Officer’s 
son and daughter. The daughter’s profile states “class of 2012” in college. The children 
received options for 100k shares, worth ~$13MM at $130/share. We question why a public 
company didn’t pick more qualified executives for its core function, and note the unusual 
geographic location of all three family members relative to Allakos’ only listed office.


The son and daughter of the Chief Medical Officer, Henrik Rasmussen, serve as Director of 
Clinical Project Management and Clinical Program Manager, respectively, per a related party 
disclosure on page 155 of the S-1. We find the fact pattern alarming, in the context of other 
red flags and discrepancies in the conduct of the ENIGMA trial. 


In 2017/18 the CMO’s two children were awarded options to purchase about 100k shares of 
stock – at a recent price of $130, 100k shares of stock are worth ~$13 million. An online search 
states the daughter was “class of 2012” in college. This appears to be her fourth instance of 
nepotism, having overlapped with the father at three prior roles (ZS Pharma, Rasmussen 
Biotech & Pharma Consulting, and Nabi Pharmaceuticals, per their respective LinkedIn bios).


Our research leads us to believe the son’s title is actually VP Clinical Operations, presumably 
the #2 clinical role at Allakos after his father’s, making the nepotism even more troubling. The 
proxy filed on Apr 30, 2019 says his title is Director, so either the disclosure was incorrect or 
he’s been promoted.


56
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #4 (cont’d): Flagrant nepotism in key clinical roles 


The main purpose of a clinical-stage biotech company is running clinical trials, giving these 
roles outsized importance - and sway, given their father’s authority as a C-level officer -
particularly at a company with so few employees: a mere 77 total employees as of late Nov 
2019 and only 46 at the time of the S-1. 


Investors should be asking, are these the most qualified candidates Allakos can find given the 
Q3 cash balance of $517mm, and the substantial institutional capital raised prior to IPO? We 
intend no disrespect to Ms. Shaw, but find her significantly underqualified for the position and 
question why the company has structured its clinical trials organization in this manner. We can 
locate no work history online for Jacob Rasmussen, which we find unusual for a role this 
senior.


Running clinical trials at an early stage biotech is a high-risk endeavor with little margin for 
error. The stakes are high. We wonder why a first-time Clinical Program Manager, with a bio 
that suggests a succession of junior roles, is entrusted with these responsibilities, and are 
curious as to the qualifications that led to the son (we believe) to be the VP of Clinical 
Operations.


We also wonder why the daughter appears to be the only employee based in Utah, and why 
the father and son are based in Maryland, when almost every Allakos employee on LinkedIn 
appears to be based at the HQ in the San Francisco Bay Area. We find it unusual that the 
pivotal, core function of Allakos appears to be handled remotely by a nepotistic triangle.


57
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We note the level of compensation afforded to the CMO’s children. In 2017/18, Jacob 


Rasmussen was awarded stock options to purchase ~65k shares and Camilla Shaw ~35k 


shares – a total of 100k shares with a gross value of ~$13mm at the recent ALLK price of 


$130/share. 


Warning sign #4: Flagrant nepotism in key clinical roles


Source: SEC filings


Transactions with Certain Employees


Our current Director of Clinical Project Management, Jacob Rasmussen and our current Clinical Program Manager, Camilla 


Shaw, are the son and daughter of Dr. Henrik Rasmussen, our Chief Medical Officer. Mr. Jacob Rasmussen and Ms. Shaw 


receive an annual salary of $140,000 and $150,000, respectively, and certain benefits that are also provided to our other 


similarly situated employees, which benefits have an approximate annual value of $23,000 to each of Mr. Jacob Rasmussen 


and Ms. Shaw. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, Mr. Jacob Rasmussen and Ms. Shaw were also awarded 


discretionary cash bonuses in the amount of approximately $15,000 and $6,000, respectively, and stock options to purchase 


up to 48,000 and 16,800, respectively, shares of our common stock, subject to vesting. On May 15, 2018, Mr. Jacob 


Rasmussen and Ms. Shaw were awarded additional stock options to purchase up to 11,120 and 13,040, respectively, shares 


of common stock, subject to vesting. Prior to her employment as Clinical Program Manager, Ms. Shaw provided services to 


us as a consultant from July 2017 to September 2017, during which time she received approximately $36,000 in cash 


compensation for services provided.


Allakos S-1 filed July 17, 2018


Transactions with Certain Employees


Our current Director of Clinical Project Management, Jacob Rasmussen, and our current Clinical Program Manager, Camilla 


Shaw, are the son and daughter of Dr. Henrik Rasmussen, our Chief Medical Officer. Mr. Jacob Rasmussen and Ms. Shaw 


receive an annual salary of $161,000 and $150,000, respectively, and certain benefits that are also provided to our other 


similarly situated employees, which benefits have an approximate annual value to Mr. Jacob Rasmussen and Ms. Shaw of 


$38,000 and $30,000, respectively. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, Mr. Jacob Rasmussen and Ms. Shaw 


were also awarded discretionary cash bonuses in the amount of approximately $32,000 and $23,000, respectively, and stock 


options to purchase up to 17,320 and 18,140, respectively, shares of our common stock, subject to vesting


Allakos proxy statement filed April 30, 2019


58
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Ms. Shaw’s LinkedIn bio indicates that this is her first role as “Clinical Program Manager.” 


Prior roles in our opinion were extremely junior. The bio doesn’t provide a timeframe for 


college but her public Facebook profile says ‘Class of 2012.”


Source: https://www.linkedin.com/in/camilla-shaw-60505689/


LinkedIn profile Public Facebook profile pages


Source: https://www.facebook.com/camilla.rasmussenshaw; red ours for emphasis.


Warning sign #4: Flagrant nepotism in key clinical roles


59



https://www.linkedin.com/in/camilla-shaw-60505689/

https://www.facebook.com/camilla.rasmussenshaw
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We note another concerning aspect of the Rasmussen family’s involvement with Allakos. Of 


the 77 employees listed on LinkedIn as of late Nov 2019, almost all are based in the San 


Francisco Bay Area. We found no other office in the 10K or the website except the HQ in 


Redwood City, CA. Therefore, we wonder why the CMO’s daughter is the only Allakos 


employee based in Utah, and how a first-time Clinical Program Manager is afforded such 


autonomy. As another red flag, the CMO’s LinkedIn bio indicates suggests he’s based in 


Maryland. Only two other Allakos bios state Maryland as the location. The first is the Clinical 


Project Administrator – whose last three employers were Eastern Shore Dental Care, 


Franck’s Signature Wines, and MileOne Automotive. 


Source: https://www.linkedin.com/in/henrik-rasmussen-ba34b115/; https://www.linkedin.com/in/katiemazz/


CMO LinkedIn bio says he’s based in Maryland Clinical Project Administrator is one of two other 


employees in MD


Warning sign #4: Flagrant nepotism in key clinical roles


60



https://www.linkedin.com/in/henrik-rasmussen-ba34b115/

https://www.linkedin.com/in/katiemazz/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The other is for a VP Clinical Operations. The LinkedIn bio is privacy-restricted but we 


believe the bio is for the CMO’s son, Jacob Rasmussen, based on an interview the CMO 


gave to a local paper. The April 2019 proxy statement says Jacob Rasmussen was the 


Director of Clinical Project Management. Either that disclosure is incorrect, or he has been 


promoted to VP – which sounds to us like the #2 clinical role at Allakos after his father –


which if true would make the nepotism even more serious. We find it troubling that almost 


every LinkedIn bio for Allakos states the location as the Bay Area, yet the most critical 


function appears to be handled remotely by nepotistic triangle. Moreover, we find it unusual 


that we can find nothing online about Jacob Rasmussen’s professional history, given the 


length of experience required for a role this senior.


Source: LinkedIn search results for the search term “Allakos”; https://www.capitalgazette.com/education/naval-academy/cg2-arc-140208cc-home-of-the-week-20140208-story.html


"We liked and missed Annapolis," said Henrik. "When I started my own company, Rasmussen 


Biotech & Pharma Consulting, LLC, we moved back to Annapolis in 2012.” Their three children are 


grown and have, almost, flown the coop […] An Annapolis resident, Jacob is 31 and director 


of project management for a biotech company. – Interview with local paper, 2014


Warning sign #4: Flagrant nepotism in key clinical roles


61



https://www.capitalgazette.com/education/naval-academy/cg2-arc-140208cc-home-of-the-week-20140208-story.html
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #5: Poor controls as well as Allakos’ role in running the study itself rendered the 
ENIGMA trial – purportedly randomized and double-blind - essentially unblinded, making the 
already subjective endpoint of patient-reported symptom scores a sham. The FDA has 
cautioned that “Suspicion of inadvertent unblinding can be a problematic review consideration 
for the FDA when assessing PRO endpoints.” Shockingly, a parent posted about speaking to 
Allakos - the co-founder plus what we infer to be contact with the CMO - which if true would 
strike us as reckless and raise concerns about trial tampering and Allakos’ conduct in general. 


Numerous posts by trial participants on Facebook, as well as expert consultations with six 
investigators from the trial, lead us to conclude that PRO scores were plagued by bias and 
unreliability. One trial participant even posted that “being able to see the test results, biopsies, 
bloodwork while on the drug was so great.”


The veracity of blinding is a crucial issue for investors to assess, as their euphoria currently 
rests on little more than a small n trial with risks similar to those of open-label trials. We 
believe investors are oblivious to a disastrous scenario is phase 3, as the FDA has specifically 
cautioned about blinding controls in the context of PRO endpoints: “Suspicion of inadvertent 
unblinding can be a problematic review consideration for the FDA when assessing PRO 
endpoints….The effect of intentional unblinding is important to consider in the interpretation 
of clinical trial results.”


Trial investigators stated that Allakos ran the study itself vs. through a CRO. We wonder how a 
trial is blinded is the sponsor is intimately involved with trial sites and knows which patients 
are on drug or placebo. A parent of a trial participant posted on Facebook that she spoke with


62
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #5 (cont’d): Poor controls as well as Allakos’ role in running the study itself 
rendered the ENIGMA trial – purportedly randomized and double-blind - essentially unblinded 


an Allakos co-founder and member of its scientific advisory board, and her post appears to 
suggest that she also spoke with the Chief Medical Officer. This strikes us as reckless and 
makes a farce of a “blinded” trial, and raises concerns about tampering and Allakos’ conduct in 
general. 


If patients and/or their doctors know or strongly believe that they’re receiving the drug, the 
potential for junk PRO results is self-evident, given the subjective nature of patients self-
reporting scores, magnified by the despondent and suggestible nature of participants as 
evidenced by Facebook posts.


1. Concerns around blinding and bias are shared by Allakos trial investigators that we 
consulted, who indicated that infusion-related reactions may have unblinded the trial. 
These concerns are corroborated by a large volume of patient posts online.


2. Posts indicate that patients received ongoing endoscopies during the trial, with feedback 
from trial investigators about visual improvement or worsening of the stomach and 
esophagus. The volume of posts indicate massive blinding problems from doctors using 
endoscopy results to tell patients whether they are most likely on AK002 or placebo. One 
post stated that “clinically and by endoscopy we all should have a clear indication if we are 
getting the drug or placebo.”


63
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #5 (cont’d): Poor controls as well as Allakos’ role in running the study itself 
rendered the ENIGMA trial – purportedly randomized and double-blind - essentially unblinded


3. A trial investigator we consulted spoke about running CBC (complete blood count) panels 
during the trial to measure eosinophils for “curiosity,” further magnifying the blinding 
problems created by endoscopies. Another investigator stated that patients could easily get 
CBC scans themselves at any clinic. Facebook posts suggest that patients were 
sophisticated and motivated in trying to determine if they were on AK002, given the 
overnight travel and other inconveniences that some of them detailed.


4. A high volume of Facebook posts indicate that patients had strong opinions about whether 
they were on drug or placebo, whether correct or incorrect irrespective of endoscopic or 
CBC panel feedback. While this may be an issue in any trial, the nature and volume of 
patient posts suggests a particularly extreme dynamic at play.


64
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Three separate ENIGMA investigators indicated concerns around the veracity of the trial’s 


blinding. Two are prominent KOL’s in the space. Investigators indicated that the occurrence 


of adverse effects could easily have unblinded patients as to whether they were on drug, 


versus placebo. They also indicated that patients could easily get an eosinophil count 


themselves in a standard blood panel, and indicated further unblinding via ongoing 


endoscopies during the trial.


Source: Seligman expert consultations


“A patient can go to a hospital and get a CBC, complete blood count for eosinophils. It’s something 


that could have happened. You can find out if you’re curious. This used to be a big concern in trials.” –
Third ENIGMA investigator and KOL


“Unblinding through infusion is certainly a possibility, of a confounding factor. A lot of times people 


think they’re on a drug. If someone needs IV resuscitation after the drug goes in, the staff would say 


the patient is on the drug.” – Third ENIGMA investigator and KOL


“When doing endoscopy, the doctor is not blinded to visual findings. He may say it looks like you’re 


getting better. That doctor should be blinded. But patient can get a CBC panel themselves.” – Third ENIGMA 
investigator and KOL


“The infusion reactions could unblind you.” – ENIGMA investigator and KOL


“You could argue that from a symptom standpoint, the trial was unblinded. If you have a reaction, you 


say as a patient that I can’t be on placebo. Absolutely, that’s a confounder factor. It’s one of the things you 


have to worry about. Patients think if I’m on placebo, I won’t respond.” - Another ENIGMA investigator


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


65
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We note a striking feature of the ENIGMA data: the infusion reaction rates in the AK002 arm 


(60%) vs placebo (23%) are very similar to the patient-reported symptom score response 


rates for AK002 (64%) vs placebo (15%). We see no explanation for this similarity except that 


infusion reactions unblinded patients and were the driver of symptom scores. In other 


words, 60% of patients had an infusion reaction and logically concluded they were on 


AK002, leading to about the same percentage of patients reporting symptom improvement.


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


66



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Poor blinding controls are a massive red flag which the FDA has specifically cautioned 


about in its guidance document for symptom improvements measured with a PRO (patient-


reported outcome) instrument. The FDA calls out unblinding from adverse effects, and warns 


that “suspicion of inadvertent unblinding can be a problematic review consideration for the 


FDA when assessing PRO endpoints.”


Source: https://www.fda.gov/media/77832/download


“Patients who know they are in an active treatment group may overestimate benefit whereas 


patients who know they are not receiving active treatment may underreport any improvement 


actually experienced.”


“In blinded clinical trials, patients should be blinded to treatment assignment throughout the trial. If 


the treatment has obvious effects, such as adverse events, the clinical trial may be at risk for 


unintentional unblinding.”


“Suspicion of inadvertent unblinding can be a problematic review consideration for the FDA 


when assessing PRO endpoints.”


“The effect of intentional unblinding is important to consider in the interpretation of clinical 


trial results.”


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


67



https://www.fda.gov/media/77832/download
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Patients in the trial actively posted about their experiences on a Facebook group for 


eosinophilic gastritis, often in real-time during infusions. The group lists over 1,000 


members, with hundreds of posts by trial participants or their families. We suspect that 


most, if not the vast majority of the 65 participants in the Allakos trial may be members of 


the group. The patients and/or their families strike us as sophisticated, knowledgeable, and 


well-read about the condition – creating a unique and problematic echo chamber for this 


trial. Patients clearly associated infusion-related reactions or other side effects with being 


on the drug, as evidenced by four different patients below.


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


68



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Aside from the infusion itself, patients posted that eosinophil depletion triggered side 


effects and was further indication that they were getting AK002.


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


69



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Trial investigators compounded patients’ own associations between reactions and being in 


the active arms. Given doctors’ influence, the suggestibility and bias in patient-reported 


symptom scores is self-evident.


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


70



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Patients scrutinized and posted pictures or comments about their IV packs, and conveyed 


strong beliefs about whether they were on low or high dose based on the labels. One patient 


remarked “wow I didn’t think they’d even hint to whether or not you go[t] it.”


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Black bars ours to 


redact patients name 


and ID# on bag


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


71



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Shockingly, one patient reported having access to ‘test results, biopsies, bloodwork while 


on the drug.”


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


72



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Patients reported receiving ongoing endoscopy results during the trial (referred to as EGD -


“esophagogastroduodenscopy”), and their doctors correlated visual improvement or 


worsening with being on AK002 or placebo, respectively. One person went so far as to state 


that “clinically and by endoscopy we all should have a clear indication if we are getting the 


drug or placebo.”


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


73



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Posts suggest that trial participants were extremely motivated to be accepted into the 


extension study where all patients would receive the drug and avoid placebo, and that they 


would be allowed to continue only if they had “success” in the ENIGMA trial, potentially


creating a perverse incentive for them to report symptom improvements on the PRO scale.


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


74



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The parent of a trial participant reported speaking with Allakos, specifically mentioning the 


company’s co-founder and a member of its scientific advisory board, as well as what we 


infer to be communication with the Chief Medical Officer. The communication – if true –


would strike us as reckless and would make a farce of a “blinded” trial, and raise concerns 


about tampering and Allakos’ conduct in general. 


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


75



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


An Allakos ENIGMA Trial Investigator - a prominent physician and KOL in the space -


expressed concern at this possibility, calling it “weird” and “unusual” in the context of a 


blinded trial.


Source: Seligman expert consultations


“If Rasmussen [Allakos Chief Medical Officer] talked to a patient’s parent, 


that’s what I mean when I say they were heavily involved. That’s unusual. It 


seems a little weird to me. The company should be blinded to the patient’s 


name. It doesn’t make any sense. The patient’s ID is a private matter. Patients are 


desperate. Parents sometimes call the company. It’s a gray area. Once a patient 


identifies themselves to the company, it’s a HIPAA violation. It’s concerning to some 


degree. He could be influencing them. Randomization should be done by 


investigational pharmacist at each site. It’s unusual and is a little concerning.“


– Allakos ENIGMA Phase 2 Trial Investigator and a prominent physician/KOL in the space


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


76
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


A post from April 2019 mentions a research coordinator disclosing that “the .3mg dose will 


be dropped because the results indicated it was not effective. So they will continue to trial 


the 1mg and 3mg doses.” If Allakos had unfettered access to patient data and results well 


before the end of the trial and a research coordinator – we presume at a trial site – was able 


to prematurely speak to study “results,” then we wonder how the trial can be described at 


“blinded.”


[…]


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


Warning sign #5: Poor controls rendered the trial essentially unblinded


77



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #6: What appears to be a last minute, unexplained expansion of the ENIGMA 
trial, with insufficient time for new patients to complete the study’s pre-specified protocol, 
then followed by the exclusion of patients for a cherry-picked “Per Protocol” group around 
which the topline results are framed – a curious scenario given Allakos’ role in running the 
study, nepotism, unblinding – and as we detail later, the role of one or two patients in barely 
pushing the study into statistical significance, despite n=65, according to a number of 
biostatisticians we consulted, including two known for identifying discrepancies or fraud in 
clinical trials. 


Allakos’ phase 2 trial results presentation and call on August 5, 2019 indicated that 65 patients
participated in the trial. However, as of January 4th, 2019, the ClinicalTrials.gov page for the 
ENIGMA trial still indicated a total of 60 patients.


Companies typically disclose trial size expansions, but we can find no such disclosure by 
Allakos prior to the final trial results, even at its Investor Day on February 19, 2019, where it 
again stated that the trial was powered with 60 patients. We note that the analyst day 
occurred deep into the trial and only a few months before it ended.


This is problematic as patients enrolled after February/March lacked time to complete the pre-
specified protocol by the study’s June 24th completion date. Even if the new patients were 
magically added on February 20th - implausible given the rarity of EG/EGE and difficulty in 
finding participants) – following the protocol would have pushed them into September, by our 
calculation, and corroborated by color from trial investigators on the study’s duration.


78
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #6 (cont’d): What appears to be a last minute, unexplained expansion of the 
ENIGMA trial, with insufficient time for new patients to complete the study’s pre-specified 
protocol


Mid-trial study adjustments - 11th hour in this case - which expand the sample size and 
powering are a red flag, as they suggest that the study is failing to show statistical significance. 
Companies try to salvage the study by enrolling more subjects in the hope that a larger N will 
capture a smaller effect. We have historically found such modifications to be predictive of trial 
failure, with shares often declining upon these disclosures. Common sense indicates that if a 
study is pointing to efficacy, a public company has little incentive to expand the sample size 
and rock the boat. 


The sequence is troubling: Allakos likely had real-time data as they ran the study themselves; 
then appear to have quietly expanded the trial size; new patients lacked time to complete the 
pre-specified protocol; patients were then excluded to cherry-pick a Per Protocol group; and 
the trial appears to have barely scraped over the finish line with one or two patients driving 
statistical significance, as we detail in a later section.


79
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos’ phase 2 trial results presentation and call on August 5, 2019 indicated that 65 


patients participated in the trial.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


80


Warning sign #6: The unexplained, last minute expansion of the ENIGMA trial



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


However, as of January 4th, 2019, the ClinicalTrials.gov page for the ENIGMA trial still 


indicated a total of 60 patients. The site indicates that this was the last update to the page 


until August 5, 2019, the day the study results were publicly released. 


Source: ClincialTrials.gov page for ALLK ENIGMA P2 trial, showing changes between January 4, 2019 (the last version online prior to the final version modified on August 5, 2019, the day the trial results 


were publicly released), https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/history/NCT03496571?A=21&B=22&C=Side-by-Side#StudyPageTop


* Emphasis ours


* Only red box is ours, rest are tracked changes shown on ClinicalTrials.gov


81


Warning sign #6: The unexplained, last minute expansion of the ENIGMA trial



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/history/NCT03496571?A=21&B=22&C=Side-by-Side#StudyPageTop
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Companies typically disclose trial size expansions, but we can find no such disclosure by 


Allakos prior to the final trial results, even at its Investor Day on February 19, 2019, where it 


again stated that the trial was powered with 60 patients. We note that the analyst day 


occurred deep into the trial and only a few months before it ended.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019003232/allk-ex991_199.htm ; red ours for emphasis.


“Moving on now to the design of the various studies, the eosinophilic gastritis and gastroenteritis study, 


randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, agreed with the FDA, looking at a total of 60 patients of 3 arms, 


2 active doses….” – Allakos CMO comments at analyst day


82


Warning sign #6: The unexplained, last minute expansion of the ENIGMA trial



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019003232/allk-ex991_199.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


This is problematic as patients enrolled after February/March lacked time to complete the 


pre-specified protocol by the study’s June 24th completion date. The protocol specifies a 28-


day screening period, with the primary and secondary endpoints measured at days 99 and 


141, respectively, after the screening period ended. This implies 127 days for the primary 


endpoint (28 + 99, or 18 weeks) and 169 (28 + 141, or 24 weeks) for the secondary. Even if all 


five patients were magically added on February 20th - implausible given the rarity of EG/EGE 


and difficulty in finding participants - day 0 wouldn’t have begun until March 19th, followed 


by a 24 week period which by our calculation would have pushed them into September.


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=2&rank=2; red ours for emphasis.


Tissue eosinophils/hpf to be 


measured at day 99/week 14


PRO symptoms to be 


measured at day 141/week 20


83


Warning sign #6: The unexplained, last minute expansion of the ENIGMA trial



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=2&rank=2
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


ENIGMA trial investigators we spoke with confirmed the durations of various steps in the 


study, such as at least a 28 day screening period and six to eight weeks just to get to the 


first of four monthly infusions, and follow up periods thereafter. The ENIGMA page at the NIH 


clinical trials website – one of the locations for the study  - stated that the protocol required 


9 visits over 25 weeks, or >6 months. We fail to see how patients enrolled after late February 


2019 would have had time to complete the study’s protocol by June 24th.


Source: Seligman expert consultation; NIH ENIMGA trial page (link documented and saved in our notes, but URL appears to no longer resolve): 
https://clinicalstudies.info.nih.gov/ProtocolDetails.aspx?A_2019-I-0008.html


“The patients got paperwork at day minus 28, have symptoms, and then have to 


set up for an EGID scope and get biopsies. Then you have to make sure they 


qualify on biopsies and qualify for the infusion. It takes at least six to eight 


weeks to get from start to the first infusion. They have to do a good diary. The 


diary has to be for 28 days before the first infusion. It takes about four to five 


months, and then follow up for a couple of weeks to a month. They track them 


longer.” – Allakos ENIGMA trial investigator


84


Warning sign #6: The unexplained, last minute expansion of the ENIGMA trial



https://clinicalstudies.info.nih.gov/ProtocolDetails.aspx?A_2019-I-0008.html
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


After apparently adding 5 patients sometime after February 19, 2019, Allakos then excluded 6 


patients. The Intent To Treat (ITT) group was 65, while Per Protocol (PP) was 59. The 


explanations for why these patients were excluded are amazingly vague. For example, 


Allakos says that 2 patients were excluded because they “only received 1 dose of drug.” 


Why did they only receive 1 dose – did Allakos, in running the study themselves, see PRO 


symptoms worsen – or drug-related adverse effects - and kick them out? We note the ITT 


symptom score p-value failed in the low dose arm and was barely statistically significant in 


the high dose arm with a p-value of .026, which we believe to be driven by one outlier 


patient, as we shall detail. The PP symptom score p-value of .0012 looks optically impressive 


but we question the gymnastics required to get there. We further caution that the bulk of the 


charts in the ENIGMA top-line results use the PP population of 39 AK002 patients, excluding 


4 patients on drug, and exclude 1 patient from the placebo comparisons.


Source: ttps://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.
85


Warning sign #6: The unexplained, last minute expansion of the ENIGMA trial



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Mid-trial study adjustments - 11th hour in this case - which expand the sample size and 


powering are a red flag, as they suggest that the study is failing to show statistical 


significance. Companies try to salvage the study by enrolling more subjects in the hope that 


a larger N will capture a smaller effect. We have historically found such modifications to be 


predictive of trial failure, with shares often declining upon these disclosures. Common 


sense indicates that if a study is pointing to efficacy, a public company has little incentive to 


expand the sample size and rock the boat. The sequence here is troubling: Allakos had real-


time data as they ran the study themselves; then appear to have quietly expanded the trial 


size; new patients lacked time to complete the protocol; then some patients were excluded 


in the PP analysis; and the trial appears to have barely scraped over the finish line with one 


or two patients driving statistical significance, as we detail in a later section. We share  the 


concerns of a biostatistician, known for identifying fraud in clinical trials, who we engaged 


to analyze the ENIGMA results.


Source: Seligman expert consultation


“A number of studies have been published that show poor study outcomes when patients are being 


added mid-trial. This is always criticized and some people take the view that the results can’t be trusted. 


You’re getting results, and then changing the protocol and adding more patients. Adding more 


patients suggests that it was done with knowledge of day to day data.”


“A lot of the results Allakos presents weren’t planned beforehand. They’re just showing things that 


support the drug. There’s no detail on the all the methods commonly used to limit bias. It seems reasonable 


to assume that they had access to patient by patient results. It’s just another thing that detracts from 


showing that the results are a true representation of the drug. They inserted inclusion and exclusion 


criteria that weren’t specified initially. I wonder if they retrospectively applied the inclusion and 


exclusion criteria.” - Biostatistician and expert in clinical trial fraud


86


Warning sign #6: The unexplained, last minute expansion of the ENIGMA trial
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #7: The ENIGMA trial allowed steroid use in a liberal, widespread manner, 
rendering the results utterly flawed and compromised as steroids are the standard of care for 
EG/EGE and rapidly reduce eosinophil levels and symptoms. Biostatisticians, trial design 
experts, and ENIGMA trial investigators echoed concerns of steroids as a confounding factor. 
Absurdly, greater than 10mg of Prednisone use was an exclusion criteria, yet doctors pre-
dosed patients with an amount 8X or higher prior to infusion of AK002.


Evan Dellon, a principal investigator for the trial, indicated during the Q&A at his October 29, 
2019 ACG presentation that the protocol was modified to allow 125mg of Solumedrol prior to 
infusion. Solumedrol is similar to prednisone but stronger, with a 125mg dose equivalent to 
156mg of prednisone. The only 100mg prednisone formulation we could locate online is for 
horses1.


Given that steroids are the first line of treatment in EG/EGE and are extremely effective in 
rapidly and significantly reducing eosinophil levels and in driving symptom improvement, their 
usage muddies the waters and makes it impossible to determine whether AK002 or steroids 
drove the purported improvements. Whether this was intentional feature in order to create 
“positive” results or an accidental flaw and confounding factor is for investors to 
independently determine. 


Allakos has yet to explain the manner in which steroids were used – for example, duration, 
dosing, etc. The lack of data continues the company’s pattern of withholding basic, essential 
information and prevents investors from assessing the study’s results.


87


Source: 1https://www.wedgewoodpharmacy.com/items/prednisone-oral-suspension.html; ACG meeting Q&A; Seligman research.



https://www.wedgewoodpharmacy.com/items/prednisone-oral-suspension.html
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #7 (cont’d): The ENIGMA trial allowed steroid use in a liberal, widespread 
manner, rendering the results utterly flawed and compromised 


The company appears keenly aware of the importance of this data, and threw a bone to 
investors in the August 5th presentation by including P-values for a “no steroids” subgroup. In 
our opinion, this “data” is merely a cynical attempt to reassure investors, as the more critical 
subgroup – which was striking by its absence – is the “steroids” subgroup.


We asked the CEO in August, during a group meeting, whether this data would be shared. He 
displayed what we would describe as contempt at the notion that steroid use had anything to 
do with the outcome. He stated that Allakos had shared more data with investors than anyone 
and that the only reason more steroid data wasn’t shared was because investors said they 
didn’t need it, adding that if they wanted the data, he’d share it in September when ALLK 
visited New York1. The company then appeared to be a no-show at a key healthcare conference 
in NYC a few weeks later.


No such data has been publicly shared as far as we can tell, and two recent medical conference 
presentations on the EG/EGE study – rather than providing additional data on steroid usage –
removed even the superficial steroid-related information in the August 5th top-line 
presentation. Moreover, the August 5th ENIGMA presentation appears to have been removed 
from the ALLK site as of the date of this report, and replaced by a much shorter version 
presented at ACG in late October.


88
Source: 1CEO comments from August 2019 broker-sponsored meeting. Comments are paraphrased from notes, not a precise transcript, subject to errors typical of such 


recollection, and may not be relied upon as an accurate rendition of statements made.
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The EG/EGE study protocol allowed steroid use in at least three different settings: 1) 


continuation of previous, ongoing usage by the patient; 2) acute administration to medicate 


patients prior to AK002 infusions; and 3) acute usage to manage side effects from the 


infusion. Given the widespread use of steroids and their prominence as a confounding 


factor, the ambiguity of the disclosures below is remarkable: what dosages were used prior 


to infusion? Were steroids given prior to every infusion, and to every patient? What dosages 


were given to manage reactions? What was the duration of usage? 


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised 


89



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos attempted to preempt the inevitable questions on steroids by including P-values for 


a “No Steroids” subgroup. However, it is unclear how “no steroids” is defined and whether 


these patients were allowed to use or were administered steroids in some settings but not 


others. If so, this would render the slide even more irrelevant and evasive.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


What does “no 


steroids”  


mean? No 


definition is 


provided.


90


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We are concerned that Allakos’ steroid figures don’t reconcile with common sense. One 


slide states 28% “acute steroid use” across the AK002 arms, or 12 patients overall using 


n=43. Acute appears to be defined as prior to infusion or to manage infusion-related 


reactions. However, the next slide implies that there were 15 patients in total (10 low dose, 5 


high dose) with any steroid use in active arms. In other words, Allakos appears to be 


representing that only 3 patients out of 43 total in the active arm received non-acute (i.e., 


chronic) steroid therapy. This figure strikes us as wildly inaccurate and implausible. Allakos’ 


own trial investigators indicated to us that 80% of patients are typically on steroid therapy, 


and Allakos’ figure is inconsistent with Facebook posts from numerous patients in their trial. 


As a result, we believe that Allakos is under-representing the usage and impact of steroids.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


• 28% “acute steroid use” in AK002 arms • High dose arm: ITT (n=21) less no steroids (n=16) 


implies n=5 steroid patients


• Low dose arm: ITT (n=22) less no steroids (n=12) 


implies n=10 steroid patients 


91


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Irrespective, displaying P-values for a “no steroids” subgroup fails to answer the critical 


question. The subgroup which matters is the “steroids” subgroup. In other words, was 


AK002 statistically significant in reducing eosinophils and symptoms in patients who are 


taking steroids, relative to placebo? These patients represent the vast majority of the EGID 


real-world population. We believe it is no accident that Allakos withheld p-values for the 


“steroids” cohort in each arm. The omission of efficacy data for placebo patients on steroids 


is striking – because, we believe, the data would show no relative benefit from AK002.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Where is the 


missing row for 


the “Steroids” 


subgroup, 


especially for 


placebo 


patients?


Steroids


Steroids


Steroids


----???----- ----???----- ----???----- ----???-----


----???----- ----???----- ----???-----


----???----- ----???----- ----???-----


----???-----


----???-----


92



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The small fragment of steroids data which Allakos did present is worrisome and makes no 


sense. It suggest that steroids made symptoms worse, which is absurd as steroids are the 


standard of care and drive symptom improvement in the vast majority of patients. Note the 


large decline in efficacy between the low dose ITT and “no steroids” groups in total 


symptom score, from .0313 to .1556. In other words, patients without steroids supposedly 


improved, but when 10 patients with steroids are added back (i.e., the ITT group), the p-value 


drops to .1556 and is no longer statistically significant.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


93



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


A similar absurdity is visible in the high dose cohort, which also shows a sharp drop in 


efficacy when patients on steroids are added back. The no steroids p-value is .0016, but falls 


to .026 when 5 patients are included to get to ITT. Furthermore, the high dose arm had few 


patients on steroids (n=5) compared to the low dose arm (n=10). The low dose arm - with 


double the number of steroid patients - failed to show statistically significant symptom 


improvement, again indicating that steroids led to a worsening of symptoms, which is odd 


and counter to clinical understanding and experience. It suggests that patients must 


discontinue steroids for AK002 to work, an absurd notion as they’re the standard of care and 


prescribed to 80% of patients - according to Allakos’ trial investigators that we consulted.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; Seligman expert consultations; red ours for emphasis.


94



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Our research suggests that steroid use was a defining feature of the trial. Participants were 


prolific in posting their real-time experiences on a Facebook group for eosinophilic gastritis. 


The posts indicate pre-dosing prior to AK002 infusions with steroids such as prednisone, 


Medrol (25% more potent than prednisone), as well as antihistamines such as Benadryl and 


Zyrtec, not to mention Tylenol and perhaps other undisclosed medications that can sway 


patient-reported symptom scores. The open label extension study appears to be now pre-


dosing patients with a whopping 80 mg of prednisone – 8X the daily 10 mg dose listed as an 


exclusion criteria in the ENIGMA protocol.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


95
Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The doses of prednisone are so high that patients are wondering if steroids are a combo 


therapy for the trial. Others are “upset” at ‘that high dose of prednisone” and note the daily 


usage of steroids in addition to pre-dosing prior to infusions. Group members also posted 


about medications given after infusion reactions: Medrol, albuterol, Benadryl, Zofran, 


Toradol, and Reglan. With steroids as ongoing medication, heavy steroid doses pre-AK002, 


and then infusions of various drug cocktails after infusion reactions, we wonder how Allakos 


can claim that AK002 drove purported symptom score improvements vs. these drugs.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


96
Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We spoke to investigators in the AK002 study who confirmed the color from patients on 


Facebook and indicated that steroid usage was essentially as their discretion as physicians. 


The doses appear to be all over the place, further illustrating the sloppy and compromised 


nature of the trial. One made a comment highlighting the magnitude of the dosage. 


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Source: Seligman expert consultations


“We did 20 mg of prednisone before the infusion. You could give it clinically as the doctor if you wanted to.  


Everyone got it. For the first infusion and maybe after the first. If the patient had a reaction, could give 


prednisone then also. The protocol was the first two infusions but you could give it for the third or fourth 


infusions.” – ENIGMA trial investigator


“I had a choice to put patients on steroids or not. Some I did and some I didn’t. We used 80mg of 


prednisone. If you give 40mg of prednisone and then stop it suddenly it risks kidney problems.” –


ENIGMA trial investigator


97
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Widespread, uncontrolled steroid use poses a massive flaw in the Allakos trial, as they are 


the standard of care for EG/EGE patients and are effective in 90% of patients. Even small 


doses – 5mg/day, well below the 10mg dosage allowed for chronic usage in the AK002 trial, 


not to mention a fraction of the 80mg used prior to infusion – can induce rapid, sustainable 


reductions in eosinophils and clinical symptoms, within 2-14 days.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Source: “Successful Treatment of Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis with Clarithromycin,” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3529245/; red ours for emphasis.


“Newly diagnosed [EG/EGE] patients are almost always responsive to systemic corticosteroid therapy 


[…] Doses of prednisone of 0.5–1 mg/kg typically induce a dramatic clinical improvement in 2–14 


days. As such, short-term treatment with systemic corticosteroids is an excellent means to induce 


clinical remission.”


Source: “Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis and Related Eosinophilic Disorders,” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4130565/pdf/nihms587639.pdf


An NIH paper indicates that doses of prednisone well below those used in the AK002 trial are sufficient 


to induce “dramatic clinical improvement in 2-14 days.”


Another paper indicated that 90% of patients respond to steroid therapy and that even a 5 mg/day 


maintenance dose suppressed symptoms. Note the paper abbreviates prednisone as “PSL.”


98



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3529245/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4130565/pdf/nihms587639.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


In addition to eosinophilic gastritis and gastroenteritis, steroids are extremely effective in 


eosinophilic esophagitis. Studies on steroid potency for EGID’s are easy to locate. As an 


example, we note a pediatric study evaluating prednisone versus topical steroids in EGE 


which indicated that 100% of patients in the prednisone arm were symptom-free within four 


weeks. Biopsies measuring eosinophils were equally dramatic, with 81% of patients 


achieving 100% histologic resolution and 94% showing near-total resolution. 


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Source: https://www.cghjournal.org/article/S1542-3565(07)01104-4/pdf; red ours for emphasis.


99



https://www.cghjournal.org/article/S1542-3565(07)01104-4/pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We believe Allakos is clearly aware of the problematic nature of steroid use in their EG/EGE 


trial, as evidenced by data omissions and the withholding of basic information on steroid 


usage during the trial (dosages, durations, etc.). The company appears to have been so 


concerned about the confounding effect of steroids that earlier trials excluded their use 


more broadly. We wonder why the company changed the EG/EGE protocol to allow their use. 


We note that earlier trials also excluded antihistamine usage, yet they were used during the 


EG/EGE study.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Failed AK001 Phase 2 study in nasal polypsis excluded steroid patients


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02734849?term=allakos&rank=8


AK002 Phase 1 in ISM excluded patients requiring more than 10mg of steroids, yet the EG/EGE trial 


allowed far higher doses in multiple contexts.


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=2&rank=7


AK002 Phase 1 safety/tolerability study excluded steroid patients


Source https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02859701?term=allakos&draw=2&rank=6


100


*All red ours for emphasis



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02734849?term=allakos&rank=8

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&draw=2&rank=7

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02859701?term=allakos&draw=2&rank=6
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We note the muddying effect of antihistamines and other medications administered, beyond 


just steroids. The EG/EGE trial protocol specifically prohibited the use of other medications 


that may interfere with the study, but only during the screening period and appears to allow 


their usage thereafter during the trial. We find this disturbing, as it lowers the bar while 


establishing baseline scores, while allowing medications in combination with AK002 as 


symptom improvements were measured. 


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=2; red ours for emphasis.


ENIGMA EG/EGE trial page on ClinicalTrials.gov


101



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=2
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Patients’ Facebook posts reveal the administration of non-steroidal drugs such as 


antihistamines prior to infusion and in other settings during the trial. Numerous studies 


describe antihistamines’ role in managing eosinophilic and mast cell conditions. Posts also 


mention drugs to treat nausea, vomiting, and gastric emptying – such as Zofran, which one 


patient began to take daily after vomiting during the trial. Critically, these are three of the 


eight symptoms measured on the EG/EGE symptom scale. These symptoms would naturally 


correlate with the remaining ones evaluated, namely abdominal pain, cramping, bloating, 


and diarrhea. Given the variety of drugs that appear to have been administered liberally 


during the trial, we struggle to understand how the EG/EGE study singles out the effect of 


AK002.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


“Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis; 


Diagnosis and Clinical Perspectives”


“Many therapeutic options are available 


for the management of EGE […] For 


patients with moderate–severe disease, 


corticosteroids represent the mainstay of 


therapy. Since prolonged corticosteroid 


treatment carries the risk of serious 


adverse effects, other options with better 


safety profiles have been proposed. These 


include budesonide and steroid-sparing 


agents, such as LT inhibitors, 


immunomodulators, antihistamines, and 


mast-cell stabilizers.” 
Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6556468/


102
Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6556468/

https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We believe the FDA is highly sensitive to the need for steroid controls during EGID studies, 


presenting obvious problems for Allakos when they engage with the FDA on phase 3 design 


and endpoints. The reckless approach to steroids used in the phase 2 is almost certainly a 


non-starter, and without the assist from steroids, we see a disastrous scenario for investors 


once Allakos attempts to replicate its phase 2 with a real trial. The FDA published a guidance 


document in February 2019 on eosinophilic esophagitis, which specifically mentions steroid 


controls. KOL’s we have spoken with believe that the FDA has no plans for a separate 


guidance document on EG and that this EOE document will serve as the template. An FDA 


speaker – the contact individual listed on the EOE guidance document - reinforced the 


agency’s concerns about steroid use during EGID trials just weeks ago during a 


presentation at an EGID conference on November 8, 2019.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


Source: FDA EOE guidance document https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download ; ‘FDA Guidance on Eosinophilic Esophagitis,” talk on Nov 8, 2019 at 5th


Cured EGID Conference, https://www.regonline.com/custImages/460000/465951/2019CUREDAgendawithSpaces.pdf 103



https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download

https://www.regonline.com/custImages/460000/465951/2019CUREDAgendawithSpaces.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


One of Allakos own trial investigators stated that steroids could have driven the effects 


attributed to AK002. Given that steroids can provide an acute benefit within two days per the 


clinical literature on eosinophilic conditions, we encourage investors to examine the chart 


below recently posted by Allakos. Note that the majority of the purported symptom 


improvement occurs within days – within the timeframe for steroid response - after which 


the placebo and AK002 curves closely track. We struggle to believe how Allakos can claim 


such rapid resolution after years or decades of chronic damage, but even with the benefit of 


the doubt Allakos must answer questions raised by their own investigator.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


“Could steroids be a confounding factor here? Of course. With 80mg of prednisone, one shot 


can give you an acute effect.” – Allakos EG/EGE trial investigator


Source: Seligman expert consultations; http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; red ours for emphasis
104



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos is continuing its EG/EGE study in an open label extension format. We are 


dumbfounded that the protocol has been changed to remove any exclusion criteria related to 


steroids or other medications which could muddy the results. Allakos’ trial protocols have 


evolved from allowing no steroid use, to allowing some steroid use, and to now allowing 


unbridled steroid use. The company appears to have thrown caution and scientific method 


to the wind, and in our opinion seems fixated on showing AK002 “efficacy” in any way that it 


can.  


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


ClinicalTrials.gov trial record


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03664960?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=1; red ours for emphasis.


No mention of 


steroid use as 


an exclusion 


criteria.


105



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03664960?term=allakos&draw=1&rank=1
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Facebook posts confirm that the open label extension protocol has changed to allow 80mg 


of prednisone and to also add Solumedrol – a steroid that is 25% stronger than prednisone 


at equivalent dosage. Steroid doses may be far higher than 80mg, given comments by Evan 


Dellon, a Principal Investigator of the ENIGMA trial, during the Q&A portion of his 


presentation at ACG in October, where he indicated that the protocol was modified to allow 


125mg of Solumedrol, equivalent to a 156mg dose of prednisone.


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


106
Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We consulted a PhD with expertise in biostatistics and trial design, who conducted 


acquisition due diligence at one of the largest biotech companies. The expert expressed 


deep skepticism of the ENIGMA presentation, particularly on the use of steroids. A professor 


of biostatistics with 20 years of experience, known for identifying discrepancies in clinical 


trials, echoed similar concerns, as did other scientists, biostatisticians, and experts we 


spoke with.


Source: Seligman expert consultations


Warning sign #7: Steroid use renders the results flawed and compromised


“The p-values on page 24 suggest that the delta is a lot smaller if you’re already on steroids. It’s hard to see a 


change. The big question is, is this better than steroids? They don’t show you placebo values because they 


know that those values show something that they don’t want you to see. I’ve never seen a table of p-


values like this. Companies show means and standard deviations and show p-values with an asterisk. This is 


an odd way to show data. And to not show placebo values is strange. It looks to me like they manipulated 


these numbers to look good. Why didn’t they show the data the way it’s usually done?” – PhD/scientist who 
conducted due diligence at one of the largest biotech companies


“The other thing that really bothers me is the effect of steroids and how it wasn’t standardized between the 


placebo and active arms. The rationale in providing steroids is to prevent an infusion reaction, but they’re giving 


someone 80 mgs of steroids on top of a normal maintenance dose. The trial protocol says that taking 10mg of 


prednisone is enough to exclude patients, yet they’re giving 80 mg to preventing infusion reaction, which 


is only people who need it, which is of course the active arm. This is so confounding that’s it’s impossible to 


tell what’s causing the benefit. Dosing everyone the day before and then waiting 24 hours is a great way 


to get symptom reduction. There is just no basis for comparison here. Studies in pediatric patients show 


steroids lower eosinophils by 90-95%. So what’s the effects of Siglec-8 vs. steroids?” – Research scientist


“Can we see in the data or can we infer that the results are not due to steroids? The numbers shown here 


don’t answer this question. Showing only p-values on this slide doesn’t tell you this.” - Professor of 
biostatistics


“P-values are not informative and no clinician cares. They want to know response rates. The effect sizes are 


what matters and they don’t show them. Steroids can obscure the results.” - Biostatistician


107
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #8: The August 5th ENIGMA topline results provide a master class in fatal 
discrepancies and internal contradictions. The red flags are so numerous that we consider the 
presentation to be little more than sleight of hand. We have never seen the sheer number of 
warning signs in a single trial’s results as we do here.


1. The low dose AK002 cohort failed to show statistically significant symptom reduction 
despite eliminating eosinophils, bewildering trial investigators and undermining the entire 
Siglec-8 premise upon which Allakos is based. 


2. Allakos states that eosinophils actually increased by 10% in the placebo group, yet the 
placebo group symptoms still improved by 25%, further undermining their entire hypothesis.


3. As another worrisome discrepancy, ENIGMA’s table of p-values suggests that steroids made 
symptoms worse, which is absurd as steroids are the standard of care and drive symptom 
improvement in the vast majority of patients


4. Despite n=43 in the active arms, one or at most two outlier patients swung the TSS p-values 
into statistical significance, according to a number of biostatisticians and experts in clinical trial 
design we asked to analyze the data. Their analyses were unanimous in indicating that the 
ENIGMA trial barely scraped over the finish line. 


5. Allakos claims that AK002 reduced dysphagia (trouble swallowing) in the EoE subgroup in 
the EG/EGE trial, yet dysphagia wasn’t even a symptom measured in the PRO.


108
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We have never seen the sheer number of discrepancies and statistical red flags in a single 


trial’s top line results as we do in the ENIGMA read-out. Allakos claims that AK002 reduced 


tissue eosinophils by 92% in the low dose cohort, close to the high dose cohort reduction of 


97%. However, the low dose cohort failed to show statistically significant symptom 


reduction. If eosinophils are what cause symptoms – the entire theory behind Allakos - why 


did eliminating eosinophils not show a symptom benefit over placebo? We asked multiple 


ENIGMA trial investigators to comment and all were bewildered by the paradox. We believe 


this discrepancy alone undermines the company’s Siglec-8 premise.


Warning sign #8: Fatal discrepancies and internal contradictions in the ENIGMA data


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


Allakos claims that low dose of AK002 showed 


92% reduction in tissue eosinophils


Yet, low dose arm failed flopped on symptom 


improvement with P-value of .1556


109



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Further calling the eosinophil thesis into question, Allakos states that eosinophils actually 


increased by 10% in the placebo group, yet the placebo group symptoms still improved by  


24%. We note that the active arm only showed a purported 53% symptom reduction, making 


a 24% reduction in the placebo arm extremely meaningful by comparison.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


110


Warning sign #8: Fatal discrepancies and internal contradictions in the ENIGMA data



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


As another worrisome discrepancy, the p-values suggest that steroids made symptoms 


worse, which is absurd as steroids are the standard of care and drive symptom improvement 


in the vast majority of patients. Note the large decline in efficacy between the low dose ITT 


and “no steroids” groups in total symptom score, from .0313 to .1556. In other words, 


patients without steroids supposedly improved, but when 10 patients with steroids are 


added back (i.e., the ITT group), the p-value drops to .1556 and is no longer statistically 


significant. A similar absurdity is visible in the high dose cohort, which also shows a sharp 


drop in efficacy when patients on steroids are added back. We cover the role of steroids as a 


confounding factor in more detail in a later section.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


111


Warning sign #8: Fatal discrepancies and internal contradictions in the ENIGMA data



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Furthermore, despite n=43 in the active arms, we believe that one or at most two outlier 


patients swung the symptom improvement p-values into statistical significance. We asked 


seven different biostatisticians and experts in clinical trial design to analyze Allakos ENIGMA 


results, including two biostatisticians known for identifying discrepancies and/or fraud in 


clinical papers, and a third with a specialty in GI trials specifically. Their analyses were 


unanimous in indicating that the Allakos trial barely scraped over the finish line. We spoke 


with an ENIGMA trial investigator – a KOL in the space and recipient of payments from 


Allakos – who affirmed this as possibility.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; Seligman expert consultation; red ours for emphasis.


High dose ITT p-value of .026 


with n=21 suggests 1-2 


patients swung results


Low dose arm failed with p-


value of .1556, but even PP 


and steroid subgroup p-


values were only .015 and 


.0313, respectively, with 


n=19 and 22.


“It’s certainly possible that one patient outlier drive stat sig in the high dose arm. If a couple of people 


here went in the wrong direction it could sway the p-values.” - ENIGMA trial investigator


112


Warning sign #8: Fatal discrepancies and internal contradictions in the ENIGMA data



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Aside from the ENIGMA investigator, the experts’ comments were devastating in describing 


the role of one or two patients in barely pushing the trial into statistical significance. The 


statistician particularly renowned for identifying fraud in published medical studies has 


precipitated the retraction of scores of papers internationally. The other is a professor of 


biostatistics known for similar analysis. Both were extremely skeptical of Allakos’ data and 


outlined other red flags beyond the impact of an outlier patient. One conducted an analysis 


to reverse-engineer Allakos’ p-values and concluded the published values were not only 


“incorrect” but off by a factor of 10. The concerns were echoed by a third expert who 


specializes in trial design and sensitivity/stress tests.


Source: Seligman expert consultations


“I found it peculiar that the p-values on page 24 [of the Aug 5th ENIGMA results presentation] were ones 


I could calculate and weren’t the same as ones they calculated. It’s possible that it could be some kind of 


software issue. Some p-values were off by a factor of 10. I don’t understand why there’s a discrepancy. I 


can’t tell if it’s incompetence or some other reason.” – Biostatistics expert known for uncovering fabricated data


“It’s one patient giving them statistical significance. This patient is a huge outlier. That’s quite odd in 


statistical analysis.” – Professor of biostatistics with expertise in uncovering discrepancies in clinical trials


“The per protocol and ITT p-values are due to a huge outlier. It’s also due to the statistical approach they’ve 


proposed. This I believe is based on a student t-test. The data is heavily influenced by the outlier. It’s quite 


rare but mathematically possible in data I’ve seen to have one outlier create the impact….Phase 2 data is 


often risky because of small sample sizes. The chance of one person swinging ITT and per-protocol P-values is 


smaller with larger sample sizes.” – Professor of biostatistics with expertise in uncovering discrepancies in clinical trials


“The p-values on page 24 can be driven by one outlier. If you had one patient who got a lot worse, 


it can drive the effect. It’s totally possible.” – Biostatistician with expertise in trial design and GI trials specifically


113


Warning sign #8: Fatal discrepancies and internal contradictions in the ENIGMA data
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The level of skepticism of the Allakos results was both unanimous and extreme, by every 


specialist in statistical analysis of clinical trials and researcher/scientist that we engaged to 


analyze the ENIGMA data.


Source: Seligman expert consultations


“This data is so sparse. The FDA will have access to a lot more.” – Research scientist


“There’s a lot of grandstanding in the presentation which makes me uncomfortable.” – PhD/scientist who 
conducted due diligence at one of the largest biotech companies


“The published phase 2 data lacks of anything to get your teeth into. There’s not enough data to run any 


analysis to give you insight into whether the data is reliable. It’s a small study with not much information to go 


on. It doesn’t feel like a frank disclosure. I have three articles sent to me every week. The majority put a spin on 


the results. On a bit of digging it becomes clear what people have done.” – Biostatistics expert known for uncovering 
fabricated data


“A lot of the results Allakos presents weren’t planned beforehand. They’re just showing things that support 


the drug. There’s no detail on the all the methods commonly used to limit bias. It seems reasonable to 


assume that they had access to patient by patient results. It’s just another thing that detracts from showing 


that the results are a true representation of the drug. They inserted inclusion and exclusion criteria that 


weren’t specified initially. I wonder if they retrospectively applied the inclusion and exclusion criteria.” –
Biostatistics expert known for uncovering fabricated data


“There’s a lot heterogeneity in the placebo and treatment population. This is a very diverse group. Then the 


basic assumptions used for statistical analysis aren’t shown. There’s not much statistical value here. I have 


many concerns about p-values. The company doesn’t specify the statistical test used. They didn’t specify the null 


hypothesis, or the distribution of the test. One can’t say anything about the meaning or value of these p-


values.” – Professor of mathematics/biostatistics


114


Warning sign #8: Fatal discrepancies and internal contradictions in the ENIGMA data
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos claims that AK002 reduced dysphagia (trouble swallowing) in the EoE subgroup in 


the EG/EGE trial. Dysphagia is the hallmark symptom of EoE, and therefore Allakos claim is 


crucial to assess. However, we note yet another discrepancy: Allakos’ states unambiguously 


that their PRO measured only 8 symptoms – EXCLUDING dysphagia - and then the company 


claims dysphagia reduction anyway in the Aug 5th trial results presentation. Furthermore, 


despite the company’s fascination with p-values over response rates, this page omits p-


values altogether - because, we believe, the data is not statistically significant despite bar 


charts that try to suggest the opposite.


Allakos’ Chief Medical Officer comments on Aug 5th call


“Our PRO measures 8 symptoms on a scale from 0 to 10, 10 being the most severe. So the Total Symptom Score 


is 80 points. So a reduction in Symptom Score is a good thing. The 8 symptoms we looked at were: abdominal 


pain; nausea; vomiting, early satiety, which means fulfillment before ending a meal; the loss of appetite; 


abdominal cramping; bloating; and/or diarrhea.”


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm’ CapitalIQ call transcript; red ours for emphasis.


Footnote states “All EoE patients 


with end of treatment dysphagia 


scores”


PRO excluded dysphagia, so where 


are these “dysphagia scores” 


mysteriously coming from? 


Is Allakos being truthful with investors 


about the composition of their PRO 


and what symptoms “we looked at”? 


115


Warning sign #8: Fatal discrepancies and internal contradictions in the ENIGMA data



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #9: Aside from discrepancies, the trial results are compromised by 1) glaring 
omissions, 2) cherry-picked measures, and 3) statistical gimmicks and obfuscation, making a 
mockery of standard biotech disclosure and indicative of a trial where all is not as it appears.


1. The top-line readout presented a table of p-values for various subgroups – an unusual 
format for a critical page – and excluded response rates/percent changes, without which the 
trial results cannot be evaluated.


2. On other pages where some effect sizes are selectively provided, Allakos again withholds 
basic data, such as standard deviations, error bars, or the statistical tests used,


3. The company fails to break out critical data by low and high dose AK002 arms, cherry-
picking results by arm on a few pages but lumping them together on critical measures. 


4. Virtually every page employs a different statistical measure or gimmick, depending on what 
casts the data in the best light. The manner in in which p-values appear or disappear from 
sequential pages is stunning, and we believe, not accidental. 


In the words of one scientist we consulted, “It’s comparing apples and organs on each 
slide…The data is cherry-picked and dishonest.”


116
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #9: Glaring omissions, cherry-picked measures, and statistical gimmicks and obfuscation


In addition to numerous discrepancies, the Aug 5th EG/EGE presentation is marked by 


surprising omissions that make a parody of standard industry practice. Notably, the table of 


p-values for various subgroups – an unusual format for a critical page – excluded response 


rates/percent changes, without which the trial results cannot be evaluated. Investors trying 


to understand something as basic as AK002’s effect on symptoms were left in the dark. We 


further note the absence of any patient-level data - easy to provide and typically done for 


trials this small.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm’ red ours for emphasis.


“They took the placebo values off this page. 


There are no p-values shown. This is a 


problem throughout the deck. They obviously 


have those numbers. I’ve never seen a table 


of p-values like this. Companies show means 


and standard deviations and show p-values as 


an asterisk. This is an odd way to show data. 


And to not show placebo values is strange. 


It looks to me like they manipulated these 


numbers to look good. Why didn’t they 


show the data the way it’s usually done?”
- PhD/scientist who previously conducted due diligence at one of 


the largest biotech companies


“P-values are not informative and no 


clinician cares. They want to know 


response rates. The effect sizes are what 


matters and they don’t show them.” –
Biostatistician who specializes in clinical trial design and 


evaluation


117



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


On pages where some effect sizes are selectively provided, Allakos again withholds basic, 


industry-standard data, making one wonder what the company may be trying to hide. We 


asked five biostatisticians, scientists, and trial design experts to assess each slide in the 


Aug 5th EG/EGE top line read-out. The skepticism from one expert below is representative.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm


“Companies usually have plus/minus standard deviation which allows 


you to back into and calculate what’s going on. It’s a red flag. Normally 


those are put in. We have no idea how wide the distribution is 


around the mean. Their not showing standard deviation is a big 


deal.”


“There’s no standard deviation and no p-value shown for the 


placebo effect. Companies usually compare dose groups to placebo 


directly. If it wasn’t statistically significant, they’d put the p-value in 


there. It’s so easy to do. Look at percent change by patients 


compared to percent change in the patients and see if its stat sig. This 


data isn’t conclusive without that information.”


“There’s no graph of Total Symptom Score. This page just 


combines everything and doesn’t separate low/high dose, placebo, 


steroids, no steroids. It also only shows the median, without showing 


mean and standard deviation. They’re trying to make data look as 


good as they can without giving a lot of info. Allakos doesn’t say 


what kind of statistical test they use to calculate the p-values…Nothing 


in the materials tells you.” 


- PhD/scientist who conducted due diligence at one of the largest biotech’s
118


Warning sign #9: Glaring omissions, cherry-picked measures, and statistical gimmicks and obfuscation



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The company’s failure to break out critical data by low and high dose AK002 arms continues 


the pattern of cherry-picking and omissions. Allakos breaks out results by arm on a few 


pages, and then proceeds to lump the arms together on critical measures. We note four 


crucial claims where Allakos reticence to separate data by arm is suspect.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm


PRO Symptom Scores: we find it stunning that Allakos failed to share 


how each dose affected the various symptoms measured.


Reduction in severity of dysphagia: as the defining symptom of EoE, 


the lack of data by arm renders the minimal EoE data shared on Aug 5th


even less relevant or informative.


Mast cell counts decrease: mast cells, which express Siglec-8, are 


core to the AK002 Siglec8-inhibition story. The data is already dubious, 


as it indicates that AK002 flopped in showing statistical significance in 


two of three biopsy measures. Only the duodenal count showed stat sig, 


yet Allakos bizarrely only provides one p-value and fails to state which 


arm it applies to. 


Adverse events: in yet another departure from industry-standard 


disclosure norms, Allakos prevents investors from understanding the 


relationship between dose level and safety. Warning signs related to this 


signal have blown up many biotech companies.


119


Warning sign #9: Glaring omissions, cherry-picked measures, and statistical gimmicks and obfuscation



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The preceding examples of discrepancies, omissions, and cherry-picking suggest to us a 


company that is not playing it straight with investors. Virtually every page employs a 


different statistical gimmick in an attempt - we believe - to mislead investors. None of this 


would fly with credible medical journals – much less the FDA – and explains the 


conspicuous lack of validation and peer review. In particular, we note the company’s 


selective and inconsistent fascination with p-values.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


A critical table in the top-line readout is all p-values vs. 


standard practice of showing response rates/effect size. 


Yet, other key charts such as on mast cell reduction omit p-values 


and show effect size instead, because – as revealed by a tiny 


asterisk – the p-values are not stat sig for 2 of 3 measures.


Why is a p-values table missing completely on the crucial 


symptoms improvement chart?


Why is the p-value suddenly shown as a threshold value (“p<.05”) 


when the table above shows them to four significant digits? The 


threshold for statistical significance is .05, and this suggests the 


p-value is barely below .05 – technically statistically significant but 


irrelevant, and a red flag for data manipulation.


120


Warning sign #9: Glaring omissions, cherry-picked measures, and statistical gimmicks and obfuscation



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The manner in which p-values appear or disappear from sequential pages is stunning, and 


we believe, not accidental. The lack of error bars, standard deviations, and other standard 


information is unusual. In the words of one scientist we consulted, “It’s comparing apples 


and organs on each slide…The data is cherry picked and dishonest.”


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


Slide 17 says AK002 shows “potent tissue eosinophil 


depletion”, yet the p-value is conspicuously absent.


Slide 26 claims “significant eosinophil reductions” in EoE 


patients and a statistically significant p-value suddenly re-


appears.


Yet the very next slide claiming “substantial improvement 


in dysphagia” – the defining symptom of EoE – reverts 


back to omitting the p-value. The only conclusion we can 


draw from the lack of a p-value is that AK002 is a dud when 


it comes to the most important symptom of EoE.


121


Warning sign #9: Glaring omissions, cherry-picked measures, and statistical gimmicks and obfuscation



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #10: Since the superficial ENIGMA release on Aug 5th, Allakos has yet to follow 
up with proper data at a medical conference or in a peer-reviewed publication, which we find 
alarming relative to standard practice. The company has had three key opportunities to fill in 
gaping holes and failed to do so. The scraps of additional data which have been shared raise 
more questions than answers, with red flags beyond those in the Aug 5th package. Alarmingly, 
critical information from Aug 5th – such as p-values – keeps shifting, suggesting a lack of data 
integrity, incompetence, or worse. Further, the Aug 5th presentation appears to have now been 
deleted from the Allakos site, replaced by one less than half the length and missing key data in 
the original.


The company has had three marquee opportunities to fill in the gaping holes and selective 
disclosures from the August 5th readout, and failed to do so: 1) an October 22 presentation at a 
key European GI conference, United Gastroenterology Week in Barcelona; 2) an October 29 
presentation at the American College of Gastroenterology meeting in San Antonio; 3) a 
November 8 presentation at the CURED EGID conference in Cincinnati.


We find it surprising that critical data has changed since the topline results on Aug 5th. As 
Allakos has not disclosed any errors to investors, the changes strike us as clearly intentional:


1. There are now 5 versions of the critical slide on eosinophil depletion in stomach/duodenal 
tissue, with different combinations of p-values and other data.


2. The data for eosinophil depletion in esophageal tissue in the EoE subgroup has also shifted.


122
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #10 (cont’d): Still no proper data since topline readout, scraps of new data raise 
troubling questions 


3. An alarming footnote has been added to the baseline characteristics slide from August 5th, 
suggesting that Allakos used an artificial baseline from which to measure eosinophil and mast 
cell reductions – the single site with the highest count versus an average of several biopsies per 
typical practice and FDA guidance.


123
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #10: Still no proper data since topline readout, scraps of new data raise troubling questions 


We begin by noting red flags in the ENIGMA trial primary endpoint slide on tissue eosinophil 


depletion, shown below from the August 5th top-line results. Different versions of this crucial 


slide have been presented FOUR times after the original release, on 1) Oct 22  at UEG in 


Barcelona, 2) October 29 at ACG in San Antonio, 3) November 8 at the CURED conference in 


Cincinnati, and alarmingly 4) in a “revised version” of the November 8 slide which 


conference organizers send to attendees a couple of weeks after. We highlight the sections 


which dance around, notably the 1) the definition of HPF (high power field), 2) the p-value 


(missing in the slide below), and 3) eosinophil reduction.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


Original August 5th version from ENIGMA read-out


P-value missing


124



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The version of the primary endpoint slide subsequently presented on October 22 in 


Barcelona fails to match the August 5th. The definition of HPF at top is changed from “<5” to 


“<6”. A p-value suddenly appears. Eosinophil reduction at the bottom is also changed from 


“<5 eos/hpf” to “<6 eos/hpf”. Two details are added as footnotes. One qualifies the 


stomach/duodenal eosinophil reduction as “Primary endpoint percent change in eosinophils 


from baseline” and the other specifies a statistical test (“p-value: Fisher’s exact test”).


Source: UEG Week 2019 presentation: “Efficacy and Safety of AK002 in Adult Patients With Active Eosinophilic Gastritis and/or Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis: Primary Results From a Randomized, 
Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Phase 2 Trial (ENIGMA Study)”, https://acgmeetings.gi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/ACG2019_Final-Program.pdf p.64; red ours for emphasis.


October 22/Barcelona version of primary endpoint slide


125


Warning sign #10: Still no proper data since topline readout, scraps of new data raise troubling questions 



https://acgmeetings.gi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/ACG2019_Final-Program.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The October 22 version changes again a week later in San Antonio, representing the THIRD 


version of this crucial slide. The p-value is now removed as are the footnotes. Given that 


Allakos has not disclosed any data errors and the presenter, the additions and removals 


strike us as clearly deliberate. 


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; red ours for emphasis.


October 29/San Antonio version, one week after UEG


126


P-value missing


Footnotes missing


Warning sign #10: Still no proper data since topline readout, scraps of new data raise troubling questions 



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The Cincinnati version the Principal Investigator presents on Nov 8 marks the FOURTH 


version. We now see an entirely new definition of HPF at top and of eosinophil reduction at 


bottom: “≤6/HPF” versus “<5” and “<6” before. This was followed by a FIFTH iteration when 


conference organizers sent a revised version to attendees a couple of weeks after. The 


definitions are changed back to “<6” and with a p-value re-inserted. Investors should be 


asking why the definition of the primary endpoint keeps changing from week to week, much 


less why the principal investigator and/or conference took the remarkable step of issuing 


what looks like a retraction.


Source: “Fifth CURED EGID Research Conference” presentation“ by Evan Dellon, https://www.regonline.com/custImages/460000/465951/2019CUREDAgendawithSpaces.pdf;; 
CURED conference organizers; red ours for emphasis. 


November 8/Cincinnati version “Revised version” of Cincinnati sent after conference 


127


P-value missing


Warning sign #10: Still no proper data since topline readout, scraps of new data raise troubling questions 



https://www.regonline.com/custImages/460000/465951/2019CUREDAgendawithSpaces.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The new information presented since the August 5th presentation is notable not only for 


shifting definitions of the eosinophil endpoint in EG/EGE (stomach/duodenal tissue) but also 


for a similarly shifting definition of eosinophil reduction in the EoE subgroup (esophageal 


tissue) – a worrisome issue for investors given its importance as an endpoint in any 


prospective EoE trial. The EoE endpoint changes from <5/HPF on Aug 5th to ≤6/HPF at UEG 


on Oct 22, as does the criteria in the footnote for excluding patients from the measurement. 


The p-value changes from <..0001 to <.001, a 10X worsening. When asked during the ACG 


Q&A, the PI claimed it was a typo, which makes no sense given that the definition of HPF 


was altered as well.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; UEG Week 2019 presentation: “Efficacy and Safety of AK002 in Adult 
Patients With Active Eosinophilic Gastritis and/or Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis: Primary Results From a Randomized, Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Phase 2 Trial (ENIGMA 
Study)”, https://acgmeetings.gi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/ACG2019_Final-Program.pdf p.64; red ours for emphasis.


Original August 5th version from ENIGMA read-out October 22/Barcelona version


128


Warning sign #10: Still no proper data since topline readout, scraps of new data raise troubling questions 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm

https://acgmeetings.gi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/ACG2019_Final-Program.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The October 29th ACG version of the ENIGMA results presentation also changed the baseline 


characteristics slide first presented on August 5th. A footnote is added to qualify the starting 


mean eosinophil and mast cell counts in tissue, stating “Gastric or duodenal site with 


highest eosinophil or mast cell counts”. Cells counts via microscope HPF by a pathologist 


are unreliable given the irregular distribution of eosinophils and mast cells in the stomach or 


duodenum. The FDA expects counts averaged over multiple biopsies, and best practice uses 


multiple pathologists to limit bias. ENIGMA trial investigators told us that the trial used only 


one pathologist, who we noted earlier disclosed a conflict of interest with Allakos. The new 


footnote suggests that Allakos used an artificial baseline from which to measure eosinophil 


and mast cell reductions – the single site with the highest count. Allakos has no footnote 


explaining how they measure the ending count, and we can only wonder if they cherry-pick 


the site with the lowest count. We note one of their own investigator’s skepticism.


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; red ours for emphasis.


“All these diseases have spontaneity. It’s hit or miss measuring cell counts via biopsy. You can be 10 


centimeters too close or too far, or 10 minutes too late or too early given their intraday variation. Biopsies 


here are a hard one.” – Allakos trial investigator and KOL


Footnote states “1Gastric or duodenal site 


with highest eosinophil or mast cell counts”


Baseline definition states “Mean 


Gastrointestinal1 Eosinophils/hpf” and 


“Mean Gastrointestinal1 Mast Cell/hpf”


129


Warning sign #10: Still no proper data since topline readout, scraps of new data raise troubling questions 



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting and instable p-values, the incremental data shared since 
Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons. The only real attempt at filling in gaps is a new slide 
with PRO response rates over time. However, the curves demonstrate that the response rates 
are flimsy and clinically irrelevant, strain credibility on other counts, and expose new 
discrepancies and contradictions that further undermine the ENIGMA results and cast doubt 
on the company’s conduct.


1. The response rates are flimsy and driven by the arbitrary definition of a responder as a 
patient with “>30% benefit in Total Symptom Score,” rendering the trial results a strained 
statistical artifact. Simple stress tests that tweak the responder definition – as the FDA does in 
PRO trials – suggest the results easily collapse. 


2. Aside from being precarious, the response rates lack clinical relevance as they indicate that 
patients barely felt better relative to placebo.


3. The response curves strain credibility and fail the too-good-to-be-true test. The AK002 curve 
indicates a battery of 8 different PRO symptoms plummeting within one to three days – which 
we find absurd given that patients suffer from GI lesions, tissue masses, edema, and 
inflammation from years or decades of chronic disease. 


4. The curves show a worsening of PRO symptoms in the placebo arm in the final week – a 
rather lucky and abrupt reversal of trend without which, we believe, the trial would have 
failed. We doubt this type of data will pass muster with the FDA.


130
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #11 (cont’d): Aside from shifting and instable p-values, the incremental data 
shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons.


5. The response curve clearly indicates that the lowest dose of AK002 (0.3 mg/kg) drove most 
of the benefit, yet the company dropped the lowest dose going forward – yet another 
discrepancy and contradiction that undermines the company’s credibility.  


6. Allakos broke out response rates for each of the 8 symptoms measured in the PRO, although 
not over time nor broken out by arm.  Irrespective, the data exhibits statistically suspect 
clustering, and fails to match data from August 5th.


131
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; red ours for emphasis.


-20%


-30%


-40%


-50%


The UEG and ACG presentations showed some scraps of response rate data for PRO Total 


Symptom Scores, missing on August 5th. We find it interesting that Allakos declined to break 


out the curves by low and high dose arms. The data is troubling for other reasons. The 


ENIGMA endpoint arbitrarily defined a responder as a patient with “>30% benefit in Total 


Symptom Score”. The data show that the results are a precarious statistical artifact driven 


by the 30% definition. Red lines we add below indicate that tweaking the responder 


definition to 40% or better reduction would have led to trial failure. The FDA does stress 


tests to ensure that nudging the responder definition in a PRO trial still shows separation 


between drug and placebo. We see peril with the FDA given how easily the results collapse.


Placebo 


AK002


132



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; red, green, yellow ours for emphasis.


Aside from being flimsy, the response rates lack clinical relevance. In the back half of the 


period below, placebo patients improved by about 30% and AK002 patients improved by 


about 45% (green lines added to show average). A roughly 15% improvement – and from a 


flawed, unvalidated PRO with blinding, steroid, and other massive problems – means 


patients barely feel better. The error bars in later weeks suggest even smaller improvement 


(orange added between bars). Moreover, PRO’s have a margin of error which Allakos has yet 


to disclose. If this is the most improvement that Allakos can show, despite numerous red 


flags which in our opinion suggest manipulation, the actual real-world PRO improvement 


could easily be zero.


-20%


-30%


-40%


-50%


Placebo 


AK002


133


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f


The number of other red flags in the AK002 response rate data is astonishing. Patients suffer 


from GI lesions like submucosal tumors, tissue masses like granules, edema, and 


inflammation from years or decades of chronic disease. Yet the AK002 curve indicates a 


battery of 8 different PRO symptoms plummeting within ONE TO THREE days – straining 


credibility and failing the too-good-to-be-true smell test. AK002 then simply tracks the 


placebo’s path for the rest of the measurement period, reinforcing that most of the purported 


AK002 symptom benefit over placebo happens instantaneously.


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; CapitalIQ transcript; red ours for emphasis.


Placebo 


AK002


“Also importantly, the effect was almost instantaneously [sic], as we saw statistically significant 


improvements in symptoms within 1 day of the first infusion.” – Allakos Chief Medical Officer, Aug 5th


ENIGMA results call


134


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f

http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We further note the worsening of PRO symptoms in the placebo arm in the final week – a 


rather lucky and abrupt reversal of trend. Recall that p-values for Total Symptom Scores 


flopped in the low dose arm, and were barely statistically significant in the high and 


combined dose arms on ITT. Without the convenient boost from the large decline in placebo 


scores in the final week, it is difficult to see how all arms wouldn’t have failed. We wonder 


how the FDA will feel in phase 3 if “lightning” strikes the same tree twice.


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; 
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


Placebo arm suddenly degrades 


versus AK002 in final week 


Low does failed to show stat sig and high 


dose barely scraped over the finish line.


135


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Both the clinical literature and competing trials suggest that the AK002 response rate curve 


is an anomaly that makes no sense, such as a 2019 paper authored by multiple ENIGMA trial 


investigators including principal investigator Evan Dellon. The first curve shows symptom 


reduction using a validated EoE PRO. Symptoms require at least 4 weeks to improve. 


Consistent with common sense, there is no magical drop within days, nor a sudden reversal 


at the end. The second paper reinforces the trajectory of typical PRO response curves and 


the absurdity of the Allakos data.


Source: https://www.gastrojournal.org/article/S0016-5085(18)35208-9/fulltext?referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov%2F; 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1052515717300934


136


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons



https://www.gastrojournal.org/article/S0016-5085(18)35208-9/fulltext?referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov%2F

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1052515717300934
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Just when one thinks Allakos could not have packed more discrepancies and red flags into 


one slide, we highlight another preposterous example. The response curve, as already 


noted, indicates that most of the symptom benefit over placebo occurred in the first few 


days. Yet, the first AK002 dose in both the low and high dose arms was the lowest in the 


protocol (0.3 mg/kg). The next dose of 1.0 mg/kg wasn’t infused until a month later, well after 


the bulk of the symptom improvement already occurred. This clearly indicates that the 


lowest dose of AK002 (0.3 mg/kg) drove most of the benefit – which we know cannot be true. 


We examine Allakos’ own statements and another key fact…


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; red ours for emphasis.


High dose infusion schedule from months 1-4: 


0.3 – 1.0 – 3.0 – 3.0 mg/kg


Low dose infusion schedule from months 1-4: 


0.3 – 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0 mg/kg


137


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


First, the low dose arm failed to show statistically significant symptom improvement, which 


contradicts the data in the response curve – which indicates that the lowest dose drove “the 


magic.” Second, comments by both the CEO and Chief Medical Officer during the August 5th


ENIGMA top-line results call suggested that the lower dose was insufficient. The CMO 


indicated that the 0.3 mg dose was being bypassed in the ENIGMA extension study. The CEO 


expressed uncertainty on whether even 1mg (>3x the lowest dose) was sufficient, and 


appeared gung-ho on using 3mg/kg (or 10x the dose that the response curve indicates drove 


most of the benefit). The company has further modified the extension study to allow even 


higher doses of steroids, to prevent infusion-related reactions and enable  administration of 


the highest AK002 doses they can get away with. Investors should ask, if the low dose drove 


the symptom benefit  - in days, per the response curve – why did they drop it, risking 


adverse events with higher doses and necessitating even more steroids?


Source: CapitalIQ transcript; https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


“So what we have introduced in the extension study


now is pre-dosing with oral prednisone 1 day prior to the 


first and the second AK002 doses […] That has also 


allowed us to bypass the 0.3 mg/kg starting dose and 


actually go straight into a 1 mg/kg starting dose.” –


Allakos Chief Medical Officer


“So I think it's safe to say that the 3 mg/kg dose is 


going into Phase III. I think the question we're still 


debating is whether or not we would put the 1 mg/kg 
in.” – Allakos CEO


Comments on August 5, 2019, ENIGMA trial results 


calls


Low dose arm failed to show symptom 


improvement with P-value of .1556


138


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Aside from Total Symptom Score over time, the UEG and ACG presentations showed 


improvement for each of the 8 symptoms measured in the PRO. Individual symptoms 


weren’t disclosed over time, nor broken out by low and high dose. Irrespective, the unusual 


clustering in the data strains credibility. We question how the AK002 reductions magically 


cluster at 53%, and the placebo reductions at 24%. One would expect significant dispersion 


from subjective patient-reported scores and a small trial size, yet the data says it was 


virtually non-existent. The clinical literature clearly establishes the lack of symptom 


homogeneity in this population.


Source: ACG presentation on ALLK IR site http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; red ours for emphasis.


139


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


In addition to statistically suspect clustering, we note discrepancies between the new 


symptom-level data and that presented in the August 5th top-line results. The original read-


out indicates virtually no vomiting at baseline or end of treatment, and hence a symptom 


reduction of “-100%”. We have already noted how this claim is contradicted by Facebook 


posts by trial participants, not to mention incredulity by ENIGMA investigators. Nonetheless, 


the new slide indicates a 53.0% reduction in vomiting. Moreover, the original data claimed 


79% reduction in nausea whereas the new slide states -53.2%. Similar discrepancies appear 


in early satiety, loss of appetite, and bloating.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; ACG presentation on ALLK IR site -
http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f; red ours for emphasis. 140


Warning sign #11: Aside from shifting p-values, the incremental data shared since Aug 5th is troubling for other reasons



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm

http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #12: Allakos’ representation of only one drug-related serious adverse event in 
the ENIGMA trial conflicts with numerous Facebook posts by trial participants or their families. 
If a company misreports one critical piece of data, we wonder what else may be misreported: 
there is rarely just one cockroach. We are concerned that Allakos raised ~$400MM days after 
the ENIGMA results with disclosure that appears to be flatly contradicted by patients.


Allakos states there was only one drug-related serious adverse event and claims that it 
“recovered within 24 hours with no further sequelae.” 


During the topline results call, the Chief Medical Officer added, “And we didn't find any other 
significant adverse event. So worthwhile to mention here that there don't seem to be any 
adverse event outside the infusion windows.”


This claim is in contrast to Facebook posts by participants in the trial, which indicate a number 
of severe adverse events by multiple patients. The prevalence of these posts suggests that 
adverse events may have occurred in other patients who weren’t posting online. 


One patient reported being admitted to the hospital three times, after which she was “pulled 
off the study.” Allakos says the only reaction during the trial resolved within 24 hours, but the 
patient describes one hospital admission lasting a week, and that she was only discharged 
because her insurance wouldn’t cover a longer stay.  She listed other reaction symptoms as 
“severe” and “super severe.”


141
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #12 (cont’d): Allakos’ representation of only one drug-related serious adverse 
event in the ENIGMA trial conflicts with numerous Facebook posts by trial participants


Another person described a “horrific reaction” following infusion, and visiting the emergency 
room following another reaction.


We additionally note accounts of severe migraines leading to episodes of blindness. Critically, 
the person states that the trial investigator was “very concerned” and “is reporting it as a 
possible adverse side effect.” Given that at least one of these episodes led to an ER visit, we 
wonder why the side effect wouldn’t be classified as “serious.”


142
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos claimed only one drug-related serious adverse event and claims that it “recovered 


within 24 hours with no further sequelae.”


Warning sign #12: Allakos claims about adverse events are contradicted by online patient accounts


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; CapitalIQ transcripts; red ours for emphasis.


“We had 1 drug-related serious adverse event, an infusion reaction which recovered within 24 hours with no 


sequelae. If you look at the total number of treatment-emergent serious adverse event, the incident was 9% on 


AK002 versus 14% on placebo. And we didn't find any other significant adverse event. So worthwhile to 


mention here that there don't seem to be any adverse event outside the infusion windows.” – Allakos 


Chief Medical Officer, Aug 5, 2019, EG/EGE study results call


143



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The claim of only one severe adverse event is in contrast to Facebook posts by participants 


in the trial, which indicate a number of severe adverse events by multiple patients. The 


prevalence of these posts suggests that adverse events may have occurred in other patients 


who weren’t posting online. One patient reported being admitted to the hospital three times, 


after which she was “pulled off the study.” Allakos says the only reaction during the trial 


resolved within 24 hours, but the patient describes one hospital admission lasting a week, 


and that she was only discharged because her insurance wouldn’t cover a longer stay.  She 


listed other reaction symptoms as “severe” and “super severe.” Another person described a 


“horrific reaction” following infusion, and visiting the emergency room following another 


reaction.


Warning sign #12: Allakos claims about adverse events are contradicted by online patient accounts


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
144



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We note accounts of severe migraines leading to episodes of blindness. The post describes 


the typical frequency of one ocular migraine per year, versus as many as 3 in one day since 


being on the study. Critically, the person states that the trial investigator was “very 


concerned” and “is reporting it as a possible adverse side effect.” Given that at least one of 


these episodes led to an ER visit, we wonder why the side effect wouldn’t be classified as 


“serious.”


Warning sign #12: Allakos claims about adverse events are contradicted by online patient accounts


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
145



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #13: Allakos reported a lack of vomiting at baseline and end of treatment in the 
ENIGMA trial and omitted “vomiting” in the list of adverse events - representations which are 
wildly inconsistent with patient accounts on Facebook. Trial investigators were incredulous at 
Allakos’ claim, raising worrying questions for investors given that vomiting is one of the most 
prevalent symptoms in the EGID patient population.


A trial investigator – a prominent physician in the EGID space – expressed incredulity, stating 
that vomiting is such a huge symptom within the patient population that the lack of vomiting 
in the  Allakos data “doesn’t make any sense.”


Even more troubling, Facebook posts by at least four trial participants or their families discuss 
vomiting in detail at 1) baseline, 2) during infusion, and 3) during the trial in settings other 
than infusion.


Given the magnitude of the discrepancy between Allakos’ claims and those of patients, we 
wonder what other troubling discrepancies and surprises may await investors.


146
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos’ symptoms slide reports a conspicuous lack of vomiting, at baseline or end of 


treatment. Moreover, “vomiting” isn’t stated in the table of adverse events. The presentation 


states that safety was evaluated on the ITT population, meaning the safety data below 


includes all 65 patients in the trial.


Warning sign #13: Allakos claims about vomiting are inconsistent with online patient accounts


Zero vomiting at baseline or during trial The list of adverse events excludes 


mention of “vomiting.” 


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


147



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos’ claim of no vomiting raises worrying questions for investors. Vomiting is one of the 


most common symptoms within the patient population in the trial. One of Allakos trial 


investigators – a prominent key opinion leader in the EGID space – was incredulous and 


troubled at the company’s assertions.


Source: Seligman expert consultation


“Page 20 of their slide presentation says zero vomiting. Vomiting is a huge 


symptom. Most patients have vomiting. N=39 in the active arms and no 


vomiting. How did they find 39 patients without vomiting? To me the 


biggest concern is the vomiting thing. Maybe they made a mistake. It doesn’t 


make any sense.” – Allakos ENIGMA trial investigator and a prominent physician in 


the EGID space.


148


Warning sign #13: Allakos claims about vomiting are inconsistent with online patient accounts
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos investigators published a poster at ACG in October 2019, on the development of the 


PRO instrument that ENIGMA patients used to journal their symptoms. Although the PRO 


was developed with a mere 16 patient interviews – we discuss flaws in the ENIGMA PRO in a 


later section – the investigators stated that 81% of EG/EGE patients exhibit vomiting.


Source: https://journals.lww.com/ajg/Fulltext/2019/10001/Development_of_a_Patient_Reported_Outcome__PRO_.1247.aspx#pdf-link; red ours for emphasis.


“Development of a Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) Questionnaire to Assess 


the Symptoms of Eosinophilic Gastritis and Gastroenteritis (EG/EGE-SQ©)”


149


Warning sign #13: Allakos claims about vomiting are inconsistent with online patient accounts



https://journals.lww.com/ajg/Fulltext/2019/10001/Development_of_a_Patient_Reported_Outcome__PRO_.1247.aspx#pdf-link
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The trial doctor’s concern about Allakos’ truthfulness is supported by Facebook posts by at 


least four different patients or their families, which establish the prevalence of vomiting as a 


feature of the trial. Comments such as “since 2am I’ve been vomiting nonstop”, or ones 


describing daily vomiting as a baseline symptom entered in the daily journal, followed by 


replies instructing participants to report the symptoms to study doctors, leave no ambiguity.


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


[…]


150


Warning sign #13: Allakos claims about vomiting are inconsistent with online patient accounts



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The number of posts by different patients referencing vomiting stands in troubling contrast 


to the company’s representations to investors. Discussion chains clearly discuss vomiting 


during the trial and even during infusion, with replies further recommending “calling [the 


research coordinator] and reporting this.” If patient posts contradict Allakos on one critical 


issue, we wonder what else could be misrepresented.


Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/


[…]


151


Warning sign #13: Allakos claims about vomiting are inconsistent with online patient accounts



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #14: Unclear and shifting trial timelines, in apparent violation of the pre-
specified protocol, suggestive of cherry-picking timeframes to engineer favorable results. The 
pre-specified protocol was already concerning given that tissue eosinophil and PRO endpoints 
were to be measured at different intervals. Given the numerous red flags around Allakos’ 
conduct and the trial’s integrity, we find the lack of clarity worrisome – and wonder if cutting 
the data at the original interval would have led to trial failure.


The ENIGMA protocol on ClinicalTrials.gov indicates that the primary endpoint of tissue 
eosinophils was to be assessed at day 99 (14 weeks), with the secondary endpoint of PRO 
symptom scores to be assessed at day 141 (20 weeks). However, the Aug 5th top-line 
presentation stated that endpoints were measured 2 weeks after last dose, or roughly 14 to 15 
weeks. We have seen no data from Allakos beyond this point.


Moreover, other omissions and discrepancies lead us to wonder whether the disclosure of the 
new 14 week measurement point is even accurate. The October 29th ACG presentation omitted 
‘Endpoints assessed two weeks after last dose” and failed to state when the endpoints were 
measured. We do not believe this is accidental, as p-values have also changed.


A footnote buried in a later slide in the ACG presentation states “biopsy occurred 6 weeks post 
last dose instead of 2 weeks per protocol”. This suggests that the company’s disclosure on 
August 5th was inaccurate. Moreover, by the slide represents 2 weeks as “per protocol” – which 
is not per the protocol specified on ClinicalTrials.gov.


152
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The pre-specified protocol in the ENIGMA trial stated a 28 day screening period, followed by 


a 141 day study period, for a total duration of 169 days (24 weeks). The primary endpoint of 


tissue eosinophils was to be assessed at day 99 (14 weeks), with the secondary endpoint of 


PRO symptom scores to be assessed at day 141 (20 weeks).


Warning sign #14: Unclear and shifting trial timelines suggest cherry-picking to engineer favorable results


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=2&rank=2; red ours for emphasis.


Tissue eosinophils/hpf to be measured at 


day 99/week 14


PRO symptoms to be measured at 


day 141/week 20


153



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03496571?term=allakos&draw=2&rank=2
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


However, the top-line presentation on Aug 5th stated that endpoints were measured 2 weeks 


after last dose, or roughly 15 weeks (four monthly doses at day 0, 30, 60, and 90 = 13 weeks 


plus 2 weeks). This suggests that tissue eosinophils were measured per protocol at 14 


weeks (although we explain shortly why even this may not be accurate), but symptoms were 


not since the study specified measurement at week 20. The unexplained deviation from 


protocol is a red flag. Note that the company appears to have run the study itself and served 


as its “own CRO,” We wonder if week 20 symptoms pointed to failure, leading the company 


to cherry-pick a shorter measurement period. We have seen no answer from Allakos for the 


protocol violation, nor any PRO symptom data after week 14.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; http://investor.allakos.com/static-
files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f ; red ours for emphasis.


August 5th results presentation states “Endpoints 


assessed two weeks after last dose.”


ACG presentation on October 29 cuts off symptom data 


at week 14 – where is the missing data to week 20?


154


Warning sign #14: Unclear and shifting trial timelines suggest cherry-picking to engineer favorable results



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm

http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Moreover, other omissions and discrepancies lead us to wonder whether even the new 14 


week measurement endpoint is even accurate. The study design slide changed from August 


5th to October 29th at ACG, omitting “Endpoints assessed two weeks after last dose” and 


failing to state when the primary and secondary endpoint were measured. We do not believe 


this is accidental, as the endpoints keep bouncing around. A footnote buried in a later slide 


in the ACG presentation states “biopsy occurred 6 weeks post last dose instead of 2 weeks 


per protocol”. This suggests that the company’s disclosure on August 5th was misleading. 


Moreover, the new slide appears misleading in its own right, as it states that “per protocol” 


was 2 weeks after last dose, which was not the protocol specified on ClinicalTrials.gov.


ACG study design slide on October 29 omits 


measurement periods for endpoints


ACG slide footnote #2 states “biopsy occurred 6 


weeks post last dose instead of 2 weeks per protocol” 


155


Warning sign #14: Unclear and shifting trial timelines suggest cherry-picking to engineer favorable results


Source: http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f ; red ours for emphasis.



http://investor.allakos.com/static-files/b9770b92-f110-4206-b7ad-64203997fb1f
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #15: The ENIGMA trial used a fatally flawed PRO questionnaire whereby patients 
self-assessed their symptoms. Demonstrating symptom improvement is necessary per recent 
FDA guidance for EGID trials. The use of a reliable, validated PRO questionnaire is a pivotal 
determinant of how the FDA will evaluate Allakos’ results, and Allakos’ PRO was neither.


Eosinophil levels and symptoms are not correlated, raising the stakes for a PRO endpoint in 
phase 3. One Allakos EG/EGE trial investigator quantified the association between eosinophils 
and symptoms in a pediatric population, and concluded there was basically none (R2 = .079). 


The FDA’s guidance document on PRO design specifically mentions their risks as a subjective 
and potentially faulty tool – further exemplified by a paper which lists at least five Allakos 
EG/EGE trial investigators as authors, which indicates that PRO’s are unreliable in measuring 
EGID disease progress. The FDA’s guidance document for EoE separately devotes an entire 
section on PRO’s and asks companies to seek FDA input on a trial’s PRO as early as possible. 


Given the FDA’s keen interest in the PRO used and their guidance to seek their input as early as 
possible, we note multiple red flags in Allakos “proprietary” “EG/EGE-SQ© Questionnaire.


156
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The ENIGMA symptoms endpoint was assessed via a PRO (patient reported outcome) 


instrument, where patients self-reported how they felt over time on eight different measures 


such as nausea, cramping, and bloating. Demonstrating symptom improvement is necessary 


per FDA guidance, as other EGID trials have shown that even large eosinophil reductions do 


not necessarily translate into symptom reductions. The use of a reliable, validated PRO 


instrument is therefore a pivotal determinant of how the FDA will evaluate Allakos’ results –


based on FDA recent FDA guidance specifically for EGID’s.  


Warning sign #15: The ENIGMA trial used a fatally flawed PRO instrument


Source: https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download; red ours for emphasis.


FDA guidance document for EoE trials


157



https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Eosinophil levels and symptoms are not correlated, and the disassociation is severe –


raising the stakes for a PRO endpoint in phase 3. One Allakos EG/EGE trial investigator 


quantified the association between eosinophils and symptoms in a pediatric population, and 


concluded there was basically none (R2 = .079). The degree of dispersion is remarkable and 


should be sobering for anyone excited about what the Allakos trial results – even if believed 


– actually prove. Patients with low eosinophils can have severe symptoms and vice versa. 


The dispersion is reinforced by competing trials.


Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2699182/pdf/nihms84699.pdf; red ours for emphasis.


Source: https://www.jacionline.org/article/S0091-6749(18)30780-2/pdf


Two papers by Allakos trial investigators on “marked disassociation” between histology and symptoms


158


Warning sign #15: The ENIGMA trial used a fatally flawed PRO instrument



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2699182/pdf/nihms84699.pdf

https://www.jacionline.org/article/S0091-6749(18)30780-2/pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The FDA’s guidance document on PRO design specifically mentions their risks as a 


subjective and potentially faulty tool. The FDA’s guidance document for EoE separately 


devotes an entire section on PRO’s and asks companies to seek FDA input on a trial’s PRO 


as early as possible. The stakes in getting a PRO tool right are high – exemplified by a paper 


which lists at least five Allakos EG/EGE trial investigators as authors, which indicates that 


PRO’s are unreliable in measuring EGID disease progress.


Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6011000/pdf/nihms799124.pdf; red ours for emphasis.


Source: https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download


FDA guidance document for EoE trials


Paper by multiple Allakos trial doctors - “Symptoms Have Modest Accuracy in Detecting Endoscopic and 


Histologic Remission in Adults With Eosinophilic Esophagitis”


159


Warning sign #15: The ENIGMA trial used a fatally flawed PRO instrument



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6011000/pdf/nihms799124.pdf

https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Given the FDA’s keen interest in the PRO used and their guidance to seek their input as early 


as possible, we note multiple red flags in Allakos “proprietary” “EG/EGE-SQ©


Questionnaire.” Allakos EG/EGE results presentation suggests FDA validation, but the 


language states only that it was developed in accordance “with FDA guidance on PRO 


development” – which we infer as merely the generic guidance document. We can locate no 


validation or scrutiny for the company’s PRO in the medical literature, and believe that 


Allakos’ bespoke PRO will need to be replaced once the FDA weighs in, perhaps even 


inviting their as the FDA’s EoE guidance document stresses the importance of first testing a 


PRO in phase 2.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


FDA guidance on EoE endpoints emphasizes use 


of a “well-defined and reliable” PRO


Source: https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download


160


Warning sign #15: The ENIGMA trial used a fatally flawed PRO instrument



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm

https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Other PRO’s have been validated in the EGID space and discussed in the clinical literature 


by many of Allakos own EG/EGE trial investigators, making the decision to use a 


“proprietary” one worrisome. Shockingly, 42% of the ENIGMA trial population had EoE with 


dysphagia (difficulty swallowing), yet Allakos used a PRO which didn’t even ask about 


dysphagia, a defining symptom of EoE. PRO’s are valid for one disease type yet Allakos 


applied a crude questionnaire to a mixture of EG, EGE, EoE patients, rendering their phase 2 


data dubious. In contrast, we note that a competitor’s recent phase 3 trial in EoE1 used the 


Dysphagia Symptom Score Questionnaire (DSQ), a validated instrument used for years2. We 


emphasize the stunning nature of a trial where the PRO isn’t even tailored to the disease, as 


almost half of patients weren’t asked about its characteristic symptom.


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; 1https://www.takeda.com/en-us/newsroom/news-releases/2019/first-ever-
u.s.-pivotal-phase-3-clinical-study-in-eosinophilic-esophagitis-eoe-completes/; 2https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5934937/; red ours for emphasis. 161


Warning sign #15: The ENIGMA trial used a fatally flawed PRO instrument



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm

https://www.takeda.com/en-us/newsroom/news-releases/2019/first-ever-u.s.-pivotal-phase-3-clinical-study-in-eosinophilic-esophagitis-eoe-completes/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5934937/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Further illustrating the problems and discrepancies around the ENIGMA PRO, Allakos clearly 


states that their PRO measured only 8 symptoms – EXCLUDING dysphagia. Yet 


mysteriously, Allakos then proceeds to claim “substantial improvement in dysphagia” 


anyway. If the PRO didn’t ask patients to score trouble swallowing, we wonder where this 


data is coming from, and whether Allakos is being straight with investors about its PRO and 


how data was actually collected.


Allakos’ Chief Medical Officer comments on Aug 5th call


“Our PRO measures 8 symptoms on a scale from 0 to 10, 10 being the most severe. So the Total Symptom Score 


is 80 points. So a reduction in Symptom Score is a good thing. The 8 symptoms we looked at were: abdominal 


pain; nausea; vomiting, early satiety, which means fulfillment before ending a meal; the loss of appetite; 


abdominal cramping; bloating; and/or diarrhea.”


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm’ CapitalIQ call transcript; red ours for emphasis.


Footnote states “All EoE patients 


with end of treatment dysphagia 


scores”


PRO excluded dysphagia, so where 


are these “dysphagia scores” 


mysteriously coming from? 


Is Allakos being truthful with investors 


about the composition of their PRO 


and what symptoms “we looked at”? 


162


Warning sign #15: The ENIGMA trial used a fatally flawed PRO instrument



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #16: Significant trial design problems beyond a faulty PRO. The ENIGMA 
endpoints were superficial relative to competing EGID trials and FDA guidance, which 
incorporate a more robust battery of symptom, histologic, and endoscopic measures, even in 
phase 2. In particular, Allakos’ failure to disclose endoscopy data – which trial investigators 
told us was collected – is worrisome. Papers by even ENIGMA investigators attest to the 
accuracy of endoscopic scoring.


Allakos’ failure to disclose endoscopic information is an acute problem, given the availability of 
a validated, reliable visual scoring system. We note papers by multiple Allakos trial 
investigators, including Principal Investigator Evan Dellon, attesting to the accuracy of the EoE 
Endoscopic Reference Scoring System (EREFS), a “classification and grading system” for “major 
endoscopically identified, esophageal features of EoE (edema, rings, exudates, furrows, 
strictures).”


163
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Aside from a flawed PRO, we note other problems in the Allakos EG/EGE trial design and 


endpoints, which only consisted of tissue eosinophil reductions and patient-reported 


symptom scores. Competing EGID trials, taking their cue from the clinical literature and FDA 


guidance, utilize a far more robust set of endpoints across 1) symptomatic (using reliable, 


validated PRO’s), 2) histologic (across multiple measures), and 3) endoscopic measures 


(using established scoring systems) – providing a roadmap for what we expect the FDA will 


require in phase 3. Allakos would have been reckless to not collect histologic data like blood 


eosinophil reduction as well on endoscopic features in the EG/EGE trial, and the company’s 


silence on these measures points to problems in phase 3.


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03473977


Note use of additional, more robust endpoints 


consistent with FDA EGID guidance


• Changes in endoscopic features before and after treatment as 


measured by standardized endoscopy scoring systems.


• Changes in histologic features as measured by standardized 


histology forms specific to the diseases of interest.


• Changes in blood eosinophil counts


• Evaluate esophageal, gastric, and duodenal tissue 


transcriptome changes; changes in expression of genes as 


assessed by whole genome RNA sequencing


• Changes in quality of life for pediatric EoE measured by the EoE-


Quality of Life Scale A (range 0-96, with 96 being the most 


impaired)


ClinicalTrials.gov entry for benralizumab 


trial for eosinophilic gastritis, currently 


underway


164


Warning sign #16: Significant trial design problems beyond a faulty PRO: superficial endpoints, no endoscopy data



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03473977
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos’ failure to disclose endoscopic information is an acute problem, given the 


availability of a validated, reliable visual scoring system especially in EoE. We note papers 


by multiple Allakos trial investigators, including Principal Investigator Evan Dellon, attesting 


to the accuracy of the EoE Endoscopic Reference Scoring System (EREFS), a “classification 


and grading system” for “major endoscopically identified, esophageal features of EoE 


(edema, rings, exudates, furrows, strictures).” We spoke with an influential ENIGMA 


investigator, who bluntly opined that the “The FDA will use endoscopic findings more than 


eosinophil levels [in phase 3]. They are very objectively and quantitatively measurable, 


especially for EoE where there’s a score and they’re developing one for EG.”


Source: https://www.cghjournal.org/article/S1542-3565(17)30313-0/pdf; 


Papers by principal investigator of the Allakos 


ENIGMA trial and a second study doctor


“The EREFS classification system identifies patients 


with EoE an AUC of 0.934; the score decreases with 


treatment, and histologic responders have 


significantly lower scores than non-responders. This 


system can therefore be used to identify individuals with 


EoE and used as an endoscopic outcome measure to 


follow their response to treatment.”


Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4690779/pdf/nihms725116.pdf


“[P]hysicians’ global assessment of disease activity is 


largely based on endoscopic findings, rather than 


severity of histopathology. A recent study 


demonstrated that the EREFS score had a high 


degree of accuracy for diagnosis of EoE and significant 


responsiveness to treatment.”Source: https://www.e-
eso.net/sessions/session_385007.do?methodcall=getSlides&idegrandround=682&downl
oad=0&Ticket=


165


Warning sign #16: Significant trial design problems beyond a faulty PRO: superficial endpoints, no endoscopy data


Source: Seligman expert consultations



https://www.cghjournal.org/article/S1542-3565(17)30313-0/pdf

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4690779/pdf/nihms725116.pdf

https://www.e-eso.net/sessions/session_385007.do?methodcall=getSlides&idegrandround=682&download=0&Ticket=
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #17: The ENIGMA trial design lacks credibility and relevance for other reasons, 
which we expect to haunt the company in phase 3. The trial enrolled patients 18 and above, an 
odd choice given the prevalence of EG/EoE in patients <18 and recent FDA guidance on the 
importance of including adolescents in EGID trials. Trial investigators expressed incredulity at 
other aspects of the cohort selected, stating that it was atypical and marked by discrepancies. 
We get the sense that Allakos went out of its way to cherry-pick an unrepresentative 
population, and given that ALLK ran the study itself, we wonder if it was even randomized.


The ENIGMA trial enrolled patients 18 and above, while the benralizumab trial in EG enrolled 
younger patients starting at age 12 consistent with the FDA’s recent comments to “encourage 
inclusion of adolescents (12-17 inclusive) in trials intended to provide substantial evidence of 
effectiveness to support regulatory approval.” Both EG and EoE are prevalent in younger 
patients, and we question younger patients ability to withstand the severe infusion reactions 
we documented earlier.


Trial investigators expressed incredulity at other aspects of the patient population selected. 
The vast majority of real-world patients are on steroid therapy, yet Allakos suggests that only 
35% of the active arm was on steroids. 


An investigator pointed out that the patients in the trial were far less eosinophilic than those 
typically seen in the clinic. Similar selection discrepancies are visible in the EoE cohort. Allakos 
bizarrely suggests that the patient population exhibited no vomiting, troubling investigators 
who indicated that vomiting is a defining symptoms in EG/EoE patients.


166
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The ENIGMA trial enrolled patients 18 and above, while the benralizumab trial in EG enrolled 


younger patients starting at age 12 consistent with the FDA’s recent comments to 


“encourage inclusion of adolescents (12-17 inclusive) in trials intended to provide 


substantial evidence of effectiveness to support regulatory approval.” Both EG and EoE are 


prevalent in younger patients, and we question younger patients ability to withstand the 


severe AK002 infusion reactions we documented earlier.


Warning sign #17: Other trial design problems: unrepresentative trial population


Source: https://www.cghjournal.org/article/S1542-3565(13)01304-9/pdf


FDA guidance on “Pediatric Considerations” in 


EGID trials


Source: FDA EOE guidance document https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download;


Distribution of EoE by age and gender


167


*All red ours for emphasis



https://www.cghjournal.org/article/S1542-3565(13)01304-9/pdf

https://www.fda.gov/media/120089/download
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


An ENIGMA trial investigator and a prominent physician/researcher in the space expressed 


incredulity at the trial’s patient population and his concern that it was simply not 


representative. He indicated that the vast majority of EG/EoE patients are managed with 


steroids, yet steroid patients comprised only 35% of the ENIMGA cohort. He further 


indicated trial patients had baseline eosinophil levels which were too low to be reflective of 


the real world.


Source: Seligman expert consultations; https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


Allakos slide indicates that only 35% of patients in active 


arm were on steroids (ITT subgroup n – no steroids n = 


15, divided by n=43 for active arm)


“A lot of patients are steroid dependent. The symptoms flare if 


you take them off. Of the patients we see, more than 50% 


are on steroids, close to 80%. That’s how they’re managed. 


It’s rare to see a patient just managed by a diet. The papers 


from centers treating these patients show the majority are 


steroid dependent. How do you get patients that are not on 


steroids in the study – the 60% of patients they say weren’t 


on steroids?” – ENIMGA trial investigator/KOL


“These patients were not very eosinophilic. Page 15 of 


their presentation doesn’t show a lot of eosinophils. The 


blood eosinophils levels were 400. The average eosinophil 


levels in our patient population is around 1100. It’s generally 


above 500. These may not be typical patients for whatever 


reason.” – ENIMGA trial investigator/KOL


Baseline eosinophil levels are low


168


Warning sign #17: Other trial design problems: unrepresentative trial population



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The investigator was further troubled by the purported lack of vomiting in the trial cohort. 


Vomiting is one of the defining symptoms of EG/EoE. We find it concerning that Allakos 


selected an unrepresentative study population, and given the company’s role in running the 


study, we wonder what incentives may have precipitated these choices.


Source: Seligman expert consultations; https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


“Page 20 of their slide presentation says zero vomiting. Vomiting is a huge symptom. Most 


patients have vomiting. N=39 in the active arms and no vomiting. How did they find 39 


patients without vomiting? To me the biggest concern is the vomiting thing. Maybe they made 


a mistake. It doesn’t make any sense.” – Allakos ENIGMA trial investigator and a prominent 


physician in the EGID space.


ENIGMA presentation 


indicates lack of vomiting


169


Warning sign #17: Other trial design problems: unrepresentative trial population



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


In addition, we note similar disparities in the EoE cohort, between the placebo and AK002 


arms, with the placebo group exhibiting almost double the number of baseline eosinophils 


per hpf, as well as higher baseline mast cell counts and dysphagia scores. We fail to see 


how the trial conducted a valid comparison if one group is much sicker.


Source: Seligman expert consultations; https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.


“As far as general methodology, one thing that is serious is the disparity in treatment and placebo 


subgroups. On page 25, the baseline in placebo is way above the treatment group, and also elevated for mast 


cells, and their dysphagia score is higher. The comparison here isn’t fair. The placebo has more serious 


disease and symptoms.” – Professor of mathematics/biostatistics who we engaged to analyze Allakos’ trial 


results 


170


Warning sign #17: Other trial design problems: unrepresentative trial population



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data. Allakos has touted 
AK002’s powers in reducing blood eosinophils, but has withheld data ever since a phase 1 in 
healthy volunteers – remarkable silence given that subsequent AK002 trials have included it as 
an endpoint, not to mention it being a standard feature of competing trials. The ENIGMA trial 
disclosed baseline blood eosinophil levels, but shared ending ones only for tissue. Blood 
eosinophils are easily measured in CBC panels, while tissue biopsies are vulnerable to bias, 
irregular cell distribution, cherry-picking – and the pathologist’s conflicts of interest. We detail 
uncomfortable questions lurking behind Allakos’ strident assertions of AK002’s inhibitory 
abilities.


Allakos has promoted AK002’s ability to reduce blood eosinophil levels, starting with it phase 1  
healthy volunteer study where it declared that the drug wiped out all eosinophils within one 
hour of administration.


After this phase 1, however, Allakos has gone silent. The withholding of blood eosinophil data 
in subsequent trials (mastocytosis, urticaria, allergic conjunctivitis, EG/EGE) is remarkable, 
despite the measure being a pre-specified endpoint in some of these studies, not to mention it 
being a standard feature of other studies in the space. The only data points we can locate since 
the phase 1 are tissue eosinophil reductions in the recent EG/EGE results - data we consider 
suspect as we believe it was collected by one pathologist with financial ties to Allakos.


Blood eosinophil levels are easy to measure and standard in CBC panels, and lack the problems 
of bias, irregular distributions, and cherry-picking that plague tissue counts via biopsy. Siglec-8 
is highly expressed on blood eosinophils, making them the low hanging fruit for AK002,


171
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #18 (cont’d): The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data. 


assuming its mechanism of action is to be believed. Although Allakos continues to talk up 
AK002’s anti-eosinophilic effects, the failure to share basic data to evaluate these claims is 
ominous.


Investors have taken AK002’s eosinophil reduction abilities as a given, but beneath Allakos’ 
strident assertions lies a simple reality: investors have only two crumbs in support of the 
Siglec-8 anti-eosinophil story – a one hour time interval for blood eosinophils in healthy
volunteers, and claimed tissue reductions in the EG/EGE study. 


We can find no data from Allakos supporting AK002’s ability to reduce blood eosinophil levels 
in symptomatic, eosinophilic patients, raising obvious questions:


1. If AK002 showed 100% reduction in blood eosinophils in healthy volunteers in the phase 1 in 
one hour, why has blood eosinophil data been withheld in subsequent trials, despite it being 
an endpoint and despite blood eosinophils being an easier target, given their level of Siglec-8 
expression?


2. Given the company’s claim that AK002 showed 93-97% reductions in tissue eosinophils in 
the EG/EGE trial, why was no data presented on blood eosinophil reductions, given that blood 
levels were shown at baseline? Did blood eosinophil levels also decline by 93-97%?


172
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos’ recent EG/EGE results provided baseline characteristics for blood eosinophil levels. 


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red emphasis ours.


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data


“AEC: Blood Absolute Eosinophil Count”


173



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


However, despite showing baseline blood eosinophil characteristics, Allakos then proceeds 


to withhold information on response rates, showing reductions for only tissue counts as 


measured by biopsy. 


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data


174
Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red emphasis ours.



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We find the omission striking given that Allakos’ phase 1 touted AK002’s ability to wipe out 


100% of blood eosinophils within one hour of administration. 


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data


Source: Allakos S-1 filing , https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518219134/d447521ds1a.htm; red ours for emphasis. 175



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000119312518219134/d447521ds1a.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The claims of rapid, total eosinophil depletion from the phase 1 study are reinforced by 


Allakos’ ongoing, emphatic comments about AK002’s effect on blood eosinophils. The 


company states that “rapid depletion” has been shown in every one of their studies to date.


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data


Source: CapitalIQ/Bloomberg transcripts


“We've recently put out a series of clinical data releases, including today's. The upshot is we've shown 


rapid depletion of blood eosinophils in all of those studies.” – Allakos CEO


Allakos Investor Day presentation - Feb 19, 2019


Source: Allakos analyst day presentation https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019003232/allk-ex991_199.htm; red ours for emphasis. 


Results call for allergic conjunctivitis study – May 7, 2019


Analyst: “Just to clarify, are you seeing consistent reduction in peripheral eosinophils? And do the 


eosinophils stay suppressed over the course of treatment? And just wondering if the eosinophils come 


back a little bit between infusions or do they stay suppressed?”


Henrik Rasmussen, Allakos Chief Medical Officer: “Yes. So it's fair to say that we have seen 


consistent suppression of the eosinophils in all these indications, including the study we're talking 


about today. And we don't see any recurrence of the eosinophils….”


176



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019003232/allk-ex991_199.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Yet when given one opportunity after another to corroborate these assertions with data, the 


company has demurred. Blood eosinophil levels were shown at baseline in the EG/EGE 


study, but no response rate or P-value was provided – a continuation of the pattern seen in 


other trials. Blood eosinophils were even endpoints in the mastocytosis and allergic 


conjunctivitis studies, making the company’s ongoing silence astounding and inexcusable.


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data


The mastocytosis trial listed blood eosinophil counts and other histologic measures as endpoints, yet 


the trials results release on Feb 9, 2019 provided no data or even directional information on eosinophil 


(nor mast cell) reduction.


Source: ClinicalTrials.gov https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&rank=7; red ours for emphasis.


Blood eosinophil counts were also an endpoint in the allergic conjunctivitis study, yet the results press 


release was similarly radio silent.


Source: ClinicalTrials.gov https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311; red ours for emphasis.


177



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&rank=7

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


This raises a critical question for investors enamored of the ~95% eosinophil reduction in 


tissue biopsies in the EG/EEG study: were these reductions corroborated by blood 


eosinophil reductions? We note a recent letter to a medical journal, by an investigator from 


the Allakos EG/EGE trial and his colleagues, which indicated that blood eosinophils as well 


as their precursor cells are correlated with tissue eosinophil counts.  Allakos’ reluctance to 


share blood eosinophil data causes us to question the veracity of the tissue reductions in 


the EG/EGE trial, and therefore the entire theory behind AK002.


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data


Source: https://www.jacionline.org/article/S0091-6749(18)31576-8/pdf; red ours for emphasis.


178



https://www.jacionline.org/article/S0091-6749(18)31576-8/pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We note a 2017 paper in a medical journal which makes the same point in more detail, 


indicating high correlations between blood (‘AEC”) and tissue eosinophils in both adult and 


pediatric patients with EoE at baseline and after treatment. The paper states that “AEC 


predicted post-treatment eosinophilia….” For the avoidance of doubt, we further cite another 


study below reinforcing the linkage between blood eosinophils and eosinophil density in 


tissue. Although we are unable to locate papers which discuss correlations strictly for 


EG/EGE, the number of papers in similar EGID indications render the exercise superfluous.


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data


Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27479142


Source: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/apt.13386


179


*All red ours for emphasis



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27479142

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/apt.13386
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Also damning for Allakos, detailed phase 2 results for benralizumab – a competing drug we 


cover in detail in a later section, which is far ahead and which we believe renders AK002 


irrelevant – were recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine and 


demonstrate tissue plus blood eosinophil reductions in addition to clinical improvement. 


The study focused on hypereosinophilic syndrome and hit the primary endpoint of blood 


eosinophil reduction, but also provided data for a subgroup with eosinophilic gastritis, 


showing superior reduction of gastrointestinal tissue eosinophils than AK002. We 


encourage investors to read the article and 54-page supplemental data package, as the 


contrast highlights the omissions and cherry-picking that characterizes Allakos behavior.


Warning sign #18: The mystery of the missing blood eosinophil data


Source: https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1812185; supplemental data package: 
https://www.nejm.org/doi/suppl/10.1056/NEJMoa1812185/suppl_file/nejmoa1812185_appendix.pdf


Eosinophils were “undetectable in the blood, bone marrow, and tissues after 12 weeks of benralizumab 


therapy.”


“Tissue samples obtained at week 24 showed nearly complete depletion of eosinophils (≤1 eosinophil per 


high-power field) in a total of 52 gastrointestinal biopsy samples obtained from the seven patients with 


gastrointestinal eosinophilia….”


180



https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1812185

https://www.nejm.org/doi/suppl/10.1056/NEJMoa1812185/suppl_file/nejmoa1812185_appendix.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data. The Allakos story hinges on 
AK002’s ability to remove both eosinophils and mast cells, as both express Siglec-8. Either 
Siglec-8 inhibition works or it doesn’t. Company materials suggest that mast cells are the 
driver of eosinophil “activation and recruitment.” Yet given the centrality of mast cells to the 
story, the company’s reluctance to share basic data mirrors the lack of disclosure on blood 
eosinophils. The scraps of data shared are troubling, and notably omit tryptase levels – the 
only relevant measure of mast cell activity. One of the world’s top mast cell research scientists 
dismissed the Aug 5th ENIGMA mast cell claims as “not significant, relevant, or clinical effects.”


Siglec-8 receptors are found on the surfaces of both eosinophils and mast cells. Allakos’ CEO 
has described both cells as partners in the “inflammatory cascade,” creating a major problem if 
AK002 fails to inhibit mast cells. Inhibiting only one cell type would cast doubt on the entire 
Siglec-8 premise.


Yet given the importance of mast cells to the Allakos story, the company’s failure to share 
meaningful data on AK002’s inhibitory effects is similar to its reticence on blood eosinophil 
counts. The first time we see meaningful mast cell data is in the August 5th ENIMGA results, 
and it explains Allakos’ reluctance: AK002 failed to show statistical significance in mast cell 
reductions in two of three biopsy measures, and the data raises other troubling questions. 


We believe that Allakos is sitting on other data beyond the ENIGMA trial which demonstrates 
that AK002 is a flop in reducing mast cells. Irrespective, the mast cell counts shown in the 
ENIGMA results are meaningless.


181
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data (cont’d)


The only relevant and industry-standard measure of mast cell activity and inhibition is tryptase 
levels, measured by a simple blood test. We find Allakos’ redirection to mast cell counts vs. 
activity to be a tactic that would never fly with peer-review or the FDA – leading one of the 
most prominent mast cell researchers in the world to dismiss the Aug 5th ENIGMA mast cell 
claims as “not significant, relevant, or clinical effects.”


182
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The Allakos story hinges on AK002 ability to remove both eosinophils and mast cells, given 


that Siglec-8 receptors are found on the surfaces of both. If AK002 only works on one cell 


type, it calls the entire Siglec-8 inhibition story into question. Allakos’ CEO has described 


eosinophils and mast cells as partners in the “inflammatory cascade,”  suggesting that 


removing both is key to symptom reduction.


Source: : https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; Allakos allergic conjunctivitis trial results call, CIQ/Bloomberg transcripts


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


“So what we're trying to do with AK002 is to take mast cells and the eosinophils out of the equation. And by doing 


that, we would disrupt the inflammatory cascade and allow the tissues to calm down and heal.”


“Mast cells are similar to eosinophils and probably even, in some cases, worse because they can be activated in 


more ways than an eosinophil can. And in particular, you see in the -- I think what's particularly important in atopy is the 


involvement of IgE activating the mast cell. So it's not surprising, I think, to us that we see the activity in these 


comorbid conditions because they are substantially driven by mast cells and the eosinophils. They're driven by 


other cells there, too, potentially. But what we're doing here and what we hypothesized and what appears to be being 


borne out in the data is if we can remove these 2 cell types by killing EOs and by broadly inhibiting mast cells, 


then we can interrupt the inflammatory cascade. And you can see a benefit to patients not only symptomatically but 


you're actually seeing healing of the tissue.” – ALLK CEO, May 7, 2019


183



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos’ EG/EGE results presentation even features a mast cell prominently in the very 


center of a chart on the inflammatory process, to emphasize that it is mast cells which drive 


the “activation and recruitment” of other cells like eosinophils – creating a major problem 


for Allakos investors if AK002 fails to inhibit mast cells.


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


184
Source: : https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


An abstract based on screening data from Allakos’ ENIGMA study states that 97% of 


EGE/EGE patients had “markedly elevated” mast cell counts in addition to eosinophils, and 


that treatments “may need to target both cell types for optimal effect.”


Source: https://www.gastrojournal.org/article/S0016-5085(19)38721-9/pdf; red ours for emphasis.


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


185



https://www.gastrojournal.org/article/S0016-5085(19)38721-9/pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Yet given the centrality of mast cells to the Allakos story, the company’s pattern of 


withholding data on AK002’s inhibitory effects on mast cells mirrors the lack of disclosure 


on eosinophil counts. Both the mastocytosis and allergic conjunctivitis trials listed basophil 


counts as an endpoint, yet the trial results press releases don’t even mention the word 


basophil. Basophils are similar to mast cells and express Siglec-8. More importantly, the 


mastocytosis trial listed serum tryptase levels as an additional endpoint – yet Allakos has 


remained silent on whether AK002 impacted tryptase levels. Tryptase is contained only 


within mast cells and is the gold standard for measuring mast cell activity.


Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tryptase; red ours for emphasis.


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


Source: ClinicalTrials.gov https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&rank=7


Phase 1 trial in indolent systemic mastocytosis - endpoints 


Phase 1 trial in conjunctivitis - endpoints


Source: ClinicalTrials.gov https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311


186



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tryptase

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&rank=7

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03379311
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The first time we see meaningful mast cell data from Allakos is in the August 5th EG/EGE 


results presentation, and it explains Allakos’ reticence: AK002 failed to show statistical 


significance in mast cell reductions in two of three biopsy measures. Only duodenal 


biopsies showed activity, but the data is troubling and raises more questions than answers. 


We note the misleading presentation: showing bars that suggest strong response rates, with 


only an asterisk and P-value in tiny font to de-emphasize the lack of statistical significance.


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


Baseline levels between the two arms are 


divergent (red arrows ours)


Duodenal baseline is much higher, yet day 99  appears 


a mere 5 cells/hpf lower than placebo (orange arrow)


Why are esophageal biopsies missing 


on day 99? (blue circles)


Only duodenal counts show statistical 


significance (green emphasis)


187
Source: : https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red, green, orange, and blue (circles only) ours for emphasis.



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Despite the slide’s attempt to steer investors to “effect size,” it already reveals that AK002 


failed to show statistical significance in two of three measures. We note other red flags as 


well. Only the p-value for duodenal tissue was stat sig. We find it stunning that Allakos 


doesn’t even state whether the p-value refers to the low or high dose arm. If it was only the 


low dose arm, that would raise alarming questions and throw another wrench into the story. 


Given that the table of p-values shared on page 24 of the EG/EGE results deck uses 4 


significant digits, why is the p-value on this page only disclosed as a threshold value, i.e., 


“*p<..05”? The threshold for stat sig if .05, and the gimmick below leads us to worry it may 


only barely be below .05 – technically stat sig but irrelevant, and a red flag suggestive of 


data manipulation.


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


188
Source: : https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis.



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Several clinical trial design experts and scientists we consulted echoed these concerns, 


stating that “obviously something is wrong with this data”, that it exhibits “consistent 


problems”, and that it’s “sketchy” and not “publishable.”


Source: Seligman expert consultations


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


“It doesn’t make any sense why the placebo and active group baselines would be so different. The placebo 


baseline is higher. If I were in a lab running an experiment I’d scrap this data. Obviously something is 


wrong with it. There’s no baseline control. The esophageal baseline looks about 48. The placebo is over 


70. And why did patients drop out? Mast cells are now suddenly not the story.” – Research scientist


“They show percent changes on this page but not P values. Why? Because only one P value is statistically 


significant and they put it in tiny font at bottom of page. This page shows AK002 doesn’t work well on 


mast cells. It shows only a 20% change in mast cells. And the only one that’s statistically significant is in the 


duodenum, not the gastric or esophageal mast cell counts. There are consistent problems throughout the 


presentation. It’s sketchy. You couldn’t do this for a clinical publication. This would not be 


publishable because you can’t draw conclusions from it.” – PhD/Scientist who conducted due diligence at 
one of the largest biotech companies


189
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Investors should not be surprised by these concerns, as we believe that Allakos is sitting on 


other data which conclusively demonstrates that AK002 is a flop. We note an Allakos poster 


which appears to be from 2018 based on the date in the URL – which states that “consistent 


with previous experiments” AK002 failed to reduce mast cells in ex vivo patient bone 


marrow despite Siglec-8 being “robustly expressed on diseased mast cells” in the samples. 


The chart appears to show that mast cell counts actually increased following AK002. “Ex 


vivo” means bone marrow aspirate removed from patients and cultured in a controlled 


laboratory setting with AK002 – a scenario with a far easier hurdle than demonstrating 


activity inside the body.


Source: https://www.allakos.com/file.cfm/59/docs/Allakos_ASH_poster_2018_ISM_Ex_Vivo.pdf; red ours for emphasis.


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


190



https://www.allakos.com/file.cfm/59/docs/Allakos_ASH_poster_2018_ISM_Ex_Vivo.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Irrespective, the mast cell counts shown in the EG/EGE results are meaningless. The only 


relevant  - and industry-standard measure - of mast cell activity and inhibition is tryptase 


levels, measured by a simple blood test. We find Allakos’ redirection to mast cell counts vs. 


activity to be a tactic that would never fly with peer-review or the FDA. We suspect Allakos 


soured on talking about tryptase levels after their inclusion as an endpoint in the 


mastocytosis study, only to see the biomarker prove AK002 to be a failure.


Source: https://www.jacionline.org/article/S0091-6749(17)31025-4/pdf; all red ours for emphasis.


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


The second most specific biomarker for mast cell 


activation is urinary histamine metabolites.


Allakos’ mastocytosis trial included these levels as an 


endpoint in addition to tryptase, and was silent on 


outcomes under this measure as well. Endpoint 


specified on ClinicalTrials.gov:


Source: ClinicalTrials.gov https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&rank=7


191



https://www.jacionline.org/article/S0091-6749(17)31025-4/pdf

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02808793?term=allakos&rank=7
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The evidence strongly suggests that AK002 fails to inhibit mast cells, which calls the entire 


Allakos thesis into question. We conclude this section with comments from a research 


scientist and KOL that we consulted, who has studied mast cell biology for decades and is 


considered one of the world’s top experts on their behavior. We find his feedback 


devastating: that it is mast cells which drive eosinophils to act up, and that Allakos’ 


purported mast cell count reductions are “not significant, relevant, or clinical effects.” 


Source: Seligman expert consultation


Warning sign #19: The mystery of the missing mast cell data


“Whenever eosinophils act up, it’s mast cells that drive it. Eosinophils live in blood not in tissue. 


They migrate into the tissue. The need a signal. Chemoattractant, complements, and other signals 


cause them to then adhere to the intraluminal side of vessels. Eosinophils sense they’re needed and 


then migrate to the gradient. Mast cells are good at releasing the signal that gets eosinophils into 


the tissue. The mast cells call for help.”


“It’s all about inhibition of mast cell activation, not reducing their counts. It’s about a functional 


response. It is not about mast cell reduction. It’s the chronic inflammation that drive the numbers.”


“If you decrease mast cell numbers by 15-20%, you will still  have tissue that’s the same in terms 


of inflammation. Unless you reduce then in the skin by 99%, you still get a response when you activate 


then with a mast cell trigger on the skin. A few mast cells go a long way. You don’t need 100 mast cells 


to get 100% of the response. Each cell punches above its weight. The mast cell reductions shown in 


the EG/EGE results are not significant, relevant, or clinical effects.” – Research scientist considered 
one of the world’s top experts on mast cells


192
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #20: The ENIGMA tissue eosinophil reductions are suspiciously higher than 
shown in previous AK002 data from cell culture experiments and animal models. Allakos 
claims 97% reduction in tissue eosinophils, yet is reluctant to share blood eosinophil counts. In 
our opinion, the ENIGMA eosinophil reductions are simply too good to be true and fail the 
smell test – a sentiment shared by trial investigators.


It’s anomalous to see a compound perform better inside actual human patients than in 
carefully controlled and optimized in-vitro and ex-vivo studies which don’t have the complex, 
unpredictable biochemistry of a real-world clinical setting. 


Allakos claims 97% reduction in tissue eosinophils but has withheld blood eosinophil counts. 
We have already noted that tissue levels were measured by a pathologist with a conflict of 
interest.


193
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The ENIGMA results indicated 97% mean reduction in tissue eosinophils in the high dose 


group and 92% in the low dose one. However, an Allakos poster which appears to be from 


2018 shared data from mice bred to have eosinophilic gastritis and then treated with AK002. 


In comparison, eosinophils in mice appear to have decreased by only roughly 75%, 50%, and 


75% in the stomach, small intestine, and blood, respectively – significantly lower rates.


Source: https://www.allakos.com/file.cfm/59/docs/181004-1252-Allakos_EGE_2018_Mouse_Poster_4x6_FINAL.pdf; red ours for emphasis.


Warning sign #20: Tissue eosinophil reductions are suspiciously higher than previous AK002 lab data


Stomach approximately 75% reduction


Small intestine approximately 50% reduction


Blood eosinophils approximately 75%


*All reductions as estimated by us from magnified chart


194



https://www.allakos.com/file.cfm/59/docs/181004-1252-Allakos_EGE_2018_Mouse_Poster_4x6_FINAL.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Another Allakos poster, which also appears to be from 2018, shared data on eosinophil 


reductions in bone marrow tissue removed from patients and then cultured overnight with 


AK002. The data appears to show a only a ~70% reduction in eosinophils, again lower than 


the 92-97% reductions in the EG/EGE study. Allakos states below that “Siglec-8 is highly 


expressed” on the cells that were cultured. We wonder why AK002 was less effective ex vivo 


than in vivo, given that these cells appear to the perfect target for a Siglec-8 antibody and 


were presumably flooded with AK002 at concentrations and for a duration that are 


unrealistic for actual patients.


Source: https://www.allakos.com/file.cfm/59/docs/Allakos_ASH_poster_2018_ISM_Ex_Vivo.pdf; red ours for emphasis.


Approximately 75% reduction


*As estimated by us from chart


195


Warning sign #20: Tissue eosinophil reductions are suspiciously higher than previous AK002 lab data



https://www.allakos.com/file.cfm/59/docs/Allakos_ASH_poster_2018_ISM_Ex_Vivo.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


As another suspicious data point, Allakos’ patent shows in-vitro data for blood eosinophil 


reductions in the range of roughly 80-85%. We wonder why the company’s phase 2 study in 


healthy volunteers showed 100% elimination of blood eosinophils within one hour, yet 


dunking eosinophils in Siglec-8 antibodies for 16 hours in a lab did not. 


Source: https://patentimages.storage.googleapis.com/cf/56/74/4d8edce6d6fc6f/US9546215.pdf; red ours for emphasis.


Approximately 80-85% reduction


*As estimated by us from chart


196


Warning sign #20: Tissue eosinophil reductions are suspiciously higher than previous AK002 lab data



https://patentimages.storage.googleapis.com/cf/56/74/4d8edce6d6fc6f/US9546215.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We further note a paper by Bruce Bochner, listed on the Allakos site as a co-founder and a 


member of their scientific advisory board since 2012, and upon whose research Allakos is 


based. The paper was cited in the Allakos patent and describes cell culture experiments 


using Siglec-8 antibodies on blood eosinophils. The paper indicates lower reductions than 


those claimed by Allakos in its phase 2 healthy volunteers study. We wonder how that trial 


showed 100% elimination within one hour, yet the company’s co-founder showed only a 15% 


reduction in cell culture after four hours. 


Source: https://ashpublications.org/blood/article-lookup/doi/10.1182/blood-2002-10-3058; red ours for emphasis. 197


Warning sign #20: Tissue eosinophil reductions are suspiciously higher than previous AK002 lab data



https://ashpublications.org/blood/article-lookup/doi/10.1182/blood-2002-10-3058
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #21: Even if one assumes AK002 isn’t a P3 flop, it’s commercial future is bleak as 
a me-too late-mover drug in a crowded space. Investigators stated that 6-8 hour infusions, 
monthly for life, render it dead-on-arrival. A realistic EG/EoE TAM implies at most $100-
200MM in AK002 US sales. Influential ENIGMA investigators were devastating in stating that 
AZN’s benralizumab and REGN’s dupilumab are far ahead, and pointed to a long list of 
competing EoE/EG trials that ALLK investors appear unaware of. We encourage investors to 
study recent P2 data for dupilumab (Oct 2019) and benralizumab (Apr 2019) – stronger than 
AK002’s ENIGMA results - and to watch for upcoming data from competing trials.


One investigator stated that no office is going to find nurses to sit through 8 hour infusions, and 
a journal article confirmed the 8-hour time, which made it “challenging” to enroll patients.


KOL comments indicate that a GI doctor may encounter only 10 EG cases over their entire career. 
The only theoretical commercial opportunity for Allakos is therefore in EoE, for which it hasn’t 
even conducted a trial and for which the teaser data from ENIGMA is troubling. Although the 
EoE market appears optically larger with ~100k potential patients, a paper by an ENIGMA 
principal investigator states that 60-90% of patients achieve remission with dietary changes, and 
that 25-80% of patients achieve symptom resolution with cheap OTC PPI pills like Prilosec.


ENIGMA investigators indicate that ALLK’s space is crowded and described formidable 
competitive headwinds facing AK002. Ominously for Allakos, Astra Zeneca received orphan drug 
designation for benralizumab in EoE on August 28, 2019 – just a few weeks after ALLK’s ENIGMA 
topline release. 


198
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


ENIGMA trial investigators indicated that the long infusion times for AK002 render it 


commercially unviable. Doctors shared various figures for infusion length. Some reported 4 


hours, others 8 hours, and stated that AK002 patients would need to sit through these 


infusions once a month for life. A KOL stated that this was the first infusion trial he had 


done, suggesting that EGID provider offices are not equipped for infusions. Another 


investigator said that no provider is going to find nurses to sit through 8 hour infusions. A 


journal article that interviewed investigators in another AK002 trial confirmed 8-hour 


infusions, which made it “challenging” to enroll patients.


“The infusion time made it challenging. Nurses are not available for hours each time, every time…It was 


a significant length of time…Which doctor is going to want to infuse when a nurse is $100 per hour? So if 


you infuse for 8 hours, that’s $800. It’s hard to find a nurse willing to infuse for 8 hours. That’s the hard 


part. Insurers won’t pay for it…Patients aren’t dying because of this condition.” – ENIGMA trial investigator


“The infusion was 4 hours. This was the first infusion trial we’ve done. Patients would have to come in for 


4 hours once a month for life.” - ENIGMA trial investigator also an influential KOL


“We haven’t talked about the IV business. That’s a big factor here. People don’t want to take IV medications 


especially when they have other medications available. Dupixent and benralizumab are subcutaneous.


Right now Allakos is on an IV push. A 4 hour infusion once a month is not going to be well-received.” –
ENIGMA trial investigator and prominent KOL in the EGID space


“Allakos’ Phase IIa AK002 trial in chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) had challenging enrolment [sic] 


criteria, two investigators said, with one citing long study visits…The low patient numbers were due to 


the study requirement of patients having up to eight hours intravenous (IV) AK002 administration, said 


the investigator. The long hours also meant that many patients failed screening, the investigator said. 


ClinicalTrials.gov does not cite the duration of study visits…” – Pharmaceutical Technology 1/8/19


Source: Seligman expert consultations; https://www.pharmaceutical-technology.com/comment/chronic-urticaria-clinical-trial/ 199


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://www.pharmaceutical-technology.com/comment/chronic-urticaria-clinical-trial/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Long infusion times are further corroborated by Facebook posts indicating 5-6 hour 


infusions.


“AK002 is given by IV injection…over a relatively long infusion time…The 


AK002 is infused very slowly over about 5-6 hours…” – Facebook post by 
parent of trial participant


“I was very nauseous this morning, but that’s from not eating from 5:30-


11:30am.” – Facebook post by trial participant


Source: Facebook posts, “Eosinophilic Gastritis Support Group” https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
200


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://www.facebook.com/groups/258285487951166/
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Investigators further pointed to the puny size of the eosinophilic gastritis market. One stated 


that a GI doctor may encounter only 10 EG cases over their entire career. Another, one of the 


most influential KOL’s, implied ~7,000 total patients. Similar, competing drugs in the 


eosinophilic class such as IL-5’s - benralizumab (Fasenra), mepolizumab (Nucala), 


reslizumab (Cinqair) – or dupilumab (Dupixent) are list-priced at ~$30K/year in year one and 


lower thereafter. Even if AK002 works, its pricing is therefore a given, implying a domestic 


EG market size of barely ~$200MM at 7k cases, assuming 100% of patients are diagnosed 


and 100% of them fail dietary and other treatments – after those adjustments the actual TAM 


could easily be <$50MM. However, we note an analysis by the influential Institute for Clinical 


and Economic Review (ICER), pegging the value of an anti-eosinophilic drug like Nucala at 


only $8-12K/year, suggesting downward price pressure from insurers.


Source: Seligman expert consultations; https://icer-review.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ICER_Asthma_Draft_Report_092418v1.pdf; 


https://www.fiercepharma.com/sales-and-marketing/gsk-s-new-32-500-asthma-med-costs-at-least-2x-too-much-u-s-pricing-watchdog


“This was a hard trial to recruit for. There’s a low incidence of this disease. Over their lifetime, a typical GI 


doctor will see 10 cases if they’re lucky….The rate of these diseases is very low.” – ENIGMA trial investigator


“Eosinophilic gastritis is a rare disease. Probably about 1 person out of 40-50k people has it. The data is not 


conclusive.” – ENIGMA trial investigator/KOL


“Nucala, an injectable indicated for severe asthma patients with eosinophilic inflammation, should cost 


between $7,800 and $12,000 per year, according to an analysis by the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review 


(ICER). That's as much as 76% lower than the $32,500 tag it bears right now.” – FiercePharma, 12/22/15


201


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://icer-review.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/ICER_Asthma_Draft_Report_092418v1.pdf

https://www.fiercepharma.com/sales-and-marketing/gsk-s-new-32-500-asthma-med-costs-at-least-2x-too-much-u-s-pricing-watchdog
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The only theoretical commercial opportunity for Allakos is therefore in eosinophilic 


esophagitis (EoE), for which it hasn’t even conducted a trial. ALLK shared teaser data from 


ENIGMA for a subgroup of patients with concomitant EoE. Only 15 patients on AK002 had 


EoE, and the data is a farce for reasons previously discussed: 1) AK002 patients started with 


significantly lower baseline eosinophil and mast cell levels, and less severe symptoms, than 


placebo (p. ); 2) a mysterious claim of dysphagia reduction – the signature symptom of EoE 


– as the fatally flawed PRO didn’t even include dysphagia as a symptom; 3) alarming data 


discrepancies as p-values for esophageal eosinophil reduction keep changing, similar to the 


stomach eosinophil data (p.); and 4) the dysphagia data includes only 12 AK002 patients –


excluding 3 patients of the total – which suggests cherry-picking.


N=15 in AK002 EoE subgroup, 


yet dysphagia improvement 


slide on far right uses N=12 with 


no explanation beyond a cryptic 


footnote: “1All EoE patients with 


end of treatment dysphagia 


scores.”


Multiple versions of this slide 


with different p-values and 


different thresholds for 


defining eosinophil reduction


How were dysphagia scores 


measured if the PRO didn’t 


even include the symptom?


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm; red ours for emphasis. 202


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156459019028522/allk-ex991_7.htm
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The clinical literature suggests an EoE prevalence of 10-57 cases per 100k people, or about 


100K cases domestically at the midpoint1. However, most patients achieve remission with 


dietary management, as many KOL’s view EoE as a food allergy condition. A paper by Evan 


Dellon, a Principal Investigator for the ENIGMA trial, indicates “remission with response 


rates above 90%” with a restrictive diet, and 60-90% with a less restrictive diet with easier 


adherence2. Another paper by Dellon indicates that 25-80% of patients achieve symptom 


resolution with proton pump inhibitors (PPI’s) and 33-61% achieve histologic resolution –


roughly 50% average across both measures3. PPI’s like Prilosec are available generically and 


OTC for less than $30/mo. The difference between EoE and run-of-the-mill reflux remains of 


topic of clinical debate, and PPI trials are a mainstay of EoE treatment4. A simple but 


generous TAM calculation yields a US market size of only $420MM, before even accounting 


for the ubiquity of steroids and the crowded nature of the EoE space. Even if ALLK captured 


1/3 of the pie, we fail to see how AK002 drives more than $100MM in US EoE sales.


Source: 1https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29129296; 2https://med.virginia.edu/ginutrition/wp-content/uploads/sites/199/2018/04/EoE-April-18.pdf;  
3https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4302490/; 4https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28291175


EoE total addressable market calculation


Metholodogy Assumptions
Epidemiological prevalence of EoE, domestically 112,000 Clinical literature indiciates 10-57 cases/100k, or 34/100k on avg


Percent of epidemiologic population actually dagnostoed with EoE 50% Generous assumption given few specialists, and clinical diagnosis requires BOTH endoscopay and biopsy


Total diagnosed cases 56,000


Less: Patients managed successfully by diet 28,000 Assume 50%, a generous assumption given 60-90% response rate in the clinical literature


Equals: Remaining potential EOE patients 28,000


Less: Remaining potential EOE patients managed by PPI 14,000 Clinical literature indicates about 50% success rate


Equals: Remaining potential EoE patients prior to steroids, IL5, etc. 14,000


Total addressable market @ $30k/year per patient $420,000,000


203


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29129296

https://med.virginia.edu/ginutrition/wp-content/uploads/sites/199/2018/04/EoE-April-18.pdf

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4302490/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28291175
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


ENIGMA investigators indicate that ALLK’s space is crowded, and one of the most influential 


KOL’s in the space indicated that Astra Zeneca’s benralizumab is already far ahead in 


important ways. We note the large number of studies in benralizumab  - 59 per 


ClinicalTrials.gov - for a long list of eosinophilic indications, such as atopic dermatitis, 


COPD, eosinophilic asthma, hypereosinophilic syndrome, nasal polyps, and across different 


patient populations like pregnant women and children. Allakos clearly seems to know it’s 


late to the eosinophil party, given its attempt to pick off a couple of niche indications. The 


effort strikes us an attempt to grab nickels in front an impending freight train of larger 


players who also have designs in EG/EoE.


Source; Seligman expert consultations


“This is a pretty big landscape now. AK002 and benralizumab have an identical mode of 


action expect siglec-8 presumably also targets mast cells. Benralizumab is FDA-approved and 


is a solid, subcutaneous, safe medication. It’s well tolerated. It’s approved in adolescents in 


asthma. The drug is already doing younger people so it’s far ahead. They already have a lot 


of patient exposures. Tens of thousands have been exposed.”


“That’s the big question, can AK002 show a benefit compared to benralizumab? I’m not 


going to say in public I don’t believe the AK002 data.”


“Then there are other drugs like dupilumab. It’s already has approval for three different types 


of allergies and they’re moving full speed ahead in EG and EoE. EG is already in clinical 


trials. Those will be the players and they’re ahead. There will be others in next five years.”


-ENIGMA trial investigator and KOL


204


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Another influential ENIGMA investigator walked us through competing trials in EoE, and 


described the formidable competitive headwinds facing AK002, stating that “this has quickly 


become a more crowded space over the last two years.” This investigator felt that 


Regeneron’s dupilumab was already furthest ahead among biologics.


Source: 1https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29129296; 2https://med.virginia.edu/ginutrition/wp-content/uploads/sites/199/2018/04/EoE-April-18.pdf;  
3https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4302490/; 4https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28291175


“This has quickly become a more crowded space over the last two years. I don’t know 


who’s going to win. Dupilumab is furthest along biologics-wise. Dupilumab has a phase 2 


and phase 3 ongoing in EoE.”


“Celgene is planning a phase 3 for their anti IL-13 RPC4046 in EoE. The phase 2 was 


published in Gastroenterology last fall.”


“Takeda has a phase 3 for an oral steroid suspension for EoE. They’re presenting at ACG.” 


“Adare has a dissolvable tablet and are presenting phase 2 next week in Europe. It’s a 


steroid.”


“Jorveza by Falk Pharma is approved in Europe, also a steroid.”


“The Regeneron dupilumab phase 2 in EoE was published last week. The phase 3 is 


ongoing. It was published in Gastroenterology. It was a very positive outcome. The primary 


outcome was symptoms, and a very good histologic and endoscopic response. It was robust. 


There was a good decrease in eosinophils. Dupilumab was for esophagus not stomach.”


“Then you have IL-5’s like mepolizumab etc.”


-ENIGMA trial investigator and KOL


205


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29129296

https://med.virginia.edu/ginutrition/wp-content/uploads/sites/199/2018/04/EoE-April-18.pdf

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4302490/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28291175
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Ominously for Allakos, Astra Zeneca received orphan drug designation for benralizumab in 


EoE on August 28, 20191 – just a few weeks after ALLK’s ENIGMA topline release. A 


prominent ENIGMA investigator explained why AK002’s actual mechanism of action – ADCC, 


not apoptosis – is identical to benralizumab. We question how AK002 has any commercial 


relevance if 1) it’s mechanism is the same as benralizumab and it doesn’t even leverage 


siglec-8; 2) it requires a 6-8 hour infusion once a month for life, vs. benralizumab’s superior 


mode of delivery – a subcutaneous injection every few months; and 3) it lacks the clinical 


and safety validation benralizumab has accumulated from extensive real-world usage.


Source; 1https://www.astrazeneca.com/media-centre/press-releases/2019/fasenra-granted-us-orphan-drug-designation-for-eosinophilic-oesophagitis-28082019.html ; Seligman 
expert consultations


“The whole story of siglec-8 in the literature is confusing. It goes back a long time, literally 


decades. It was originally shown to be an inhibitory receptor on eosinophils, that they go into 


apoptosis. AK002 targets Siglec-8 on eosinophils. It’s clearly not working by apoptosis but by 


activating the immune system to kill the eosinophil. That’s exactly how benralizumab works. 


Allakos clearly says the antibody they generate works by an ADCC mechanism. When you 


look at the mechanisms of action, you need to know the difference”


“The protein on the cell is called siglec-8. It’s a receptor on the eosinophil. It’s selective to 


eosinophils. It’s only on eosinophils and mast cells. When AK002 was discovered, they said it 


caused eosinophils to die by apoptosis. Cell death. There was a lot of research on that. The 


founders published articles. But how AK002 really works is by causing the immune cells that 


clear things to kill the call. That mechanism is called ADCC. So AK002 doesn’t take advantage 


of anti siglec-8 activity. It doesn’t take advantage of siglec-8 only being on eosinophils. 


Benralizumab does exactly the same thing. It causes ADCC against eosinophils,. It works well.  I 


was surprised when AK002 developed this drug because it didn’t take advantage of siglec-8 


activity. It’s just standard ADCC.” – ENIGMA trial investigator and KOL


206


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://www.astrazeneca.com/media-centre/press-releases/2019/fasenra-granted-us-orphan-drug-designation-for-eosinophilic-oesophagitis-28082019.html
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We encourage investors to read the results of AZN’s phase 2 benralizumab trial published in 


the New England Journal of Medicine in April 2019, especially the 54-page data appendix, as 


the contrast highlights the omissions, cherry-picking, and superficial endpoints that 


characterize Allakos’ behavior. Subcutaneous injections of benralizumab produced superior 


eosinophil reduction than AK002 – to undetectable levels in the blood, marrow, and tissue, in 


addition to succeeding on symptom improvement. We note ALLK suspiciously excluded 


histologic markers like blood eosinophils from its ENIGMA disclosure. Notably, the 


benralizumab trial included data for a subgroup with eosinophilic gastritis – which 


demonstrated superior tissue eosinophil reduction in EG patients than AK002. Benralizumab 


used a threshold of ≤1 eosinophil/hpf vs. ALLK’s looser definition(s!) around 5 or 6/hpf. We 


fail to see how AK002 has any chance against benralizumab or other incumbents.


Source: https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1812185; appendix: https://www.nejm.org/doi/suppl/10.1056/NEJMoa1812185/suppl_file/nejmoa1812185_appendix.pdf; red ours.


“[Eosinophils] were undetectable in the blood, bone marrow, and tissues after 12 weeks of 


benralizumab therapy…Tissue samples obtained at week 24 showed nearly complete depletion of 


eosinophils (≤1 eosinophil per high-power field) in a total of 52 gastrointestinal biopsy samples obtained 


from the seven patients with gastrointestinal eosinophilia….”


“Table S3. Effect of benralizumab on 


gastrointestinal tissue eosinophilia” 


shows essentially total elimination of 


eosinophils in esophageal and 


stomach/duodenal tissue


207


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1812185

https://www.nejm.org/doi/suppl/10.1056/NEJMoa1812185/suppl_file/nejmoa1812185_appendix.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We further encourage investors to read the results of Regeneron’s P2 study for dupilumab in 


EoE, just published on October 5, 2019, and with an ongoing P3. We note that the paper is 


co-authored by many ENIGMA trial investigators, and a Principal Investigator of the Allakos 


study is listed as a lead author. In contrast to Allakos, the study used a robust set of 


endpoints and demonstrated strong results across symptom (using a battery of validated 


PRO’s, unlike ALLK), histologic, tissue, endoscopic, and esophageal distensibility 


measures. Coming straight from Allakos’ own trial investigators – and weeks after the 


ENIGMA results - the words are damning: “to our knowledge, dupilumab is the first targeted 


biologic agent to improve dysphagia, histologic and endoscopic measures of disease, and 


esophageal function and have an acceptable safety profile in adult patients with active EoE.”


Source: https://www.gastrojournal.org/article/S0016-5085(19)41415-7/pdf; red ours for emphasis. 208


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://www.gastrojournal.org/article/S0016-5085(19)41415-7/pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The proliferation of competing EoE trials, by far larger companies with established drugs, is 


a critical problem for Allakos, as EoE is the only market with even arguable commercial 


relevance. EG is too small to matter, and we have already pointed to benralizumab data from 


April 2019 in the NEJM that shows superior stomach eosinophil reduction than AK002. Given 


the strength of this initial data, we remind investors of AZN’s ongoing P2 trial for 


benralizumab specifically in EG, with likely data in early 2020. We further note the higher 


quality of the trial design, which encompasses a variety of symptom, histologic, endoscopic, 


and other endpoints in contrast to ALLK. 


Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03473977 209


Warning sign #21: AK002’s commercial future is bleak



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03473977
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Warning sign #22: Allakos appears to have a pattern of not playing by the rules, beyond those 
pertaining to trials. In addition to making a mockery of biotech disclosure practices, 
compliance, and data integrity, we note 1) the suspicious timing of a recent option grant, 
which raises concerns of backdating and “spring-loading”; 2) apparent violation of rules for 
papers at medical conferences; and 3) questionable behavior with regard to Reg FD.


210
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We begin with the suspicious timing of a recent option grant. A Form 4 filed on Tuesday, 


August 6th, disclosed an option grant to the CFO for 120k shares with an exercise price of 


$31. The form states that the grant date was two business days earlier, Friday, August 2nd.  


Note that the company released trial results on the day in between, and the stock went from 


$31 to $65 in one session, and tripled within two days. The stock was already in the $80’s the 


day the form 4 was filed with an exercise price of $31.


Warning sign #22: Allakos appears to have a pattern of not playing by the rules


Source: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156761919015859/xslF345X03/doc1.xml; red ours for emphasis.


“Mr. Redmond was granted options to purchase 120,000 shares of common 


stock on August 2, 2019…”


Form 4 filed on Tuesday, August 6th $31 exercise price


211



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1564824/000156761919015859/xslF345X03/doc1.xml
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


The sequence of events is self-explanatory. 


Source: Bloomberg stock chart, SEC filings


…saying this is the grant date 


and exercise price


The day a Form 


4 was filed… 


212


Warning sign #22: Allakos appears to have a pattern of not playing by the rules
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


We note that the DOJ has criminally prosecuted executives for options backdating 


practices1. Misreporting the actual grant date to cherry-pick a lower strike price is a violation 


of both securities and tax laws, as well as corporate law pertaining to fiduciary duties. We do 


not know if Allakos misrepresented the actual grant data, and merely note the remarkably 


prescient timing without making an allegation of illegal behavior. Irrespective of options 


backdating considerations, we believe that this grant creates legal questions for Allakos 


executives and board members around the issue of “spring-loading” options – the dubious 


practice of granting options immediately prior to releasing favorable information. A key 


ruling in June 2019 by the Delaware Court of Chancery – against other biotech executives, 


no less - indicates the risk to directors and executives for breaching their “fiduciary duty of 


loyalty by misusing corporate information to…benefit themselves.” 2


Source: 1https://www.gibsondunn.com/wp-content/uploads/documents/publications/Farhang-BNABackdating-Directors.pdf; 2https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/chancery-
addresses-spring-loading-of-56433/


“Delaware courts are beginning to analyze claims concerning the controversial practice of spring-loading 


options. Spring-loading is the granting of options just prior to the release of favorable company information 


(in the company’s possession at the time of the grant). The options are granted at a market price on the day of 


the grant. They are said to be ‘spring-loaded’ because upon release of the favorable news, the stock price is 


expected to rise and the options would then become ‘in-the-money [..] Three recent opinions of the Delaware 


Chancery court are significant because they confirm that spring-loading may give rise to a breach of 


fiduciary duty claim....” – Lawyer Journal Newsletters, http://www.lawjournalnewsletters.com/sites/lawjournalnewsletters/2008/04/25/spring-loading-
options/


“Both of these cases represent strong pronouncements by the Delaware Court of Chancery that directors 


who backdate or spring-load options in violation of either the letter or the spirit of shareholder-approved 


option plans are likely to be found liable for breaches of the fiduciary duty of loyalty. Additionally, the Court 


has recognized that a company (or its shareholders acting derivatively) can pursue claims for unjust enrichment 


against the recipients of the options, even if those recipients are not blameworthy in connection with the option 


timing itself.” – Commentary by Delaware law firm, https://www.gelaw.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/Option-Backdating-and-Spring-Loading.pdf


213


Warning sign #22: Allakos appears to have a pattern of not playing by the rules



https://www.gibsondunn.com/wp-content/uploads/documents/publications/Farhang-BNABackdating-Directors.pdf

https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/chancery-addresses-spring-loading-of-56433/

http://www.lawjournalnewsletters.com/sites/lawjournalnewsletters/2008/04/25/spring-loading-options/

https://www.gelaw.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/Option-Backdating-and-Spring-Loading.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Allakos appears to have a penchant for pushing the edge in other areas. Identical ENIGMA 


trial abstracts were submitted at two key medical conferences which occurred within a week 


of each others – UEG and ACG, where an investigator spoke on Oct 22 and 29, respectively. 


Medical conferences are based on the release of new data and most forbid the presentation 


of duplicate material. The copy and paste of UEG material at ACG a week later appears to 


flagrantly violate both conferences’ rules.


Source: https://acgmeetings.gi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/ACG2019-Abstract-Submission-Instructions.pdf


UEG - Results: 59 patients were evaluable for efficacy (n=20 in HD; n=19 in LD; n= 20 in PBO). BL characteristics were balanced between groups. For the 


primary endpoint, the AK002 groups had an overall 95% mean reduction of tissue eos relative to BL compared to a 10% mean increase in PBO (p< 0.0001; 


Table 1). Tissue eos depletion to ≤6 eos/hpf was seen in 37 (95%) AK002 patients. There was significant improvement in TSS scores with AK002 compared to 


PBO (p=0.0012). Among all AK002 patients, 69% were treatment responders compared to 5% of PBO patients (p=0.0008). Among EG/EGE patients with 


concomitant EoE, significant histologic and substantial symptomatic improvements were reported with AK002 compared to PBO. The most common adverse 


events (AE) reported for AK002 were mild to moderate infusion related reactions (IRR), most common at the first infusion only. Treatment emergent serious 


AEs were similar between AK002 and PBO groups. There was one drug related serious AE, an IRR that resolved within 24 hours without sequelae.


UEG and ACG abstracts are a cut and paste…


Source: http://www.professionalabstracts.com/ueg2019/iplanner/#/grid/1571702400; 


ACG - Results: 59 patients were evaluable for efficacy (n=20 in HD; n=19 in LD; n= 20 in PBO). BL characteristics were balanced between groups (Table 1). For 


the primary endpoint, the AK002 groups had an overall 95% mean reduction of tissue eos relative to BL compared to a 10% mean increase in PBO (p<0.0001). 


Tissue eos depletion to ≤6 eos/hpf was seen in 37 (95%) AK002 patients. There was significant improvement in TSS scores with AK002 compared to PBO 


(p=0.0012; Table 2). Among all AK002 patients, 69% were treatment responders compared to 5% of PBO patients (p=0.0008). The most common adverse 


events (AE) reported for AK002 were mild to moderate infusion related reactions (IRR), most common at the first infusion only. Treatment emergent serious AEs 


were similar between AK002 and PBO groups. There was one drug related SAE, an IRR that resolved within 24 hours without sequelae.


Source: https://www.eventscribe.com/2019/ACG/agenda.asp?pfp=Scientific&cf=Annual%20Scientific%20Meeting&sddo=0


“Abstracts that will be published in a peer-reviewed journal before the ACG meeting may not be submitted.”
Source: https://acgmeetings.gi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/ACG2019-Abstract-Submission-Instructions.pdf


“The Author(s) warrant(s) to be the sole Author(s) of the abstract submitted and that it is an original work and has 


not been previously published in whole or to a substantial extent elsewhere.”


…which appears to violate policies of both conferences


214


Warning sign #22: Allakos appears to have a pattern of not playing by the rules



https://acgmeetings.gi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/ACG2019-Abstract-Submission-Instructions.pdf

http://www.professionalabstracts.com/ueg2019/iplanner/#/grid/1571702400

https://www.eventscribe.com/2019/ACG/agenda.asp?pfp=Scientific&cf=Annual%20Scientific%20Meeting&sddo=0

https://acgmeetings.gi.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/ACG2019-Abstract-Submission-Instructions.pdf
Seligman Investments | ALLAKOS (NASDAQ: ALLK)


Source: 1 https://media2.mofo.com/documents/faqs-regulation-fd.pdf; 2http://www.professionalabstracts.com/ueg2019/iplanner/#/grid/1571702400; 
https://www.natlawreview.com/article/sec-signals-new-phase-regulation-fd-enforcement


We further note behavior we find troubling with regard to Regulation FD, which “prohibits 


companies from selectively disclosing material nonpublic information…without concurrently 


making widespread public disclosure.”1 On October 22, 2019 at United European 


Gastroenterology Week (UEG) in Spain, a key annual GI conference, an ENIGMA trial 


investigator presented what we consider to be new, material, non-public information not 


disclosed in the August 5th topline results 2. We found no disclosure of the event or slides on 


the ALLK site, prior to or since the event, nor any 8-K filing – unusual as companies with 


exciting results typically promote upcoming, marquee conference presentations. We note 


ALLK filed an 8-K for an almost identical presentation by a different investigator at ACG a 


week later, suggesting that the lack of disclosure was not accidental. 


215


ENIGMA presentation at UEG, Oct 22, 2019 SEC action against pharma company in Aug 2019


Warning sign #22: Allakos appears to have a pattern of not playing by the rules



https://media2.mofo.com/documents/faqs-regulation-fd.pdf

http://www.professionalabstracts.com/ueg2019/iplanner/#/grid/1571702400

https://www.natlawreview.com/article/sec-signals-new-phase-regulation-fd-enforcement
