Memo: Short – Focus Financial              January 15, 2020 





1 


“When you hear the word EBITDA, 


you should substitute the word bullsh*t.” 
- Charlie Munger 





Upslope is short Focus Financial (FOCS, or the “Company”) – a $3.7 billion (enterprise value) levered roll-


up of independent registered investment advisors (RIAs) that has surprisingly flown under the radar since its 


2018 IPO. A quick summary of our thesis is provided below and followed by details for each item: 


1. Aggressively Pitched by Management as Something it's Not 


2. Dubious Capital Allocation Record 


3. Creative Earnings Adjustments and Cash Flow Metrics  


4. Over-Levered Balance Sheet 


5. Reflexivity Squared – Dependence on Robust Financial Markets…and Reputation 


6. Questionable Management Incentives and Ownership  


7. Related Party Fun 


8. Shareholder Base Headwinds and Questions 


9. Full Valuation, Modest Short Interest, and Significant Downside 


10. Catalysts…or Why Now? 





1. Aggressively Pitched by Management as Something it’s Not 


We’re often attracted to shorts where we can easily observe management aggressively pushing an investment 


case that doesn’t sync with reality. In our Q2 2019 letter, we discussed Ranpack (PACK), where management 


pitched the crumpled paper packaging company (our description) as a play on e-commerce, the Internet of 
Things, and millennial household formation (among other hot trends). We have followed the Focus story for a 


number of years and believe that Focus management’s pitch and promotion of narratives is just as egregious:  


• “Not AUM-driven” – attempted to avoid disclosing partner firm AUM (assets under management) 


in S-1. Per an Autonomous research report, “management…does not characterize its business as AUM 


driven, and only until the second amendment of the S-1 did it provide an estimate of the AUM managed 


by its partner firms.” This seems bizarre and a blatant red flag, given the nature of the business (wealth 


management with asset-based fees – even FOCS now admits 73% of revenues are “market-related”1). 





• Management-defined "organic" growth includes partner2 acquisitions and market appreciation; 


refuses to disclose true underlying organic growth. This has been an ongoing issue since FOCS 


filed to go public, with pushback from both the buy- and sell-side. We believe it is preposterous that a 


levered roll-up with a market-linked business (i.e. revenues driven in part by equity market prices) not 


disclose detailed information on true organic growth. FOCS' COO made some light of the issue at the 


2019 investor day (emphasis Upslope's): 





 
1 Q3 2019 earnings presentation. 
2 For clarity: we view this as similar to a company including acquisitions made by subsidiaries in its organic growth figures. 



https://www.upslopecapital.com/s/Upslope-2019Q2-Letter.pdf
Memo: Short – Focus Financial              January 15, 2020 





2 


“Let me ask the question, it's probably going through a lot of your minds right now. 


Why does Focus insist on calling mergers organic growth? Because mergers are 


the most efficient way to accelerate client acquisition and talent acquisition. I live in 


New Jersey, come to Manhattan. I could have taken a scenic route. I could have taken 


local, like Route 9. I chose to take New Jersey [Turnpike]. All roads lead to Manhattan. 


Some are faster than others. My route was faster. All avenues lead to organic growth. 


Mergers happen to be. And in this industry, in this environment, with the opportunity 


that is available, and Lenny's going to talk more about it, if you have access to M&A 


expertise, if you have access to capital and you know how to do good accretive 


mergers, it is the fastest way. Mergers are the most efficient way to accelerate client 


acquisition and talent acquisition.”3 





“I’ll take tortured excuses for not disclosing basic information for $500, Alex.” We find it curious 


management has gone to such lengths to avoid disclosure, which would obviously enhance investors’ 


ability to assess the underlying health of the business. Even if there are arguments in favor of valuing 


acquisition growth on par with organic, why not provide the information and let the market decide? 





• Management claims its model results in an “annuity stream”4 – we believe that in reality Focus’ 


RIA partners will experience distress (or walk) in a serious downturn. Management claims its deal 


structures provide downside protection, with the 'annuity' comment effectively suggesting (again) that 


FOCS isn't tied to equity market performance. We think this fails a common-sense test and that the 


model is simply optimized for bull market conditions. An illustration of the structure is provided below: 


Exhibit 1: Earnings Split Example 





Source: Autonomous, Upslope (annotations), Company filings 





The above structure is certainly attractive for FOCS in managing through ordinary, short-term 


corrections during a bull market (e.g Q4 2018, which was sharp, but impressively brief). But in an 


extended downturn, someone will pay the price for this stability (see red annotations above). We think 


 
3 Transcript source: Sentieo. 
4 CFO comments from 2019 Investor Day. 


Revenues 10% below plan = 42% hit to partner mgmt. fees
Memo: Short – Focus Financial              January 15, 2020 





3 


it’s obvious that partners near the preference “strike price” will experience distress (or just walk) in a 


more serious market downturn – hardly an “annuity stream.”  





2. Dubious Capital Allocation Record 


From 2013 to 2019 Q3 (YTD/LTM figures used as appropriate), a period during which the S&P 500 more than 


doubled, Focus did the following: 


• Spent $1.6bn in cash on acquisitions 





• Generated an incremental $94mm in annual cash flow from operations 





• Saw cash flow from operations as a % of adjusted EBITDA fall from 99% to 62% 


Management notes, “we typically pay mid- to high single-digit multiples” (CEO, Q2 2019 earnings call). Let’s 


assume FOCS paid 8x in aggregate for its $1.6bn in acquisition spend since 2013. Simplistically, this would 


imply incremental earnings (or ideally cash flow) of ~$200mm – more than double actual incremental cash flows 


just from acquisitions alone.  


Management also claims, “the number of firms that joined us that ultimately doubled, tripled, quadrupled or 


more in size after they joined us is, even for us, pretty stunning” (CEO, December 2018 GS Conference).  


Combine the above comments with math and the fact that from 2013 - Q3 2019, the S&P 500 was +108% and 


it becomes awfully hard to reconcile management’s commentary with results to date (incremental operating 


cash flows of just $94mm despite $1.6bn of acquisition spend at mid-to-high single-digit multiples, and multi-


bagger “organic” growth at a significant5 number of partner firms). What’s going on here? We can only 


speculate, but in our view, the two most likely possibilities are: (A) management is paying significantly more 


than stated for acquisitions, and/or (B) as FOCS partners join the platform, they’re not “creating enduring value 


well into the future,” (another CEO line from the Q2 2019 call) but deteriorating under FOCS' purview. 


Bottom-line: if the Focus model isn’t obviously successful during a raging bull market with cheap financing for 


massive acquisition spend, what happens to the business in a downturn?  





3. Creative Earnings Adjustments and Cash Flow Metrics 


Please just look at this before proceeding: 


 
One hundred and sixteen times. That is how many times the word “adjusted” appears in Focus’ 2019 investor 


day deck. As one might expect, the list of adjustments that management "recommends" is long and it includes 


quite a few clearly-recurring items,6 as well as equity-based comp (very unusual for Focus' peer group).  


 
5 We assume he’s suggesting this is the case at a significant number of partner firms. Why make the comment if it’s immaterial? 
6 A few examples of adjustments we take issue with: amortization of debt financing costs and intangible amortization (both clearly 
recurring, given the nature of the business and…the historical record), other one-time transaction expenses (includes expenses 
related to FOCS’ IPO and reorg. transactions – fine with us. But, it also includes expenses from an acquisition – definitely not fine, 
given M&A is core to the FOCS model).
Memo: Short – Focus Financial              January 15, 2020 





4 


Exhibit 2: “Impressive” List of Earnings Adjustments 





Source: 2019 Investor Day presentation, Upslope (annotations) 








Also note that Focus employs a few creative definitions of free cash flow (we pay attention when companies 


suggest investors look away from the obvious line items on the statement of cash flows). While management 


likes to conflate organic and acquisition growth, they are of course crystal clear in ensuring acquisition spend 


is nowhere to be seen here (adjusting out contingent consideration): 


Exhibit 3: Statement of Cash Flows Isn’t Good Enough? 





Source: 2019 Investor Day presentation, Upslope (annotations) 








4. Over-Levered Balance Sheet 


At the end of Q3, Focus was levered 4.3x net (using a heavily adjusted EBITDA), within management’s recently-


boosted target range of 3.5-4.5x. Simply put, we think this is an irresponsible amount of debt for a financial 


services business whose operating performance is directly linked to financial markets.
Memo: Short – Focus Financial              January 15, 2020 





5 


5. Reflexivity Squared – Dependence on Robust Financial Markets…and Reputation 


Focus is dependent on healthy financing markets and bull market conditions in multiple ways: 


• Fundamentals linked to and driven by growth (or declines) in equity/fixed income markets – 73% of Q3 


of Focus’ revenues were “correlated to markets” in Q3 2019.  





• Acquisition growth strategy is highly dependent on the continued availability of cheap debt financing. 





• Stock-based compensation (dependent on FOCS share price) is a material expense. 





• As a wealth management business, it is imperative Focus maintain a reputation as being a financially 


solid and trustworthy counterparty. Heavy dependence on capital markets and a high debt load appear 


to be a major risk on this front. That is to say it’s not hard to envision a scenario in a market downturn 


where clients begin to worry about the health of the business managing their money. 


 
6. Questionable Management Incentives and Ownership 


Share ownership among the Focus management team is rather unusual for a financial services company: most 


own very few shares (if any) outright and have very large numbers of options. For example, per the 2018 proxy, 


CFO Jim Shanahan owned zero shares outright and had over 2mm options (equivalent). CEO Rudy Adolf 


owned less than 60k shares outright, but had nearly 5mm options. In our view this creates a misalignment of 


incentives – pushing management for growth-at-any-cost. We think this attitude and these incentives are 


reflected in FOCS’ surprisingly high debt load and the aggressive narratives promoted by management.   


7. Related Party Fun 


What would a short thesis be without a few quirky related party issues (and a plane)? We note the following: 


• The CEO owns a plane and FOCS reimburses him for using it (when used for business). This is an 


unusual arrangement and we think at the very least it sends a fairly poor message about management's 


priorities. Interestingly, the CEO's 2017 employment contract set a cap on reimbursement at $800k. Of 


course, the board of directors (as is its right) approved a $1.7mm reimbursement for 2018. 





• The CEO’s ~27-year old son works for Focus in a well-paid business development role, despite a 


seeming lack of prior relevant (any?) outside experience.  


 
8. Shareholder Base Headwinds and Questions 


Some interesting observations on the shareholder base – both past and present: 


• Private equity firms still own almost half of FOCS shares – not a red flag on its own, but this should 


certainly be an overhang on shares for years to come. 





• Highly respected shareholder, Akre Capital Mgmt., quickly headed for the door. Based on public filings, 


Akre established a position in 2018 (around the IPO) and exited <1 year later.
Memo: Short – Focus Financial              January 15, 2020 





6 


9. Full Valuation, Modest Short Interest, and Significant Downside 


FOCS trades for 12x (heavily adjusted) 2020 EBITDA and has just 3%/7% of equity/float short. Given the 


elevated risks outlined herein – heavy dependence on bull market conditions, aggressive leverage, poor 


disclosure, questionable management alignment with shareholders – this all seems quite generous. While there 


are no perfect “comps,” LPL Financial (LPLA – a well-run broker-dealer exposed to similar end-market trends) 


trades for <9x EBITDA.7   


Based on the above, we think FOCS shares are worth no more than $20 (33% downside) – assuming 


continued, favorable bull market conditions for the business. At $20, shares would trade closer to 10x (heavily 


adj. EBITDA). In a more serious market correction, we see at least 50% downside to shares, assuming 


FOCS valuation approaches that of the more troubled asset manager stocks (i.e. well into single digit EBITDA 


multiples) – as a result of an aggressive leverage profile and operational dependence on financial markets. 


10. Catalysts…or Why Now? 


We see two potential catalysts for a Focus short. First, longer term, we think a market downturn will severely 


hurt the operating performance of and equity in the business – especially in light of the over-levered capital 


structure and questionable “downside-protection” model. 


Second, and a bit more timely, per Focus’ Q3 2019 10-Q, “Focus…is subject on an annual basis to contingent 


principal payments based on excess cash flow for any fiscal year if the First Lien Leverage Ratio exceeds 


3.75:1.00.” This ratio stood at 4.27x at Q3 2019 (following a smooth up-trend from Q4 2018’s 3.3x). While we 


don’t know how Focus finished out 2019, the Company seems uncomfortably close to the 3.75x level (even if 


we apply current net debt to 2020 consensus EBITDA, leverage is still 4.0x). It would not surprise us to see 


Focus try to raise equity in the relatively near-term (a welcome catalyst for shorts – especially with shares 


trading below its $33 IPO price). Either way, if Focus finds itself subject to this restriction, executing its 


acquisition playbook is likely to become quite difficult.  


As Focus CEO Rudy Adolf so aptly put it in August 2019, “if you don’t grow, you die."  





Key Risks to the Short 


• Growth model could stay afloat longer than expected. 


• Organic growth could eventually be disclosed as better than expected. 


• Sale to a strategic buyer. 








 
7 As of January 14, 2020. Source: Sentieo.
Memo: Short – Focus Financial              January 15, 2020 





7 


IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES 





Certain accounts managed by Upslope Capital Management (“Upslope,” “we”) currently hold short 


positions in Focus Financial (FOCS). These positions may change without notice and Upslope accepts 


no responsibility to update these materials. These materials are solely the opinion of Upslope and 


readers are strongly encouraged to independently verify all facts and assertions. 





Upslope Capital Management, LLC is a Colorado registered investment adviser. Information presented is for 


discussion and educational purposes only and does not intend to make an offer or solicitation for the sale or 


purchase of any specific securities, investments, or investment strategies. Investments involve risk and, unless 


otherwise stated, are not guaranteed. Be sure to first consult with a qualified financial adviser and/or tax 


professional before implementing any strategy discussed herein. Past performance is not indicative of future 


performance. 





While Upslope believes all information herein is from reliable sources, no representation or warranty can be 


made with respect to its completeness. Any projections, market outlooks, or estimates in this presentation are 


forward-looking statements and are based upon internal analysis and certain assumptions, which reflect the 


views of Upslope and should not be construed to be indicative of actual events that will occur. As such, the 


information may change in the future should any of the economic or market conditions Upslope used to base 


its assumptions change.  





Any description of investment strategies in this presentation is intended to be a summary and should not be 


considered an exhaustive and complete description of the potential investment strategies used by Upslope 


discussed herein. Varied investment strategies may be added or subtracted from Upslope in accordance with 


related Investment Advisory Contracts by Upslope in its sole and absolute discretion. 





Any specific security or investment examples in this presentation are meant to serve as examples of Upslope’s 


investment process only and may or may not be trades that Upslope has executed or will execute. There is no 


assurance that Upslope Capital will make any investments with the same or similar characteristics as any 


investments presented. The investments are presented for discussion purposes only and are not a reliable 


indicator of the performance or investment profile of any composite or client account. The reader should not 


assume that any investments identified were or will be profitable or that any investment recommendations or 


investment decisions we make in the future will be profitable. Any index or benchmark comparisons herein are 


provided for informational purposes only and should not be used as the basis for making an investment decision. 


There are significant differences between Upslope’s strategy and the benchmarks referenced, including, but 


not limited to, risk profile, liquidity, volatility and asset composition. You should not rely on this presentation as 


the basis upon which to make an investment decision. 





There can be no assurance that investment objectives will be achieved. Clients must be prepared to bear the 


risk of a loss of their investment.  





These materials may not be disseminated without the prior written consent of Upslope Capital Management, 


LLC.
