We are short shares of Principia Biopharma, a company whose $2 billion valuation rests on a 
single obscure molecule known as Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (BTK). Named after a pediatrician 
who discovered an immunodeficiency later found to be caused by a defective mutant form of the 
molecule, BTK plays an important role in conveying certain signals inside B cells, the part of the 
immune system charged with fighting off infection by producing antibodies. Drugs that inhibit the 
activity of BTK have enjoyed great success treating B-cell–driven cancers; Principia now hopes 
to use the same approach to treat autoimmune diseases caused by errant B cells that turn on 
their own hosts. After a large day-one pop following its IPO in September 2018, Principia’s stock 
price didn’t do much for a year, closely tracking the overall biotech sector. In the past few 
months, though, it has nearly doubled, driven by a murky combination of new clinical data, 
excitement over recent industry M&A, and anticipation of results from a Phase 2 multiple-
sclerosis trial that are expected to be released within the next couple of months. 
 
There’s just one problem: Principia’s drugs don’t work. While the company touts the results of its 
Phase 2 trials in the autoimmune diseases pemphigus and immune thrombocytopenia, those 
small trials included no placebo groups and allowed patients to continue taking other 
medications that are known to be effective in treating their conditions. Examined with this 
massive confounding factor in mind, Principia’s BTK inhibitors appear to add no value to the 
traditional standard of care and to pale in comparison to newer therapies. With no intrinsic value 
beyond the cash on its balance sheet, Principia has more than 80% downside. 
 
This lack of efficacy fits in perfectly with the overall history of BTK inhibitors: while they work 
well in some B-cell malignancies, they have repeatedly fallen short in multiple different 
autoimmune diseases across many years – a fact that seems poorly appreciated, in part 
because the results of several different disappointing trials were never officially published. 
Based on the scientific literature, we believe the reason BTK inhibitors fail in autoimmune 
disease is because their main effect is to prevent the development and proliferation of new B-
cell lines – while leaving existing B-cell populations largely unscathed. But the problem in 
autoimmunity lies precisely in the established subsets of misbehaving cells; new cell lines are 
irrelevant. Thus we believe Principia’s approach is doomed to fail. Indeed, it may even be 
dangerous: by halting the birth of new B cells, BTK inhibitors narrow the range of novel 
pathogens that patients can effectively combat, leaving them open to opportunistic infections – a 
problem that has in some cases proven fatal for patients using drugs like Principia’s. 
 
Principia shares a name with Isaac Newton’s groundbreaking work, the Principia (full title: 
Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica), which set out, among other things, the law of 
universal gravitation. But we think a humbler statement of gravity’s law is a better fit for this 
Principia: what goes up must come down.  
 


    
January 2020 


Principia Biopharma Inc. (PRNB) 
A TKO for BTK 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in the stock of Principia Biopharma Inc. (the “Company”). 
Kerrisdale stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication, 
Kerrisdale may transact in the securities of the Company. All expressions of opinion are subject to change 
without notice, and Kerrisdale does not undertake to update this report or any information herein. Please 
read our full legal disclaimer at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 2 








Table of Contents 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 3 


COMPANY OVERVIEW ............................................................................................................................ 5 


PRINCIPIA’S PLACEBO-LESS CLINICAL RESULTS ARE WEAK ....................................................... 6 


Pemphigus ............................................................................................................................................................................ 6 
Immune Thrombocytopenia (ITP)................................................................................................................................ 12 


BTK INHIBITORS DON’T WORK IN AUTOIMMUNE DISEASE ..................................................... 17 


BTK Inhibitors Have Repeatedly Failed in Autoimmune Clinical Trials ............................................................... 17 
Closing the Stable Door After the Horse Has Bolted: Inhibiting BTK Is Irrelevant to Autoimmunity .......... 21 


MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS: DON’T BELIEVE THE HYPE .................................................................... 23 


BTK INHIBITORS POSE TROUBLING HEALTH RISKS ................................................................... 26 


CONCLUSION ......................................................................................................................................... 28 


REFERENCES .......................................................................................................................................... 29 


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ................................................................................................................... 31
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





Executive Summary 
 
Principia’s placebo-less clinical results are weak. In pemphigus, Principia can’t hold a 
candle to the B-cell–depleting therapy rituximab, recently approved for use in the disease and 
now regarded as the “gold standard.” While rituximab can, over time, achieve a 90% complete-
remission rate with no need for ongoing corticosteroid use, we estimate that patients on 
Principia’s PRN1008 only managed an 11% complete-remission rate (recalculated using 
standard analyses rather than Principia’s self-serving adjustments) while still taking low doses of 
corticosteroids, which are themselves clearly effective in pemphigus, though less so than 
rituximab. Meanwhile, the modest decrease in pathogenic antibodies experienced by patients 
on PRN1008 plus corticosteroids – at doses that Principia dubs “low” but are, by typical 
standards in this therapeutic area, more like “medium” – was dramatically smaller than that seen 
with the old corticosteroid-only standard of care. In short, PRN1008 appears to add no value in 
the relatively mild pemphigus cases in which it has been tried; improvements in patient health 
can easily be explained by their ongoing use of corticosteroids.  
 
The situation is similar in immune thrombocytopenia (“ITP”). Many effective drugs are already 
available to treat the condition, with several more on the way. While Principia suggests that its 
drug boosts platelet counts in ITP patients, the modest and often transient increases observed 
are again easily explained by the fact that more than two thirds of these patients were also 
taking other drugs, like thrombopoietin-receptor agonists and corticosteroids, that are effective 
treatments in their own right. Meanwhile, PRN1008 patients appeared to experience no overall 
improvement in bleeding (the major problematic symptom of ITP), and 10% actually suffered 
from bleeding-related serious adverse events requiring hospitalization. In fact, based on the 
track record of other BTK inhibitors across large numbers of patients, we worry that Principia’s 
drug could actually cause bleeding and thrombocytopenia, not treat them. 
 
BTK inhibitors don’t work in autoimmune disease. Companies like Celgene, AstraZeneca, 
and Gilead have tried over and over to use BTK inhibitors to treat autoimmune diseases like 
rheumatoid arthritis (an early target of Principia’s), lupus, and Sjögren’s syndrome – but the 
results have always been unimpressive. We contend that this track record of failure is a direct 
consequence of the biology of BTK: rather than having a broad in vivo effect on B-cell 
functioning, it primarily does something narrower: facilitate the early-stage development of new 
B-cell lines. This explains both the success of BTK inhibition in diseases characterized by 
excessive proliferation of immature B cells and the failure of BTK inhibition in diseases 
characterized by established populations of misbehaving mature B cells. Indeed, BTK inhibitors 
don’t even block all of BTK’s effects: while they do suppress the molecule’s enzymatic activity, 
they leave untouched its effects as a docking site for other intracellular proteins. 
 
Multiple-sclerosis: don’t believe the hype. Recent buzz about upcoming multiple-sclerosis 
data for the Principia/Sanofi drug SAR442168 is a red herring. As with Principia’s other trials to 
date, this one also lacks a clean, straightforward placebo group and fails to include true clinical 
endpoints (like disability progression) that measure patient health, as opposed to surrogate 
endpoints (like MRI-based measures). Any data are bound to be noisy and inconclusive.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 4 





Besides, the world of multiple-sclerosis treatment has recently been shaken up by the rise of 
ocrelizumab, a close cousin of rituximab that has achieved dramatic results in clinical trials, 
leaving little room for BTK inhibitors. We expect that same pattern to prevail in multiple sclerosis 
as in other autoimmune conditions: while true B-cell–depleting therapies have a significant 
positive impact by killing off the established populations of “bad” cells that cause the conditions, 
BTK inhibitors have no impact because they primarily affect unrelated fledgling cells. 
 
BTK inhibitors pose troubling health risks. While it’s tempting to regard Principia’s drugs as 
equivalent to placebos in the setting of autoimmune disease, they may actually be worse than 
placebos because of potentially serious on-target side effects. By stopping the growth and 
evolution of patients’ immune repertoires, BTK inhibitors foster greater susceptibility to 
dangerous infections – a known risk of drugs like ibrutinib and its next-generation successors. 
Though Principia’s BTK inhibitors have thus far only been used by a small number of patients 
for short periods of time, there are already signs of trouble, with several instances of infection, 
including at least one severe case requiring hospitalization. As patient experience accumulates, 
we expect the risks to become more stark. Thus, not only are Principia’s BTK inhibitors 
ineffective; they may also be unsafe.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





Company Overview 
 


Principia Biopharma: 
Capitalization and Finances 


 
 
Source: company filings, Kerrisdale analysis 
*Pro forma for Oct 2019 equity offering. 
†First three quarters of 2019 annualized. 


 
Spun out of a UC San Francisco chemistry lab, Principia raised its initial round of funding in 
2011, aiming from the start at treating autoimmune and inflammatory diseases using small-
molecule drugs that interact with their targets in a particular way: by forming strong, covalent 
chemical bonds that are nonetheless reversible, not permanent. Most drugs don’t form covalent 
bonds with their targets, while those that do, including the groundbreaking BTK inhibitor 
ibrutinib, bind irreversibly; Principia’s lead drug, PRN1008 (also called rilzabrutinib), binds 
covalently but in such a way that the bond is readily breakable under the right conditions. 
(Principia’s other main drug, a BTK inhibitor engineered for use in multiple sclerosis, binds 
irreversibly and thus is less distinguished from other BTK inhibitors.) 
 
Hoping that this reversible covalent property would make its drugs highly potent yet safe for 
long-term use, Principia initiated Phase 2 clinical trials in two rare autoimmune diseases, 
pemphigus and immune thrombocytopenia, and went public in September 2018 at a price of 
$17 per share. Meanwhile, the company formed two partnerships with big pharma companies. 
First, in June 2017, it announced a deal with AbbVie for R&D on inhibitors of the 
immunoproteasome (a molecular mechanism inside immune cells that breaks down proteins) – 
but in March 2019 AbbVie pulled out of the deal. Then, in November 2017, Principia licensed its 
irreversible BTK inhibitor, intended for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, to Sanofi for an 
upfront payment of $40 million plus a future stream of potential milestone payments and 
royalties. With the suspicious collapse of the AbbVie immunoproteasome deal and the recent 


Share price ($) $57.21
Fully diluted shares (mm):


Shares outstanding 32.8      
Dilutive impact of options 2.8        


Total 35.6      


($mm)
Fully diluted market cap 2,035$  
Cash & securities* 388       
Run-rate operating expenses† 90         


Cash & securities per share* 10.90$  
% downside -81%



https://xconomy.com/san-francisco/2012/10/30/principia-biopharma-the-ucsf-spinout-with-36m-thinking-big-and-covalent/

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1510487/000119312518274615/d575899d424b4.htm

https://news.abbvie.com/news/abbvie-and-principia-announce-collaboration-on-oral-immunoproteasome-inhibitors.htm

https://www.fiercebiotech.com/biotech/principia-abbvie-call-it-quits-2017-immunoproteasome-deal

https://news.sanofigenzyme.com/press-release/sanofi-principia-agree-develop-multiple-sclerosis-drug-candidate
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





suspension of the company’s longstanding oncology program1 (attributed to “market dynamics 
and portfolio refocus” but likely related, in our view, to weak Phase 1 results2), Principia has 
become almost entirely a bet on the use of BTK inhibitors in autoimmune diseases. 
 
Before discussing this bet in further depth, it’s worth explaining what makes Principia different 
from ArQule, the BTK-inhibitor company acquired by Merck for $2.7 billion in December. Many 
different companies have developed copycat covalent BTK inhibitors over the years, following in 
the footsteps of ibrutinib, but ArQule focused on solving a problem created by ibrutinib’s very 
success: mutation. Covalent BTK inhibitors, including Principia’s drugs as well as ibrutinib, bind 
to a particular cysteine amino acid that forms part of the larger BTK protein. But a common 
mode of ibrutinib resistance is for cancer cells to evolve to substitute a different amino acid, 
serine, for that crucial cysteine; this swap makes it impossible for covalent BTK inhibitors to 
attach themselves to the mutant BTK. By contrast, ArQule’s BTK inhibitor binds non-covalently 
in a manner that is indifferent to the presence or absence of cysteine at that precise location, 
enabling it to successfully treat patients for whom ibrutinib stopped working. 
 
In short, ArQule’s value is all about treating B-cell malignancies that can’t be addressed by 
conventional BTK inhibitors. Principia’s approach is irrelevant in this area because, despite the 
wrinkle of forming “reversible” covalent bonds as opposed to typical covalent bonds, it still 
needs a cysteine residue to work. The features that made ArQule attractive simply don’t apply to 
Principia. Indeed, for all the pride the company takes in its unique chemistry, the real-world 
benefits are hard to discern: Principia’s clinical results to date have been thoroughly 
unimpressive. 
 


Principia’s Placebo-Less Clinical Results Are Weak 


Pemphigus 
Pemphigus is a rare autoimmune skin disease thought to result when a patient’s own immune 
system produces antibodies targeting desmogleins 1 and 3 (DSG1 and DSG3), proteins that 
help skin cells bind together; this results in painful blistering across the body. In its investor 
presentation (slide 10), Principia says that the current “standard of care” for pemphigus is “high-
dose [corticosteroids] (60-90 mg/day), with high toxicity; Rituxan; other immunosuppressants.” 
The company goes on to argue that, based on data from a single-arm (placebo-less), Phase 2 
clinical trial, its BTK inhibitor PRN1008/rilzabrutinib leads to good patient outcomes despite 
“no/low corticosteroids,” drugs with known efficacy in pemphigus but many dangerous and 
unpleasant side effects. 
 


                                                
1 See Principia investor presentation, slide 3 (“PRN1371 FGFR program suspended due to market dynamics and 
portfolio refocus”). 
2 Principia’s May 2019 data presentation showed that its FGFR inhibitor seemed to have no meaningful benefit 
across 36 patients with various forms of cancer: most saw lesions grow, few saw them shrank, and only 30% 
achieved “stable disease,” let alone a clinical response.  



https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191209005234/en/Merck-Acquire-ArQule-Advancing-Leadership-Oncology

https://ir.principiabio.com/static-files/92a538a5-5880-40fd-852f-98f3c46faaf4

https://ir.principiabio.com/static-files/92a538a5-5880-40fd-852f-98f3c46faaf4

https://www.principiabio.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/2019.05-PRN1371-Piha-Paul-AACR-Bladder.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





We believe Principia is burying the lede – downplaying the availability of effective therapy to 
make its own drug look better by contrast. While it mentions Rituxan (rituximab) in passing, here 
we present passages from Roche’s June 2018 press release announcing the FDA’s approval of 
Rituxan for pemphigus vulgaris (the most common form of the disease) (emphasis added): 
 


Rituxan is the first FDA-approved treatment for moderate to severe pemphigus vulgaris 
(PV) in more than 60 years… 
 
The FDA approval is based on data from the Ritux 3 trial, a Roche-supported, 
randomized, controlled trial conducted in France…The study compared the Ritux 3 
regimen (EU-approved rituximab product plus short-term corticosteroids [CS]) to CS 
alone as a first-line treatment in patients with newly diagnosed moderate to severe 
pemphigus. The primary endpoint of the study was complete remission at month 24 
without the use of steroids for two or more months. Results of the study showed that 
90 percent of PV patients treated with the Ritux 3 regimen met the endpoint, 
compared to 28 percent of PV patients treated with CS alone. 


 
This is what Principia is going up against: a recently FDA-approved therapy with a proven 90% 
success rate, with “success” defined in strict terms as complete remission in the absence of 
ongoing corticosteroid use (not the loose, permissive “no/low corticosteroids” standard applied 
by Principia, to which we will return).  
 
This is not just Roche propaganda. A 2017 article in the Journal of Clinical and Diagnostic 
Research, written by independent physicians who ran their own rituximab study in India, was 
entitled “Rituximab: A Magic Bullet for Pemphigus” (1); another piece, co-written in 2017 by the 
lead principal investigator of Principia’s Phase 2 pemphigus trial,3 was entitled “Rituximab and 
short-course prednisone as the new gold standard for new-onset pemphigus vulgaris and 
pemphigus foliaceus” (2) (emphasis added). In a recent continuing-medical-education video 
aimed at dermatologists and other healthcare providers “involved in the management of patients 
with autoimmune diseases,” Dr. Erin Wei, director of the Bullous Disease Clinic at the Harvard-
affiliated Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, called giving rituximab early on to 
pemphigus patients “really a no brainer,” adding that “most experts offer rituximab as a first-line 
treatment option” and that she and her colleagues “consider it as first line in nearly all 
patients…Only a very small minority of patients don’t respond completely.” While pemphigus 
patients initially treated with rituximab do sometimes relapse, both the landmark study that led to 
FDA approval and other recent research suggests that repeat infusions of rituximab every 6 to 
12 months are effective at keeping the disease at bay in the long run, even without ongoing 
corticosteroids (3). (While rituximab is administered as an infrequent intravenous infusion, 
Principia’s Phase 3 pemphigus trial design requires patients to take PRN1008 twice a day, 
every day.)  
 


                                                
3 See Nov 29, 2018, Principia press release: “Dr. Dedee Murrell…the lead principal investigator.” 



https://www.gene.com/media/press-releases/14727/2018-06-07/fda-approves-genentechs-rituxan-rituxima

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vi6lZ5u9748

https://www.naccme.com/program/19-ias-205

https://ir.principiabio.com/news-releases/news-release-details/principia-biopharma-reports-positive-prn1008-phase-2-top-line
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





With the striking efficacy of rituximab in mind, let’s examine the Phase 2 results that Principia 
has presented for PRN1008 in pemphigus.4 With 27 patients enrolled, all taking PRN1008 plus 
what Principia calls “low-dose corticosteroids” (at or below 0.5 milligrams per kilogram of body 
weight (mg/kg) per day) for a 12-week treatment period, 54% achieved “control of disease 
activity” (defined primarily as the cessation of new lesion formation) by week 4, and 17% 
achieved “complete remission” by week 12. (Note that Principia slightly inflates its results by 
excluding patients who dropped out of the trial because of adverse events, even if they were 
found to be treatment-emergent. Including these patients in the denominator – which seems fair, 
since the combination of PRN1008 and “low-dose” corticosteroids clearly didn’t help the patients 
who dropped out – reduces the CDA rate to 52% and the “complete remission” rate to 15%.5)  
 
Even when one takes these results at face value, it’s difficult to find them impressive. Who cares 
about a 15-17% rate of “complete remission” among patients still on corticosteroids when 
rituximab can deliver a 90% rate of complete remission that doesn’t require corticosteroids? To 
be fair, rituximab takes months to achieve its effects, but surely patients covered in painful 
blisters want to cure their condition and stop taking corticosteroids, not merely “control” the 
disease.  
 
But Principia’s results should not be taken at face value. We believe that the modest 
improvements in patient health seen in the trial stemmed from the effect of corticosteroids on 
patients with relatively mild disease – not the impact of PRN1008. Consider the patients’ 
characteristics at baseline: 
 


• The average Pemphigus Disease Area Index (PDAI) total activity score was 19; this is a 
scale that runs from 0 to 250. By contrast, in the landmark 2017 rituximab trial, baseline 
PDAI was 46.0 in the group randomized to predisone only and 33.5 in the group 
randomized to rituximab plus short-term prednisone – much higher scores indicating 
much more severe disease (4). 


• While Principia elsewhere claims that the standard of care for pemphigus is 60-90 
mg/day, the patients in this trial were on a “CS [corticosteroid] dose at entry” of only 14 
mg/day.6  


• In Principia’s Phase 2, the mean level of anti-DSG3 antibodies in patients’ serum was 
~400 units per mL. In the rituximab study, it was more than double (~1,000 U/mL in the 
prednisone-only group and ~900 U/mL in the rituximab group) (4). 


 
Overall, then, Principia tested its drug on relatively mild cases – and still didn’t achieve 
impressive results. 
 
It’s important to Principia to characterize the corticosteroid doses taken by patients in the trial as 
“low” because it heads off the skeptic’s natural question: why assume the credit for any 
improvement goes to PRN1008 and not the corticosteroids? If the doses were truly so “low” as 


                                                
4 Here we focus on the detailed Phase 2 Part A data. For the smaller Part B, Principia has said it will submit final data 
“for presentation at an upcoming medical conference,” but disclosed topline figures are similar to those from Part A. 
5 See March 2019 presentation at the American Academy of Dermatology meeting, slides 8 and 9, footnotes. 
6 March 2019 AAD presentation, slide 7. 



https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/12/30/1964942/0/en/Principia-Updates-PRN1008-Pemphigus-Clinical-Program.html

https://www.meddermsociety.org/content/uploads/2019/05/2019-MDS-Annual-Meeting-Presentation-DMurrell.pptx
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





to be trivial, perhaps PRN1008 would deserve some credit, but other sources don’t support 
Principia’s “low” label. For instance, in a 2013 retrospective study that compared “patients 
treated with different regimens including medium- and high-dose corticosteroids,” “medium” was 
defined as ≤ 0.5 mg/kg/d – the exact same threshold that Principia calls “low” (5). The same 
study (which pre-dates the approval of rituximab) also noted that “[m]any physicians still 
consider that the goal of pemphigus treatment is to maintain [complete remission] under the 
administration of low doses of [corticosteroids] (prednisone ≤ 2.5 mg/d) without trying to stop 
treatment.” Again, the definition of “low” is far more stringent than that used by Principia: for a 
~150-lb person, 2.5 mg/d equates to 0.04 mg/kg/d, less than a tenth of Principia’s threshold for 
“low.”  
 
Interestingly, the available evidence suggests that “medium” corticosteroid doses have very 
similar efficacy to higher doses. In the 2013 retrospective study, for instance, “the rate of 
patients who achieved CRoffT [complete remission off therapy] was not significantly different 
among the three treatment groups [consisting of medium-dose, high-dose, and no initial 
corticosteroids at all], suggesting that the initial treatment regimen, which is usually adapted to 
initial disease severity to obtain disease control, does not greatly influence” the odds of 
complete remission (5). Similarly, in an earlier retrospective study of patients on two different 
corticosteroid dosing regimens, the cumulative doses which differed by almost a factor of 2, 
“both treatments resulted in high rates of clinical response” (roughly 80%), with no significant 
difference between them (6). It’s in Principia’s interest to argue that the corticosteroid doses in 
its trial were so low as to be ineffective – thereby casting any observed clinical benefit as the 
achievement of PRN1008 – but corticosteroid doses of similar size appear to have benefits little 
different than those of higher doses.  
 
Arguably the most “official” definition of a “low” dose of corticosteroids comes from the 2008 
“Consensus statement on definitions of disease, endpoints, and therapeutic response for 
pemphigus” issued by the International Pemphigus Committee – but, tellingly, Principia doesn’t 
use it, even though its own lead principal investigator is the first named author of the statement 
(7). In the consensus statement, “minimal therapy” is defined as “prednisone (or the equivalent) 
at ≤10 mg/d and/or minimal adjuvant therapy for at least 2 mo,” and “‘complete remission on 
therapy’ is defined as the absence of new or established lesions while the patient is receiving 
minimal therapy”; this is sometimes also referred to as “complete remission on minimal therapy,” 
a less stringent endpoint than the more common “complete remission off therapy.” The endpoint 
Principia uses, however, is its own even more permissive and self-serving creation: complete 
remission on ≤0.5 mg/kg/d, which, for a 150-pound person, would permit up to 34 mg/d – more 
than triple the consensus statement’s “minimal” dose. 
 
In effect, Principia set a low bar and then congratulated itself for occasionally clearing it. Recall 
that under its own calculation of complete remission on “low” (medium) therapy, the response 
rate was still only 17%. While Principia disclosed that the mean dose at CR was 8 mg – just 
below the “minimal” threshold on average – it also disclosed that the range of doses, among the
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 10 





4 patients in complete remission at 12 weeks, went from 1 to 20 mg. 7 That 20mg/d patient 
clearly wasn’t on “minimal” therapy, so the true CR rate on minimal therapy – based on the 
consensus definition of that endpoint and using the standard intent-to-treat statistical analysis – 
would only be 3 patients out of 27 enrolled, or just 11%.8 And even that “consensus” endpoint, 
though stricter than Principia’s, is controversial – for being too lax. The dramatic success of 
rituximab, for one thing, has shifted the emphasis to complete remission off all therapy. A 2019 
study of rituximab’s efficacy in pemphigus highlighted the issue: “Currently, a composite end 
point of CRMT [complete remission on minimal therapy] or better is considered an acceptable 
primary end point for clinical trials, but arguably the ability to discontinue all topical and oral 
systemic therapies with minimal or no disease  activity…is also a desirable therapeutic goal that 
should be considered (akin to the clear or almost clear end point used for many dermatology 
clinical trials” (8). In less diplomatic words, so-called remission that still requires “minimal” 
therapy is nothing to write home about. 
 
What about the “control of disease activity” (CDA) endpoint? Again, the results simply don’t 
stand out relative to what could be achieved by corticosteroids alone, especially given that 
patients began the trial with relatively mild disease. CDA only requires that new lesions stop 
forming, whereas “complete remission” requires the absence of new or established lesions for at 
least two months. But corticosteroids alone achieve this level of control in the vast majority of 
patients; it’s not a high bar. Few recent pemphigus studies seem to carefully track CDA, likely 
because doctors have higher ambitions for treatment efficacy. In one Thai study, though, 
researchers reported that “[a]lmost all PV [pemphigus vulgaris, the more common form] and PF 
[pemphigus foliaceus, the less common form] patients achieved disease control (93.9% and 
94.7%, respectively)” on standard of care (9). In Principia’s trial, looking at 26 patients, 54% 
achieved CDA within 4 weeks; to a close approximation, then, the median time to CDA was 4 
weeks. How does this compare to the Thai study, which included 117 patients? Among the PV 
patients, median time to CDA was 6 weeks; among the PF patients, it was 4 weeks. In the best 
case (for Principia), then, patients on PRN1008 plus “low”-dose corticosteroids achieved 
disease control about a week earlier than they might otherwise have expected to. Hold your 
applause. 
 
Finally, consider Principia’s data on anti-desmoglein antibody levels, a measure of the 
underlying biology of pemphigus. Presumably, if the concentration of anti-desmoglein antibodies 
goes down, that means the treatment is actually working, and Principia shows that mean anti-
DSG3 antibody levels among patients on PRN1008 plus corticosteroids do in fact decline by 
32% during the treatment period.9 But is that a lot, and should we conclude that it was caused 
by PRN1008 and not the corticosteroids? No and no. Compare Principia’s data to what was 
observed in the landmark rituximab study: 
 
 
                                                
7 March 2019 AAD presentation, slide 9. 
8 Recall that Principia allows itself to exclude 3 drop-outs from the CR analysis, even though they all did receive 
multiple doses of PRN1008 as far out as day 44. See March 2019 AAD presentation, slide 9, footnote. 
9 9 March 2019 AAD presentation, slide 13.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 11 








Pathogenic Antibodies in Pemphigus: Principia’s Results Are Weak 
 


 
Note: PRN1008 line represents mean antibodies among all patients with available data (not Principia’s 
alternative way of reporting the figures, which includes only patients with baseline antibodies ≥100). 
The solid portion of the line shows results during the treatment period; the dashed portion, post-
treatment follow-up. 
Source: Joly et al. 2017 (4); Principia March 2019 AAD presentation, slide 13; Kerrisdale analysis 


 
While the PRN1008-plus-corticosteroid patients did see an improvement, it’s dwarfed by what 
patients from the rituximab study experienced – even in the prednisone-only group. Thus 
corticosteroids alone are clearly sufficient to dramatically reduce anti-DSG3 antibody levels, 
even from extremely high baseline values. While Principia touts its modest 32% reduction at 
week 12 as evidence of efficacy, the corticosteroid-only patients in the rituximab study saw their 
anti-DSG3 antibodies drop by more than 80% by week 9. To be fair, Principia’s patients were on 
lower corticosteroid doses, likely accounting for the smaller and slower drop – but that still 
leaves no reason to believe that PRN1008 added any therapeutic value of its own. 
 
In a way, Principia has already effectively conceded that its Phase 2 results were profoundly 
flawed: in the design of its follow-up Phase 3 trial (currently enrolling patients), the primary 
endpoint is “the ability of PRN1008 to achieve durable CR on very low-dose CS (5 mg/day) at 
37 weeks of treatment” (emphasis added). Principia saves face by adopting the new term “very 
low-dose CS” instead of admitting that its previous “low-dose” term was misleading, but we 
believe the rationale for this shift is clear: the company realized that its Phase 2 trial was not 
credible because the endpoints were far too easy to hit even if PRN1008 added no value to the 
(pre-rituximab) standard of care. By making the definition of the primary endpoint stricter – 
allowing only 5 mg/day of corticosteroids, below even the consensus 10mg/day threshold for 
“minimal therapy,” and focusing on complete remission rather than mere CDA – it will make the 
eventual results more clinically relevant; even more important, the Phase 3 will include a real 


0


200


400


600


800


1,000


1,200


0 200 400 600 800


A
nt


i-d
es


m
og


le
in


 3
 a


nt
ib


od
ie


s 
 


(U
/m


L)


Time (days)


PRN1008


Prednisone alone, Joly et
al. 2017


Rituximab plus short-term
prednisone, Joly et al.
2017



https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/12/30/1964942/0/en/Principia-Updates-PRN1008-Pemphigus-Clinical-Program.html
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 12 





placebo group. And that’s when Principia will be forced to confront the reality thus far hidden 
behind its single-arm, corticosteroid-confounded Phase 2 design: PRN1008 is completely 
ineffective in pemphigus, adding nothing to the traditional standard of care and paling in 
comparison to the new “magic bullet,” rituximab. 
 


Immune Thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
 
Immune thrombocytopenia is, roughly speaking, just what doctors call it when a patient has an 
abnormally low number of platelets (the blood cells that help form clots) for no known reason. 
Though the disorder is thought to be autoimmune – caused by antibodies tagging platelets as 
“foreign” – such “antiplatelet antibodies are not detected in up to 50% of patients,” according to 
one recent review of ITP clinical practice (10). Researchers often emphasize the heterogeneity 
of the disease and the uncertainty about its underlying cause. The main problems associated 
with ITP are fatigue and bleeding, which can range from mild to occasionally life-threatening. 
 
Fortunately, those who suffer from this rare disease now have many treatment options. Typical 
first-line therapy includes corticosteroids (to suppress the immune system) and intravenous 
immunoglobulin (essentially intended to “flush” the pathogenic antibodies out of the patient’s 
bloodstream), while second- to third-line treatments include three different FDA-approved 
thrombopoietin-receptor agonists (TPO-RAs, which directly stimulate production of new 
platelets), rituximab, splenectomy (surgical removal of the spleen), the Syk inhibitor 
fostamatinib, and a host of other less proven but still commonly used drugs like mycophenolate 
mofetil, dapsone, danazol, and azathioprine. While many of these treatments are quite effective 
at boosting platelet counts in most patients, relapses are fairly common over time. According to 
a leading ITP expert, Nichola Cooper, “50% of patients cycle through therapies” to keep their 
platelet counts up. However, cycling isn’t the same thing as failure. Doctors who treat ITP note 
that patients often respond after relapse to the same drugs they were taking before or had taken 
at some point in the past; in the words of one doctor, “truly refractory patients are actually not 
that common.” Cooper likewise estimated that only 5-10% of ITP patients are “refractory.” That 
figure will likely fall further in the future, as at least three seemingly effective new drugs are now 
being tested in ongoing clinical trials: two FcRn inhibitors (efgartigimod from Argenx and 
rozanolixizumab from UCB) and an antibody designed to block a part of the immune system 
called the classical complement pathway (sutimlimab from Sanofi). It’s a crowded space. 
 
Against this backdrop of intense competition in ITP, Principia’s data fall flat. In the interim results 
the company has presented from its Phase 2 trial, the headline “response rate” was 39% (12 
patients out of 31). But there was no placebo group and thus no benchmark against which to 
judge this figure. ITP has long been recognized as a disease in which spontaneous remissions 
can and do occur; even without true remission, platelet counts can fluctuate at random.10 
                                                
10 For example, Cooper’s review states that “[b]oth spontaneous and treatment-induced remission can occur many 
years after diagnosis” (10). Even back in 2006, before TPO-RAs were available, other researchers concluded in a 
retrospective study that patients often experienced complete remission spontaneously or on low-dose corticosteroids; 
the five-year probability was 61% (25). One dramatic example of platelet-count fluctuations appeared in the phase 3 



https://twitter.com/TheLancetHaem/status/1179336216115912704
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 13 





There’s no good reason, then, to attribute every fleeting “response” to Principia’s drug. 
Moreover, 68% of trial participants were also on one or more concomitant ITP medications,11 
which could include corticosteroids and TPO-RAs, making it very likely that some or all of the 
“responses” that Principia wants to take credit for were in fact caused by standard treatments, 
not by PRN1008/rilzabrutinib.12  
 
Besides, Principia has set a low bar for itself with its definition of “response,” which requires only 
that patients’ platelet counts exceed 50 x 109/L for two consecutive weekly visits – at some point 
in time. This means that patients with a fleeting uptick in platelet counts followed by a sustained 
decline back to unhealthy, thrombocytopenic levels still count as “responders” even though they 
experienced no meaningful improvement. In fact, after a close examination of Principia’s 
needlessly difficult-to-decipher graphs of individual platelet counts over time, we found multiple 
cases of exactly that pattern. For example, these two patients both count toward Principia’s 
topline 39% response rate, even though it’s hard to be impressed by the trajectory of their 
platelet levels, which spike up a few times but soon settle back to low levels: 
 


Even Fleeting Improvements Count as “Responses” 
in Principia’s ITP Data 





 
Source: adapted from Principia investor presentation, slide 20 





                                                
trials of fostamatinib. In the placebo group (pooled together from two trials), the median platelet count spiked at week 
18 from ~20 to >200 x 109/L – a 10-fold increase driven by two patients on placebo who just happened to have high 
counts that week (26). 
11 Principia investor presentation (downloaded January 2020), slide 19. 
12 Principia attempts to head off this objection by noting that the response rate among patients on concomitant 
therapy was similar to that among patients on rilzabrutinib alone (Principia investor presentation, slide 22). But the 
rilzabrutinib-only group was small, making this comparison statistically suspect. Moreover, we don’t know the quality 
of the rilzabrutinib-only “responses” relative to those among patients on concomitant medications; it’s quite possible 
that the more clinically meaningful and durable increases in platelet counts occurred in patients taking TPO-RAs and 
corticosteroids, while the unimpressive, transient increases occurred in patients taking rilzabrutinib alone. 


0


50


100


150


200


250


0 50 100 150 200


P
la


te
le


t c
ou


nt
 x


10
9 /


L


Time (days)



https://ir.principiabio.com/static-files/92a538a5-5880-40fd-852f-98f3c46faaf4

https://ir.principiabio.com/static-files/92a538a5-5880-40fd-852f-98f3c46faaf4
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 14 





By contrast, other clinical trials in ITP usually have less generous definitions of “response.” For 
example, in Sanofi’s recent Phase 1 trial of sutimlimab, “response” was defined as two 
consecutive platelet counts over 50 by Day 14, thus requiring both a rapid effect and disallowing 
the cherry-picking of any two consecutive counts that just happened to look good at some point 
during the trial. On this basis, sutimlimab’s response rate (among 7 patients) was 57% (which 
itself may have been driven in part by the effects of concomitant medication). What if we applied 
the same standards to Principia? Based on our analysis of the platelet-count series, the stated 
response rate would drop to just 16% (5 out of 31 patients) – hardly impressive even with no 
placebo group to compare it to. 
 
Of course, any binary threshold for “response” is somewhat arbitrary – just one way of 
summarizing the distribution of platelet counts over time among individual patients. To get at 
this distribution more directly, we again used Principia’s difficult-to-decipher graphs to estimate 
median, first quartile (25th percentile), and third quartile (75th percentile) platelet counts over 
time. We then overlaid data from the placebo group in a major, >100-patient study of rituximab 
as a second-line agent in ITP published in 2015 (11). Comparing results across different trials is 
always a tricky business, but at a high level the patient populations are similar: both receiving 
second-line treatment for ITP after failing to respond adequately to first-line treatment; both 
allowed to take concomitant medications in addition to rilzabrutinib/placebo; both starting out 
with low platelet counts below 30 x 109/L. While the patients in Principia’s trial tended to have a 
longer history of ITP than those in the rituximab-trial placebo group (possibly making them less 
likely to see higher platelet counts), there is also a large bias in the other direction: the placebo 
patients in the rituximab trial didn’t have access to TPO-RAs, which have high (70-95%) initial 
response rates (10). Though the comparison isn’t perfectly scientific, we find it informative when 
taken together with the other evidence that rilzabrutinib is ineffective. 
 
As seen below, the distribution of platelet counts over time among rilzabrutinib (plus 
concomitant therapy) patients as compared to placebo (plus concomitant therapy) patients from 
the 2015 rituximab study are stunningly similar; the two series are difficult to distinguish 
because they’re right on top of each other. Not only do the medians closely match, but the 
interquartile ranges also heavily overlap. (The apparent spike up at the end of the 
PRN1008/rilzabrutinib line is an artifact caused by the very small number of patients (four) with 
available data for that time point, who happen to all be “responders.”)  
 



https://ash.confex.com/ash/2019/webprogram/Paper122210.html
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 15 





Principia’s Results in ITP Are Indistinguishable from Placebo 
 


 
 
Note: points represent median values; error bars represent interquartile ranges. 
Source: Kerrisdale analysis based on Principia investor presentation, slide 20, and Ghanima et al. 
2015 (11) 


 
What this analysis shows is that Principia’s results simply aren’t exceptional, even for patients 
initially unresponsive to corticosteroids. It’s perfectly plausible that any apparent “responses” to 
Principia’s drug are actually responses to concomitant corticosteroids and TPO-RAs coupled 
with spontaneous remissions and random fluctuations in platelet count. Otherwise, why would 
patients on Principia’s drug look so similar to patients on placebo? 
 
Although platelet counts are the usual way to measure ITP severity, they only bear an uncertain 
relationship to real-world health outcomes, the most important of which is the incidence of 
bleeding. In an indirect way, Principia actually has disclosed outcomes in bleeding, but only by 
presenting them as a marker of safety: “No significant change in the ITP-BAT [ITP-specific 
bleeding assessment tool] bleeding scale from baseline to last visit.”13 While it’s nice that 
Principia’s drug for the treatment of a disorder characterized by bleeding didn’t appear to 
increase bleeding, it’s hardly a sign of efficacy that there was “no significant change” despite 
weeks of daily or twice-daily drug use. Shouldn’t there have been a decrease? (Indeed, in data 
presented by Argenx, which is developing a different type of drug for use in  ITP, patients on a 
high dose of the drug did experience a significantly lower rate of bleeding over time (as 


                                                
13 Principia investor presentation, slide 23. 


0


20


40


60


80


100


120


140


0 20 40 60


P
la


te
le


t c
ou


nt
 (x


10
9


pe
r L


)


Time (weeks)


Ghanima et al. 2015
placebo group
PRN1008



https://ir.principiabio.com/static-files/92a538a5-5880-40fd-852f-98f3c46faaf4

https://ir.principiabio.com/static-files/92a538a5-5880-40fd-852f-98f3c46faaf4
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 16 





measured by a different bleeding scale), while patients on placebo experienced no significant 
change.14) 
 
Detailed safety data add further to the case against rilzabrutinib’s efficacy in ITP. Out of only 31 
patients in the trial, 3 (10%) experienced “serious adverse events” related to bleeding: one, a 
rectal hemorrhage leading to hospitalization and requiring rescue medications; the second, a 
severe head contusion leading to hospitalization and requiring rescue medications; and the 
third, a case of severe gastrointestinal bleeding leading to hospitalization and requiring platelet 
transfusion.15 While Principia asserts that these bleeding events were not caused by its drug, 
which may well be true, they do call into question the drug’s purported benefits: if it’s a good 
treatment for ITP, then why do so many patients taking it still suffer from “serious” bleeding, let 
alone milder cases?  
 
Indeed, it’s not unreasonable to suspect that Principia’s drug actually causes bleeding and 
thrombocytopenia, at least in some patients. While there’s no clear evidence of this from 
Principia’s data thus far, several other BTK inhibitors, including first-to-market ibrutinib, its more 
selective cousin acalabrutinib, and the next-generation noncovalent BTK inhibitor ARQ 531 all 
appear to cause thrombocytopenia and/or bleeding, suggesting that these side effects are 
characteristic of this whole class of drugs, including Principia’s versions. For instance, the 
official ibrutinib (brand name Imbruvica) prescribing information warns (emphasis added): 
 


Fatal bleeding events have occurred in patients treated with IMBRUVICA®. Major 
hemorrhage (≥ Grade 3, serious, or any central nervous system events; e.g., intracranial 
hemorrhage [including subdural hematoma], gastrointestinal bleeding, hematuria, and 
post procedural hemorrhage) have occurred in 4% of patients, with fatalities occurring in 
0.4% of 2,838 patients exposed to IMBRUVICA® in 27 clinical trials. Bleeding events of 
any grade, including bruising and petechiae, occurred in 39% of patients treated 
with IMBRUVICA®. 
 
…Treatment-emergent Grade 3 or 4 cytopenias including…thrombocytopenia 
(8%)…occurred in patients with B-cell malignancies treated with single agent 
IMBRUVICA®. 


 
Similarly, the official acalabrutinib (Calquence) prescribing information says: 
 


Fatal and serious hemorrhagic events have occurred in patients with hematologic 
malignancies treated with CALQUENCE. Major hemorrhage (serious or Grade 3 or 
higher bleeding or any central nervous system bleeding) occurred in 3.0% of patients, 
with fatal hemorrhage occurring in 0.1% of 1029 patients exposed to CALQUENCE in 
clinical trials. Bleeding events of any grade, excluding bruising and petechiae, 
occurred in 22% of patients. 


                                                
14 Argenx investor presentation, August 2019, slide 21. 
15 “Phase I/II, Open-Label, Adaptive Study of Oral Bruton Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor PRN1008 in Patients With 
Relapsed/Refractory Primary or Secondary Immune Thrombocytopenia,” slide 12. 



https://www.imbruvicahcp.com/?&&utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=Imbruvica+HCP+-+Branded+-+2019%3BS%3BPH%3BBR%3BONC%3BHCP%3BBR&utm_content=Imbruvica&utm_term=%2Bibrutinib&gclid=CjwKCAiAgqDxBRBTEiwA59eENxV1Pce4ZnPRSFxcXR34aGVBPTBk5Y3DZIoK05s5w_Tut4K3ngHalhoCuL4QAvD_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds

http://investor.argenx.com/static-files/07b0a852-ddb1-43d0-a078-07c6796f0f1e

https://www.principiabio.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/2019_12_PRN1008_Kuter_ASH.pdf

https://www.principiabio.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/2019_12_PRN1008_Kuter_ASH.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 17 





  
…Grade 3 or 4 cytopenias, including…thrombocytopenia (7%)…developed in patients 
with hematologic malignancies treated with CALQUENCE. 


 
While ARQ 531 hasn’t been associated with bleeding events so far, the small safety data set 
that it has accumulated already indicates a significant risk of decreased platelet counts, with 
12% of patients seeing decreases and 9% seeing “severe” (Grade 3 or higher) decreases.16 
Given this striking pattern of thrombocytopenia and bleeding associated with the use of multiple 
other BTK inhibitors, it’s quite plausible that, compared to placebo for the treatment of ITP, 
Principia’s rilzabrutinib will actually turn out to be worse. 
 
Principia’s clinical results in pemphigus and ITP form the foundation of its $2 billion valuation, 
yet on closer inspection they appear weak and unimpressive, difficult to distinguish from 
placebo. But this should come as no surprise: BTK inhibitors in general have a very poor track 
record in autoimmune disease; Principia’s drugs just constitute one more data point.  
 


BTK Inhibitors Don’t Work in Autoimmune Disease 


BTK Inhibitors Have Repeatedly Failed in Autoimmune Clinical Trials 
 
BTK inhibitors have clearly proven their value for treating the subset of blood cancers known as 
B-cell malignancies, for which the BTK inhibitor Imbruvica (ibrutinib) is already a blockbuster 
success, with numerous competing copycat and next-generation variants on their way. But from 
early on in the development of this class of drugs, researchers wondered whether they might 
also work in autoimmune diseases, a very different therapeutic area but one also characterized 
by B-cell dysfunction in which the BTK protein potentially plays a role. As the years go by, 
however, the evidence has continued to mount that these initial hopes were incorrect: BTK 
inhibitors have little effect on autoimmune diseases. The table below summarizes the clinical 
results so far (some of which are little known because they were never officially published), 
which we discuss in further detail below. The pattern is clear: in autoimmune diseases the 
difference between BTK inhibitors and placebo has usually been statistically insignificant. 
 
 
 


                                                
16 ArQule November 2019 investor presentation, slide 11.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 18 





BTK inhibitors in Autoimmune Disorders: 
A History of Failure 





Drug Company Disease 
Trial 


outcome 


spebrutinib Celgene 
rheumatoid 


arthritis 
failed 


acalabrutinib AstraZeneca 
rheumatoid 


arthritis 
failed 


poseltinib Eli Lilly 
rheumatoid 


arthritis 


failed 
(terminated 


early) 


fenebrutinib Roche 
lupus failed 


rheumatoid 
arthritis 


mixed 


tirabrutinib Gilead 
Sjögren’s 
syndrome 


failed 


evobrutinib Merck KGaA 
rheumatoid 


arthritis 
failed 


 
RRMS mixed 


branebrutinib 
Bristol-
Myers 
Squibb 


rheumatoid 
arthritis 


failed 


 
Note: “failed” = failed to achieve statistical significance on primary 
endpoint; “mixed” = failed to achieve statistical significance on key 
efficacy-related secondary endpoints. 


 
Spebrutinib. Celgene obtained this drug, also called CC-292, as part of its acquisition of 
Avila Therapeutics back in 2012, touting the promise of BTK inhibition in “hematology, 
oncology, and immune-inflammatory diseases” (emphasis added). But, as was later 
reported, “Celgene lost interest in CC-292 after their BTK drug performed poorly in 
Phase IIa,” failing to distinguish itself meaningfully from placebo in rheumatoid arthritis;17 
according to one industry source, “Celgene dropped the BTK program” altogether.  
 
Acalabrutinib. This drug, now branded as Calquence and FDA-approved for the 
treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, may or may not be able gain share from the 
well established and highly similar Imbruvica among blood-cancer patients. But this BTK 
inhibitor already failed in a Phase 2 trial in rheumatoid arthritis initiated in 2015. As a 
recent review paper put it, “the frequency of adverse events was higher” in the BTK-
inhibitor group than the placebo group, while “analyses did not [show] significant 


                                                
17 Note that Principia too planned at one point to use its BTK inhibitor in rheumatoid arthritis; indeed, this use case 
received top billing on Principia’s web site in 2015, and the company said that “BTK is an attractive therapeutic target 
for rheumatoid arthritis.” 



https://xconomy.com/boston/2012/01/26/celgene-buys-avila-for-350m-gaining-promising-covalent-drugs/

https://xconomy.com/boston/2012/01/26/celgene-buys-avila-for-350m-gaining-promising-covalent-drugs/

https://endpts.com/in-wake-of-a-setback-at-eli-lilly-merck-kgaas-leading-btk-drug-for-autoimmune-disease-clears-phiib-hurdle/

https://endpts.com/in-wake-of-a-setback-at-eli-lilly-merck-kgaas-leading-btk-drug-for-autoimmune-disease-clears-phiib-hurdle/

https://www.medpagetoday.com/meetingcoverage/acr/69080

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02387762

https://web.archive.org/web/20150117043531/http:/www.principiabio.com/

https://www.biospace.com/article/releases/principia-biopharma-presents-full-phase-1-clinical-trial-results-for-prn1008-a-novel-reversible-covalent-btk-inhibitor-supporting-further-clinical-d/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 19 





differences between [the BTK-inhibitor and placebo] groups in terms of primary outcome 
DAS28-CRP,” a common measure of rheumatoid-arthritis disease severity. 
 
Poseltinib. In 2015, Eli Lilly and the Korean pharmaceutical company Hanmi announced 
that they had “entered an exclusive license and collaboration agreement for the 
development and commercialization of Hanmi's oral Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) 
inhibitor, HM71224,” emphasizing the potential of the drug in the treatment of “many 
prevalent autoimmune diseases,” including “rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, lupus nephritis, 
Sjögren’s syndrome, and other related conditions.” In February 2018, however, reality 
sunk in: Lilly terminated a clinical trial of the BTK inhibitor in rheumatoid arthritis after an 
interim analysis of the results “showed a lack of efficacy.” In early 2019, Hanmi 
announced that Lilly had officially handed back the rights to the drug. In the words of a 
Hanmi official, “Lilly’s decision came after a comprehensive review of all clinical data and 
the BTK inhibitor market” – a review that apparently convinced Lilly that developing such 
drugs was now a dead end. 
 
Fenebrutinib. In a recent trial, Roche tested its BTK inhibitor, fenebrutinib, on patients 
with the autoimmune condition systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), more commonly 
known just as lupus. The trial failed to achieve its primary endpoint “despite evidence of 
strong BTK target and pathway inhibition”; in other words, the drug was doing what it 
was supposed to do, but patients still didn’t benefit, an outcome that, in one journalist’s 
words, “neither the investigators nor other rheumatologists could explain.” 
 
Fenebrutinib’s phase 2 results in rheumatoid arthritis were more nuanced but still weak. 
In a cohort of patients who had inadequately responded to the drug methotrexate, 
fenebrutinib appeared to be “modestly effective,” in the words of one media report. But 
while it did outperform placebo to a statistically significant degree, it underperformed the 
blockbuster arthritis drug – a “disappointment,” according to the same source. In a 
second cohort of patients, these ones having inadequately responded to TNF inhibitors 
like Humira, fenebrutinib did not meet its key efficacy endpoint of substantially improving 
arthritis symptoms; the difference between the BTK inhibitor and placebo was 
statistically insignificant.  
 
Tirabrutinib. In 2014, Gilead licensed a BTK inhibitor from the Japanese 
pharmaceutical company Ono. In a complex four-arm trial, Gilead tested the drug in 
combination with two others for the treatment of Sjögren’s syndrome, an autoimmune 
disorder in which the immune system attacks tear glands and salivary glands. On its 
2019 third-quarter earnings call, Gilead revealed that this trial failed to meet its primary 
endpoint. While the company did allude to “evidence of activity” giving it hope for one of 
the drugs used in the trial, the BTK inhibitor wasn’t it. 
 
Evobrutinib. Merck KGaA’s BTK inhibitor evobrutinib grabbed headlines in recent 
months because of its Phase 2 trial in multiple sclerosis, which we will discuss further 
below. But, while the trial met its primary endpoint, with evobrutinib outperforming 



https://investor.lilly.com/news-releases/news-release-details/lilly-and-hanmi-announce-exclusive-license-and-collaboration

https://www.biospace.com/article/eli-lilly-and-hanmi-shutter-a-failed-phase-ii-ra-trial/

http://www.koreabiomed.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=4995

https://acrabstracts.org/abstract/efficacy-safety-and-pharmacodynamic-effects-of-the-brutons-tyrosine-kinase-inhibitor-fenebrutinib-gdc-0853-in-moderate-to-severe-systemic-lupus-erythematosus-results-of-a-phase-2-rando/

https://www.medpagetoday.com/meetingcoverage/acr/83267

https://www.medpagetoday.com/meetingcoverage/acr/83267

https://ard.bmj.com/content/78/Suppl_2/80.2

https://www.medpagetoday.com/meetingcoverage/acr/83267

https://www.gilead.com/news-and-press/press-room/press-releases/2014/12/ono-and-gilead-announce-exclusive-license-agreement-to-develop-btk-inhibitor-ono4059-for-the-treatment-of-bcell-malignancies-and-other-diseases

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/study/NCT03100942

https://seekingalpha.com/article/4298932-gilead-sciences-inc-gild-ceo-daniel-oday-on-q3-2019-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 20 





placebo on an MRI-based measure of disease progression, it failed to meet key 
secondary endpoints that are more closely tied to real-world health: in the words of the 
journal article publishing these results, “Treatment with evobrutinib at any dose had no 
effect on the annualized relapse rate or disability progression and was associated with 
elevations in liver aminotransferase levels” (a possible signal of liver damage) (12). At 
best, then, the results were a mixed bag. 
 
Meanwhile, in rheumatoid arthritis, Merck conducted a trial of evobrutinib from 2016 to 
2017 but, to our knowledge, never publicly discussed the outcome. According to study 
results posted on clinicaltrials.gov, however, the BTK inhibitor failed to clearly improve 
patients’ symptoms. In fact, at multiple time points, the fraction of patients enjoying large 
(≥50% or ≥70%) improvements in symptoms was higher in the placebo group than in the 
BTK-inhibitor group; patients were better off without the drug. 
 
Branebrutinib. Bristol-Myers Squibb tested its BTK inhibitor, originally called BMS-
986142, in rheumatoid arthritis in a large, 508-patient trial conducted from 2016 to 2018, 
but, to our knowledge, it hasn’t published the results. According to data posted on 
clinicaltrials.gov, the drug was a flop, failing to outperform placebo to a statistically 
significant degree and, across several dose levels and outcome measures, actually 
underperforming placebo. It’s no wonder that, as one 2019 media report noted, “Bristol-
Myers Squibb’s BMS-986142 seems to have been shelved.” 


 
Beyond all these failed and equivocal results from clinical trials, there are other intriguing hints 
from the medical literature that BTK inhibitors don’t improve autoimmune conditions – and may 
even cause them. One recently published case study involved a rare condition called 
paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP) – a blistering disease very similar to pemphigus vulgaris but 
arising as the result of an underlying cancer (13). A patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
(CLL) who had developed this form of pemphigus received ibrutinib to treat his underlying CLL, 
but initially many of the pemphigus symptoms persisted or worsened; “his PNP lesions did not 
improve with ibrutinib monotherapy.”  It was only after treatment with rituximab was added on 
that the patient “gradually improved.” The authors of the case study also refer to a previously 
reported case of CLL-triggered paraneoplastic pemphigus that likewise “was not managed well 
using ibrutinib alone” but required “high-dose steroids” and other drugs. These case reports, 
anecdotal though they may be, add to the evidence that BTK inhibitors are ineffective against 
autoimmune diseases. 
 
In fact, there is substantial evidence that BTK inhibitors can cause autoimmune-like problems. 
In one recent case report, a CLL patient developed “a severe arthritic syndrome due to ibrutinib 
use” (14): 
 


Three days into ibrutinib therapy, he experienced moderate pain and swelling in the 
small joints of hands and feet bilaterally. Over the next five days, this pain and swelling 
became progressively worse, and he developed bilateral knee pain. The pain 
progressed to 10/10 on the pain scale, limiting significantly his activities of daily living, 



https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1901981

https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/study/NCT02784106

https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/results/NCT02784106?view=results

https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/results/NCT02784106?view=results

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/study/NCT02638948

https://www.evaluate.com/vantage/articles/analysis/spotlight/imbruvica-resistance-provides-early-fertile-development-ground
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 21 





including ambulation. … Given the severity of symptoms and at the patient’s request, 
ibrutinib was discontinued. Within three days, the arthralgias and joint swelling subsided. 
These symptoms resolved completely two weeks after ibrutinib discontinuation. 


 
This report of rheumatoid-arthritis–like side effects of BTK inhibitors was not an isolated case 
restricted to ibrutinib: the competing BTK inhibitor acalabrutinib has also been associated with 
(sometimes severe) arthralgia (joint pain) (15), as has the next-generation BTK inhibitor ARQ 
531.18 Meanwhile, another recent case report described a patient who initiated ibrutinib and 
quickly developed “autoimmune myelitis” (an inflammation of the spinal cord that is sometimes 
an early symptom of multiple sclerosis), manifesting as abnormal sensations in “the left foot…[,] 
the right leg, the pelvic floor, and the genital area, accompanied by bladder dysfunction.” He 
was treated with corticosteroids. (Thus, while Principia claims that its BTK inhibitors can take 
the place of corticosteroids in treating autoimmune disorders, in this case autoimmune 
dysfunction arose concurrent with (and perhaps because of) BTK inhibition and required 
corticosteroids to suppress it.)  
 
Again, these are not just one-off flukes. A recent review of real-world experience with BTK 
inhibitors entitled “How I treat CLL patients with ibrutinib” devoted an entire section to 
autoimmunity, noting a report of an “acute flare of autoimmunity right after ibrutinib initiation” 
and adding, “My experience largely recapitulates this report, namely, occasional flare of 
autoimmunity after ibrutinib initiation” (16). Such autoimmune “flares” may not dissuade patients 
with life-threatening cancers from using BTK inhibitors, but the fact that such drugs frequently 
seem to trigger autoimmune problems casts doubt on the notion that they will ever serve as 
good treatments for autoimmune disorders. In fact, even people born with a defective Btk gene, 
who otherwise suffer from very weak immune systems, seem to have an unusual rate of 
autoimmune symptoms like the painful joints associated with rheumatoid arthritis or the chronic 
diarrhea associated with Crohn’s disease (17). 
 
Taken together, BTK inhibitors’ poor track record in a broad set of autoimmune clinical trials and 
their tendency to provoke autoimmune flare-ups belie the simplistic idea that these drugs can fix 
autoimmune disease just by tamping down B-cell activity. In fact, as we explain below, the 
underlying biology of BTK suggests that inhibiting the molecule’s enzymatic activity will do 
nothing to address the causes of diseases like pemphigus and ITP; the approach is misguided 
and destined to fail. 
 


Closing the Stable Door After the Horse Has Bolted: Inhibiting BTK Is 
Irrelevant to Autoimmunity 
In its latest corporate presentation, Principia makes the sweeping claim that its target molecule, 
BTK, “has a broad role in multiple immune-mediated disease processes,” referencing a handful 
of decade-old studies and a wide range of cell types. However, the (literal) textbook function of 
BTK is far narrower: to quote the glossary of Cellular and Molecular Immunology, BTK is “a Tec 
                                                
18 See ArQule’s November 2019 investor presentation, slide 11. 



https://ir.principiabio.com/static-files/92a538a5-5880-40fd-852f-98f3c46faaf4
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 22 





family tyrosine kinase that is essential for B cell maturation” (18) (emphasis added). In adult 
humans, new B cells are constantly being generated from precursors inside the bone marrow. In 
an early part of this development process that serves as its first checkpoint, a preliminary 
version of a fledgling B cell’s receptor needs to be successfully activated; otherwise, the cell will 
die. To quote the textbook again: 
 


Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (Btk) is activated downstream of the pre-BCR and is required 
for delivery of signals from this receptor that mediate survival, proliferation, and 
maturation at and beyond the pre-B cell stage. In humans, mutations in the BTK gene 
result in the disease called X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA), which is characterized 
by a failure of B cell maturation. 


 
In short, without functional BTK, fledgling B-cell precursors inside the bone marrow never “grow 
up.” Someone born without functional BTK thus has a profoundly impaired immune system, 
lacking both B cells and the antibodies that those cells are supposed to produce. What does 
BTK do beyond this early stage in B-cell development? It’s unclear: as a recent paper put it, “the 
role of Btk in fully developed, mature peripheral B cells is not well understood” (19).  
 
BTK makes sense as a drug target for B-cell malignancies like CLL that are characterized by 
excessive proliferation of B cells in the bone marrow; by blocking BTK, drugs like ibrutinib make 
it impossible for new B cells to emerge, putting a stop to disease progression. But what about B-
cell–mediated autoimmune diseases? In these cases, the problem isn’t that patients have too 
many B cells coming out of their bone marrow; the problem is that they have a population of 
“bad” B cells that attack components of the patients’ own bodies as if they were invading 
pathogens. Impeding the development of new B-cell lineages will do nothing to get rid of the 
“bad” B cells that are already in place; it’s tantamount to closing the stable door after the horse 
has bolted.  
 
By contrast, anti-CD20 treatments like rituximab and ocrelizumab selectively kill most B cells but 
allow early-stage precursors to survive and eventually repopulate patients’ immune repertoires. 
It thus stands to reason that rituximab monotherapy has “limited clinical activity” in a disease like 
CLL; while it can kill the cancerous cells already in place, it won’t stop the ongoing generation of 
new cancerous cells (20). In autoimmune diseases, on the other hand, the dramatic success of, 
say, rituximab in pemphigus or ocrelizumab in multiple sclerosis demonstrates the importance of 
simply killing off the problem cells; halting the development of new cells would not help. 
 
There is thus a great disconnect between the primary effect of BTK inhibition (halting the 
maturation of new B cells in the bone marrow) and the primary needs of patients with 
autoimmune diseases (shutting down existing populations of autoreactive B cells) – and we are 
not the only ones to have noticed it.  One group of immunologists researching B cells and BTK 
has repeatedly made the same point (21):  
 


[H]uman patients who are given [BTK] inhibitors already have established B cell 
populations, including autoimmune-prone and normal subsets. Whether blocking the
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 23 





kinase domain of BTK reduces the number of autoreactive B cells, as Btk-deficiency 
does in mice, or increases their relative proportion as occurs in XLA patients, is an 
important question that deserves study. 


 
In other words, these researchers are raising the possibility that BTK inhibition could even 
increase autoimmune problems in humans, as suggested not just by the XLA patients they refer 
to but also the adverse-event case reports we discuss above.  
 
More direct evidence that BTK doesn’t play a major role in mature B-cell function comes from a 
recently published study entitled “Bruton’s Tyrosine Kinase Is Not Essential for B Cell Survival 
beyond Early Developmental Stages” (19). In this study, researchers engineered so-called 
knockdown mice: though born with normal, healthy Btk genes that allowed them to generate 
functional B cells, these mice were susceptible to a chemical trigger that could “turn off” Btk 
during adulthood, at a time of the researchers’ choosing. What happened to mice with existing, 
functional B-cell populations but no more ability to produce BTK? Essentially nothing: their B 
cells survived and behaved fairly normally; the mice were unscathed. Thus, in the words of the 
study, “mature B cells that have already passed selective checkpoints [in early 
development]…do not require Btk for survival…These findings raise the possibility that Btk may 
also be expendable for survival of mature human B cells.” But if eliminating BTK entirely has no 
major effect on established B cells, why would inhibiting BTK with a drug do anything to help B-
cell mediated autoimmune disease? 
 
In fact, BTK inhibitors like Principia’s drugs likely don’t even block all of BTK’s activities. That’s 
because, as multiple researchers have documented, the complex BTK molecule has two key 
components: a kinase domain, which serves as an enzyme catalyzing chemical reactions, and 
an adaptor domain, which serves as a “docking site” for other proteins to attach to. As one study 
noted, “BTK-inhibitors target only the kinase domain, leaving other BTK activities intact” 
(22) (emphasis added). Thus even if BTK played an important role within the mature B cells that 
give rise to autoimmunity, that role might well be mediated by the molecule’s adaptor domain, 
which BTK inhibitors like Principia’s don’t affect. 
 
In sum, the biology of BTK aligns well with the performance of BTK inhibitors in the clinic: in 
disorders caused by excess proliferation of immature B cells, great success – but, in disorders 
caused by specific existing B-cell populations, repeated failure. There is no good reason to 
expect Principia’s BTK inhibitors to break this well established pattern. The company’s entire 
fundamental concept – that BTK inhibitors can directly address autoimmune disease – is 
mistaken. 
 


Multiple Sclerosis: Don’t Believe the Hype 
 
Some analysts, seeking to justify the recent run-up in Principia’s stock price, have seized on the 
upcoming Phase 2 readout in multiple sclerosis, suggesting that Principia will derive great value 
from the BTK inhibitor it licensed to Sanofi (a drug now known as SAR442168 or just ’168).
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 24 





Indeed, Sanofi did highlight the drug at its December 2019 Capital Markets Day, and a similar 
BTK inhibitor, evobrutinib, developed by the German firm Merck KGaA has already produced 
Phase 2 data (as discussed above) and entered Phase 3 last September. 
 
Importantly, the MS market is currently in a state of flux, as the recently approved B-cell–
depleting drug ocrelizumab (from Roche) appears to be extremely effective and has rapidly 
gained market share, with a very similar competitor called ofatumumab from Novartis likely to 
win FDA approval soon and also hit the market. Meanwhile, Sanofi’s existing MS drug Aubagio 
will begin to face competition from generics starting in 2023; Sanofi management, hoping to 
defend the company’s position in this therapeutic area, apparently views the BTK-inhibitor 
approach as a bid to stay relevant.19 
 
But we believe the underlying biology doesn’t add up. The stunning efficacy of ocrelizumab and 
ofatumumab come down to their ability to cause the death of most of the B cells in a patient’s 
body – not the earliest-stage pro-B cells or the plasma cells that actually manufacture antibodies 
but, critically, the memory B cells that can persist for years after their initial activation and, in 
response to re-encountering their target antigen, can quickly proliferate and give rise to new 
antibody-generating plasma cells. By wiping out established populations of pathogenic, 
autoreactive memory B cells, anti-CD20 agents like ocrelizumab can give patients a clean slate. 
Over time, their B-cell repertoires repopulate, but because the new B-cell lineages have 
receptors specified by randomly reshuffled genes, they are unlikely to react in the same way 
against the patients’ own nervous systems. BTK inhibitors, by contrast, suppress the creation of 
new B-cell lineages in the bone marrow – a mode of action that seems irrelevant to the etiology 
of MS, where the “bad” lineages have already developed and matured. Thus we see little 
reason to expect BTK inhibitors to work in MS (just as with other autoimmune diseases).  
 
So will the upcoming Phase 2 data release prove this theory right? Alas, it will probably prove 
nothing either way. Rather than setting up a clean comparison between patients on ’168 and 
patients on placebo, the trial seems almost designed to be confusing and inconclusive, with 
eight different experimental groups, each including only ~16 patients. For each of four different 
dose levels, there were two subgroups: one taking placebo for the first 4 weeks followed by drug 
for the following 12 weeks and one taking drug for the first 12 weeks followed by placebo for the 
following 4 weeks. There is thus no straightforward head-to-head match-up between pure drug 
and pure placebo. In addition, all the stated efficacy-related endpoints involve short-term MRI-
based measurements; unlike in the evobrutinib Phase 2 trial, there appears to be no attempt to 
track more practical outcomes like relapse rates or disability progression, making results even 
harder to interpret. Indeed, even bullish observers have noticed these flaws, with one sell-side 
analyst recently remarking that “the ’168 study is complex and carries some risks leading of a 
heterogeneous result (few patients on each cohort or different results in different cohorts at the 


                                                
19 See Cowen’s note on Sanofi dated January 13, 2020: “Despite the rise of anti-CD20 B cell-depleting 
therapies such as Ocrevus (RHHBY) and ofatumumab (NVS), SNY thinks there will be a role for an oral therapy, and 
‘168 may be a replacement for Aubagio post 2023 LOE [loss of exclusivity].” 



https://www.sanofi.com/en/investors/financial-results-and-events/investor-presentations/capital-markets-day-2019

https://www.pharmaceutical-business-review.com/news/merck-initiates-phase-3-programme-for-evobrutinib-in-relapsing-multiple-sclerosis/

https://www.reuters.com/article/us-roche-results-ms/roche-brags-about-faster-ocrevus-sales-after-rival-ms-drug-launches-idUSKCN1UK1W4

https://www.reuters.com/article/us-roche-results-ms/roche-brags-about-faster-ocrevus-sales-after-rival-ms-drug-launches-idUSKCN1UK1W4

https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/918478

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03889639?cond=multiple+sclerosis&spons=sanofi&draw=2&rank=5
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 25 





same dose)” and warning that “[c]onfusion may arise in that ’168’s trial design could complicate 
the data readouts and potentially adversely impact future development.”20 
 
While bulls take comfort in the superficially positive evobrutinib Phase 2 results, it’s important to 
remember that the difference between the BTK inhibitor and placebo with respect to relapse 
rate and disability progression was statistically insignificant. Moreover, the reported 
dose/response relationships were anomalous, a common sign of suspect efficacy: for instance, 
patients in the highest-dose group (evobrutinib 75 mg twice a day) did not actually outperform 
placebo with respect to MRI progression to a statistically significant degree (adjusted P value of 
0.06), and while the placebo group included some patients whose EDSS disability score 
improved by 1 point over 24 weeks, the best that the highest-dose evobrutinib group achieved 
was just half a point (12). Even taken at face value, the results didn’t stand out relative to the 
existing drug Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate), tested in a reference arm of the trial; relapse rates 
and disability progression were comparable. In the words of one MS researcher writing 
informally in May 2019 (emphasis added): 
 


So it was positive and better than dimethyl fumarate…Yipee. However let’s look at the 
effect on MRI lesions, it inhibits by about 70% inhibition, which is about as good, or bad, 
as interferon beta and miles worse than CD20 depletion. The relapse rate inhibition is 
0.08, which isn’t bad and about as good as alemtuzumab, cladribine, ocrelizumab, etc. 
However, one has to take this all the time, so what’s the advantage? 
 
…If you put this head to head against rituximab, ocrelizumab, [ofatumumab], would it 
cut the mustard? Based on MRI not really, so you have to think where you would 
position this. 


 
In other words, in an MS market increasingly crowded with highly effective treatments, the 
Phase 2 data for BTK inhibitors don’t “cut the mustard” – and Phase 2 data are infamous for 
overstating drugs’ true benefits. 
 
While Principia and Sanofi contend that their BTK inhibitor is better than evobrutinib because it 
can more readily cross the blood–brain barrier, this notion is perplexing. Ocrelizumab and 
ofatumumab are large monoclonal antibodies that typically can’t enter the brain, yet clinical trials 
have clearly shown that they’re very effective in treating MS by killing B cells throughout the rest 
of the body. It’s difficult to see how they could have such large impacts if the B cells that 
mattered most were inaccessible inside the brain. But if such B cells aren’t important targets in 
MS, that ’168’s ability to penetrate the central nervous system is likely irrelevant, not a mark of 
distinction. 
 
As one final check on the premature hype surrounding Principia and MS, it’s worth considering 
some simple arithmetic. Just last week, one sell-side analyst began to value Principia’s share of 


                                                
20 SVB Leerink’s January 21, 2020, note on Principia. 



https://multiple-sclerosis-research.org/2019/05/when-b-cell-inhibiton-simply-is-not-good-enough-brutons-tyrosine-kinase-inhibitors/

https://multiple-sclerosis-research.org/2019/05/when-b-cell-inhibiton-simply-is-not-good-enough-brutons-tyrosine-kinase-inhibitors/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 26 





’168’s economics at $1 billion21 – half of the current market cap. But Principia has already 
signed away the vast majority of any future sales to Sanofi, in exchange for a series of 
milestone payments. Even if we assume Principia receives every single remaining milestone 
payment, implying a 100% chance of successful development and commercialization of the 
drug, the total undiscounted value to Principia would only be ~$600 million after tax.22 The 
remaining ~$400 million would thus represent the expected present value of Principia’s ongoing 
royalties, stated to be “up to the mid-teens” and typically assumed to be 15%. Thus the implied 
total value of ’168 (including the portion signed away to Sanofi) would be $400mm/15% or 
roughly $2.7 billion today – all for an asset that has yet to report a shred of clinical data, belongs 
to a class of drugs with a history of failure in autoimmune disease, aims to break into a 
therapeutic area already crowded with new and highly effective drugs, and is following in the 
footstep of another new drug of the same type with a two-year head start.23 And even if all of 
that made sense, it would still account for only half of Principia’s current valuation. Investors 
have gotten way ahead of themselves, pricing in all of the upside and none of the risk. 
 
It’s worth remembering that the risks in drug development don’t only pertain to efficacy but to 
safety as well. Evobrutinib is a good example: market observers have expressed concern that in 
the Phase 2 trial the drug appeared to elevate liver-enzyme levels – often a sign of toxicity, 
though the underlying mechanism is unclear. What other safety risks might be lurking in the 
world of BTK inhibitors? 
 


BTK Inhibitors Pose Troubling Health Risks 
 
Every drug has side effects – some deemed “off-target” because they stem from the drug’s 
interactions with systems it’s not intended to interact with, others deemed “on-target” because 
they result from the drug’s essential mechanism of action and thus are far more difficult to 
prevent. Principia claims that its BTK inhibitors are more “selective” than predecessors like 
ibrutinib, “with the aim of reducing off target adverse effects.”24 But what about on-target 
adverse effects? 
 
Recall that, according to our interpretation of the scientific literature, the main effect of BTK 
inhibition in adult humans is to stop the development of new B-cell lineages (clones) that, under 
normal conditions, arise continually from the bone marrow. Each person’s particular, unique, 
diverse B-cell repertoire evolves over the course of his or her life:  those B cells armed with 
receptors that successfully detect and help fight off infections give rise to populations of memory 
B cells and long-lived plasma cells that can persist for years to guard against reinfection; 
meanwhile, other B-cell lineages with randomly reshuffled genes emerge from the bone marrow, 
                                                
21 BofA has set its “pipeline plug value to $1bn for ongoing partnership with Sanofi” (January 23, 2020).  
22 Total potential milestone payments of $765 million less $55 million already received to date, adjusted for taxes at a 
21% rate less the benefit of deferred tax assets of $33mm as of YE 2018. See Principia 2018 10-K, p. 126, and 2019 
Q3 10-Q, p. 13. 
23 Merck’s evobrutinib completed its Phase 2 in January 2018; ’168, January 2020. 
24 Principia investor presentation (downloaded January 2020), slide 5.  



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1510487/000156459019008448/prnb-10k_20181231.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1510487/000156459019040415/prnb-10q_20190930.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1510487/000156459019040415/prnb-10q_20190930.htm

https://ir.principiabio.com/static-files/92a538a5-5880-40fd-852f-98f3c46faaf4
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 27 





turn out to have receptors that don’t match up with any infectious attack underway at the 
moment, and die off, to be replaced by a new set of B-cell lineages in the future.  
 
Shutting down the production of new lineages, then, forces patients to rely solely on whatever 
set of B cells they had at the time of shutdown. But these cells may not have what it takes to 
handle future attacks. At first, this immune deficit may not matter much; perhaps the only 
pathogens that patients encounter are familiar ones for which they already have immunological 
memory, or perhaps other components of the immune system (like T cells or the complement 
system) can take care of the new threats. With long-term use, however – the kind that Principia 
envisions for people with autoimmune disorders – people taking BTK inhibitors run a high risk of 
severe, even fatal, infection. 
 
This concern is far from theoretical. For example, below is the first safety warning provided by 
AstraZeneca regarding its BTK inhibitor, Calquence, which is more selective and thought to 
have fewer off-target effects than ibrutinib (emphasis added): 
 


Serious and Opportunistic Infections 
Fatal and serious infections, including opportunistic infections, have occurred in patients 
with hematologic malignancies treated with CALQUENCE. 
 
Serious or Grade 3 or higher infections (bacterial, viral, or fungal) occurred in 19% 
of 1029 patients exposed to CALQUENCE in clinical trials, most often due to 
respiratory tract infections (11% of all patients, including pneumonia in 6%). … 
Opportunistic infections in recipients of CALQUENCE have included, but are not limited 
to, hepatitis B virus reactivation, fungal pneumonia, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, 
Epstein-Barr virus reactivation, cytomegalovirus, and progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML).  


 
The presence of Epstein–Barr virus and PML on the list of opportunistic infections seemingly 
triggered by BTK inhibition should spark particular concern given Principia’s intent to use its 
BTK inhibitor to treat multiple sclerosis: PML is a multiple-sclerosis–like neurological ailment 
caused by the JC virus (23), while some prominent researchers believe that Epstein–Barr virus 
is itself the underlying cause of multiple sclerosis (24). 
 
Thus far, Principia has only administered its BTK inhibitors to a small number of people for a 
short period of time; between the Phase 2 trials for pemphigus and ITP, total enrollment totaled 
only 58. It’s too early to see many problematic infections. But we believe that, with long-term 
use, BTK inhibition is a ticking time bomb. Already, Principia has reported an alarming number 
of potentially infection-related adverse events. In the pemphigus trial, 3 out of 27 patients (11% 
of the total) experienced infections: two upper-respiratory-tract infections graded mild or 
moderate and one “serious” case of cellulitis, or localized skin inflammation, coupled with “a 
high fever” and leading to hospitalization.25 In the ITP trial, adverse events included a case of 


                                                
25 Source: March 2019 presentation at the American Academy of Dermatology meeting, slide 16-17. 



https://www.calquencehcp.com/cll.html

https://www.meddermsociety.org/content/uploads/2019/05/2019-MDS-Annual-Meeting-Presentation-DMurrell.pptx
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 28 





iridocyclitis, a form of painful eye inflammation sometimes caused by infection, that also led to 
hospitalization.26 We expect additional severe infections to manifest as more patients are 
exposed to Principia’s drugs. 
 
For people with life-threatening forms of leukemia, the on-target dangers posed by BTK 
inhibitors are likely worth enduring. But for those with pemphigus or ITP – conditions that can 
typically be treated effectively with many other available medications – why take the risk? Even 
if BTK inhibitors did have some benefit for autoimmune disorders – which we deny – their 
risk/reward trade-offs would be unattractive. 
 


Conclusion 
 
Principia’s origins lie in innovative chemistry – optimizing the strength and duration of covalent 
bonds between small molecules and certain classes of protein. But hitting a target very 
accurately is no use if it’s the wrong target. For autoimmune diseases, BTK is the wrong target. 
That’s why BTK inhibitors have repeatedly failed in such diseases, even as B-cell–depleting 
therapies have succeeded, and why Principia’s drugs, when finally put to the test in legitimate 
placebo-controlled Phase 3 trials, will also fail, leaving Principia nearly worthless.   


                                                
26 Source: December 2019 presentation at the American Society of Hematology meeting, slide 13. 



https://www.principiabio.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/2019_12_PRN1008_Kuter_ASH.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 29 





References 
 
1. Rituximab: A Magic Bullet for Pemphigus. Anandan, V., et al. 4, April 2017, Journal of 
Clinical and Diagnostic Research, Vol. 11. 
2. Rituximab and short-course prednisone as the new gold standard for new-onset pemphigus 
vulgaris and pemphigus foliaceus. Murrell, D.F. and Sprecher, E. 2017, British Journal of 
Dermatology, Vol. 177, pp. 1143-1144. 
3. Rituximab as Single Long-term Maintenance Therapy in Patients With Difficult-to-Treat 
Pemphigus. Sanchez, Julia, et al. 3, March 2018, JAMA Dermatology, Vol. 154. 
4. First-line rituximab combined with short-term prednisone versus prednisone alone for the 
treatment of pemphigus (Ritux 3): a prospective, multicentre, parallel-group, open-label 
randomised trial. Joly, Pascal, et al. March 22, 2017, The Lancet. 
5. Assessment of the rate of long-term complete remission off therapy in patients with 
pemphigus treated with different regimes including medium- and high-dose corticosteroids. 
Almugairen, Naif, et al. 4, October 2013, Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 
Vol. 69, pp. 583-588. 
6. High dose oral prednisone vs. prednisone plus azathioprine for the treatment of oral 
pemphigus: a retrospective, bi-centre, comparative study. Chaidemenos, G, et al. 2011, 
Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology, Vol. 25, pp. 206-210. 
7. Consensus Statement on Definitions of Disease, End Points, and Therapeutic Response for 
Pemphigus. Murrell, Dedee F., et al. 6, June 2008, Journal of the American Academy of 
Dermatology, Vol. 58, pp. 1043-1046. 
8. Factors Associated With Complete Remission After Rituximab Therapy for Pemphigus. 
Kushner, Carolyn J., et al. 2019, JAMA Dermatology. 
9. Clinical features and course of pemphigus in Thai patients. Kulthanan, Kanokvalai, et al. 
2011, Asian Pacific Journal of Allergy and Immunology, Vol. 29, pp. 161-168. 
10. Immune Thrombocytopenia. Cooper, Nichola and Ghanima, Waleed. 2019, New England 
Journal of Medicine, Vol. 381, pp. 945-955. 
11. Rituximab as second-line treatment for adult immune thrombocytopenia (the RITP trial): a 
multicentre,randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Ghanima, Waleed, et al. 
February 5, 2015, The Lancet. 
12. Placebo-Controlled Trial of an Oral BTK Inhibitor in Multiple Sclerosis. Montalban, Xavier, 
et al. 2019, New England Journal of Medicine, Vol. 380, pp. 2406-2417. 
13. Paraneoplastic Pemphigus Associated with B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Treated 
with Ibrutinib and Rituximab. Ito, Yuta, et al. 16, 2018, Internal Medicine, Vol. 57, pp. 2395-
2398. 
14. Severe arthritic syndrome due to ibrutinib use for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Dasanu, 
Constantin A. 2018, Journal of Oncology Pharmacy Practice. 
15. Acalabrutinib (ACP-196) in Relapsed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. Byrd, John C., et al. 
January 28, 2016, New England Journal of Medicine, Vol. 374, pp. 323-332. 
16. How I treat CLL patients with ibrutinib. Brown, Jennifer R. 4, 2018, Blood, Vol. 131, pp. 
379-386. 
17. Autoimmunity and Inflammation in X-linked Agammaglobulinemia. Herandez-Trujillo, 
Vivian P., et al. 6, August 2014, Journal of Clinical Immunology, Vol. 34, pp. 627-632.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 30 





18. Abbas, Abul K., Lichtman, Andrew H. and Pillai, Shiv. Cellular and Molecular 
Immunology. 8th. 2015. 
19. Bruton’s Tyrosine Kinase Is Not Essential for B Cell Survival beyond Early Developmental 
Stages. Nyhoff, Lindsay E., et al. 7, April 1, 2018, Journal of Immunology, Vol. 200, pp. 2352-
2361. 
20. Rituximab in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. James, Danelle F. and Kipps, Thomas J. 7, 
July 2011, Advances in Therapy, Vol. 28, pp. 534-554. 
21. How will Bruton’s tyrosine kinase inhibitors affect rheumatoid arthritis? Nyhoff, Lindsay E. 
and Crofford, Leslie J. Kendall, Peggy L. 2, October 16, 2016, Arthritis & Rheumatology, Vol. 
69, pp. 475-477. 
22. The role of Bruton's tyrosine kinase in autoimmunity and implications for therapy. Crofford, 
Leslie J., et al. 7, 2016, Expert Review of Clinical Immunology, Vol. 12, pp. 763-773. 
23. Understanding Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy Risk in Multiple Sclerosis 
Patients Treated with Immunomodulatory Therapies: A Bird’s Eye View. Mills, Elizabeth A. and 
Mao-Draayer, Yang. February 2, 2018, Frontiers in Immunology, Vol. 9. 
24. Epstein–Barr Virus in Multiple Sclerosis: Theory and Emerging Immunotherapies. Bar-Or, 
Amit, et al. 2019, Trends in Molecular Medicine. 
25. The course of severe autoimmune thrombocytopenia in patients not undergoing 
splenectomy. Sailer, Thomas, et al. 2006, Haematologica, Vol. 91, pp. 1041-1045. 
26. Fostamatinib for the treatment of adult persistent and chronic immune thrombocytopenia: 
Results of two phase 3, randomized, placebo-controlled trials. Bussel, James, et al. 2018, 
American Journal of Hematology, Vol. 93, pp. 921-930.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 31 





Full Legal Disclaimer  
 
As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively "Kerrisdale") have short positions the stock of Principia Biopharma Inc. (“PRNB”). In 
addition, others that contributed research to this report and others that we have shared our 
research with (collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise may have short positions in 
the stock of PRNB. The Authors stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock 
decreases. Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the 
company covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of Kerrisdale. The 
Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be accurate and 
reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether 
express or implied. The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, 
timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results obtained from 
its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the Authors do not 
undertake to update or supplement this report or any information contained herein. This report is 
not a recommendation to short the shares of any company, including PRNB, and is only a 
discussion of why Kerrisdale is short PRNB. 
 
This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 
confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted 
as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 
included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing 
conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change. 
The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded 
as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 
 
Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, 
inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated 
fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation 
of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a 
security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 
 
This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the 
Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to 
buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the 
securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their 
affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed 
in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors 
should assume that the Authors are short shares of PRNB and stand to potentially realize gains 
in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the 
original publication date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to 
inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 32 





activities. In addition, the Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other 
companies, securities, or commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this 
report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the 
Authors’ operations and their affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is 
generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment 
ideas and the performance of recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a 
potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents. 
 
The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-
looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical 
fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions 
or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can 
be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other 
factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent 
due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all 
securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone 
judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
