Muddy	
  Waters,	
  LLC	
  


www.muddywatersresearch.com	
  
  info@muddywatersresearch 
 


Director	
  of	
  Research:	
  	
  Carson	
  C.	
  Block,	
  Esq.	
  
 








Terms of Service: 


By downloading from, or viewing material on, this website you agree to the following Terms of Service.  You agree that use of Muddy 
Waters LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event will you hold Muddy Waters LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect 
trading losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.  You represent to Muddy Waters that you have sufficient investment 
sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this site.  You further agree that you will not communicate the 
contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  If you download or 
receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same Terms of Service. 
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters, LLC (possibly along with or 
through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and 
bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to 
continue transacting in the securities of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be 
long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any security to or from 
any person through this site or reports on this site.  Muddy Waters, LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of:  (a) an investment 
professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) 
high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO. 
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, inferences and 
deductions through our due diligence and analytical process.  To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. 
However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters, LLC makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion.  All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters, LLC does not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the 
information, analysis and opinion contained in them. 
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the 
downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters research in any manner other than by download from 
that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute 
arising from your use of this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the 
personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction 
or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters, LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters, LLC to exercise or enforce any right 
or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is 
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the 
parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in 
particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or 
cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or 
cause of action arose or be forever barred. 
  


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 3
Muddy Waters, LLC 
NQ: Maintaining Fraud Rating 


June 4, 2014 
 
 


NQ Admits Widespread Data Tampering, but Claims it is not a Fraud 
 


(Committee to NQ: During the course of our fraud investigation, we caught you trying to defraud us.) 
 
NQ admitted widespread tampering with data reviewed during the investigation.  The 
press release reads:  
 


“Despite the Investigation Team’s extensive review of documents and data 
provided by sources both within and outside the Company, the Investigation 
Team could not verify that the devices it collected and copied contained all 
responsive information at the time the copies were made.  On many devices, the 
Investigation Team observed indications that some information might be missing, 
and the Company’s management and staff were unable to provide a credible 
explanation for what the Investigation Team observed.” 
 


This disclosure is reminiscent of the final report delivered by Sino-Forest’s 
“independent” committee.  The Sino-Forest directors’ conclusion was that they could find 
no evidence to support Muddy Waters’s fraud allegations.1  Sino-Forest’s exculpatory 
press release read: 
 


“The Independent Committee report verifies the Company’s stated cash balances, 
confirms registered title or contractual rights to the Company’s stated timber 
assets, as well as the book value of these assets, reconciles reported total revenue 
and refutes the allegation that Yuda Wood is a subsidiary of the Company. We 
can categorically say Sino-Forest is not the ‘near total fraud’ and ‘Ponzi scheme’ 
as alleged by Muddy Waters.” 
 


With a couple of name substitutions, the above statement would mirror that put out by 
NQ.  Unlike NQ, Sino-Forest did release a redacted version of the directors’ report.  That 
report alluded to the evidence tampering that Sino-Forest management undertook, which 
appears similar to that undertaken by NQ.2  It cited problems, including: 
 


• “data on some servers in China appearing to have been deleted on an irregular 
basis, and there is no back-up system;”  


• “lack of full cooperation/openness in the ICs examination from certain members 
of Management.” 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sino-forest-announces-findings-of-the-independent-
committee-133859828.html 
2 See November 13, 2011 “Interim Report of the Independent Committee of Directors of the Sino-Forest 
Corporation” 


Page 2 of 3
The Sino-Forest committee’s conclusion that it could find no evidence of fraud has now 
been thoroughly discredited.  The Ontario Securities Commission is suing the former 
management for fraud.  Just two weeks ago, Sino-Forest’s creditors filed suit against its 
former chairman Allen Chan for $3 billion.  In the complaint  (available to download at 
http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/wp-
content/uploads/2014/06/SFC_Litigation_Trust_v_Chen_Claim.pdf), the plaintiff 
dismisses the independent directors’ conclusion, and cites the data tampering as evidence 
of fraud.  It is a sad commentary on how insulated corporate directors are from 
responsibility that they can publicly conclude there is no evidence of fraud after 
conducting an investigation in which management was caught defrauding the 
investigators.  
 
This press release took seven and a half months to come out.  Given that there was data 
tampering during an investigation that dragged on far longer than should have been 
allowed, it is clear that management was able to stay a step ahead of the investigation by 
changing and deleting data. 
 
Muddy Waters offered to pay for well-regarded investigative accounting firm Plante & 
Moran PLLC to write an evaluation report of the investigation, which we would publish.  
The committee declined the offer.  
 
There are far more questions posed than answered by NQ’s press release.  The admission 
of data tampering was undoubtedly the result of a negotiation between the advisors and 
the company, and which despite making it clear that the tampering was widespread, 
almost certainly understates the severity of the problem.  Unless NQ chooses to provide 
the level of transparency that Sino-Forest did and release the actual report, we are 
unlikely to ever learn details about the tampering because the work is shrouded by 
attorney-client privilege. 
 
 


Page 3 of 3
