We are short shares of Mirati Therapeutics, a $4.6bn clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company 


whose lead drug candidate, MRTX-849, is a small-molecule KRAS inhibitor (KRASi). The KRAS 


protein plays a critical role in cell proliferation and differentiation, and mutations of the gene that 


encode it are present in one of seven tumors, and in over 30 percent of lung adenocarcinomas. 


Cracking KRAS has long been one of the holy grails of cancer research, and in the last year, both 


Amgen and Mirati have suggested they’re close.  





Both companies have released Phase I data showing that their respective KRASi are capable of 


shrinking tumors in second-line treatment of patients with KRAS-mutated non-small-cell lung cancer 


(NSCLC). The compounds also seem to work as intended: by inhibiting the signaling activity of the 


specific KRAS mutant (KRASG12C) that accounts for ~12-14% of all NSCLC diagnoses. As the only 


pure KRAS proxy, Mirati’s market value has soared. But lost in the euphoria is a realistic 


assessment of the data and its implications for Mirati. While Amgen’s AMG-510 and Mirati’s MRTX-


849 have indeed induced responses in NSCLC patients, it’s becoming clear that the response rate is 


low and the duration of these responses is incredibly short-lived. That makes approval of the drugs 


as single agent therapies extremely unlikely, even in second line treatment.  





As the clinical futility of these KRASi as monotherapy is slowly recognized, the emphasis of the 


research – and anticipation – is shifting towards their use in a variety of combination therapies, both 


in first- and second-line treatment. But the data and research are not encouraging. Recent data on 


the efficacy of checkpoint inhibitors in KRAS-mutant NSCLC strongly suggests that combining them 


with KRAS inhibition would do nothing to enhance their already robust effect and could even be 


detrimental. Research has also recently revealed considerable heterogeneity in KRAS-mutant 


tumors, which utilize a wider range of molecular pathways to continue proliferating than had been 


previously assumed. The upshot is that successful combinations of ‘849 with other targeted 


therapies are unattainable because it’s impossible to know in which patients they will be effective. If 


that weren’t enough, combination attempts are also all but certain to encounter toxicity issues. 





The KRAS space is also on the verge of an influx of competition, with several players – including 


Revolution Medicines and Boehringer-Ingelheim – taking differentiated approaches to targeting 


KRAS that bypass the resistance mechanisms that ‘849 has been shown to encounter. These 


compounds are already in the clinic, and even if Mirati can somehow identify a patient population in 


which ‘849 is effective, maintaining market share will be a constant battle. The last decade has 


shown that first-generation targeted therapies are quickly followed by more potent and effective 


second-generation compounds. For KRASi, these are already in the clinic recruiting patients for 


Phase 1 trials, but none are in Mirati’s almost-empty pipeline.  





Finally, while most of Mirati’s value is tied up in the dream of ‘849, investors are still ascribing 


significant value to Mirati’s other oncology compound, sitravatinib. But given sitravatinib’s almost-


complete failure as a single agent, we’re confident the drug will fail the multiple combination trials 


Mirati is now conducting. Bolstering our confidence are the weak data, a barely believable 


mechanism of action, and a sloppy trial riddled with data discrepancies and irregularities that are 


easily identified in Mirati’s sitravatinib presentations. With both ‘849 and Sitravatinib destined for 


futility, and its pipeline practically non-existent, Mirati investors will soon discover that the only thing 


the company can successfully inhibit is their performance. 





April 2020 


Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. (MRTX) 
Investors Ignoring KRASi Risks 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in the stock of Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. (the “Company”). 
Kerrisdale stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication, 
Kerrisdale may transact in the securities of the Company. All expressions of opinion are subject to change 
without notice, and Kerrisdale does not undertake to update this report or any information herein. Please 


read our full legal disclaimer at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 2 











Table of Contents 


I. INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS ........................................................................................................ 3 


II. COMPANY OVERVIEW ................................................................................................................... 9 


KRAS heterogeneity introduces complications .......................................................................................................... 11 


III. MRTX-849 IS EXTREMELY UNLIKELY TO BE APPROVED AS SECOND-LINE 
MONOTHERAPY IN NSCLC ........................................................................................................ 12 


The clinical trial data from Amgen and Mirati are not very good ........................................................................... 12 
Selumetinib is a cautionary tale for G12C inhibitors ................................................................................................. 17 
Adaptive resistance to first-generation KRAS inhibitors has been well documented and the field has already 


moved on ........................................................................................................................................................................... 18 


IV. MRTX-849 WILL NOT FARE ANY BETTER IN COMBINATION THAN AS A SINGLE 
AGENT ............................................................................................................................................ 20 


Without good biomarkers, a targeted therapy combination with MRTX-849 is a shot in the dark .................. 20 
The attempt to combine MRTX-849 with immune checkpoint inhibition will fail ............................................. 24 


V. SITRAVATINIB IS A MONOTHERAPY FAILURE BEING REPURPOSED INTO A 
COMBINATION FAILURE ........................................................................................................... 28 


VI. CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................................ 32 


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ................................................................................................................... 34
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





I. Investment Highlights 
 


Mirati’s KRAS inhibitor, MRTX-849, will probably not be approved as single-agent therapy 


in second-line non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) Most of Mirati’s value is tied to MRTX-


849, which is a small-molecule KRAS inhibitor. Though KRAS’s role as a “driver” mutation (i.e., 


driving tumor growth) has been known for decades, it’s long been considered “undruggable,” 


even as a host of other oncogenic proteins have been successfully targeted in recent years. In 


the race for a drug that could block the activity of mutant KRAS, the first two companies to come 


up with a candidate have been Amgen and Mirati.  





Both drugs have identical mechanisms of action. They don’t inhibit all KRAS activity, or even all 


kinds of mutant KRAS activity. Rather, they bind exclusively to KRASG12C – a particular KRAS 


mutation found frequently in non-small cell lung adenocarcinoma – inhibiting the activity of the 


protein and, theoretically, the resultant cancerous tumor growth. The first indication for which 


approval of the two G12C inhibitors is being sought is second-line (and later) single-agent 


treatment of NSCLC patients with KRASG12C mutations. Unfortunately, there are multiple data 


points that, taken together, suggest that these first generation KRAS inhibitors (KRASi) will 


come up short in the quest for FDA approval: 





 The trajectory of Amgen’s data – Amgen was the first to dose patients with its 


AMG-510 in late 2018, and first presented data on the compound’s activity at the 


American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) meeting in June of last year, with an 


update presented in September. In a bit of irony, much of the excitement around 


MRTX-849 has been spurred by data from the Amgen clinical trial, which includes 


many more patient data points and longer treatment periods. The underlying 


assumption is that, given the identical MOAs, the two drugs will have similar 


therapeutic efficacy in patients. 





Amgen’s initial data release revealed that of 10 NSCLC patients who were treated 


with ‘510, 5 showed a partial response (defined as tumor shrinkage of more than 


35%), 4 had stabilized, and 1 had progressed. Only 3 patients received the highest 


dose of ‘510, and all 3 of those showed a partial response. The initial results 


understandably generated enormous excitement about the new class of KRASi 


drugs: given the lack of second line treatment options in these patients, the FDA has 


a low bar for accelerated approval – a 30% objective response rate (ORR) with a 


median duration of response of about 6 months.  





But the data presented by Amgen in late September showed that in 2 of the 5 initial 


responders, the cancer had progressed, and in one case the patient died. Both 


patients were part of the highest-dosage treatment arm. In the small sample of 3 


high-dose patients, the median duration of response was less than 3 months.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 4 





By late September, though, Amgen had data on 23 patients, including 13 treated at 


the highest dose. In the high-dose group (the only one that can even vaguely be 


described as successful), 7 of 13 patients – 54% – demonstrated a partial response. 


Again, while the headline ORR looked good, 3 of those 7 patients showed disease 


progression less than 15 weeks into treatment. Of the other 4 patients, 3 hadn’t yet 


made it to 10 weeks, and the other one – at about 24 weeks – hadn’t yet reached the 


6 month threshold. If just one of those 3 less-seasoned patients shows disease 


progression before the 6 month-mark – and that seems likely based on the trajectory 


of the other patients – the drug will have failed to reach the benchmark 6 month 


median in an even larger sample than the initial 3 patients. 





It’s been over 6 months since Amgen’s last data update and over 8 months from the 


last data cutoff. Presumably, Amgen has known for over 4 months whether the 


median duration of response of ‘510 successfully hit 6 months in more patients. If it 


did, we think Amgen would have let the market know by now. Further fueling our 


suspicion of failure, on February 25th, Amgen said that it would report data from the 


‘510 trial by mid-year, as opposed to the “early 2020” timeframe that it had originally 


guided to in September, and noted that “in addition to response rate, it will be 


important to consider stable disease.” That seems like an awfully strong admission 


that Amgen is trying to move the approval goalposts from ORR/DOR to mere 


stabilization. We believe the likelihood of succeeding in that is close to nil. 





 Mirati’s Data – compared to Amgen’s data, Mirati’s single data release for MRTX-


849, which was greeted with a one-day boost in market capitalization of $750 million, 


was devoid of any real content. Though 10 NSCLC patients enrolled in the trial, only 


6 were evaluated, with no word from Mirati on why at least one, and maybe two, of 


the patients went off treatment prior to the first evaluation scan. Of the 6 evaluated, 3 


saw a partial response. As with Amgen’s ‘510, while the 50% ORR looks impressive, 


or at least acceptable, the longest duration of response was a much less impressive 


10 weeks. As with Amgen’s ‘510, we expect that given some more time, at least 


some of those responses will deteriorate into disease progression, calling into 


question the efficacy of the drug. And as with Amgen’s ‘510, Mirati has now known 


for about two months whether this initial cohort of patients has been able to achieve 


an adequate DOR, but has delayed its expected ‘849 data update from the first half 


of the current year (probably at ASCO) to the second half of the year (ESMO, World 


Lung, or the triple meeting). A good rule of thumb for clinical stage pharmaceutical 


companies is that they don’t delay releasing data if the results are good. 





 Preclinical data – the inability of G12C inhibitors to durably arrest tumor growth 


shouldn’t be very surprising. Over the last few years, preclinical research has 


revealed two phenomena that speak to the ultimate efficacy of these first-gen KRASi. 


The first is that KRAS-mutant tumors have varying dependence on KRAS, which
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





means it’s not always the KRAS mutation that’s driving tumor growth. So in a 


significant proportion of KRAS mutant tumors, a KRAS inhibitor just won’t impact 


tumor growth very much, if at all. 





Another phenomenon, discussed in the preclinical literature only very recently, is the 


tendency for tumors to rapidly develop resistance to KRAS inhibitors like ‘510 and 


‘849. Several resistance mechanisms have been discovered, suggesting that the 


precision targeting of mutant KRAS, even when initially successful, quickly turns 


ineffectual. 





 The KRAS research culture – we’ve had many discussions with prominent 


research oncologists over the last few months, and the focus of KRAS research has 


very emphatically moved from KRASi research to combination therapy research, in 


which a KRASi would be combined with another targeted therapy to generate a 


deeper and/or longer response. As one investigator told us, “when everyone starts 


shifting the emphasis from monotherapy to combination therapy so quickly, it’s not a 


good sign for monotherapy.” 





In sum, the overwhelming conclusion we draw from the data that Amgen has presented, the 


data that both Amgen and Mirati haven’t presented, and the findings and direction of KRAS 


preclinical work, is that ‘510 – and by extension, MRTX-849 – will come up short in the quest for 


accelerated FDA approval for second-line treatment of KRAS-mutant NSCLC. 





Even in combination with other targeted therapies or immune-checkpoint inhibitors, 


MRTX-849 is unlikely to prove efficacious or additive There are two kinds of combination 


strategies that have been suggested as being relevant to KRASi, and on which Mirati has 


already begun early stage clinical trials.  





The first is a combination of a KRASi like ‘849 with other targeted therapies. The logic here is 


that knocking out the KRAS-mutant cell-signaling pathway in combination with another critical 


cell-signaling pathway would avert resistance and result in a more lethal tumor-killing effect. But 


the characteristic heterogeneity of KRAS-mutant tumors that limits the efficacy of single-agent 


KRASi is also likely to limit the efficacy of any one of these combinations.  





The problem is that there are countless permutations of different nodes and pathways involved 


in promoting tumor growth in KRASG12C-mutant cancer. These can be upstream, downstream, or 


parallel to the KRAS node itself, but there’s no way to tell in advance which of them is 


responsible for the cancer, or which of them will be critical for the tumor’s resistance 


mechanism. If the wrong one is chosen, the only effect induced will be high levels of toxicity with 


no incremental therapeutic effect. It’s possible that biomarkers will one day be found that could 


inform this kind of combinatorial strategy, but the field is currently a long way from that, and by
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





the time it gets there, Mirati’s first generation KRASi will be a distant memory, with second and 


even third generation KRAS-targeting compounds having materialized by then.  





The other contemplated combination is with immune checkpoint inhibition (ICI), which has 


revolutionized oncology over the last decade and, in the process, become the standard first-line 


therapy (sometimes in combination with chemotherapy) in NSCLC. There doesn’t seem to be 


much of a rationale for combining ‘849 with an ICI in first-line therapy beyond “if it works, first 


line therapy is a huge market.” In fact, the fig leaf of preclinical data upon which Mirati is basing 


its combination attempt shows no indication that KRAS inhibition can enhance the effect of 


checkpoint inhibition. What it does show is that in one carefully chosen mouse xenograft model, 


combining ‘849 with an ICI resulted in a slightly improved tumor response compared to ‘849 


alone. But the tumor model used for these experiments showed no significant response to ICI 


therapy alone, and an overwhelming response to ‘849 alone. In other words, it bore zero 


meaningful resemblance to real-life KRAS-mutant NSCLC. 





Both Mirati and Amgen have also touted tumor-level immune markers from their preclinical 


experiments, which purportedly show that KRAS inhibition makes tumor cells more 


immunogenic, or susceptible to the immune response that ICIs unleash. The problem is that 


recent data from Merck’s KEYNOTE-042 trial shows that KRAS-mutant NSCLC is already 


extremely immunogenic, with ICIs demonstrating superior outcomes in KRAS-mutant patients 


compared to those with so-called “wild-type” KRAS (i.e., non-mutated KRAS). The implication is 


that the bar for ‘849 to improve upon the tumor-killing effectiveness of ICIs is so high, it’s 


incredibly unlikely to be cleared.  





The trial data also show that chemotherapy, which normally synergizes well with checkpoint 


inhibition by increasing the immunogenicity of the tumor, doesn’t do so in patients with KRAS-


mutant tumors and may even be counterproductive. So the exact mechanism being claimed by 


Mirati and Amgen as the rationale for their combination trials fails in KRAS-mutant tumors in the 


clinic because ICIs are already highly effective as single agents in these patients. This is exactly 


the fait that awaits ‘849 in combination with checkpoint inhibition. 





Potential toxicity in combination with ICIs is another (not mutually exclusive) possibility, 


particularly considering the high dose of ‘849 that Mirati is pursuing, and the higher levels of 


adverse events and dose-limiting toxicities that ‘849 has reported compared to AMG-510. 


MRTX-849 will just be the latest compound in a long list of immunotherapy combination 


attempts that have failed. 





MRTX-849 is a first-generation KRAS inhibitor that will quickly become obsolete even in 


the improbable scenario that it’s approved A second generation of KRAS inhibitors, with 


different MOAs than the G12C inhibitors from Mirati and Amgen, is already in the clinic. The first 


is Boehringer-Ingelheim’s BI-1701963, which takes a broader approach to the KRAS pathway 


by inhibiting the interaction of all KRAS proteins (not just mutant-KRAS) with SOS1, a protein
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





that helps transform KRAS from its dormant to its active state, thus fueling tumor growth. 


Targeting the SOS1 interaction with KRAS avoids at least some of the resistance mechanisms 


identified with ‘849/’510, potentially resulting in an increased DOR. Boehringer is also testing a 


combination of BI-1701963 with a MEK inhibitor (MEK being a molecular pathway adjacent to 


KRAS). Based on our discussions with Boehringer researchers, the logic of their clinical trial 


with a MEKi is to also address some of the challenges inherent in KRAS-mutant heterogeneity, 


which could potentially result in increased response rates.  





A different approach is being taken by Revolution Medicines, which is targeting the KRAS 


pathway through the inhibition of KRAS in its active state, bypassing a key resistance 


mechanism observed in response to the G12C inhibitors, which can only bind to inactive KRAS 


proteins. Revolution’s program is in not yet in the clinic, but the company has presented its 


preclinical data recently, and expects to nominate a development candidate shortly. Revolution 


has also worked on an approach similar to Boehringer’s but hasn’t yet released any data.  





Beyond Boehringer’s more robust MOA, and Revolution’s multi-target approach to KRAS, 


Moderna Therapeutics is pioneering a vaccine approach (currently in Phase 1) that targets 


multiple KRAS-mutants, Bayer has a program that (like Boehringer) targets the SOS1-KRAS 


interaction, and both J&J and Lilly have G12C inhibitors similar to ‘510/’849 in Phase 1. The 


odds are just very low that Mirati – with its one flawed G12C-targeting compound – will be a 


significant player in KRAS.  





Sitravatinib is Mirati’s latest worthless TKI (tyrosine kinase inhibitor) that will quickly 


fade from memory Sitravatinib, the other compound in Mirati’s pipeline, inhibits the activity of 


multiple receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). Irregular activity of these cell-surface receptors, 


which regulate various critical cellular processes, is associated with the development and 


progression of many types of cancer.  





Sitravatinib is an interesting example of “thesis creep,” which seems characteristic of Mirati’s 


clinical programs. The compound was first advanced as a single agent therapy to inhibit the 


activity of RTKs that were dysregulated due to mutations in the genes that encode them. The 


first meaningful data, presented in a press release in early 2017, showed an ORR of 50% in a 


grand total of 4 NSCLC patients. In October of 2017, at the World Conference on Lung Cancer, 


instead of updating the data from the Phase 1 trial, Mirati presented a case study of a partial 


response in one patient with a rare mutation that had been heretofore untreatable. By this time, 


Mirati’s filings had already relegated Sitravatinib’s single-agent prospects to the backburner and 


began focusing on its potential in combination with an ICI.  





Fast forward to 2018, and Mirati’s single-agent data on Sitravatinib consisted of a 20% ORR in 


20 renal cell carcinoma patients (the NSCLC data had disappeared). By this time, it had 


become apparent that Sitravatinib was a total failure as a single-agent in NSCLC patients with 


the RTK mutations the compound was supposed to target. At the current time, the only single 



https://revmed.egnyte.com/dl/L26gqrsti0/A06_Tri-complex_inhibitors_of_the_oncogenic%2C_GTP-bound_form_of_KRASG12C_overcome_RTK-mediated_escape_mechanisms_and_drive_tumor_regressions_in_preclinical_models_of_NSCLC.pdf_
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





agent Sitravatinib trial still running is a Phase 1 in patients with the rare CBL mutation that Mirati 


discussed at World Lung 2017. Given the lack of any data updates in about two years, and the 


fact that the company’s 2019 10-K has eliminated any mention of the drug’s single agent 


prospects, we wouldn’t expect much. 





Faced with futility as a single agent, Mirati has changed the entire rationale for sitravatinib’s 


utility. Instead of blocking mutation-stricken RTKs, sitravatinib now blocks RTKs that are 


responsible for immunosuppressive activity that generates resistance to ICIs. Of course, it’s the 


same RTKs, but the mechanism of action being touted is retrospectively changed. With 


sitravatinib purportedly blocking this immunosuppressive activity, Mirati is repurposing it to treat 


NSCLC patients that have progressed on an ICI. The strategy is to retreat with an ICI, but this 


time in combination with Sitravatinib, which would enhance the immunogenic effect of the ICI.  





It’s hard to know just how badly this is going. The latest data we have from Mirati on Sitravatinib 


is from a Phase 2 study, with a data cutoff of August 27th, 2018 – almost two years ago. The 


data weren’t very good back then: the ORR was 19.6% (11 of 56 patients); the Kaplan-Meier-


estimated DOR of 9.2 months contradicts a DOR of 6 months that’s easily calculable from the 


swimmer plot; and the median overall survival KM estimate of 15.1 months seems suspect 


considering that 45% (25/56) of the patients dropped out of the study before the 6 month mark. 


That doesn’t even consider some bizarre features of the trial such as a “complete response” 


from a patient whose tumor shrank by only half, two patients whose disease progressed but 


who remained on the study, and other peculiarities we cover in further detail below.  





Undeterred by all this, Mirati has doggedly pursued a Phase 3 trial in which the Sitravatinib/ICI 


combo will go up against docetaxel in NSCLC patients refractory to an ICI/chemo combination. 


Given docetaxel’s reported response rates in ICI-refractory patients are actually higher than the 


20% response rate elicited by sitravatinib, we expect the trial to end in failure. Apparently, so 


does Mirati – they recently dropped their 2020 Q4 interim analysis (of ORR, which could 


potentially have set them up for accelerated approval), leaving only the overall survival analysis 


that will have to wait until year-end 2021. By then, the focus will conveniently have shifted to 


KRAS combination strategies.  





This wouldn’t be the first time that a highly touted Mirati compound will fade just as excitement 


builds for the next one. Going back to Mirati’s posters and presentations from years past, other 


targeted compounds like glesatinib and mocetinostat can be found, all now relegated to the 


dustbin of history after failing in the clinic. Sitravatinib is next. And we don’t expect MRTX-849 to 


be too far behind.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





II. Company Overview 





Mirati: Capitalization and Financial Results 
 





Source: company filings, Kerrisdale analysis 


* Shares outstanding and cash balance are adjusted for Mirati’s equity offering on 1/9/2020 
 





The RAS protein – RAS is short for “rat sarcoma,” so called because the various RAS genes 


were first identified from studies of two cancer-causing viruses in rats – is a central node in 


some of the most critical cellular signaling pathways. These complex intracellular pathways are 


composed of chains of proteins that communicate signals from the surface of the cell membrane 


all the way to the DNA in the cell nucleus. The signals are responsible for managing critical 


cellular processes including proliferation, differentiation, adhesion, death, and migration. 


Mutations in the genes that encode the RAS proteins interrupt the normal functioning of these 


signals and drive cancerous tumor growth: about one in seven tumors (in all kinds of cancers) 


involves a mutation in the KRAS gene (one of the 3 different RAS genes). In the modern era of 


targeted cancer therapies, KRAS has thus been referred to as the “holy grail” of targeted 


therapy and the “beating heart” of cancer. 





There have been a variety of attempts made to treat KRAS-driven cancers, including: 





 Directly targeting KRAS by blocking the ability of the KRAS protein to physically 


situate itself near the cell’s plasma membrane. This approach just hasn’t worked in 


KRAS tumors because the tumors rapidly develop resistance to the blockage of the 


pathway targeted by the drug by using an alternative pathway that remained totally 


opened.1 





 Indirectly targeting KRAS by targeting downstream effectors (see the graphic below), 


particularly the RAF-MEK-ERK pathway (RAS activates RAF, which activates MEK, 


                                                
1 Berndt, N et al. Targeting protein prenylation for cancer therapy 



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4037130/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 10 





which activates ERK), also known as the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) 


pathway. RAF inhibitors, though, have paradoxically accelerated tumor growth in 


cancers that don’t possess a RAF mutation, and ERK inhibitors are still very early in 


the process of preclinical development. MEK inhibitors, meanwhile, have shown 


limited efficacy in KRAS-mutant cancers – they clearly inhibit cell growth, but don’t 


show any improvement in patient outcomes compared to the SOC treatment. As we 


discuss below, the MRTX-849 data is eerily reminiscent of the data from early MEK 


inhibitor trials, and the resistance mechanisms observed are also similar.2 





RAS on/off and its associated pathways 
 





Source: Ryan, MB, Corcoran, RB Therapeutic strategies to target RAS-mutant cancers, Mullard, A. Cracking KRAS 
 





The KRAS protein itself, though, has generally been considered undruggable because of the 


physical structure of the protein. But in 2013, Kevin Shokat and his team at UCSF found a way 


to bind a small molecule to one mutant version of the KRAS protein in which the glycine (G) in 


the 12th codon of the gene is substituted with a cysteine (C) – hence the name KRASG12C. RAS 


proteins are molecular switches, cycling between the on-state, in which they are bound to GTP 


(guanosine triphosphate) molecules, and the off-state in which they are bound to GDP 


(guanosine diphosphate) molecules (see the diagram above, right). The G12C mutation occurs 


at a “hot spot” in the gene that interferes with the on/off switch, leading to a state in which RAS 


signaling is “stuck” in the “on” configuration. Shokat’s molecule would bind to mutant-KRAS (via 


covalent bond with the mutated cysteine) in its off state, locking it in that configuration. 


                                                
2 For a review of the history of attempts at targeting KRAS, see Ryan, MB and Corcoran, RB Therapeutic 


strategies to target RAS-mutant cancers 



https://www.nature.com/articles/s41571-018-0105-0

https://www.nature.com/articles/d41573-019-00195-5

http://shokatlab.ucsf.edu/

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41571-018-0105-0

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41571-018-0105-0
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 11 





Theoretically, turning mutant KRAS off would knock out the downstream signaling cascade 


responsible for tumor growth. Because the binding site for the molecule was at the mutated 


cysteine, KRAS activity outside the tumor would also remain theoretically untouched.  





But the path from a molecule that inhibits KRASG12C in a test tube to one that’s chemically 


optimized to do so in vivo is a long one, and in early 2018, Amgen was the first to get an 


investigational new drug (IND) application approved. Mirati was close behind, getting IND status 


for MRTX-849 at the end of 2018. Meanwhile, Wellspring Biosciences – a subsidiary of Shokat 


co-founded Araxes – was granted IND status for ARS-3248, another G12C inhibitor in the mold 


of ‘849 and ‘510, in May of 2019. Eli Lilly also entered the fray in mid-2019 with G12C inhibitor 


LY-3499446. All four molecules are currently in Phase 1 and/or Phase 2, with AMG-510 farthest 


along. Given the prevalence of the G12C mutation in NSCLC – about 12-14% of all lung 


adenocarcinomas have a KRASG12C mutation – most of the patients in these trials are second 


line NSCLC patients, with other G12C-mutant solid tumor patients also participating (primarily 


colorectal cancer).  





KRAS heterogeneity introduces complications 





While the race for a G12C inhibitor drug candidate was going on, parallel research on KRAS 


was revealing that the status of mutant KRAS was more complex than originally thought. The 


obvious assumption underlying the search for a KRAS inhibitor is that blocking mutant-KRAS 


will meaningfully impact tumor viability. But it’s now understood that in KRAS-mutant cancers, 


the cancer is almost never exclusively dependent on the dysregulated KRAS signaling.  





There’s a long list of experiments and findings that have demonstrated this phenomenon.3 The 


most striking, in our view, is an elegant set of experiments funded by the NIH and National 


Cancer Institute that were reported in early 2018.4 Research oncologists analyzed 92 different 


cell lines from a variety of cancers, including 64 KRAS-mutant lines. They then selectively 


knocked out various nodes – individually and in combination – along the molecular pathways in 


which RAS plays a role (for a non-exhaustive list of these nodes, see the diagram above, left). 


They found, surprisingly, that over a third of KRAS-mutant cell lines did not even register a 


response to a total shutdown of KRAS signaling. In 6 G12C-mutant lung cancer lines, only 1 


responded to KRAS knock-down. Even in cell lines that did respond to KRAS-knockdown, the 


response wasn’t uniform, and rarely did viability deteriorate to the point of cell death.5  





It’s true that findings like this seldom translate perfectly to the complexity of tumors in the clinical 


setting, but the findings are incredibly significant for what they say about KRAS-dependence. In 


                                                
3 For a review, see Yang H et al. New Horizons in KRAS-Mutant Lung Cancer: Dawn After Darkness 
4 Yuan, Tina L et al. Differential Effector Engagement by Oncogenic KRAS 
5 Ibid, “KRAS knockdown in dependent lines corresponds to a striking loss of proliferation but rarely 


translates into appreciable cell death.” [emphasis added] 



https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fonc.2019.00953/full

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6343826/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 12 





short, a significant proportion of KRAS-mutant tumors are totally independent of mutant-KRAS 


signaling, and even those that aren’t can usually find an alternative path to viability. The 


heterogeneous nature of KRAS-mutant tumors means that there exist a host of different cellular 


signaling paths used by these tumors to proliferate. It’s possible that even within the same 


tumor, there are various population subtypes, each with different pathway dependencies. 


Unfortunately, there’s currently no good way to detect in advance whether a KRAS-mutant 


tumor is dependent on KRAS. And even in “KRAS-addicted” tumors, there’s an array of different 


pathways used for oncogenic signaling, and there’s no way to identify which particular molecular 


route is being hijacked by the cancer.  





That’s important because, as illustrated by the continued viability of KRAS-dependent cancer 


cells in the face of KRAS-blockage, and as we detail below in our discussion of resistance 


mechanisms, neutralizing KRAS is hardly sufficient. It needs to be accompanied by a 


simultaneous shut-down of the critical links up, down, or parallel to the relevant pathway. 


Without knowing which links or pathways are critical, a KRAS inhibitor – even one that 


completely shuts down KRAS signaling – is mostly impotent. 








III. MRTX-849 is Extremely Unlikely to be Approved as 


Second-Line Monotherapy in NSCLC 


The clinical trial data from Amgen and Mirati are not very good 





We also think that the pathway forward from a regulatory perspective is most clear [in 


NSCLC]…there is quite a long precedence of single-arm, single agent trials being used 


for registration in non-small cell lung cancer, as long as the response rates are above 


30%, and the durability of those responses [is] in the range of six months or 


longer. We think that that's the fastest path towards initial registration. [emphasis added] 





Mirati CEO Charles Braun at JPM Healthcare Conference – 1/14/2020 





Both Amgen and Mirati, in their Phase 1/2 trials for AMG-510 and MRTX-849, respectively, are 


targeting a ~30% objective response rate (ORR) and a ~6-month duration of response (DOR). 


That’s the goal that needs to be met in order to have a chance at FDA accelerated approval as 


second line treatment for KRASG12C-mutant NSCLC. Data on the G12C inhibitors is necessarily 


limited given the small scale of the trials thus far. Amgen’s data is more extensive than Mirati’s 


both because its trial began about half a year earlier and because Mirati has been reticent in 


updating its negligible data set. It has been assumed, justifiably though with some risk, that 


Mirati’s data will be substantially equivalent to Amgen’s. 





But Amgen’s data is actually weak, and has been trending weaker over time. The initial Amgen 


waterfall and swimmer plots, released at ASCO 2019, looked like this:
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 13 








AMG-510 Data in NSCLC, ASCO 2019 (data cutoff 4/4/2019) 
 








Source: Amgent presentation at ASCO 2019 (June 3rd, 2019), data cutoff is 4/4/2019 
 





For reasons we elaborate upon below, we don’t expect the KRAS inhibitors to really have much 


of an impact in colorectal cancer (CRC), so we’ll focus on NSCLC, which is by far the larger 


market. It’s important to note that Amgen’s waterfall plot explicitly records the best overall 


response (BOR) rate in patients and it excludes the one patient that saw immediate disease 


progression after receiving treatment. Regardless, a partial response rate of 50% (5 of 10 


patients), including 3 of 3 patients on the highest dose, was understandably seen as very 


promising, though only one partial response at that point hit the 6 month mark. The drug was 


also tolerated well with no serious safety events. 


 



http://investors.amgen.com/static-files/f283e23c-5194-4d2a-be5f-07fb24d1ecec
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 14 





By the time Amgen updated the data at ESMO in late September, the data looked a bit worse: 





AMG-510 Data in NSCLC, ESMO 2019 (data cutoff 7/17/2019) 
 








Source: Amgen presentation at ESMO 2019 (September 28th, 2019, data cutoff is 7/17/2019), 


Kerrisdale analysis 
 





The key inferences made from the above data, some of which Amgen directly addressed, 


include the following: 


 Of the 3 patients on the highest dose that had seen partial responses back at the April 


cutoff, 2 unfortunately resumed disease progression and one had died (we marked these 


with a red box in the above swimmer plot). 


 Of the 13 patients on the highest dose (in green on the swimmer plot), 7 patients 


exhibited a partial response for a 54% response rate. But some of those were 


unconfirmed and will not be confirmed due to disease progression. So the maximum 


confirmed ORR for the highest dosed arm of the study is about 38%, which is a far cry 



http://investors.amgen.com/static-files/7758f950-a739-4237-bd3a-46309894adea
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 15 





from the 100% that was seen when Amgen presented the data at ASCO, and it could 


still go lower as 3 partial responses have yet to reach ten weeks of treatment and 


haven’t yet been confirmed. 


 Of the 7 patients that have responded to treatment on the highest dose, 3 suffered 


disease progression at various points before the 15-week mark. The simple math here is 


that if one of the 3 responding patients being treated for less than 10 weeks (we marked 


these with a blue box in the above swimmer plot) relapses before the ~26-week mark, 


the median duration of response will end up being less than 6 months. In our view, this 


is the most probable outcome, and it means that from the data we have, we can 


infer that ‘510 has little chance of achieving accelerated approval. 





Since the July 2019 data that was presented about 6 months ago, Amgen has not given any 


meaningful update. In fact, while the company suggested at ESMO that they would provide 


updated data early in 2020, they recently pushed off the update. In a meeting with Goldman 


Sachs, on which the latter reported in a note dated February 25th, Amgen management said 


they would report data from the ‘510 trial in the middle of the year (potentially at ASCO), and 


also “noted that, in addition to response rate, it will be important to consider stable disease, and 


pointed to the prior history of BMY’s Yervoy in melanoma as an example.”6 That’s a damning 


admission by the company that they expect either the response rate or the duration of response 


(or both) to come up short of the accelerated approval benchmark communicated by the FDA. 


Additionally, it’s unclear what the approval of Yervoy has to do with AMG-510. Yervoy’s 


approval came after a randomized, double blind Phase 3 study completed in 676 patients, with 


a standard endpoint of median overall survival (OS). Amgen is running a single-arm Phase 2 


treating 100 patients with AMG-510. It’s true that Yervoy perhaps didn’t elicit a very high 


response rate, but its efficacy was proven through a large RCT with a survival benchmark 


before approval. AMG-510 has undergone nothing of the sort. 





Meanwhile, Mirati presented data from its ‘849 trial at the Triple meeting in October, but that 


data set is incredibly limited (6 NSCLC patients, with only one having taken ‘849 for longer than 


~11 weeks). As a result, it’s difficult to come to any strong conclusions from that data beyond 


the apparent similarities to Amgen’s data. Of 6 NSCLC patients, 3 saw a partial response, 


including 3 of 5 on the highest dose, which is not very different than the original data that 


Amgen had released at ASCO. Also similar to Amgen’s ASCO data, none of the patients that 


responded had yet made it past ten weeks of treatment (Amgen had 2 of 5 responding patients 


who were a bit more advanced in their treatment regiment, but neither of those was treated with 


the highest dose).  





                                                
6 Goldman Sachs Equity Research: “Amgen Inc: Management meeting takeaways” February 25th, 2020.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 16 





MRTX-849 Data in NSCLC, CRC, and Appendiceal Triple Meeting 2019 (data cutoff 10/11/2019) 
 








Source: Mirati presentation at Triple Meeting 2019 (October 28th, 2019, data cutoff is 10/11/2019) 
 





In colorectal cancer, one partial response was recorded out of the four patients treated. 


Considering Amgen’s weak CRC data (one partial response in 27 patients), we don’t believe a 


25% response rate will be sustained over a larger number of patients. Moreover, the pathway 


characteristics of KRAS in colorectal cancer are different than in NSCLC as mutant-KRAS is 


rarely a central node of dependency in CRC. 





The future of Mirati’s ‘849 has been foreshadowed by Amgen’s ‘510 – the partial responses that 


have been seen will probably not be maintained for long enough to result in a 6 month duration 



https://www.mirati.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/AACR-NCI-EORTC-Clinical-Data-Presentation_Janne_October-2019-1-1.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 17 





of response, and the response rate will fall as more patients are added to the trial. Indeed, Mirati 


surely has enough data to provide an update at ASCO, but has chosen to delay providing an 


update until the second half of this year (probably at ESMO, World Lung, or the Triple meeting). 


As with Amgen, we interpret a delayed data update as a tacit admission that the evolving data 


are more mixed than the initial release and will raise questions about the efficacy odds of 


approval of ‘849. 


Selumetinib is a cautionary tale for G12C inhibitors 





The trajectory of AMG-510 and MRTX-849, characterized by relatively promising initial response 


rates that fade quickly, should be familiar to anyone that’s followed KRAS-mutant lung cancer 


for the last decade. The most promising drug candidate for these patients – before the recent 


data on immune checkpoint inhibitors – was MEK inhibitor selumetinib, which was invented by 


Array Biopharma. Array, now a subsidiary of Pfizer, is coincidentally the same company that 


originated MRTX-849 and subsequently licensed it to Mirati. 





MEK is one of the downstream nodes from KRAS on the MAPK signaling pathway. Because 


KRAS was undruggable a decade ago, it was hypothesized that blocking the path downstream 


of KRAS might elicit a therapeutic response in patients with KRAS-mutant cancers. In a widely 


hailed Phase 2 result presented at ASCO in 2012, the combination of selumetinib and 


chemotherapy drug docetaxel showed extremely promising results. In a presentation given by 


Dr. Pasi Janne from the Dana Farber Cancer Institute – the same person, coincidentally, that 


presented the MRTX-849 data at the Triple meeting in October last year –the survival curves 


and waterfall plots for the combination in KRAS-mutant NSCLC were shown, and the waterfall 


plot was similar to the one for AMG-510: 





Selumetinib + docetaxel for KRAS-mutant advanced NSCLC Phase 2 Study (2012) 
 








Source: Janne, P et al. Selumetinib plus docetaxel for KRAS-mutant advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a 


randomised, multicentre, placebo-controlled, phase 2 study 
 


 



https://meetinglibrary.asco.org/record/75090/video

https://webcast.aacr.org/console/player/41716?mediaType=slideVideo&

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23200175

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23200175
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 18 








The plot for the selumetinib combination and the ones for ‘510/’849 are not perfectly comparable 


– the selumetinib trial measured the change in tumor-size at a predetermined interval of 12 


weeks into treatment, while Amgen and Mirati are presenting “best overall responses” at any 


point between treatment initiation and data cutoff. The AMG-510 waterfall plot from ESMO 


indicates that in 22 out of 23 patients, the best response was the first response at the ~6-week 


mark, so the G12C inhibitors are being graded on a curve. In the Phase 2 of the selumetinib 


combination, the best overall responses were 37% of patients with a partial response, 44% with 


stable-disease, and the remaining 19% saw disease progression. That’s slightly worse than the 


39/56/4% splits from the entire Amgen data set and the 38/62/0% split in the highest-dosage 


group, but not profoundly different, particularly considering that the selumetinib trial was a true 


randomized placebo-controlled trial, whereas Amgen and Mirati are running single-arm proof-of-


concept trials with far fewer patients (as of the latest data).  





The fate of the selumetinib combination was a Phase 3 failure, which was detailed in JAMA in 


mid-2017.7 While the Phase 3 trial design was identical to the Phase 2, the response rate to the 


combination therapy with selumetinib was only 20% compared to the 37% rate in the Phase 2, 


and progression-free survival was 3.9 months compared to 5.3 months in the Phase 2. The 


authors couldn’t find any good reasons for the differences in results, but it wasn’t the first time 


that a trial with a much larger sample size and better statistical power failed to confirm an 


optimistic result from a smaller sample set. The data from AMG-510, which deteriorates each 


time the sample set gets larger, seems to be following that pattern, and we expect the same for 


MRTX-849. 





Adaptive resistance to first-generation KRAS inhibitors has been well 


documented and the field has already moved on 





However, two decades of experience with targeted therapies for lung and other types of 


cancer have taught us that these therapies generally cannot eliminate all cells within a 


tumor. In almost all solid tumors responsive to targeted therapies, acquired drug 


resistance inevitably develops, which leads to clinical relapse. An accumulating body 


of preclinical evidence suggests that cancers driven by mutant KRAS may be 


especially prone to activate adaptive resistance mechanisms that enable cell 


survival in the face of suppression of KRAS or downstream mitogen-activated protein 


kinase (MAPK) signaling. [emphasis added] 





Hata AN, Shaw AT Resistance looms for KRASG12C inhibitors 


Nature Medicine, 2/4/2020 





                                                
7 Pasi, J et al. Selumetinib Plus Docetaxel Compared With Docetaxel Alone and Progression-Free 


Survival in Patients With KRAS-Mutant Advanced Non–Small Cell Lung Cancer 



https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2625317

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0765-z

https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2625317

https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2625317
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 19 





Preclinical evidence on KRASi resistance provides much-needed scientific context for the 


disappointing direction in which the data is headed. It shouldn’t be surprising that the responses 


in AMG-510 patients seem to break down rather quickly. Tumors have long been known to 


possess an array of resistance mechanisms to combat the tumor-killing compounds that are 


used to treat them. With the G12C inhibitors, the mechanisms of resistance have been detailed 


in preclinical work that has been published recently, some of it in parallel to the clinical trials 


being run by Amgen and Mirati. Ironically, some of this research was published by Mirati 


scientists in their pursuit of potential combination therapies that involve MRTX-849. 





One resistance mechanism that was characterized in detail last year by a team from Memorial 


Sloan Kettering is “adaptive feedback activation of RTKs (receptor tyrosine kinases).”8 Normally, 


the mutant-KRAS protein cycles between the on/off states described above. The G12C inhibitor 


binds to the KRAS protein in its off-state, locking it in that configuration, and effectively shutting 


down the mutant signaling. But in a subgroup of cells, the growth-factor-receptors on the cell 


membrane respond to the “locked-down” KRAS by increasing their signaling activity and 


producing more KRAS protein. The snag is that the new KRAS that’s produced in these cells is 


“manufactured” in the on mode, and KRAS in its on-state does not bind to the G12C inhibitor. 


This small group of cells is now resistant to the drug, and begins to proliferate, leading to the 


tumor growing again. At this point, the tumor is now substantially protected from the activity of 


the G12C inhibitor. 





Another resistance mechanism, described recently by Dr. Meagan Ryan and her co-authors, is 


“RAS pathway feedback activation.”9 KRAS is one of three RAS proteins, HRAS and NRAS 


being the other two. The assumption is that in KRAS-mutant cancers, the mutant-KRAS is 


responsible for transmitting the “faulty” signals that result in cancerous tumor growth. Ryan and 


her co-authors found that when mutant-KRAS is blocked with a G12C inhibitor, the other forms 


of RAS – heretofore dormant in the tumors, and possessing no mutations – begin to activate, 


transmitting the tumorigenic signals from the receptors on the cell membrane downstream to 


RAF/MEK/ERK and eventually the cell nucleus. The detailed mechanics of this process in the 


clinical setting and how long it takes to play out there are yet to be explored. The authors 


suggest that combining the G12C inhibitor with a SHP2 inhibitor may hold off this resistance 


mechanism, though as we discuss at further length below, we think that it will take a while 


before any combination regiments can be effectively utilized. 





The consequences of resistance in KRASG12C-mutant NSCLC are clearly manifested in relatively 


low overall response rates and short durations of response. These virtually ensure that 


accelerated approval for MRTX-849 will remain beyond Mirati’s reach. But they also foreshadow 


that, like selumetinib, MRTX-849 is extremely unlikely to improve patient outcomes compared to 


second line docetaxel in a large randomized Phase 3 trial, which, regardless of the outcome, 


would still delay approval for years. That’s especially the case given that immune checkpoint 


                                                
8 Xue, JY, Zhao, Y, et al. Rapid non-uniform adaptation to conformation-specific KRAS(G12C) inhibition 
9 Ryan, M et al. Vertical pathway inhibition overcomes adaptive feedback resistance to KRASG12C 


inhibition 



https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1884-x

https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/early/2019/11/27/1078-0432.CCR-19-3523.full-text.pdf

https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/early/2019/11/27/1078-0432.CCR-19-3523.full-text.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 20 





inhibition has become the standard of care in first line NSCLC, and docetaxel’s response rates 


and DORs in the second line setting look to be comparable or better than what ‘510 and ‘849 


are demonstrating in their Phase 2 trials.10 





The research community apparently agrees. Our discussions with a large number of oncology 


researchers, as well as the subject matter focus of recent KRAS literature, indicate that the 


focus of the research community has rapidly moved from single-agent KRAS inhibition to 


combination therapies meant to address primary and adaptive resistance. Such a rapid shift is 


telling: the research consensus is concluding that the only way KRAS inhibitors will be useful is 


in combination. MRTX-849 is unlikely to emerge from the research frenzy intact. 





IV. MRTX-849 will not Fare any Better in Combination than 


as a Single Agent 





Our work reveals that optimal targeting of KRAS-driven cancers will require 


coinhibition of both the driver oncogene and upstream, downstream, and parallel 


collateral dependencies…the concept that a cancerous phenotype can be driven by a 


single oncogene is being revised given that…targeted therapies have fallen short on their 


promise of promoting durable responses and cures for patients. [emphasis added] 





Lou, K et al.  


KRASG12C inhibition produces a driver-limited state revealing collateral dependencies 


Science Signaling, 5/28/2019 





The Mirati/Amgen playbook for their G12C inhibitors seems to consist of hoping for good-


enough data in their single-arm monotherapy Phase 2s to qualify for accelerated approval, while 


working on combination therapies that will give them longer staying power in the meantime. 


Mirati has planned four Phase 1 trials that will combine MRTX-849 with another drug. Three of 


these trials are combinations with other targeted therapies, and one is a combination with an 


immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI).  





Without good biomarkers, a targeted therapy combination with MRTX-


849 is a shot in the dark 





Resistance to KRAS inhibitors seems to manifest itself in two forms: 


 Primary resistance, in which the tumor doesn’t even respond to the treatment. This 


mode of resistance is related, by and large, to the KRAS heterogeneity discussed 


previously. A significant proportion of KRAS-mutants, and KRASG12C-mutants in 


                                                
10 We discuss this at further length in our discussion of sitravatinib below. See the references mentioned 


in footnote 24 



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6871662/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 21 





particular, are not very dependent on KRAS signaling. Their response to the shut-


down of that signaling is therefore negligible, if it even occurs. 


 Adaptive resistance, described above, in which the KRAS inhibition initially impacts 


tumor growth, but the tumor rapidly adapts, in this case by exploiting other nodes in 


the relevant molecular pathways (see diagram below) to continue proliferating. 





Molecular Pathways related to RAS 
 





Source: This diagram is found in the recent IPO registration of Revolution Medicines 
 





It’s worth noting that it’s difficult to perfectly correlate the phenomena of tumor shrinkage, partial 


response, stable disease, or disease progression with the various kinds of resistance. A partial 


response that fades into disease progression, for example, could be a manifestation of different 


subpopulations within the tumor (one that responds and one that exhibits primary resistance), or 


it could be an instance of adaptive resistance in which the tumor cells seize on a different 


molecular pathway to continue growing. Or it could be a combination of these phenomena. Even 


with a biopsy, it’s not easy to tell. These are just different models of resistance to consider, and 


they’re not necessarily mutually exclusive. 





The different molecular pathways that KRAS-mutant tumors use to proliferate are delineated in 


the above diagram: 


 KRAS-mutant tumors that are dependent on KRAS use the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK (MAP-


kinase) pathway, which starts with growth factor signaling from the receptors on the cell
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 22 





membrane and continues, through a process of binding other molecules, to RAS and the 


rest. Tumors using the adaptive resistance mechanisms delineated above continue to 


use this pathway to survive and/or thrive, either bypassing KRAS and using the other 


parallel RAS proteins, or by having the RTKs (the receptors on the cell membrane) 


signal for the production of KRAS in the “on” state (labeled RAS(ON) above), which are 


totally immune to the activity of the G12C inhibitors. 


 In tumor cells that are essentially independent of KRAS-signaling, it’s generally the PI3K 


pathway through which oncogenic signaling occurs.11 That’s not to say that the 


RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway is dormant in these cells, just that the critically 


dysregulated signals are not dependent on that path.  





That’s a bit of an oversimplification. There are other pathways through which oncogenic 


signaling can occur, though they are seemingly rare. The RAS and PI3K pathway are also not 


so neatly separated – ERK has been shown to interact with S6K, and RAS has been shown to 


interact with PI3K, and there are other arcane interactions that don’t seem to figure prominently 


into the discussion on KRAS inhibition at the current time.12 Tumor cells can also potentially use 


both pathways simultaneously, evading the knockdown of any single pathway, even in its 


entirety.13 





Additionally, the centrality of the different pathway nodes varies. MEK inhibitors, like 


selumetinib, have been around for a long time, and have generally been ineffective in KRAS-


mutant cancer patients (at least partly because of the same resistance mechanisms that have 


been found to operate on the G12C inhibitors). But one of the underlying assumptions (yet to be 


validated) of the race for a KRAS inhibitor is that blocking KRAS would be inherently more 


effective than blocking MEK, even though MEK is right downstream of KRAS. Similarly, 


research has shown PI3K may not be the best target for the PI3K pathway, and perhaps AKT or 


mTOR knock-down would be more effective. 





With this in mind, Mirati has set up the following attempts at targeted therapy combinations with 


MRTX-849 for NSCLC: 


 ‘849+afatinib: Afatinib is an EGFR inhibitor, and EGFR is an RTK that has been shown 


to be implicated in the resistance to G12C inhibition by signaling for the production of 


more RAS in the “on” state. The logic here is that if EGFR is shut down, then the 


concentration of RAS(ON) can be kept low enough that the G12C inhibition can properly 


target the RAS(OFF) protein. 


 ‘849+CDK4/6 inhibition: CDK4 and CDK6 are proteins that are downstream of both the 


RAS and PI3K pathways, and are involved in cell division. Overactivity of CDK4/6 has 


been implicated in cancerous growth. The logic of inhibiting both KRASG12C and CDK4/6 


                                                
11 PI3K is short for “phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase” 
12 See Asati, V et al. PI3K/Akt/mTOR and Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signaling pathways inhibitors as anticancer 


agents: Structural and pharmacological perspectives 
13 Jaiswal, BS et al. Combined Targeting of BRAF and CRAF or BRAF and PI3K Effector Pathways Is 


Required for Efficacy in NRAS Mutant Tumors 



https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0223523416300125?via%3Dihub

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0223523416300125?via%3Dihub

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2683562/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2683562/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 23 





is that oncogenic signaling from KRAS and/or PI3K may be manifested in CDK4/6 


overactivation, so shutting down CDK4/6 would be lethal for cancer cells. 


 ‘849+SHP2 inhibition: SHP2 is a protein that regulates the signaling from the RTKs to 


the RAS pathway. The logic of inhibiting SHP2 in combination with KRASG12C is that 


some of the observed resistance mechanisms to G12C have involved feedback-driven 


RTK signaling, and inhibiting SHP2 could interfere with that oncogenic signaling. 





In our view, these trials are a desperate shotgun approach to making MRTX-849 relevant in the 


absence of substantial single-agent efficacy. The inhibition of EGFR, CDK4/6, and SHP2 have 


all been tried as single agents in KRAS-mutant cancers, and all have failed.14 There’s some 


logic in all of the above combinations, but successful combinations in oncology almost always 


involve drugs that have shown efficacy on their own. Combining two drugs that each result in 


low response rates of short duration is the triumph of hope over experience. 





Additionally, all the above candidates to be combined with ‘849 have demonstrated toxicity in 


patients as single agents because they don’t just target mutant-signaling, they target all the 


EGFR/CDK/SHP2 activity, including in non-tumor tissue. ‘849 has not shown very high levels of 


toxicity because it only targets mutant KRAS, but other mutant-targeting therapies – including 


the blockbuster osimertinib, an incredibly effective EGFR inhibitor that targets only mutant 


EGFR – have shown significant toxicities in combination. That could potentially be a function of 


high dosages used by patients on these therapies, which is a feature of ‘849 treatment as well. 


In this context, the higher rate of adverse safety events in the ‘849 trial compared to the ‘510 


trial could put Mirati at a structural disadvantage relative to Amgen in the KRAS inhibitor race. 





But the most significant problem with all of the above combinations goes back to the 


heterogeneity of KRAS-mutant tumors and the complexity of the varying pathway combinations 


used for oncogenic signaling. The Shokat lab – the same group that discovered the binding 


mechanism employed by the multiple G12C inhibitors currently being trialed – conducted a set 


of experiments upon which many of the above combination strategies are based. They found 


that 





Together, our experiments nominate two classes of combination therapies that either 


enhance KRASG12C target engagement (namely, EGFR, FGFR, or SHP2 inhibitors) or 


independently suppress persistent survival pathways (namely, AXL, PI3K, or CDK4/6 


inhibitors)…Our experiments revealed collateral dependencies [i.e., alternative pathway 


nodes on which KRAS-mutant cancers are dependent] upstream of KRASG12C in 


NSCLC…We reveal that the relevant receptors in these signaling networks are cell-


type-specific…We also identified collateral dependencies downstream and parallel to 


                                                
14 For a review that covers EGFR and CDK4/6 inhibition, see Ferrer, I et al. KRAS-Mutant non-small cell 


lung cancer: From biology to therapy. SHP2 inhibition has not been tested in the clinic, but its most 


strident proponent, Revolution Medicines, has presented data on preclinical activity in several forms, and 


has positioned its own SHP2 inhibitor as a combination candidate rather than a single agent candidate. 


See Revolution’s IPO prospectus and the poster and slides recently presented, including a waterfall plot 


with a response rate of 5.5% (1 of 18 patients). 



https://www.lungcancerjournal.info/article/S0169-5002(18)30473-2/fulltext

https://www.lungcancerjournal.info/article/S0169-5002(18)30473-2/fulltext

https://ir.revmed.com/node/6606/html

https://revmed.egnyte.com/dl/wA9GQtOcFZ/A12_The_SHP2_inhibitor_RMC-4630_in_patients_with_KRAS-mutant_non-small_cell_lung_cancer_-_Preliminary_evaluation_of_a_first-in-man_phase_1_clinical_trial.pdf_

https://revmed.egnyte.com/dl/EfA8qT2kPd/RAS_Summit_Vienna_2020_Kelsey.pdf_
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 24 





KRASG12C that were incompletely suppressed by driver oncogene inhibition. [emphasis 


added]15 





In other words, they found that there are lots of other nodes and pathways involved in promoting 


tumor growth in KRASG12C-mutant cancer, and that these can be found upstream, downstream, 


and parallel to the KRAS node. But there’s no way to tell in advance which pathway will be 


used or is being used, or which resistance mechanism is likely to be employed by the 


tumor.16 It’s even possible that tumors are “fluid” in the sense that they can change which 


pathways they depend on to continue proliferating.17 A combination with an EGFR inhibitor 


won’t work for a tumor that develops resistance through other RTKs; a SHP2 inhibitor won’t 


work for a tumor that develops resistance through the PI3K pathway; and a CDK4/6 inhibitor 


won’t work if the RAS or PI3K pathways are operating through the myriad other downstream 


effectors.  





There are no biomarkers that are currently known to reveal any of this critical information. Our 


conversations with various prominent research oncologists suggest that there is a lot of 


research that is ongoing in this area, including using new computational methods with ctDNA 


data, but the field is very early in this process. Until molecular or genetic biomarkers can reveal 


the specific pathways and mechanisms that are active in a patient’s tumor, combination therapy 


will remain a proverbial roll of the dice. 


The attempt to combine MRTX-849 with immune checkpoint inhibition 


will fail 





Immunotherapy has revolutionized the oncology landscape in the last decade. In many kinds of 


cancer, tumor cells successfully neutralize the body’s immune response through the expression 


of PD-L1 (programmed cell death-ligand 1) ligands on the tumor-cell surface. These ligands 


bind to the PD-1 proteins on the surface of T-cells, acting as a brake on their immune activity 


(hence the label “immune checkpoints”). Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) bind to either the 


PD-L1 on the tumor-cell surface or the PD-1 on the T-cell-surface, inhibiting the immune 


checkpoint, and unleashing the body’s immune system against the tumor. No cancer treatment 


is perfect, and while ICIs are incredibly effective in what seems to be a continuously expanding 


list of tumor-types, not everyone responds to immune checkpoint inhibition, and many patients 


                                                
15 Lou, K et al. KRASG12C inhibition produces a driver-limited state revealing collateral dependencies 
16 There are other flaws in the study that have been pointed out to us in our conversations with research 


oncologists. For example, the set of experiments was conducted on only two standard lab models of 


G12C-mutant tumors – one in NSCLC and one in pancreatic cancer – among the tens of available G12C-


mutant models, and both models used are significantly more susceptible to G12C-targeting than real-life 


G12C-mutant tumors in patients. So the suggested combinations will not be as effective in real tumors 


and, as the authors admit, the pathways identified are almost certainly not the only relevant pathways.  
17 In Yuan et al. (see the reference in footnote 3 above), the authors conclude “If the transition from 


the KRAS to the RSK [PI3K/S6K] state is fluid or reversible, a tumor might be able to escape therapies 


that target either state alone.” 



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6871662/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 25 





that respond still end up developing resistance (though the durations of responses tend to be 


relatively long). ICIs are also unsurprisingly associated with autoimmune-like toxicities. 





Despite these drawbacks, ICIs have become the de-facto standard first-line therapy in 


advanced NSCLC. In patients with high levels of PD-L1 expression in their tumors, checkpoint 


inhibition is used as monotherapy, while in patients with low PD-L1 expression, a combination of 


ICIs and chemotherapy is the standard. The combination with chemotherapy came about 


because as monotherapy, ICIs have lower response rates than chemotherapy in advanced 


NSCLC patients with low PD-L1 expression. But in combination with chemotherapy, ICIs result 


in approximately double the overall response rate as chemotherapy.18 Conventional 


chemotherapy significantly enhances the immune response triggered by ICIs, with multiple 


molecular processes identified as the basis for this immune-stimulating activity.19 





Researchers have raced to find other compounds that could synergize with ICIs and potentiate 


their activity (“turning a cold tumor hot”) or even enhance their efficacy in indications where 


they’re already effective. The attempt to combine ‘849 with pembrolizumab, Merck’s blockbuster 


PD-1 inhibitor, is just the latest in a long line of ICI combination efforts. Mirati and Amgen laid 


out the scientific rationale for the G12C-inhibitor/ICI combination in a series of preclinical 


experiments in which their respective compounds were combined with an ICI. The combination 


resulted in deeper and more durable tumor responses than either agent alone, as shown below: 





MRTX-849 Combination with Checkpoint Inhibitor 
 





Source: Mirati Corporate Presentation, January 2020 
 





                                                
18 Langer, CJ et al. Carboplatin and pemetrexed with or without pembrolizumab for advanced, non-


squamous NSCLC: a randomised, phase 2 cohort of the open-label KEYNOTE-021 study 
19 For a review and detailed examples, see Leonetti, A et al. Molecular basis and rationale for combining 


immune checkpoint inhibitors with chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer 



https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6886237/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6886237/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31585395

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31585395
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 26 





The catch is that the mouse tumor model used by both Mirati and Amgen bears zero 


resemblance to KRASG12C-mutant tumors in real human beings. First, note how the mouse 


tumors respond almost completely to MRTX-849. Within 10 days, these tumors seem to 


completely shrink down to close to zero. The human tumors treated with MRTX-849, by 


contrast, have exhibited zero complete responses. It’s also not at all clear, based on Mirati’s 


presentation of the preclinical data, that a checkpoint inhibitor results in any additive or 


synergistic effect compared to ‘849 on its own – there’s little difference between the tumor size 


trajectories of the mice treated with ‘849 and the mice treated with the combination. 





But the most unrealistic element of the preclinical data is strongly related to why a G12C 


inhibitor is extremely unlikely to demonstrate any synergy with an ICI in the clinic. In the above 


diagram, the checkpoint inhibitor basically exhibits no efficacy: the tumor growth in the control 


group is almost indistinguishable from the growth in the mice treated with a checkpoint inhibitor 


(the orange line labeled PD-1 10mg/kg). But in KRAS-mutant NSCLC, checkpoint inhibition is 


exceptionally effective, and perhaps especially in the G12C-mutant variant. The efficacy of ICIs 


in KRAS-mutant NSCLC has been demonstrated repeatedly in retrospective analyses of the 


many trials involving ICIs, and several molecular mechanisms have been hypothesized.20 


KRAS-mutant tumors have also been associated with high levels of PD-L1, which could partly 


explain why they seem so susceptible to ICI therapy.21 In mid-December, Merck disclosed the 


following exploratory data from its KEYNOTE-042 trial, in which advanced-NSCLC patients with 


medium and high levels of PD-L1 expression were treated with pembrolizumab: 





Phase 3 KEYNOTE-042 Data 
 





Source: Merck Press Release, December 12, 2019 
 





                                                
20 For a review of these trials, see Adderly, H et al. KRAS-mutant non-small cell lung cancer: Converging 


small molecules and immune checkpoint inhibition.  
21 See, e.g., Skoulidis, F et al. Co-occurring Genomic Alterations Define Major Subsets of KRAS-Mutant 


Lung Adenocarcinoma with Distinct Biology, Immune Profiles, and Therapeutic Vulnerabilities and Liu, C 


et al. The superior efficacy of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy in KRAS-mutant NSCLC that correlates 


with an inflammatory phenotype and increased immunogenicity, and the references therein. In the original 


Merck clinical trial for pembrolizumab in NSCLC – KEYNOTE-001 – about 80% of patients with 


identifiable KRAS mutations had medium or high levels of PD-L1.  


KEYTRUDA 


Monotherapy
Chemotherapy


KEYTRUDA 


Monotherapy
Chemotherapy


KEYTRUDA 


Monotherapy
Chemotherapy


(N = 30) (N = 39) (N = 12) (N = 17) (N = 127) (N = 105)


OS, median, months (95% CI) 28 (23-NR) 11 (7-25) NR (23-NR) 8 (5-NR) 15 (12-24) 12 (11-18)


OS, Hazard Ratio (95% CI)


ORR, % (95% CI) 56.7% 18.0% 66.7% 23.5% 29.1% 21.0%


PFS, median, months (95% CI) 12 (8-NR) 6 (4-9) 15 (10-NR) 6 (4-8) 6 (4-7) 6 (6-8)


PFS, HR (95% CI)


0.42 (0.22-0.81) 0.28 (0.09-0.86) 0.86 (0.63-1.18)


1.00 (0.75-1.34)0.27 (0.10-0.71)0.51 (0.29-0.87)


With Any KRAS Mutation With KRAS G12C Mutation Without Any KRAS Mutation



https://investors.merck.com/news/press-release-details/2019/Data-from-Exploratory-Analysis-Show-Mercks-KEYTRUDA-pembrolizumab-Improved-Overall-Survival-as-Monotherapy-for-the-First-Line-Treatment-of-Metastatic-Non-Small-Cell-Lung-Cancer-Regardless-of-KRAS-Mutational-Status/default.aspx

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6444074/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6444074/

https://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org/content/5/8/860

https://cancerdiscovery.aacrjournals.org/content/5/8/860

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304383519305245?via%3Dihub

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304383519305245?via%3Dihub

https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1501824
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 27 





Pembrolizumab monotherapy resulted in longer overall survival and progression-free survival, 


lower hazard ratios, and higher response rates in patients with KRAS-mutant tumors than in 


patients with no KRAS mutations. The results for patients with tumors that harbored specifically 


the G12C-variant of KRAS were even better than for patients with other KRAS mutations 


(though this difference was not statistically significant). Even more jarring, and damaging for the 


prospect of an ‘849/ICI combination, Merck also released data from its KEYNOTE-189 trial with 


splits for KRAS mutational status. Comparing the results of the two trials, it’s apparent that in 


KRAS-mutant NSCLC, chemotherapy is not synergistic with pembrolizumab. So even though 


chemotherapy is clearly immuno-stimulating in non-KRAS-mutant tumors in the sense that it 


makes the tumor more vulnerable to ICIs, in KRAS-mutant tumors that’s quite clearly not the 


case. It might even be counterproductive.  





Based on conversations with research oncologists and molecular biologists, the simple 


explanation for this is that KRAS-mutants are already quite immunogenic. ICIs allow for the 


immune system to kill tumor cells so effectively in KRAS-mutants, that the immune-stimulating 


effects of chemotherapy are irrelevant. That’s exactly what we expect with the ‘849/ICI 


combination. The Mirati and Amgen preclinical experiments show that ‘849 and ‘510m 


respectively, altered the tumor-microenvironment in ways that made it susceptible to an ICI, but 


real-life KRAS-mutant tumors are already susceptible to ICIs. A G12C inhibitor is not going to 


change that by much. The preclinical results were an artifact of “turning a cold tumor hot” but 


real KRAS-mutant NSCLC tumors are already scorching. 





Beyond the underlying cancer-killing mechanisms, there’s another good reason to expect that 


the G12C inhibitors will fail to synergize with ICIs: the only examples of ICI combinations that 


have shown effective synergy have been in situations where the second drug is already 


effective as a single agent. Chemotherapy is the obvious example, but there are several others, 


including triplet therapy in BRAF-mutant melanoma, the combination of pembrolizumab and 


RTK-inhibitor axitinib in metastatic renal cell carcinoma, and even combinations of ICI 


modalities.22 In every single case, the drug that’s successfully combined with the ICI has 


impressive single-agent efficacy on its own, which is not the case for ‘849 or ‘510. The rationale 


for combining ‘849 with pembrolizumab basically comes down to the ability to shrink a 


homogeneous tumor model in a mouse. It’s a tenuous proposition at best. 





                                                
22 For data on triplet therapy in melanoma, including the activity of the combination of dabrafenib and 


trametinib in the absence of pembrolizumab, see Ascierto PA et al. Dabrafenib, trametinib and 


pembrolizumab or placebo in BRAF-mutant melanoma. For data on the combination of axitinib and 


pembrolizumab, see Rassy, E et al Tyrosine kinase inhibitors and immunotherapy combinations in renal 


cell carcinoma. For data on the combination of Nivolumab, an ICI that targets PD-1, and ipilimumab, an 


ICI that targets CTLA-4, see Larkin, J et al. Five-Year Survival with Combined Nivolumab and Ipilimumab 


in Advanced Melanoma. 



https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923753420345506

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-019-0448-9

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-019-0448-9

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7081462/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7081462/

https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1910836

https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1910836
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 28 





V. Sitravatinib is a Monotherapy Failure being Repurposed 


into a Combination Failure 





Sitravatinib is a “dirty TKI” (tyrosine kinase inhibitor) in the parlance of the oncology field. In 


other words, it doesn’t target one particular RTK, but rather, it targets a few receptor tyrosine 


kinases at once. RTKs are cell-surface receptors for all manner of different molecules that need 


to make their way through the cell membrane and into the cell. As with KRAS inhibition, the goal 


of inhibiting these RTKs is to stop oncogenic signaling at the root of tumor growth. At least that 


was Mirati’s original rationale for sitravatinib.  





From the start, though, the data on sitravatinib as a single-agent treatment in advanced cancer 


patients was weak and even contradictory. In a Phase 1 trial in which 52 patients enrolled, 


treatment was discontinued in 31 (60%) of them, 23 of which discontinued due to disease 


progression. Of 32 evaluable patients, Mirati only registered 2 partial responses. It seems like 


those responses were from patients in the 150mg-dose arm of the trial, but the poster that Mirati 


presented at ASCO in 2016 leaves the reader confused as to whether there were 4 or 10 


patients in that arm of the trial. That was the last waterfall plot Mirati ever showed for sitravatinib 


as monotherapy in NSCLC. The only significant data update was through a press release in 


early January, 2017, in which Mirati announced that of 4 evaluable NSCLC patients in its 


sitravatinib Phase 1b trial, 2 demonstrated a partial response (1 confirmed) and the other two 


demonstrated stable disease. Mirati announced an equity offering simultaneously. That was the 


last meaningful data update on single-agent sitravatinib in NSCLC.  





Single-agent Phase 1/1b data on sitravatinib in renal cell carcinoma patients was presented by 


Mirati at ASCO in 2018. Of 29 enrolled patients, only 20 “had sufficient time on…assessments 


for inclusion,” which, based on the swimmer curve was somewhere on the order of 4 weeks. Of 


those 20 patients, 4 partial responses were recorded, and the majority of patients were off the 


study before the 6-month mark. The clinical trial is no longer listed on Mirati’s website, so we 


assume that Mirati just gave up.  





The only other single-agent data that Mirati has released for sitravatinib is for patients with a 


rare CBL mutation that has been theorized as a cause of solid-tumor cancers. At ESMO in 


2018, Mirati showed a partial response in 2 of 8 evaluable patients, but most patients 


demonstrated relatively rapid disease progression, and only 1 patient had remained on the 


study at data cutoff. In Mirati’s recently released 10-K for 2019, all mention of sitravatinib as a 


single agent drug candidate was dropped.  





In mid-2017, with single-agent trials not going anywhere, Mirati began to repurpose sitravatinib 


as an “immuno-oncology agent.” Instead of inhibiting faulty RTK signaling responsible for driving 


tumor growth (which failed), sitravatinib would inhibit the same exact RTKs, but for a different 


reason: these same RTKs – coincidentally – happen to suppress immune activity that could 



https://www.mirati.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/20160603_A-First-in-Human-Phase-1-Study-of-Receptor-Tyrosine-Kinase-RTK-Inhibitor-MGCD516-in-Patients-with-Advanced-Solid-Tumors.pdf

https://ir.mirati.com/news-releases/news-details/2017/Mirati-Therapeutics-Provides-Update-On-Glesatinib-And-Sitravatinib-Clinical-Trials-And-Pipeline-Programs/default.aspx

http://www.mirati.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/20180601_AB_4568_ASCO2018_516-001web.pdf

https://www.mirati.com/clinical-mirati-sponsored/

https://www.mirati.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/20180920_ESMO-2018-408O-Sitravatinib-demonstrates-activity-in-patients-with-novel-genetic-alterations-that-inactivate-CBL.-Dr-Bazhenova_20Sep2018.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 29 





otherwise be harnessed by ICIs to work against the tumor. Blocking these RTKs in patients that 


have progressed on immune checkpoint inhibitors could potentially restore the efficacy of 


checkpoint inhibition. 





To test this hypothesis, Mirati began a Phase 2 trial enrolling patients “whose most recent 


treatment must have included a checkpoint inhibitor with the result of progression of disease on 


or after treatment.” These patients would be treated with a combination of sitravatinib and 


nivolumab, an immune checkpoint inhibitor sold by Bristol-Myers Squibb. The latest swimmer 


and waterfall plots disclosed by Mirati are displayed below: 





Sitravatinib data in 2L NSCLC ESMO 2018 (data cutoff 8/27/2018) 
 








Source: Mirati presentation at ESMO 2018 (September 21st, 2018, data cutoff is 8/27/2018) 
 


 



https://www.mirati.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/20180921_ESMO-2018-MRTX-500-Stage-2-Enrollment-Complete-Sitravatinib-in-Combination-with-Nivolumab-in-NSCLC_21Sep2018.pdf
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 30 





It’s hard to know where to begin with this data: 





 The confirmed response rate was a very weak 20% (11 of 56 patients). This is an 


important data point because in the current Phase 3 that Mirati is running, the sitravatinib 


and nivolumab combination is going up against docetaxel in ICI-refractory patients. 


Mirati’s contention is that while a 20% response rate isn’t great, it’s better than the 


response rate seen in second-line patients treated with docetaxel, which Mirati pegs at 


either 7-11% or 9-13% (Mirati uses different ranges in different investor presentations). 


Remarkably, the sources Mirati draws upon for this data are a) other biotech companies’ 


corporate presentations23 or b) clinical literature that measures docetaxel responses in 


patients who were previously treated with platinum doublet chemotherapy. The latter is 


deeply misleading, as it’s widely understood that docetaxel in ICI-refractory patients 


results in significantly higher response rates than in chemo-refractory patients. These 


studies surveying this are retrospective, but they peg the response rate to docetaxel in 


ICI-refractory patients in the 25-40% range, which is significantly better than what Mirati 


is claiming for sitravatinib.24 The comparisons made by Mirati are useless at best and 


disingenuous at worst. 





 In the corporate presentations Mirati has published since the 2018 presentation of the 


above plots, the company has claimed that based on this data, the Kaplan-Meier 


estimate for median duration of response was 9.2 months, the estimate for progression-


free survival (PFS) was 6.8 months, and the estimate for overall survival (OS) was 15.1 


months. It’s difficult to take these estimates seriously. The KM-estimated DOR of 9.2 


months comes from data in 11 patients that demonstrated partial responses, including 7 


patients that were on the study for 3 months or less. The “estimate” has such a wide 


degree of error, that Mirati didn’t bother attaching a confidence interval to it. Similarly, 


the OS estimate of 15.1 months is hardly believable: 84% (47/56 patients) of evaluable 


patients hadn’t yet made it to 6 months, and 53% of those (25/47) were no longer on the 


study at all. Mirati also failed to explain why over half of patients dropped out: clearly, 


some suffered disease progression, but it looks like 23 patients that had responded or 


had stable disease also dropped out, and some of them quite early on.  





                                                
23 In an investor presentation that’s dated “November, 2018” and no longer on Mirati’s website, the 


company suggests that the ORR for Docetaxel in “checkpoint refractory patients” is 7-11%, and 


references a “Syndax corporate presentation” in the footnotes. 
24 See, e.g., Leger, PD et al. Response to salvage chemotherapy following exposure to immune 


checkpoint inhibitors in patients with non-small cell lung cancer or Schvartsman, G et al. Response rates 


to single-agent chemotherapy after exposure to immune checkpoint inhibitors in advanced NSCLC. For a 


discussion of the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon, see Hadash-Bengad, R et al. 


Immunotherapy Potentiates the Effect of Chemotherapy in Metastatic Melanoma—A Retrospective Study 



https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2017.35.15_suppl.9084

https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2017.35.15_suppl.9084

https://www.lungcancerjournal.info/article/S0169-5002(17)30433-6/abstract

https://www.lungcancerjournal.info/article/S0169-5002(17)30433-6/abstract

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7033746/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 31 





Besides the non-credible end-point estimates – none of which have been updated in about two 


years – and the completely misinformative comparisons to docetaxel, the swimmer and waterfall 


plots seem to point to a very sloppy trial: 


 Two patients with disease progression remained on the trial, contrary to oncologic 


practice. 


 One patient saw an unconfirmed response at 12 weeks even though they dropped out of 


the trial at about 8 weeks. Another unconfirmed response, labeled as “will not be 


confirmed” was still on the study as of data cutoff. Generally, an inability to confirm a 


response is a function of disease progression, which should be labeled as such. 


 Per the trial protocol, disease assessment scans were to be made every 8 weeks, but at 


least two responders – significant given the low response rate – weren’t scanned until 


28-30 weeks. 


 30 of 56 patients were no longer on the study, but of those, only 6 demonstrated disease 


progression. There’s no word on what happened to the other 24 patients. Mirati does 


disclose that 12 patients discontinued study treatment due to toxicity, but that’s from the 


pool of 70 enrolled patients rather than the 56 patients plotted on the graphs. Mirati also 


disclosed that there were 65 evaluable patients so it’s not clear only 56 patients were 


plotted.  





Potentially even more suspicious than any of the above is the fact that Mirati has never updated 


this information since the 2018 ESMO conference. If those fragile Kaplan-Meier estimates could 


have been updated with solid data, we expect that Mirati would have released that by now. 


Instead, the company has diverted investor attention to a Phase 3 trial in which ICI-refractory 


patients will be given either docetaxel or the sitravatinib+nivolumab combination. We think the 


only thing to come out of this trial will be quality prospective data on the efficacy of docetaxel in 


ICI-refractory patients. Mirati, too, doesn’t seem very confident. The company initially designed 


the trial to report an interim analysis at the end of 2020 in which superior outcomes on an ORR 


endpoint would serve as the basis for accelerated approval. In January, the company dropped 


that interim target and renamed its year-end 2021 “primary analysis” of overall survival as an 


“interim analysis with potential for full approval.” We believe that’s just posturing – any 


accelerated approval would anyway have been contingent on the development of the data. The 


reason they dropped the interim data readout is probably because they didn’t think it would be 


very flattering. Finally, in a recent meeting with analysts from Oppenheimer, Mirati suggested 


that sitravatinib may be impacted by a COVID-19-related reduced patient enrollment in its 


Phase 3 trial.25 Somehow, Mirati also announced that they mitigated that risk with the ‘849 trial.  





We think that the combination of sitravatinib with an ICI is a charade, an attempt to salvage a 


drug that’s proven mostly worthless as a single agent. The ex-post rationalization of the 


immuno-restorative effect of a multi-kinase inhibitor is a valiant effort, but sitravatinib is the latest 


in a long list of multi-kinase inhibitors, and if the logic of resuscitating the response to ICIs – 


                                                
25 March 30th note from Oppenheimer: “Key Takeaways from Discussion with Management”
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 32 





literally reversing resistance to immune checkpoint inhibition – was even remotely compelling, it 


would have gained traction long ago. We expect that sitravatinib will soon join glesatinib and 


mocetinostat – two other compounds that Mirati has touted over the years but which, “in light of 


superior investment opportunities,” were quietly dropped. In the context of all the noise being 


made in the KRAS space, sitravatinib looks like it will soon follow.  





VI. Conclusion 





Mirati first catapulted to the status of a billion-dollar biotech on the back of excitement over 


sitravatinib, which has largely turned out to be a mirage: almost all prospect of its single agent 


potential has evaporated, and the combination with checkpoint inhibition in checkpoint-refractory 


patients is an attempt that looks more like a diversion than a legitimate therapeutic candidate 


with a scientific rationale. 





Most of Mirati’s $4.6bn valuation now is tied to MRTX-849, a KRASG12C inhibitor with a “$7 


billion market opportunity” according to the company. But the total addressable market (TAM) 


numbers that Mirati is throwing around are laughable. For one, they assume a patient 


population that includes first line treatment. The only way ‘849 will come close to first line 


treatment is if it somehow gets approved in combination with checkpoint inhibition, and as we’ve 


explained in detail, the odds of that happening are close to zero. Mirati’s absurd TAM 


proclamation also assumes a duration of treatment that’s about 9 months, which is delusional 


considering that even in patients that respond to ‘849 treatment, the duration of response is just 


a few months. The TAM for second line treatment in KRASG12C-mutant NSCLC and CRC is, at 


best, $600-800 million.  





Even if MRTX-849 gets approved for this indication in the far future (after a real Phase 3 trial), 


its market share is unlikely to be very high. AMG-510 will be first to market and have Amgen’s 


marketing muscle behind it, while J&J and Lily also have their own G12C inhibitors in the clinic. 


Meanwhile, KRAS inhibitors with more carefully considered MOAs have also entered the clinic. 


These include Boehringer-Ingelheim’s BI-1701963, which blocks the activation of KRAS by 


RTKs, thus accounting for some of the adaptive resistance mechanisms that challenge G12C 


inhibitors like ‘849. In the unlikely event that KRAS inhibitors are found to durably improve 


patient outcomes, approaches like BI’s, and Revolution’s RAS(ON) compounds, are likely to win 


out over those of Mirati’s, as their activity encompasses multiple nodes in the KRAS-mutant 


molecular pathways in a single compound. Because of their more extensive activity, these 


approaches also lend themselves to more effective combination with other targeted therapies. 


As one research oncologist told us, the more broadly a drug can attack the oncogenic 


pathways, the more likely it is to succeed, and ‘849 is as narrowly targeted as can be. 





Beyond ‘849, there’s not much else in Mirati’s pipeline. The company claims that they have a 


program that addresses a different KRAS mutation, G12D. But they also said that they’d have a 



https://www.inoncology.com/compounds/investigational/sos1kras-inhibitor
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 33 





lead candidate molecule identified in the fourth quarter of 2019, and all we’ve heard from them 


since is that they just started IND-enabling studies. Considering that the clinical and preclinical 


literature have been utterly devoid of a G12D inhibition mechanism, and that it took seven years 


to get from a G12C inhibition mechanism to an actual drug candidate, we’re skeptical. 





Mirati’s opportunity set is therefore best described as an extremely low-percentage chance of 


attaining a low-percentage share of a $600-800 million market circa 2025. What’s that worth 


right now? A small fraction of $4.6 billion. Investors who have gambled on the M&A prospects of 


what amounts to a single dead-end compound will soon find out they’re on the wrong path.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 34 





Full Legal Disclaimer  





As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates 


(collectively "Kerrisdale") have short positions in the stock of Mirati Therapeutics, Inc. (“MRTX”). 


In addition, others that contributed research to this report and others that we have shared our 


research with (collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise may have short positions in 


the stock of MRTX. The Authors stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock 


decreases. Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the 


company covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of Kerrisdale. The 


Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be accurate and 


reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether 


express or implied. The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, 


timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results obtained from 


its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the Authors do not 


undertake to update or supplement this report or any information contained herein. This report is 


not a recommendation to short the shares of any company, including MRTX, and is only a 


discussion of why Kerrisdale is short MRTX. 





This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 


confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted 


as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 


included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing 


conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change. 


The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded 


as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 





Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, 


inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated 


fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation 


of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a 


security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 





This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 


any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the 


Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to 


buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the 


securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all 


information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their 


affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed 


in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors 


should assume that the Authors are short shares of MRTX and stand to potentially realize gains 


in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the 


original publication date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to 


inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 35 





activities. In addition, the Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other 


companies, securities, or commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this 


report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the 


Authors’ operations and their affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is 


generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment 


ideas and the performance of recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a 


potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents. 





The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-


looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical 


fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions 


or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can 


be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other 


factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent 


due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all 


securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone 


judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
