Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block 





Page  
	


2	


GSX: Small Classes, Big Lies 
 


 
On May 18th, we published our research on GSX in which we concluded that at least 70% of 
GSX’s purported users are fraudulent, and quite likely the real percentage of fake users is over 
80%.  We detailed three behaviors we were highly confident evidenced widespread bot usage: 
“Precise Joiners”, “GSX IP Joiners”, and “Burst Joiners”.  A fourth pattern “Early Joiners” is 
highly likely indicative of bots.  A former GSX manager corroborated our conclusions, and even 
detailed how GSX’s bot operations work.1 
 
GSX’s responses since consist largely of drivel, designed to obfuscate and lie.  We maintain our 
view that GSX is a massive fraud – i.e., it is a nearly empty box.  Making GSX’s denials even 
more farcical is that it openly recruits engineers to help it run bot farms, which we show in this 
report. 
 
 
GSX Gives the Finger to its Investors 
 
GSX actually published two responses (of which we are aware) to our report.  The first was a 
non-substantive press release in English.2  GSX however released a more detailed response in 
Chinese through WeChat, which we suspect very few U.S. investors use.3,4  These responses 
clearly seem intended to deceive.   
 
GSX’s WeChat response contains techno-drivel, and appears intended to appear authoritative 
when it includes the below screen shot of GSX’s purported queries to analyze Precise Joiners 
and Burst Joiners.  However, the screenshot prima facie shows GSX is obfuscating its 
presentation.  It omits three important fields: “agent_id”, “agent_policy”, and the crucial 
“timestamp”.  The timestamp field is a significant omission that prevents further analysis based 
on when GSX’s class switch message was sent.  Therefore, this is not usable data.  Investors 
need look no further to know GSX is screwing with them. 





																																																													
1 See Muddy Waters’ May 18, 2020 report, pp. 10-13. 
2 https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/gsx-refutes-muddy-waters-researchs-allegations-301061639.html 
3 WeChat is primarily used by Chinese speaking users.  It is largely a chat and news forum and a site for unvetted 
blogs, posts, news, links.  The selection for this channel for the more detailed reply appears intended to help 
Chairman Larry Chen protect his personal reputation in China, rather than provide more or useful information to 
international investors and shareholders.  The choice of WeChat as the site to release additional details seems to 
contradict the claim by management in the official response that “GSX is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance, as well as transparent and timely disclosure…” 
4 https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/8ekeJKN2n8tPXWwP9jxmqg
Page  
	


3	


 
 
 
Response to GSX IP Joiners 
 
GSX’s response to the GSX IP Joiner analysis strikes us as a bald face lie.   
 
In our report, we discussed how we had analyzed 463,217 sign in records for 54,065 unique 
users.  We were able to identify GSX employees (teachers and tutors) in the data, based on how 
GSX coded them.  What we then found was damning – 28.2% of purported students shared an IP 
address at one point with GSX tutors or teachers.  This amounted to 15,239 purported students.  
With no physical school or learning center locations, we believe this is convincing evidence of 
significant bot usage. 
 
GSX responded by purportedly querying its entire database to find overlaps between GSX 
teacher / tutor IPs and students.  In the press release, GSX claimed that only 0.78% of students 
have an overlapping IP.  The WeChat response shows these purported query results, with 43,843 
overlapping IPs.   
 


 
 
 
This purported query fails our laugh test.  Our data set of 165,111 total distinct IP addresses was 
only 2.9% of GSX’s claimed query data set, yet it yielded 34.8% of GSX purported overlap 
number.  We cannot remotely believe GSX’s claim.
Page  
	


4	


 
Response to Precise and Burst Joiners 
 
In our report, we explained that 10.6% of users joined on the same second, the same day of the 
week, but on different weeks.  We analogized that phenomenon to a weekly flight between two 
cities touching down at exactly the same second on two occasions.  We also explained a common 
phenomenon (Burst Joiners) in which large groups of users (e.g., 20 or 30) join within the same 
second.  We excluded bursts that occurred within five minutes before to five minutes after the 
start of classes.   
 
GSX’s response to these joining patters is inadequate.  It claimed that both phenomena are 
caused by switching of small class groups led by tutors over to the large class.  However, this 
does not explain the Burst Joiner phenomenon because we excluded bursts within five minutes 
on either side of the start of class.  (Recall that GSX omitted the timestamp from the screenshot 
above where GSX purported to show the switching is based on this signal.)   
 
GSX’s claim that switching from the small classes to the large explains Precise Joiners is also 
inadequate.  In the WeChat response, GSX stated that if a tutor has not switched the small class 
over by the start time of the large class, the system will automatically perform the switch.  
However, only 5,742 unique users were Precise Joiners, which was 10.6% of the sample.5  GSX 
states that such small class to large class switches are “typical”, and that there is an automatic 
switch for tutors that fail to switch by the class start time.  If that were the case, then we would 
expect to find far more than 10.6% of the sample being Precise Joiners.  This explanation again 
falls short in explaining an observed phenomenon.   
 
 
GSX Openly Recruits for Bot Operators 
 
GSX’s use of bots is so pervasive that it even openly recruits for engineers to develop and 
maintain its bot army.  The images below are of recent job postings.  The first is for a GSX 
“server room operation and maintenance engineer.”  This post reveals specific details regarding 
GSX’s operations, which is likely the reason it was taken down.  
 
This post was picked up by a user of China’s Snowball Finance (雪球) who on May 6th, posted 
the screenshot and asked, “do you understand what this is for?”6 


																																																													
5 This excludes the users who were linked to Precise Joiners by IP address or joining at the same second. 
6 https://xueqiu.com/5346637144/148620489 (underlines added)
Page  
	


5	


 
 
Xp and TaiChi are ideal for the customized development and operation of complex and secretive 
bot networks.   
 


- We believe “Xp” refers to Xposed, a set of tools that allows an individual to modify an 
Android phone or perform tasks on it that it normally cannot when the phone is received 
out of the box from the manufacturer.7  When a hacker "jailbreaks" or "roots" a phone, he 
or she typically wants to install customized software.  
 


- TaiChi:8  According to its website, TaiChi supports a variety of Xposed modules enabling 
functions like a “fake device”, “fake location”, and has the added feature of being “hard 
to detect.” 


 
We found it mildly surprising that considering all the news on GSX and bots, GSX job posts for 
engineers experienced in the operation and maintenance of large-scale bot networks have not all 
been taken down.  However, because GSX appears so dependent on its bot network to support its 
fake business, it likely has little choice but to continue recruiting.   
 


																																																													
7https://repo.xposed.info/module/de.robv.android.xposed.installer 
8https://taichi.cool/module/, https://taichi.cool/doc/ 


Do you understand what this is for? 
 
 
Server Room Operations & Maintenance Engineer 
 
GSX, Server Room Operations & Maintenance 
Supervisor 
 
Performance Bonus:   
1-4 mos. based on end of yr. salary, varies 
 
Duties: 
Responsible for maintaining and operating 
company’s sever rooms. 
 
1.  Resolving problems occurring with cell phone 
equipment in the server room. 
 
2.  Cell phone bot network equipment, install all 
types of framework software like Xp and TaiChi, 
etc. 
 
3.  Huawei servers maintenance and operations.
Page  
	


6	


Another recent related job post from April 29, 2020 is below.9  This job post is also seeking cell 
phone engineers to be responsible for “rooting” or “jail breaking” cell phones, installing new 
software, and creating bots or fake users.10   
 


 
 
These job posts also list as one of the top duties of this cell phone engineer the need to be able to 
set up WeChat accounts and initiate messages.  On the surface, this seems ridiculous as nearly all 
Chinese users with a smart phone know how to do this, even without an engineering background.  
However, the problem of not just fake students but also fake users in GSX’s WeChat groups has 
been reported by participants.  These WeChat groups are formed by the tutor after a class sign up 
and are intended to engage the family.  As with GSX’s fake students and fake registrations, it 
seems management felt compelled to deal with the problem of shortages of real family members 
in the parent groups through its default SOP; therefore, it called on its robot army and engineers 
to fill the void.   
 
We expect management will wrack its brain to find another excuse about why it is hiring 
engineers to run its internal bot network.  We thought we would help.  Management or IR, please 
feel free to cut and paste the reply below. 


																																																													
9 https://www.zhipin.com/job_detail/19bacff023f680b71Hd52Ni_FFM~.html?sid=seo_aladingb,  
https:/www.jobui.com/job/158236612/ Note, the two posts are linked. 
10 Bots and fake users are called “brushing” (刷) in Chinese, this can be thought of as a kind of automatic swiping 
function in an app, with the result that purchases, reviews, likes, comments or other such fake activities are created. 


“Muddy Waters does not understand our business or its operating environment.  Because bots 
and fake users are now so prevalent throughout the internet environment in China, we hire and 
train specialists in bot operations as a matter of quality control.  We must build and run these 
large-scale bot networks internally against our own system to make sure we can effectively 
block them.  We do this to maintain the integrity of the livestreaming classroom and learning 
environment and provide a safe, “bot free” space where students can learn.”
