Applied Therapeutics 
(APLT)
Come take a spin on the Applied Therapeutics 
Wheel of Red Flags TM
Summary


2


• Applied Therapeutics, Inc. (APLT) is a recent biotech IPO (March 2019) that has
seen its stock run from $10 per share to over $40 on the back of ‘positive’ Phase 2
data for their lead program in galactosemia.


• The Company was founded in January 2016 and to us everything about it looks
and feels hastily put together. To us, the lines between oversight and
misdirection are blurred.


• We have found so many inconsistencies, errors and incorrect information
when analyzing APLT that we almost don’t know where to begin. It remind us of
the classic child’s toy See ‘N Say: you know, the one where you pull the lever, an
arrow spins and lands on a random farm animal? Except in the case of Applied
Therapeutics, replace the farm animal with a critical aspect of their business.
And each time it lands, instead of a farm animal sound you get a major red flag.


• We believe that Applied Therapeutics’ stock is wildly overvalued and that its
prospects for commercial success of any kind are dim.


Shall We Take a Spin?



https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00IVJK8Y0/ref=dp_cerb_1
3


Introducing the 
Applied 
Therapeutics Wheel 
of Red Flags TM


No matter where 
the arrow lands, 


investors lose!


A
p


p
li


e
d


 T
h


e
ra


p
e


u
ti


cs
 


W
h


e
e


l 
o


f 
R


e
d


 F
la


g
s 


T
M
4


Spin 1:  Clinical Trial 
Integrity
Clinical Trial 
Integrity Issues


5


• Applied Therapeutics’ lead program is AT-007 for a rare genetic disease known as
Galactosemia. These patients cannot process the sugar galactose normally and
must avoid foods such as dairy products.


• Management has been very bullish on the Phase 2 clinical trial data generated to
date and even more bullish on how rapidly the Company will be able to
commercialize AT-007 on the back of said data.


• In our opinion, the Company is doing more than just leveraging a permissive
FDA—we think they are cutting corners.


Issue 1: The current trial size is substantially smaller than originally planned. This,
for a disease the Company claims has thousands of sufferers.


Posting on Clinicaltrials.gov (not updated since original October 2019 filing):



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04117711?term=at-007&draw=2&rank=1
Clinical Trial 
Integrity Issues


6


What was reported instead (from latest Company presentation):


…Four patients per dose cohort (plus two placebo) instead of six (plus two placebo).
As we will see later, this decrease is relevant when the Company is touting each and
every individual data point.


Issue 2: The Company inexplicably allowed a participant to be in the study TWICE.
Once in the placebo group and once in the 20 mg/kg group.


“CROSSED OVER” to ACTIVE?!?
Clinical Trial 
Integrity Issues


7


Issue 3: The patient that was enrolled in both the placebo and the 20 mg/kg dose
cohort was the best responder in the entire clinical trial during their “encore
performance” (lower on the graph is ‘better’):


One should not enroll the same patient twice in a clinical trial. The entire purpose of
randomization is to eliminate patient specific variability. This patient must have
known they were originally enrolled in the placebo arm otherwise they would have
continued in an open-label extension. Moreover, if most of the change in plasma
galactitol is due to dietary modifications made by the patient diet then re-enrolling
them can easily skew the results. That is what appears to have happened here as
this patient was the single best responder in the trial his second time through.
Clinical Trial 
Integrity Issues


8


Issue 4: The patient who participated in the trial twice has a single (original)
baseline plasma level of galactitol (the key biomarker being measured in the study):


Why does this matter? Even the Company will tell you placebo patients had a
substantial drop in plasma galactitol. At the very least patient 101 should have had
a second baseline measurement at the time of the cross over to correct for the drop
they experienced in the first trial.
Clinical Trial 
Integrity Issues


9


Here’s what you want to see (if you are ok with breaking almost every clinical
trial rule in the book to begin with by letting a patient cross over in a non-cross
over trial):


Makes sense, right? Well, here is what you got:


Baseline Galactitol


Reduced Galactitol during placebo trial


New Baseline


Reduced Galactitol during active trial


Change in Galactitol for first 
enrollment


Change in Galactitol 
for second enrollment


Baseline Galactitol


Reduced Galactitol during placebo trial


Reduced Galactitol during active trial


Change in 
Galactitol for 
first 
enrollment


Change in 
Galactitol 
for second trial


The ‘Crossover Patient’ is unacceptably poor clinical trial conduct.  If there are 
so few patients that they must be recycled for a 30(ish) day trial is there really 
a commercial opportunity to be had?


Wash out period
Clinical Trial 
Integrity Issues


10


Issue 5: The Company refuses to release urine galactitol data from the AT-007 study
and instead provides only plasma galactitol levels. They admit that urine is the
established way of measuring galactitol levels. They also go so far as to say there
was a ‘correlation’ between the urine and plasma levels in the study but do not
elaborate further. From the May 18, 2020 UBS Conference presentation by APLT
management (emphasis ours):


More annoying to take a urine sample than draw blood? Nonsense. Their ability to
state there is a correlation means they have the urine galactitol data and refuse
to report it. DOYOU THINK THEY ARE HIDING WONDERFUL DATA FROMYOU?


WHERE IS THE URINE GALACTITOL DATA FROM THE CLINICAL STUDY? Let
investors determine if the claimed treatment effect is real.


“… Urine levels is what previously was done in the field… this is what happened more often in the 
literature and so we felt that it would be important to measure that in our clinical study. It’s much 
more accurate to look at galactitol levels in the blood but we did not know that before we did the 
experiments and saw that this was the case. We did look at galactitol levels in blood and in urine. 
Levels of galactitol both in blood and in urine do correlate, it’s just little bit technically more 
difficult to look in urine… it’s more annoying than taking the blood sample, so we did it, we 
thought it would be important to have it … they do correlate.. but I think from this moment on we 
should focus on galactitol in the blood because we saw that the accuracy was just so much 
greater...”
Clinical Trial 
Integrity Issues


11


Issue 6: Beyond the ‘urine is more difficult’ rhetoric, the Company also claims that
they can’t get CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) from galactosemia patients in the study.
These CSF samples would confirm that their product is indeed penetrating the brain
and provide evidence that the levels of galactitol in the brain are lower on drug. The
company collected CSF from 40 healthy volunteers in the study. LOOK HOW
FREQUENTLY THEY ARE DRAWING BLOOD ON THE GALACTOSEMIA PATIENTS
(red arrows):


Spare us the ‘urine is difficult’ and ‘CSF is impossible’. The Company is providing
data solely on plasma galactitol…which just so happens to be measured using an
assay that APLT designed themselves (Source: January 8, 2020 call on Phase 2).
12


Spin 2:  
Pharmacology
13


Spin 2:  
Pharmacology


• Applied Therapeutics’ lead compound AT-007 looks pretty good on paper. Given
the well-established issues with the drug class, we would say that the drug looks
a little TOO good. Here is how the Company describes their oral ‘CNS penetrant’
aldose reductase inhibitor:


Herein we present some issues related to AT-007’s purported pharmacology:


Issue 1: For a drug that is allegedly picomolar potent, the company feels the need
to achieve blood levels that are ~4-MILLION FOLD HIGHER at the 20mg dose. At 40
mg/kg patients are consuming almost 3 GRAMS of drug per day! Yet they resort to
picking (non placebo-corrected) ‘maximum’ reductions chosen from multiple data
points over multiple days to declare victory. If AT-007 is as potent as the Company
says, there is no need to dose this high.
14


Spin 2:  
Pharmacology


Issue 2: The target (aldose reductase) is an intracellular enzyme and galactitol,
once produced, is stuck inside the cell. Because galactitol is an intracellular
compound, its reduction in plasma is not a proxy on its levels in brain. The galactitol
in brain is produced locally by the neurons and thus showing reduction in plasma is
not enough. The drug needs to get into the neurons in order to reduce the galactitol
locally.


The low levels of brain penetration (~0.05% of plasma concentration) is probably
explained by the drug’s chemical properties. AT-007 is a carboxylic acid which has a
very low penetration through membranes. At physiological pH, the drug will
predominantly exist as a charged chemical species that will not cross lipid
membranes rapidly.


It has a very similar structure to Zopolrestat and other early AR inhibitors,
suggesting it is strongly bound to plasma proteins (>99%), which means that only a
very small proportion of AT-007 is available free in the plasma for AR inhibition or
for penetrating the BBB.



https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18220710/
15


Spin 2:  
Pharmacology


Issue 3: The compound appears to break the laws of thermodynamics.


The Company claims AT-007 has a highly active AR inhibitor as a result of chemical
modifications which enable AT-007 to create a covalent disulfide bond.


We simply do not know what chemical mechanism would allow a thiophene
sulfur—connected to two carbons—to produce a covalent bond with a thiol.
Negative 3 is not an oxidation state of sulfur but may be fair value for APLT
shares.
16


Spin 2:  
Pharmacology


Issue 4: The Company claims their AT-007 compound is ‘brain penetrant’. However, the
class of drugs it belongs to has poor CNS penetration (approx. 0.05% in humans and
approx. 1-2% in rats).


Based on the graphs below provided by APLT in their April 2020 ‘Trial Results’
presentation, the concentration of AT-007 in brain is >2,000 fold less than in plasma,
which is evident from the graphs below. At 20mg/kg the maximum concentration of AT-
007 in plasma is ~40,000 ng/ml and in brain ~17 ng/ml, which is a difference of 2,350X.


AT-007 is an inhibitor of Aldose Reductase and its activity is characterized by its IC50.
There should be a clear correlation between the concentration of the drug in the
relevant organ and inhibition of the enzyme. If a drug concentration of ~40,000 ng/ml
inhibits the enzyme to reduce galactitol by ~30-35% (our generous estimates when
placebo correcting APLT’s data), with 2,350X less concentration in brain (~17 ng/ml)
the inhibition and reduction should be negligible.



https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/9806959/
17


Spin 3:  Data 
Integrity
Data Integrity 
Issues


18


Issue 1: The Company has presented clinical data that is flat out WRONG. Whether
by negligence or deception (or both) we don’t think it matters much. This is not the
behavior one expects of a Company with a nearly $1 billion market capitalization.


From the Company’s April 2020 data presentation (found here) on Slide 29:


Looks to be data from three different cohorts (placebo, 5 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg on two
separate time points (Days 12 and 32). Right?



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1697532/000110465920049003/tm2016464d1_ex99-2.htm
Data Integrity 
Issues


19


WRONG…Let’s take a closer look at the gray (placebo) lines. Notice anything
weird?


When we overlay the two charts we see that the placebo data is IDENTICAL
(including ERROR BARS) on both time points:


Note that the 5 mg/kg and
20 mg/kg data has separate
lines (blue and orange,
respectively but the placebo
group is a SINGLE LINE
WITH IDENTICAL DATA
ACROSSTWOTIME POINTS
Data Integrity 
Issues


20


And before you say ‘well maybe that was just an accident’ they do the EXACT
SAME THING ON SLIDE 30 with Galactose measurements!


When you overlay the two graphs you see that the Placebo cohort data is (again)
IDENTICAL across the two time points:


Again, note that the 5
mg/kg and 20 mg/kg data
has separate lines (blue and
orange, respectively but the
placebo group is a SINGLE
LINE WITH IDENTICAL
DATA ACROSS TWO TIME
POINTS
Data Integrity 
Issues


21


A quick summary on the placebo data being identical across *multiple time
points* in *multiple analytes*:


• The probability that every data point in the d12 and day 32 placebo arm
measurements is the same approaches zero


• All measurements have some degree of randomness associated with them.
• If your cholesterol was measured 10 times over the course of a day and 10


times over the course of the next day, the results would presumably be
similar but not identical owing to a host of vagaries.


• Not only are the day 12 values identical to the day 32 values but the associated
error bars ARE ALSO IDENTICAL.


• This is not the case for the 5mg and 20mg dose cohorts. They are different
between days 12 and 32 begging the question of how it is that the placebo arm
data was reproduced while the drug arms were not?


We don’t know if this is fraudulent behavior, negligent behavior (or both). But
each and every scenario points to this being a BIG PROBLEM for APLT and its
shareholders.
Data Integrity 
Issues


22


Issue 2: The Company touts a ‘50 % reduction’ (or greater) in plasma galactitol levels.
From their most recent PR (6/15/2020):


No one knows if a 50% reduction in plasma galactitol will have any impact on the
course of the disease, but the Company’s use of this metric is highly misleading for
the following three reasons:
1) They are reporting a ‘MAXIMUM’ reduction for each patient.
2) They are not placebo-adjusting this number
3) The variability in the assay over time appears to be equal to the amount of


‘benefit’ they are showing.


In our view, they are utilizing statistical chicanery by selecting a single maximum
data point from a highly variable dataset and calling it ‘treatment effect’.
Data Integrity 
Issues


23


1) They are reporting a ‘MAXIMUM’ reduction for each patient—from a single time
point in the trial—as their summary key data point:


Why does this matter? Chronic diseases, no matter how progressive, rarely follow a
monotonically declining course. Selecting the most favorable measurement amongst
a panoply of values is THE VERY DEFINITION OF CHERRY PICKING. Imagine if you
stated that you were a par golfer because you had a scored par on a single hole en
route to your 140 stroke game.
Data Integrity 
Issues


24


2) The maximum galactitol reduction datapoints are not placebo adjusted. Here is
how they summarize AT-007 data:


The company has never produced a similar chart for placebo. There is a reason for
this. Look what happened to the placebo ‘performance’ when just two patients from
the 40 mg/kg cohort are added. This data is not robust.


May 2020
June 2020
Data Integrity 
Issues


25


Comparing to a patient’s own baseline (when done correctly) is fine. But these values
then need to be placebo-adjusted.


3) The variability in the plasma galactitol assay appears nearly equal to the amount of
‘benefit’ the company claims. Let’s look at how variable galactitol levels are WITHIN
A SINGLE DAY (red added by us):


D=~300


The placebo arm shows AT
LEAST a 300 ng/ml fluctuation
in plasma galactitol in a single
day. 300 ng/ml translates to a
>12% reduction in plasma
galactitol based on the baseline
values given. It is even worse
for the 20mg dose cohort which
demonstrates a 22% intra-day
variation!
Data Integrity 
Issues


26


There are a number of other data integrity issues we have noted. We don’t know
necessarily that one is any worse the others. Maybe they were oversights…clerical
errors…we don’t know for sure but find it alarming to find so many. Here are just a
few:


 Original (4/21/2020)1  Updated (4/28/2020)
2


1. Source: ACTION-GALACTOSEMIA Trial Results, Slide 28. Annotations added. Since deleted from company website. Used PDF 
version.


2. Source: Galactosemia Educational Symposium deck, Slide 41. Annotations added. Aaccessed via 
https://ir.appliedtherapeutics.com/static-files/789078ae-1f21-4a98-992c-901a2bf8d9f4


This is the same data set yet the plots are clearly different. This is carelessness at 
best and rank manipulation at worst.



https://ir.appliedtherapeutics.com/static-files/789078ae-1f21-4a98-992c-901a2bf8d9f4
Data Integrity 
Issues


More ‘updated’ data…
Pick your favorite red line and compare it across updates


 Original (4/21/2020)1  Updated (4/28/2020)
2


1. Source: ACTION-GALACTOSEMIA Trial Results, Slide 27. Annotations added. Since deleted from company website. Used PDF 
version.


2. Source: Galactosemia Educational Symposium deck, Slide 40. Annotations added. Aaccessed via 
https://ir.appliedtherapeutics.com/static-files/789078ae-1f21-4a98-992c-901a2bf8d9f4


This is the same data set but the charts are different! Carelessness 
Or data misrepresentation. We report. You decide!



https://ir.appliedtherapeutics.com/static-files/789078ae-1f21-4a98-992c-901a2bf8d9f4
Data Integrity 
Issues


Inconsistencies in the IC50 data
From the Company’s patent Wasmuth et al. ALDOSE REDUCTASE INHIBITORS AND USES 


THEREOF. US 8916563 B2, USPTO, 23 December 2014.  Colored annotations ours.


The data in the table and the data in the chart simply do not match.
Data Integrity 
Issues


Inconsistencies in the IC50 data
From the Company’s patent Wasmuth et al. ALDOSE REDUCTASE INHIBITORS AND USES 


THEREOF. US 8916563 B2, USPTO, 23 December 2014.  Colored annotations ours.


Which is it?!
Data Integrity 
Issues


Inconsistencies between AT-001 Patent and Company’s S-1
Note this is for AT-001 which is in the same family as the lead AT-007.  Colored annotations 


ours.


Applied Therapeutics’ S-1 Filing from 4/12/2019Wasmuth et al. Patent


There is simply no excuse for the discrepancies in this data.  Either the data is flat 
out WRONG, careless errors were made or a combination of both.  Investors in a 


$1B market capitalization company deserve better.
31


Spin 4:  Preclinical 
Data


A
p


p
lie


d
 T


h
e


ra
p


e
u


tics 
W


h
e


e
l o


f R
e


d
 F


la
g


s T
M
Preclinical 
Data Issues


32


Issue 1: Let’s start with the elephant in the room. To the best our knowledge,
*zero* preclinical data on the lead AT-007 program in Galactosemia has been
published in peer reviewed research journals.


Issue 2: The animal model which APLT management claims validates their program
and is a ‘game changer’ for galactosemia was first published in mid-December 2019.
To the best of our knowledge this one publication has not been validated by any
other research groups.


Is it possible that a months-old animal model supersedes years of research in
galactosemia? Yes. Is it likely? No. Do we think the FDA will agree that this animal
model is sufficient for APLT’s aggressive regulatory plans? Absolutely not.



https://doi.org/10.1002/jimd.12205
Preclinical 
Data Issues


33


Issue 3: Besides being extraordinarily new, there appear to be several flaws with
the chosen animal model (the GALT-null rat model) including:


1) The effective dose in rats was MUCH higher than what is currently dosed in
humans. The 20 mg/kg dose used in humans is equivalent to approximately 124
mg/kg in rats. That dose would appear to have very little impact on cataract
formation:


2) The rats are not put on a low galactose diet so it doesn’t mirror what happens
with a galactosemic patient.
Preclinical 
Data Issues


34


3) The rats do not develop the severe acute phenotype at birth like infants do. Why
does this matter? It is believed that this initial damage in infants (which can include
multiple organ failure) is a major contributor to the problems seen later in life in
these patients.


4) The phenomena of cataract formation in wild type (wt) rats is different from
healthy humans. Rats fed with high galactose diet develop cataracts early in life,
while such a phenomena is not observed in humans. This is probably due to
differences in Aldose Reductase activity between rats and humans.


5) The published data on the water maze test in the GALT rat model appear highly
unconvincing to us. Judge for yourself:


Note: we actually re-analyzed the data in the red
box to the right using plotting software and can
confirm that the difference between the groups is
either not statistically significant or barely
statistically significant at p<0.5. And this is after
the authors made numerous tweaks to the data (log
scale, etc.). But the naked eye does a pretty good
job of seeing that those groups have significant
overlap.
Preclinical 
Data Issues


35


Issue 5: The magnitude of galactitol reduction in the rat study--which the model
claims correlates with an effect in GALT rats’ CNS symptoms--is MUCH higher than
what the company has shown in their clinical trial.


Reduction of galactitol in the brain in the rat model was >80% and was >90% in
plasma.


As we have already shown, the AT-007 clinical trial allegedly achieved (on a true
placebo-adjusted basis) no more than 30% decrease from baseline. This simply
would not translate to CNS improvements according to the rat model.


Issue 6: We do not know the PK data of AT-007 in rats or any other animal model
because to the best of our knowledge the Company has never shared them.


We don’t know the concentrations of the drug in blood and brain, and how those
concentrations are correlated, what is the protein binding of AT-007 in rat plasma
and how is the AUC in rats compared to humans.


Furthermore, it is not clear if rats can serve as a good model for AT-007 penetration
due to differences between rodents and primates BBB penetration.
Preclinical 
Data Issues


36


Issue 7: The Company presents ‘evidence’ of a brain/plasma correlation but the
figure they use makes zero sense. From their corporate presentation:


Numerous issues with this ‘chart’, including:
1) The units on the axes are not clear. ‘pmol’ is a quantity and not a concentration.
2) There is no data here: no p value, R value or any specific data points
3) There is a random hash mark at ~7.5pmol. The company never makes clear what


this is or why it is there.
4) We have already pointed out numerous flaws in the animal model itself


compared to the natural human course of the disease, so this ‘data’ is not likely
reliable in extrapolating plasma-brain correlation in rats and humans.


5) Where is the corresponding human data?
37


Spin 5:  Regulatory 
Issues and Path 
Forward
38


Spin 5:  Regulatory 
Issues and Path 
Forward


• As far as we can tell, the entire bull thesis for APLT stock is that the Company will
be able to get AT-007 approved rapidly and that the drug will be a commercial
success. In the Company’s own words:


• We do not agree at all with the Company’s assessment of the regulatory pathway
for AT-007 and believe there is zero chance the FDA or any other similar
regulatory body will approve this program with the current data in hand.


• The guidance the Company refers to (“Slowly progressive, low-prevalence rare
diseases with substrate deposition…”) can be found here.


Issue 1: There is significant debate as to whether galactosemia passes even the first
test for coverage by the guidance: “well-characterized pathophysiology”.


Many peer reviewed publications (here, here and here to name just a few) cite Gal-
1P (and not galactitol) as the most relevant biomarker of the disease and the most
probably toxic compound in galactosemia. Applied Therapeutics says their therapy
has no effect on Gal-1P. This is a massive disconnect in thinking and not one we
think the FDA will simply put aside.


No ‘gold standard’ biomarker, no approval



https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/slowly-progressive-low-prevalence-rare-diseases-substrate-deposition-results-single-enzyme-defects

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28281081/

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19859980/

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29261178/
39


Spin 5:  Regulatory 
Issues and Path 
Forward


Issue 2: There is significant debate as to whether galactosemia is even a ‘slowly
progressive’ disease.


Some of the literature (here and here for example) claim that the damage maybe
acquired early after birth due to late initiation of the restrictive diet, or even before
birth due to fetal exposure to galactose metabolites. Furthermore, some believe
the CNS phenotype in adult patients is actually the manifestation of the early
acquired neurological damage, and not due to a progression of the disease.


Not clearly a ‘slowly progressive disease’, no approval



https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12704219/

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22133299/
40


Spin 5:  Regulatory 
Issues and Path 
Forward


Issue 3: The FDA demands that the assay, which is used to measure the toxic
compound in the relevant tissue, would be characterized and its variability would
be well defined.


There is no question that plasma galactitol levels do not satisfy the requirement
that the toxic compound is measured in the relevant tissue. The Company is angling
to mitigate the CNS deficiencies caused by the disease, so it would make the brain
the relevant tissue. The Company did not confirm the efficacy of their therapeutic
in the CSF, leaving just the HIGHLY variable, non-placebo adjusted plasma galactitol
levels to stand (poorly) on their own.


The Company has teased MRS (magnetic resonance spectroscopy) as a way to show
they are lowering levels in the brain. We anticipate the data to come out shortly
and we believe it will be inconclusive at best. We believe that galactitol levels under
MRS in patients under restrictive diets (as is required in the APLT study) will yield no
conclusive evidence as to the efficacy of their therapy.


No well-defined assay measuring toxic compound *in the relevant tissue*, no 
approval
41


Spin 5:  Regulatory 
Issues and Path 
Forward


Issue 4: The FDA requests an animal model which will be representative of the
human phenotype with well conserved metabolic pathways.


As laid out in the ‘preclinical data’ section of this presentation, we believe the GALT-
null rat model in no way shape or form satisfies the FDA’s requirements as part of
their guidance. In short, the model simply does not mimic the human disease in
multiple key areas (no restrictive diet, early vs. late cataract formation, no initial
bolus of organ damage after birth, non-lethal model, etc.).


No representative animal model with well conserved metabolic pathways, no 
approval
42


Spin 5:  Regulatory 
Issues and Path 
Forward


Issue 5: The Company claims it has had ‘extensive… interaction’ with the FDA
(From the January 2020 call on the top line data):


“We've had extensive regulatory interaction regarding our design for the program and not
on how we were able to get to this point and how we designed our study was based on
ongoing dialog with them.”


The Company doesn’t detail what ‘extensive regulatory interaction’, nor can they
provide specific or tangible evidence that the FDA agrees with their overall
regulatory strategy. In fact, initially the Company said it would file an NDA based
upon the adult data alone (in April). Now they are saying they will complete the
pediatric trial and THEN file. Is this something the FDA required because the adult
data was so underwhelming? We don’t know but we certainly don’t believe that is a
positive development for shareholders.
43


Spin 5:  Regulatory 
Issues and Path 
Forward


Issue 6: A predecessor AR inhibitor compound (zopolrestat) was discontinued due
to liver toxicity. The liver injury occurred in a small number of patients (<10%). We
find it unlikely the FDA will allow a drug to be dosed daily to children without a
SUBSTANTIAL toxicology assessment. One we don’t believe the Company has or
can generate in any realistic timetable. Recall, the structures of AT-007 and
Zopolrestat are nearly identical.
Summary and 
next steps


44


• We have only shown a fraction of the red flags we have found on this Company.
We may release more of them in subsequent reports.


• We are shocked that investors willingly accept the fact that the urine data from
the trial has not been made available. THERE ARE ONLY 11 PATIENTS’
WORTH OF DATA TO ANALYZE.


• The purported pharmacological properties of their lead program simply do not
add up to us. And we certainly don’t see anything confirmed by the cherry-
picked clinical data.


• In our view the most important conclusion to draw is that Applied Therapeutics
presents data in an inconsistent manner that is sloppy at best and misleading at
best.


• We believe this company owes its $1Bn market capitalization to the stock market
bubble of 2020.


No matter where the arrow lands when spinning the Applied Therapeutics 
wheel, investors lose.
