Bad Blood - Secret behind GSX Enrollment Count 


Written by EducationEquity Research 


Previously several institutions released reports on GSX, including Grizzly, Muddy Waters, Citron, 


Scorpio, etc. GSX gave their explanations about part of short seller questions, but always evading the 


important subject under discussion, and gave many false and misleading responses. 





On June 2nd 2020, Grizzly released a research report update about GSX.  One of important findings is 


that, they find an API offered by Gaotu Ketang to search courses. The API returns not only basic 


information, but also the exact enrollment count for each course, which named “enrolled_count”. 


After Grizzly report released, their official website was attacked. It’s abnormal. It seems someone 


doesn’t want they expose data out. On June 2nd, Grizzly open source their codes and one data 


snapshot got from GSX API on the GitHub. Users can download and run their codes to reproduce their 


findings. After several hours, GSX modified API usage, and set returned “enrolled_count” as 0. On 


June 8, Grizzly open source all of their history data on the GitHub. https://github.com/67647f8/gsx-


fraud. The data snapshot duration is between May 9
th


 and June 2
nd


. And the time interval between 


every two adjacent snapshots is 12 minutes. Every snapshot file includes recorded server time, which 


time zone is GMT-7 (U.S. Phoenix time), 15 hours earlier than GMT+8 Beijing Time.  





This report is mainly based on Grizzly open source data. This data is directly returned by GSX API. GSX 


already prove its integrity (In GSX response announcement for Grizzly report, GSX said Grizzly 


statistics does not include unlisted spring classes, which prove this API true). Different with Grizzly 


report, we focus on Gaotu summer and autumn courses. And we open source all of our analysis codes 


on the GitHub https://github.com/EduEqu918/gsx-fraud. Everyone can reproduce it.  


Main of our work: 


 Prove “enrolled_count” represent actual enrollment data.  


 Analyze Gaotu summer and autumn course enrollment.  


 Explain abnormal enrollment data changes. 


 Analyze Gaotu enrollment trend and GSX business model based on fraud. 





Key findings: 


 Enrollment count is heavily manipulated. A lot of abnormal enrollment count data and burst 


data changes are found. In many scenarios, for one course, thousands of enrollment count burst 


up or down within 12 minutes (snapshot time interval). Grouping by school stage, for junior 


middle school Summer Classes, within less than 12 hours, enrollment count decreased 100334.  


 Only by “Burst mode”, At least 60% enrollment count is obviously inflated. And we think it’s 


quite likely that at least 70% - 80% of its enrollment is faked. 


 Strange “Big First-time” mode and “Zombie Course” mode. 


 Many of data changes are hard to implement by manual brushing or bots brushing. We believe 


GSX management deeply involved in the fraud behaviors.  


 Gaotu enrollment dilemma and unsustainable business model. Enrollment count has an 


unhealthy inverted pyramid structure. Gaotu developed graduating classes business based on 


fraud. They use a well-designed trap to attract graduating students who have fragile knowledge 


base and want to have shortcut to improve results of study quickly. Meanwhile with reckless 


brushing and operational data forgery, produce a high growth earning bubble to cheat investors. 



https://github.com/67647f8/gsx-fraud

https://github.com/67647f8/gsx-fraud

https://github.com/EduEqu918/gsx-fraud
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


LEGAL DISCLAIMER 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY IN CONJUNCTION WITH OUR RESEARCH REPORT AND SUPPORTING 


MATERIALS, INCLUDING THE FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ON THE LAST PAGE OF THIS REPORT. 





This report and statements contained herein are the opinions of EducationEquity Research, and are 


not statements of fact. Reports are based on generally available information, field research, 


inferences and deductions through EducationEquity Research due diligence and analytical process. 


Our opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available facts and 


evidence collected and analyzed including our understanding of representations made by the 


management of the companies we analyze, all of which we set out in our research reports to support 


our opinions, all of which we set out. HOWEVER, THEY REMAIN OUR OPINIONS AND BELIEFS ONLY. 





We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a manner than any person could 


have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited 


in this report or that we relied on to write this report. 





EducationEquity Research makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, 


or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 


We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We 


believe that the publication of our opinions and the underlying facts about the public companies we 


research is in the public interest, and that publication is justified due to the fact that public investors 


and the market are connected in a common interest in the true value and share price of the public 


companies we research. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, 


EducationEquity Research does not undertake a duty to update or supplement this report or any of 


the information contained herein. 





This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be 


offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the 


securities laws of such jurisdiction. Recipients of the research report are professional investors who 


are expected to make their own judgment as to any reliance that they place on the research report. 


You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinion. 





AS OF THE PUBLICATION DATE OF THIS REPORT, EDUCATIONEQUITY RESEARCH (POSSIBLY ALONG 


WITH OR 


THROUGH OUR MEMBERS, PARTNERS, AFFILIATES, EMPLOYEES, AND/OR CONSULTANTS) ALONG 


WITH OUR CLIENTS AND/OR INVESTORS HAS A DIRECT OR INDIRECT SHORT POSITION IN THE STOCK. 





To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has 


been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or 


connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any duty or duty of 


con-dentiality to the issuer. Note that GSX Techedu Inc. and insiders, agents, and legal representatives 


of GSX Techedu Inc. and other entities mentioned herein may be in possession of material non-public 


information that may be relevant to the matters discussed herein.
Enrolled_count field represent actual enrollment 


 GSX official feedback for Grizzly Research report: 


API interface cannot obtain full data: first, the courses captured by the API interface of Gaotu 


classroom are only available courses at this time point, and the main courses in spring at this time 


point have been removed. The available courses are a small number of spring courses and other 


courses with small class capacity. The short report only captures 73 paid courses, which is far lower 


than the actual number of courses provided by Gaotu classroom in the second quarter; Secondly, the 


number of students encrypted by the anti-crawler returned by the API interface is not the actual data. 


As a result, the report has no basis for the company's revenue forecast for the second quarter of 


Gaotu classroom. 





------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


Source: https://www.sohu.com/a/399692071_589404 


Chinese: API 接口无法获取全量数据：首先，高途课堂 API 接口抓取的课程仅为该时点可售课程，在该时点春季的主要


课程均已下架，可售课程为少量春(下)课程及其他班容较小课程，做空报告仅抓取 73 门付费课程，远低于高途课堂在


第二季度实际提供的课程数量;其次，该 API 接口返回的反爬虫程序加密后的学生人数信息，并非实际数据。因此，报


告对公司第二季度高途课堂的收入预测毫无依据。 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 





 Our analysis result: 


GSX:  


Many spring courses can’t be searched and not involved in Grizzly Q2 analysis.  





Analysis Result： 


YES. Many courses which begin from Q1 and end in Q2 were not included. Since courses already 


started long time before, and GSX does not expect new real students join. But this doesn’t mean GSX 


didn’t make fraud. Since GSX API returned data lack some of spring classes, we will focus on summer, 


autumn and free classes’ enrollment analysis and explain our findings. 





------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


Typical tutoring classes’ timetable: 


Winter Vacation Classes: Jan. – Feb. 


Spring Classes: Mar. – Jun. 


Summer Vacation Classes: Jul. - Aug. 


Autumn Vacation Classes: Sep. – Dec.  


There are longer-term classes such as Summer+autumn class, which duration is Jul. - Dec. These kinds of classes are used to 


attract customers enroll for longer time and customers will have discount prices. 


Academic Year begin on Sep and end on June.  


Generally Student will consider enroll or change course between different education company on summer vacation or spring 


vacation. 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 











 



https://www.sohu.com/a/399692071_589404
GSX:  


The number of students encrypted by the anti-crawler returned by the API interface is not the actual 


data. 





Analysis Result： 


NO. 


1) Grizzly Research already made some verification in previous report. 








2) We analyzed free classes’ enrollment number. Every free class’s enrolled_count increased 


continuously. For example, here is a part of enrolled_count information for class id 


“5049274593181184” 高二数学+语文+英语高分训练营.  








Snapshot time is Beijing Time, which is converted from original snapshot file name time field. In 


the whole document, we will use Beijing Time. 





3) We analyze popular long-term normal price courses. The enrolled_count field increased 


continuously too. For example, for class id “4738352380203520” 【2020-暑】高一升高二语文


系统强化班 谢欣然.
4) We analyze and compare enrollment numbers changes in different courses for same grade and 


subject too. It’s impossible that the enrolled_count is encrypted.
5) Although enrolled_count is highly possible to be inflated by GSX (Muddy Waters Estimation: ~70% 


of its users are faked), It’s still very meaningful.  





The distribution of enrolled_count can be used to analyze the distribution of realistic users, 


especially in large trend.  





The reason is very simple: For every class, the more realistic users exist, the more on-line water 


army (manual brusher), and robot brusher need be involved to maintain this fraud game. They 


play important roles in every step, from WeChat Method( “社群裂变” or “社群营销) to free 


classes, normal price long-term course subscribe, small class before big class by tutor, and big 


class by teacher. In particular, considering that each small class has over 200 persons, the enough 


on-line water army and robots are needed.  











Typical abnormal enrollment count changes 


Nowadays bot brushing tech is very mature. Bot can act as normal user to do regular thing easily. It’s 


hard to identify abnormal behaviors only by enrollment count number. For example, the following 


growth curve seems very beautiful.   It’s hard to judge the proportion of faked enrollment count.   


There are malicious abnormal behaviors between the period 5/31 22:29-22:41 and 6/01 00:05-00:17. 














Unless GSX and brusher are too bold and reckless, it’s hard to identify abnormal behaviors only by 


enrollment count number. That comes true. We find many abnormal enrollment count changes 


spread widely in different long-term normal price courses. We introduce some typical modes:
1) “Burst” mode. There are two sub-modes: “Burst Up” and “Burst Down”. Course enrollment count 


increase or decrease hugely (hundreds or thousands) in very short time (12 minutes). In many 


cases, thousands-level enrollment count changes happen within 12 minutes.  


2) “Big First-time” mode. We filter courses which first searchable time on Gaotu “class center” later 


than May 9
th


. And find the enrollment count of many courses in the first snapshot is a big number. 


3) “Zombie Course” mode. Some courses be searchable previously for a long time, but suddenly 


become unsearchable by API and Gaotu Web page “class center”. 





 Burst Up 


Course enrollment count increase much in very short time (<12 min) 





For Class ID 4738703125744640, this class first on-line time is 2020-05-10. After 18 days, the 


enrollment count keeps 54. And suddenly jump to 2854 within 12 minutes. From the following picture, 


Comparing other courses having same grade 12 (高三) and same subject physics (物理), there is no 


enrollment shrink from other courses. It means the increased 2000 users do not come from other 


courses.
Among all of courses on grade 2 (二年级) and subject Chinese (语文), “Burst Up” mode widely exists 


on the following key snapshot time.  From the picture, we can see most of enrollment count increase 


contribute by burst up mode.
 Burst Down 


Course enrollment count decreases much in very short time (<12 minutes). Most of them should not 


be caused by normal user behavior, such as user withdrawing money, because of very short time and 


huge decreasing number. We checked and found ‘Burst Down’ mode spread widely in different stage 


courses.  





To judge whether the course is canceled and students are moved to other courses, we check the 


course subscribe URL. Some of courses can still be enrolled. Some are canceled. Comparing all of 


courses in same grade and subject, we find most of them have no student transfer phenomenon. We 


believe that enrollment count be heavily manipulated and faked by Gaotu management.  





It’ very interesting to discuss the reason that GSX reduce original enrollment count. There are many 


possible reasons, and we don’t know the real reason. 


1) Planned enrollment count change. before the real student enrollment happen, the goal of 


enrollment count and inflated count number already be decided. Gaotu use brushing to inflate 


count number. but the plan changed, and then gaotu decrease the enrollment number. 


2) Gaotu manually reduce fake business scale in some courses.  or maybe switch brusher partners. 


3) Temporary measures and will burst up enrollment count in future after brusher partners ok.
Among all of courses on grade 6 (六年级) and subject English (英语), burst down mode widely exists 


for class id 4744823349941248, 4732367353532416, 4732404522897920, 4732464302955520 and 


4744856851910656.  From the picture, we can see after enrollment count burst down, the overall 


enrollment count decreased nearly to zero for season summer and summer + autumn. Almost all of 


previous enrollment count of this grade & subject disappeared.  














To check the realistic status of these courses, we try to access the course from both ‘class center’ (选


课中心) and web page URL(https://www.gaotu100.com/learn/$CLASS_ID). Four of them are 


unsearchable from class center. Through checking web page URL, one of them is canceled (Class ID 


4732367353532416). Since other three is unsearchable and enrollment count is seldom, we believe 


the other three are to be cancelled.
The more interesting thing happened when we investigate remained no “Burst Down” mode autumn 


courses on same grade 6 (六年级) and same subject English (英语). According to the following table, 


all of 3 classes are unlisted from class center on 2020/05/22. At that time every class have over 3000 


enrollment count. After several days (06/04 and 06/22), two of three were cancelled. We believe 


almost all of enrollment count of grade 6 and subject English is faked. 











In many scenarios, “Burst Down” mode co-exists with “Burst Up” mode. An example is all of courses 


for grade 8 (初二) and subject Math (数学).
 Big First-time  


We filter courses which first searchable time later than May 9
th


. And find the enrollment count of 


many courses in the first snapshot is a big number. We name it as “first_time_enrolled_count”. 





Split in two situations: Long-term normal price course and free course. 


1) For normal price course, the source of “first_time_enrolled_count” is opaque and easy to play 


tricks. With best wish we look at “first_time_enrolled_count” equals “class renewal count” (续班


人数) plus “advance sales count” (销售预售).  





“class renewal count” hypothesis is based on a common strategy used by after-class tutoring 


institutions. Before a new course open for every user, the tutoring institution set a special period 


as “class renewal period”(续班期). The class renewal period will last several days. During this 


period only existed members can enroll continuous class, and they will enjoy special discount. 


This strategy can encourage regular user continue to enroll new course.  





“advance sales count” hypothesis is based on a strange strategy Gaotu used. Before courses are 


on-line for App users, Gaotu salesman and tutors sell unsearchable courses in WeChat Group or 


telephone in the name of discount. This strategy provides very bad user experiences, because 


user can’t find the original class and price information when salesman sells courses to them.
Note: “first_time_enrolled_count” represent “class renewal count” plus “advance sales count”, 


which is just our best wish. Many clues show GSX inflate this number huge. Especially many 


“Burst Down” mode cases prove it. For example, previous listed “Burst Down” mode course class 


id 4732464302955520 【2020-暑秋】五年级升六年级英语系统 A+班（共 60 课时）. Its 


first_time_enrolled_count is 2724. On its last time snapshot the enrollment count shrink to 127. 





2) For the free classes, there is no renewal old user.  


Before it can be searched by user, there should be no user can enroll. It’s impossible that within 


12 minutes the enrollment count can begin from 0 and then jump to a big number.  We believe 


GSX inflate “first_time_enrolled_count” huge. And we also find “Burst Up” mode exists in free 


class in a large scale too. Since free class doesn’t bring revenue, we will not analyze free class 


abnormal in detail.
 Zombie Courses  


Some courses be searchable previously but suddenly become unsearchable by API or Gaotu Web 


courses select page(选课中心). We name it Zombie courses. Unsearchable by Gaotu “class center” 


represent new enrollment can’t be brought by new user search on “class center”. In other words, 


Gaotu cut their entrance of natural internet new user flow. It’s very strange. 





There are 41 zombie courses, covered summer class, autumn class and summer+autumn class. 


37 courses belong to Primary School, with last searchable snapshot whole enrollment count 109152. 


4 courses belong to Junior Middle School, with last searchable snapshot whole enrollment count 3158. 


0 courses belong to Senior Middle School. 





We check these 41 courses status again on 2020/07/05. Now 10 already be "cancelled"; 5 be "full of 


capacity" (Same meaning with “to be cancelled”); 15 be "unsearchable but enrollable"; 10 be 


“searchable”. These 10 “searchable” courses state change from unsearchable zombie status to 


searchable. 31 of 41 still can’t be searched directly by Gaotu “class center”. Consider checked time is 


2020/07/04, and these courses are all summer and autumn classes. We believe many of those courses 


are questionable.
Summer/Autumn Classes – Gloomy Enrollment Trend 


 Primary school - Bad renewal ratio and lacking new enrollment. 


Enrollment sum suddenly increased on May 11
th


, since many new courses be searchable first-time on 


Gaotu “class center”, with a large digit “first_time_enrolled_count”. But the sum of enrollment count 


decrease hugely in the following days, especially for summer+autumn courses. It’s a very bad 


phenomenon. Because summer + autumn enrollment count imply loyal students’ number. The huge 


decrease shows many students quit, or Gaotu reduce its enrollment fraud inflation scale. Even in 


courses summary level, “Burst Up” and Burst Down” mode obviously exists. 





Note: There is over 100000 enrollment count on primary school belong to zombie courses. And some 


classes are already unsearchable and canceled. But when we calculate the sum of enrollment count,  


we do not exclude those zombie courses. Even if we do not consider enrollment inflation, our 


calculation result are larger than the actual data.  





 Junior Middle school - Enrollment collapse and obvious forgery can be easily seen 


Enrollment count sum collapse happen on both summer and autumn courses. 








We dig deep to find the collapse reason. We find it’s caused by enrollment count data burst down 


happen for many courses. For Summer Classes, within less than 12 hours (2020/5/16 12:40 to 23:54), 


enrollment count sum decreased 100334. Enrollment count sum only remained 137033 at 2020/5/22 


13:07 (42% of 320321). 





 “Burst Down” mode clearly shows Gaotu enrollment count data are inflated huge. Even 


enrollment count sum reduced much until 2020/5/22, we don’t think at that time the remained 


enrollment count become realistic. This kind of inflation should also exist on primary school and 


senior middle school business. Only by “Burst Down” mode, we believe Gaotu inflate the 


enrollment count at least  2.5 times(1/42%), which means nearly 60% enrollment count are 


faked. And it’s high possible that 70-80% are faked.
 Senior Middle school - Light in gloomy, but unsustainable 


Comparing with Primary school and Junior Middle school, GSX Senior Middle school business 


performs far better, especially Grade 11 and Grade 12. Its autumn long-term normal price class 


enrollment is about 350000, equals about the sum of primary school and junior middle school autumn 


enrollment. There is also “Burst Up” and “Burst Down” mode existed on some of Gaotu senior middle 


school courses. 





There are still many issues. 


1. Summer courses enrollment number is very small, and trend is not good. This implies the newbie 


student enrollment meet obstacle, or autumn courses enrollment number is abnormal. 


2. Grade 10 (高一) occupies largest part in summer classes. But the enrollment number continues to 


decrease. This means new grade 1 users have low interest in GSX, and they are quitting courses.  


3. Grade 10 occupies smallest part in autumn class. This also implies GSX hard to attract Grade 10 


users, especially when comparing with summer class. 


4. Grade 11, 12 students occupies small part in summer classes. This implies GSX meet obstacle to 


attract Grade 11, 12 new users. The enrollment count for Grade 11, 12 on summer and autumn 


classes differ huge.  





Comparing with other teachers on the same grade and subject, Gaotu famous senior middle school 


teacher performs well on attracting new users.
 Top 20 enrollment count teachers - the graduating class are most welcome 


We calculate and sort all of teachers’ single course enrollment number. The following table show 


top20 enrollment teachers in Gaotu, sort by last snapshot ‘enrolled_count’ field value. 








For the top20 enrollment teachers, the grade distribution is as the following table. This proves our 


judgement again:  


1. Grade 11 and 12 enrollment count perform best. 


2. The secondary strong is Grade 9.  


3. Most of junior middle school teacher enrollment count trend is bad, including grade 9. 


4. There is no primary school teacher on Top20 ranking list. Primary school business lack new 


enrollment and popular teachers. 








 Unhealthy enrollment count distribution 


GSX enrollment count distribution in different ages is an inverted pyramid structure.  Graduating 


classes (Grade 9, 11, 12) has biggest enrollment count and revenue contribution.  





It’s an opposite structure to mainstream institutions such as TAL. TAL or YuanFuDao try best to enroll 


students at a lower age to make a bigger foundation. They even have early childhood education brand 


‘小猴’ and ‘斑马’. After gaining a good reputation in the young age, they can cultivate loyal customers 


and ensure the rate of class renewal.  





There are multiple reasons that other institutions’ senior middle school business can’t be expanded 


fast.  


1) Senior middle school target user number is smaller than primary school and junior middle school. 


2) Senior middle school student face the challenge of college entrance exam, and school teacher 


assigned study and homework already occupy students’ too much time. 


3) There is no enough qualified high performing teachers for these institutions. 





Did GSX or Gaotu solve these issues?  


It didn’t. But Gaotu use different model to expand. They developed graduating classes business based 


on fraud. In the next chapter, we will analyze why and how they can attract some of graduating 


students, and Gaotu education fraud business model.
GSX Education Fraud Business 


Many research institutions already exposed many GSX fraud behaviors. Now refer to Gaotu 


enrollment count data, we collect some new materials combing with previous evidence. Now we can 


conclude main of GSX education fraud business model: 


 Well-designed trap for parents and students who have fragile knowledge base, feel have no time 


and want to improve results of study quickly. 


 Popping high growth bubble with reckless brushing and key operational data forgery (enrollment 


and revenue).  





1. Build Celebrity Teacher. (Appendix A) 


Many of them are hired from other competitors, such as TAL or EDU. To attract potential users, GSX 


exaggerate their capability, sometimes even make resume fraud. The appendix A give samples about 


top2 enrollment teacher Xinran Xie (谢欣然) and Guodong Chen(陈国栋). 





2. False propaganda (Appendix B) 


Include exaggerating improvement results of study, fast speed of improvement, universal shortcut of 


problem solving. Many people can’t understand why GSX do such kind of exaggerated advertisements 


(sometimes disgusting). These advertisements are well-designed to attract specified people, 


especially some graduating students and their parents, whose basic knowledge is not good, and have 


strong willing to grasp possible shortcut to improve scores quickly. 





3. Well-designed free classes and aggressive sales (Appendix C) 


Gaotu free classes are well-designed and used to show the best of Gaotu courses. In the class, many 


teachers will show their universal shortcut methods to solve difficult questions. But actually most of 


these shortcut methods can only be used to solve specified limited questions. 


To let customer pay for long-term normal price courses, Gaotu teachers and sales use many 


aggressive even fraud tricks to push the parents or students. 





4. Expensive charges 


The charge is so expensive enough that they need not take care of student renewal ratio too much. 


Its per-hour fee is about 1.5 times than TAL On-line.  


Grade 12 Autumn Course Product Unit Price (Price RMB/Class number of times) 


Gaotu Autumn 1700/9，  2600/15 


TAL On-line 1440/12，1920/16 


YuanFudao  1400/15, 1900/15 





Gaotu has 4800 RMB sprint course “高考决胜班” for Grade 12 students who will attend college 


entrance exam right now.  





5. Long-term normal price course enrollment fraud (Appendix E) 


Easy-to-identified mode: Burst up, Burst down. 


Hard-to-identified mode: Manual brusher and bots brushing. 


For Burst mode, most of them can’t be done by manual brusher or 3
rd


 party bots brushing. It should 


be very easy to be identified by GSX anti-bot team. So we believe GSX management is deeply involved 


in enrollment fraud.
6. Reputation based on on-line water army brushing positive reviews (Appendix D) 


False propaganda, less-than-expected long term normal price courses, expensive prices, teacher and 


tutors insufficient capacity, bad user experiences, all of these will influence student renewal and 


newbie enrollment, hurt company brand and long-term interest. 





To hold down negative user feedbacks and maintain company illusory reputation, GSX have strong on-


line water army to brush positive reviews. Previous analysis report from Scorpio Research already 


exposed in details how GSX brush a huge number of positive reviews on AppStore and GSX/Gaotu 


Class App. They disclosed GSX fabricated up to 80% of the positive reviews in Class App. In other 


media channels there is similar phenomenon, such as baidu zhidao(百度知道),  zhihu(知乎). 


Anyway this kind of fake reputation is unsustainable. We already found more and more negative 


comments about GSX and Gaotu. GSX aggressive PR and water army behaviors are backfiring on itself. 





[Appendix A]  Evidence - Build Celebrity Teacher  


 Guodong Chen（陈国栋），enrollment count rank number 2 


Gaotu Mislead user that Guodong Chen as teacher of famous Henshui High School of Hebei. But He is 


formal teacher of Henshui 2
nd


 High School Teacher. (Difference between Northwestern University and 


Northwest University) 


2018 course: https://www.gaotu100.com/learn/1249535242635776  


2019/20 course: Delete description Henshui 2
nd


 High School Teacher, and add description Henshui 


High School. 





Students’ opinions about Guodong Chen 


https://www.zhihu.com/question/382435378/answer/1107558693 



https://www.gaotu100.com/learn/1249535242635776

https://www.zhihu.com/question/382435378/answer/1107558693
 Xinran Xie（谢欣然），enrollment count rank number 1 


Champion of Popularity of New Oriental 2017 hot teacher competition. 


Better than Guodong Chen, this title didn’t make fraud and just mislead users. 


In fact, her final ranking was 4th, and professional ability ranked 9th in the top 20 hot ranking. 


http://zh.xdf.cn/news/201711/8372369.html 








Students’ opinions about Xinran Xie 


https://www.zhihu.com/question/343434363/answer/1068679325 








 



http://zh.xdf.cn/news/201711/8372369.html

https://www.zhihu.com/question/343434363/answer/1068679325
https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/129051214 





[Appendix B]  Evidence - False propaganda  


 Evidence of Exaggerate improvement results of study 


Most of GSX/Gaotu teachers, exaggerate their capability of fast improvement results of study. 


We summarize every GSX teacher advertised improvement result; conclude that if one student 


majoring in science subject in He Nan province enrolls all of courses in GSX, his score should be 


added by at least 182 in average. It’s a huge lie. 





If he previously just reaches the admission score of ordinary universities score, now his mark 


would be at least 567. He can attend a very good key university. If he previously just reaches the 


admission score of key universities, now he can attend Chinese best universities – Peking or 


Tsinghua University. (二本上好一本，一本上清北) 





He Nan province college entrance examination mark in science subject: 


The admission score of Peking/Tsinghua University score: 684/685 


The admission score of key universities score: 502 


The admission score of ordinary universities score: 385 


The admission score of independent college score: 160 


Subject Chinese Math English Physics Chemical  Biology SUM 


Score Improvement 20 30 30 30 42 30 182 


 



https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/129051214
 Evidence of False Ads. - fast speed of improvement, universal shortcut of problem solving 


There are too many false advertisements. Here just list a small part of them. 





Teacher Xinran Xie (Top 1 enrollment count ranking): 








Teacher Guodong Chen (Top 2 enrollment count ranking): 








Public advertisement
[Appendix C]  Evidence – well-designed free classes and 


aggressive sales
https://www.zhihu.com/question/269089089/answer/998759524 








https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/148788790 

















 



https://www.zhihu.com/question/269089089/answer/998759524

https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/148788790
https://www.zhihu.com/question/305825125/answer/1161337243 




















[Appendix D]  Evidence – negative feedback 





 Evidence of Negative Feedback from user 


Include false advertisement, aggressive sales, bad normal price courses experience, teacher and 


tutors insufficient capacity, inaccurate prediction about the content of the college entrance exam. 





https://www.zhihu.com/question/305825125 





























 



https://www.zhihu.com/question/305825125/answer/1161337243

https://www.zhihu.com/question/305825125
https://www.zhihu.com/question/269089089/answer/709825094 





https://www.zhihu.com/question/363121408 








 



https://www.zhihu.com/question/269089089/answer/709825094

https://www.zhihu.com/question/363121408
 Evidence of Negative Feedback from education business 





Source: TAL Expert conference 2019Q2 


http://www.guozhiedu.com/index.php?s=dynamic&c=show&id=307 


Question: 


GSX figures of customer acquisition cost and renewal rate, which is impressive. What do you 


think of it in the industry? 


TAL Answer: 


From our point of view, it's not so different with GSX. The differences among on-line businesses 


are not very big. GSX may be financing or expanding recently, so the figures they publicize are 


pretty good. But we don't think it's worth a lot of reference. Our measurement is very strict. It's 


very difficult to improve the renewal ratio when everyone is losing money on-line. 





Source：Xueqiu（雪球） 



http://www.guozhiedu.com/index.php?s=dynamic&c=show&id=307
Souce：Wechat Subscription accounts “摩西英语”
[Appendix E]  Evidence – Summer and Autumn courses 


enrollment 


Here we list enrollment count pictures for part of summer and autumn courses. Every picture 


includes all of courses on same grade and same subject. If you want to get all of courses text 


result and pictures, please download from https://github.com/EduEqu918/gsx-fraud and run our 


open source codes.  








 



https://github.com/EduEqu918/gsx-fraud
