1


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX


By using data from business networking websites LinkedIn and MaiMai and comparing GSX Techedu
against competitors:  ONESmart Education, New Oriental Education, TAL Education, DaDa and YouDao
we have found that:


• GSX has the lowest amount of employees out of all the major China 


EdTEch firms


• GSX has the lowest educational staff despite their claim to have 


10,000 tutors


• We show that GSX claims to have hired 6,500 Online Tutors in an 8 


month period – we found they hired ONE in 90 days


• We believe GSX is likely overstating the amount of teaching staff 


that it has by more than a 100X


• Many of GSX ‘Tutors’ are either IT or sales staff or unqualified to 


teach which is illegal in China
2


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX


Internal data from online businesses is difficult to scrutinize, particularly for auditors with less experience with software and 
databases. However, human capital requirements are more clear cut. 


People working in online companies are obviously the most likely to use business networking websites and leave a “digital 
footprint”, which means they can be tracked and assessed.


The business networking site LinkedIn provides a rich set of data which is difficult to manipulate at scale (of which more later) 
and provides an excellent comparison between companies. 


This report compares GSX to other large Chinese education businesses, showing the massive anomaly between them and its 
own assertions, namely that it has over 10,000 Tutors (up around 6,500 in an 8 month period). 


We compare GSX to established players: New Oriental and TAL Education. We also use OneSmart, DaDa, and YouDao.


People have suggested that MaiMai would be a better resource than LinkedIn (LI), but our research shows that LI has richer 
data than MaiMai (a Chinese competitor), and searches using MaiMai returned disturbingly similar data between companies.


Much of the data can be found using a free license so we urge you to verify this yourselves. This data was taken between 7th-9th


August 2020.


EDU TAL* GSX**
No. of Employees on LinkedIn


8,787 5,555 451**


*incl Xueersi ** incl Beijing Bajia GSX Internet Technology Co (北京百家互联科技有限公司


Shandong GSX: 山东跟谁学互联科技有限公司


Only 11 people have 


joined GSX in last 90 days 


they insist 2,400 Tutors 


have joined in this period.


Only 1 tutor is in the 11
3


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX


https://bit.ly/3m5O0vZ‘We have over 81,100 employee 
https://bit.ly/3bzSHta


10,000 (from Q1 earnings plus 6,500 
new tutors


Online businesses working in similar markets should have similar percentages of their staff on the same platform.


We looked at figures from New Oriental’s Investor Relations website, Statista’s most recent 2019 figures for TAL Education and 
the combination of GSX staff figures from Q1 earnings ‘we have 10,000’ people and their new figures for tutors (+6,500). 


GSX Investor relations declined to provide current figures.


New Oriental


Employees online Compared to Stated Figures


GSX TecheduTAL Education


EDU TAL* GSX**
No. of Employees Stated


81,100 34,733 16,500


No. of Employees on LinkedIn
8,787 5,555 451**


Percentage of Employees 
Stated


10.83% 16% 2.73%


GSX has only 2.73% of their stated employee profiles online



about:blank

about:blank
4


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX


People have suggested that LinkedIn is not an exact measure of total staff numbers, and we concur. However it is 
perfect to compare with similar businesses. 


TAL has 100 X the employees of GSX and EDU has 200 X.


OneSmart Education (valued at $672 million has almost 4 X the number of employees). GSX also has 2 X less 
employees than the comparably tiny DaDa
You will also note that each of these companies has more social media followers (circled). GSX is a technology 
driven online education business with ‘millions’ of students, yet 29 X less followers than TAL


Employee count on LinkedIn Compared to Reported
5


Joiners in the Last 90 Days


New Joiners (last 90 days)


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX


As you saw on the first page, LinkedIn tells you how many people have joined a business over the last 90 days. This period 
should mean that we see a huge positive difference in GSX compared to the competition. Instead GSX has over 4 X LESS new 
joiners than their competitors apart from the tiny OneSmart.
6


In our last report we broke down the number of teaching staff of each company using the terms Dǎoshī and Teacher. 
In order to remove any ambiguity in job title we are now sorting the data through ‘Function’ – selecting ‘Education’ 
– this will cover anyone involved in teaching AND add consultants and designers etc.


For GSX and associated businesses we find a TOTAL of 67 of which 27 are tutors


GSX has Only ONE person in Education has joined over the last 90 days.


Joiners in the Last 90 Days


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX


GSX Educational Employees
7


TAL Educational Employees


TAL Education has over 1,000 Educational staff and 13 new joiners over the last 90 days


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX
8


New Oriental has over 4,500 Educational staff and 33 new joiners over the last 90 days


EDU Educational Employees


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX
9


Because GSX has only 27 Tutors online, we have been able to look at them individually. GSX claims:


‘We seek to engage high quality teaching staff with strong education background and teaching skills….We 
primarily seek tutor candidates from recent graduates of reputable universities in China who have demonstrated 
proficiency in the relevant subjects.’
Let’s take a look at a selection of the GSX tutors:


Tutor B
Prior job: Self-employed Store Operations
Education: Zhengzhou University
World Ranking: 588
China Ranking: 51
Teaching experience: 0


Tutor A
Prior job: Operations Trainee in Textiles
Education: Wuhan Textile University
World Ranking: 2566
China Ranking: 308
Teaching experience: 0


Tutor C
Prior job:   Pump Sales Management
Education: Taiyuan UST
World Ranking: 1067
China Ranking: 117
Teaching experience: 0


GSX Breaking China Ministry of Education Law
10


These tutors go against China MOE law which requires a license, and also completely concur with the audio of a 
whistleblower on the next page.
Please note we will be sharing these profiles with the China Ministry of Education.  


Tutor E
Prior job: Assistant to GM & waiter
Education: Dalian UY City College
World Ranking: 346
China Ranking: 22
Teaching experience: 0


Tutor D
Concurrent  job: Senior Sales
Education: NA
Teaching experience: 0


Tutor F
Prior job:   Marketing Assistant
Education: Henan University of Technology
World Ranking: 1863
China Ranking: 230
Teaching experience: 0


GSX Breaking China Ministry of Education Law


Impossible Numbers in China EdTech
Wednesday 9th August : Ticker GSX
11


Profile of Hou Zhiteng. Prior to joining GSX he was the CMO and co-founder of two apps. He now claims to be a large 
class primary school mathematics lecturer and teacher trainer. This is a skill mismatch of multiple orders and against 
both GSX policy and China MOE policy.


A selection of tutors with no experience and no 
connections.


Over 25% of GSX Tutor profiles on LinkedIn are 
like this


These ‘ghost’ profiles are typically indicative of 
fake profiles and manipulation by GSX. The high 
percentage frequency of these profiles is very 
unusual (what is the reason for business 
networking without a network or profile?)


GSX Breaking China Ministry of Education Law


Interview with GSX Whistleblower
(click to play)


He confirms that GSX is a sales and marketing 
company, and that the sales and marketing team 
actually tutor and lecture – see profiles on 
previous page and below.



https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IgIRidwEwo4hDtmN-3EA4ocOu7dHyP62/view?usp=sharing

Sylvan Research

Preamble
Q: In your experience do you think it is a legitimate education company?
A: I think GSX is more of a sales and marketing company than an education company. The proportion of sales and marketing personnel is way too large, unlike any ordinary education companies, whose proportion of teacher accounts for the majority of the employees. It clearly feels like they are doing pyramid scheme, marketing campaigns, not caring about the quality of the product they offer-education- at all. But GSX does have some classes of good quality as far as I know.  
Q: The research we have done and a lot of people have hasn’t been able to find many teaching staff. Did you know any teachers or tutors at GSX?
A: Yes I have friends who were tutors
Q: Your friends were tutors? Did they have a teaching license?
A: My friends do have licenses. And some of the Sales and Marketing team actually teach classes and I don’t think they had licenses
Q: Teaching without a license is illegal in China. Was there anything else that you saw at GSX that wasn’t legal? Were you asked to do anything illegal?
A: I don’t want to speak about my job, because they might identify me. I know that we were using a lot of mobile phones for Wechat accounts, and we use students’ Wechat account information for other purpose, such as big data and others. 
Q: There are pictures of rooms with a lot of mobile phones in them. Did you ever see a room full of mobile phones?
A: at least from what I observed I found the situation to be true, but I didn’t enter the rooms to verify everything. I just saw a lot of cell phone handsets on a lot of shelves out there, operating on something.
Q: How many phones?
A: Thousands, many thousands
Q: what do you think they use the phones for? 
A: Sales and marketing, contacting students; teaching classes, others, probably
Q: Would you be prepared to talk to the Chinese Ministry for Education, or the SEC or FBI in America? 
A: I am ok to provide some info. But I won’t give open statement taking the risk of exposing my identity.
12


Additional GSX “Tutors” of interest from 
MaiMai:


Product manager turned Tutor


Sales conversion Tutor


Baidu operations turned Tutor


Medicine quality control turned math Tutor


IT student whose job description include database 
software and OA system as English lecturer Salesman Tutor
13


We originally raised these concerns with Deloitte on the 9th of July. We received a standard response that our concerns 
would be shared. It is clear by Deloitte’s silence on the 2nd of September that these figures have not been examined.


Our experts in education and human capital find absolutely no correlation between GSX statements, either then or 
now with reality. 


They also found many other red flags covered by others including:


• A preponderance of employees involved in tech, and sales and marketing compared to education


• No native English or Korean speaking tutors despite GSX claiming 13% of revenue comes from ‘foreign language’. 


No other Chinese education company online or offline shares this characteristic


• Discrepancies across the board in experience against job requirements


• Bot reviews on teacher profiles


• Classes where teachers perform bizarrely (i.e. sing to the students rather than teach)


• Lack of genuine positive feedback for lecturer or tutor interaction


Our team (and the whistleblower presented in this report) would be prepared to act as witness in a US or Chinese 
court of law to give testimony that GSX has repeatedly misstated its employees.


We ask that Deloitte and Li Li Shan, having received this information in good faith on the 9th July re-examine the 
numbers and verify with the China Ministry of Education for licenses registered.


We will share a further report in Chinese to the MOE outlining GSX egregious attempt to subvert education of children 
in China.


Conclusion
