Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block 










Page 1 of 43
Report Date: September 22, 2020 
 
Company:  
Nano-X Imaging Ltd.  
 
Ticker:  
NNOX US 


 
Industry: Medical Devices 
 
Stock Price: $28.83 
 
Market Cap: $1.3 billion 
 
Float: 43.2% 
 
Average Daily Volume (5-day): $284 million 
 





Nanox: Star Trek, Thernaos, and Nikola 
 


 
“I feel like it's a misnomer to say that we are even collaborating with [Nanox] at this point. It's 


more like they're just using our name on their advertisement, which makes me very upset.” 
– employee of purported U.S. AI partner Curemetrix 


 
 
We are short NNOX because we think it is a much bigger piece of garbage than Nikola will ever 
be.  There are important similarities, though.  Nikola rolled a truck down the hill to try to prove 
it’s real.  NNOX almost certainly used somebody else’s chest images to try to make its ARC 
machine look real.  Both Nikola and NNOX try to legitimize themselves by using the halo of 
respectable companies.  Nikola gave a bunch of stock away to GM.  Nanox issued options for 1.2 
million shares at $2.21 per share (worth ~$32.1 million) to the president of SK Telecom after SK 
Telecom happened to invest in NNOX. 
 
But NNOX gets much worse.  A convicted felon, who crashed an $8 billion market cap dotcom 
into the ground, was seemingly instrumental in plucking NNOX out of obscurity and bringing its 
massively exaggerated story to the U.S.  NNOX touts distribution partnerships that supposedly 
amount to $180.8 million in annual commitments.  Almost all of the company’s partnerships 
give reason for skepticism.  A U.S. AI partner has apparently not received any ARC images, 
despite requesting them for six months.  By contrast, we used our stock promotion imaging 
technology (a camera) to find evidence that the purported South African distributor expected to 
annually purchase $15.5 million from NNOX is incapable of doing so.
 


Page 2 of 43
NNOX’s Italian partner is supposedly committed to $29 million in annual sales, but it had just 
€250,160 in cash on hand at year-end 2018, and had sales of only €4.6 million.  Another 
distribution partner in Russia, purportedly good for $12.6 million in NNOX revenue per year, is 
an investment holding company with a history of bankruptcies and allegations of fraud by its 
founder.   
 
The below table summarizes the issues we have identified with purported partners – we provide 
greater detail throughout the report: 
 





  
 
Another halo NNOX is using to try to legitimize itself is that of “Nobel Peace Prize-nominated” 
Hadassah hospital.  We are convinced that this partnership has been greatly misrepresented.  As 
background, the chairman of NNOX’s audit committee is the chairman of the board of Hadassah.  
He also received options exercisable at $2.21 per share.  We have tried multiple routes to 
understand what exactly is happening with the ARC at Hadassah, yet we have been unable to get 
anybody to even confirm that the device is operating at the hospital.  Some investors are 
apparently under the impression that data from studies at Hadassah forms the backbone of 
NNOX’s 510(k) submission.  However, that misunderstands the timeline of events and the 
submission process. 
 


Page 3 of 43
If NNOX’s claims are achievable, it seemingly will come as a shock to most of the radiology 
profession.  We interviewed five radiologists who were familiar with NNOX’s claims.  Not a 
single one expressed credulity of NNOX.  Four of the radiologists – without any prompting – 
compared NNOX to Theranos.   
 
The ARC appears to be little more than a futuristic movie prop.  In fact, an Israeli company that 
designed a pickup truck used in the movie Jurassic World claims credit for its design.  That 
company is run by a graduate of the same art school from which NNOX CEO Ran Poliakine 
dropped out after two years.  Does Mr. Poliakine have qualifications that make him well-suited 
to run an industry-changing medical imaging company?  It depends.  We understand that he has 
no background in medicine, physics, or imaging.  However, in two lawsuits, he has been alleged 
to have cheated investors in other businesses he ran.  If the ARC is indeed real, it would be quite 
an achievement for somebody without such training.  However, if the ARC is all promotion, it 
certainly would not be inconsistent with the conduct alleged in the suits.   
 
We conclude that NNOX has no real product to sell other than its stock. 
 
 
Nikola Used Gravity; NNOX Seems to Have Used Somebody Else’s Images to Fake its 
“Live Demo” 
 
Recently, a video created by A-Labs of the ARC imaging machine performing a “raw chest 
scan” has circulated among NNOX retail investors.  This footage, previously marked “private”, 
was published in February 2020 and shows a dummy, known as a phantom, in an undisclosed 
room being passed over by the ARC.  The video then cuts to full-screen shots of a black-and-
white, rotating chest image on the left side of the screen and a stationary image of a chest on the 
right. Four radiologists opined to us that the imaging footage is fake.1 
 
In the beginning of the video, the phantom is laying with its arms across its chest as the 
Nanox.ARC moves down the torso: 
 


																																																													
1 Interviews with Radiologists A, B, D, and E 


Page 4 of 43
Three radiologists noted that this position is never how chest CT scans are done, as the arms get 
in the way of the chest image, suggesting that knowledge of radiology or radiography is lacking 
at NNOX.  (Below is a photograph of the same make and model phantom positioned properly for 
a scan.2) 
 


 
 
One radiologist stated that there appeared to be something wrong with the way the ARC acquired 
the image in the top right once the machine advanced past the mid-torso: “It’s just one big blur.”3  
Regardless, the video then switches to two shots that take up the entire screen: 
 


																																																													
2 https://www.supertechx-ray.com/Anthropomorphic/FullBodyPhantoms/PBU-60.php 
3 Radiologist D 


Page 5 of 43
The image on the left rotates, while the one on the right remains largely the same.  However, all 
four radiologists recognized glaring issues with the image on the left: The arms are pointed 
upward.  You can easily tell this by looking at the collarbones in the image: 


 
 
Thus, this image is clearly not the phantom being scanned.  To add to the amateurishness of the 
apparent deception, there are masses displayed in the lungs on the left image that are missing 
from the right image.  This provides additional support that these two images come from 
different sources, according to the four radiologists.  Two radiologists hypothesized that instead 
of being 3D tomosynthesis, as claimed, the image on the left is instead a reconstructed CT image 


Page 6 of 43
“from some other scan or technology”.4  Note that every radiologist with whom we spoke stated 
that the ARC is not capable of CT scans, despite the company’s claims; and therefore, any CT 
image would necessarily be from an outside source. 
 
One radiologist found a similar type of phantom to the one being used, a Kyoto Kagaku PBU-60: 
the radiologist noted that because the phantom was closed-body and shipped free of nodules, 
there was no way for someone to insert such objects in the chest, meaning the image on the left 
was not of the same phantom, if even a phantom at all.56  Another radiologist also stated that the 
angle of rotation being used in the left image was likely selected to impress a non-medical 
observer with clear contours of the chest, but it was useless from a radiologist’s perspective.7 
 
Meanwhile, as far as the right-hand image is concerned, all four radiologists characterized it as 
exceedingly poor.  One remarked that this image was “terrible… no radiologist would want to 
read images look like that”.8  Two radiologists opined that the chest image seemed not to 
advance with the movement of the Nanox.ARC.9  One remarked that for this reason, “those 
images certainly weren’t acquired then and there.”10 
 
After viewing the footage, one radiologist said bluntly, “That is very fraudulent for them to do 
that video… I suspect neither of these pictures are from that machine.”11	


																																																													
4 Source: Radiologist E.  As an additional point of confirmation, five radiologists to whom we spoke did not believe 
that the Nanox.ARC is capable of generating CT scans, only rudimentary X-rays (see infra) 
5 https://www.kyotokagaku.com/en/products_introduction/ph-2b/ 
6 Radiologist D 
7 Radiologist E 
8 Radiologist E 
9 Radiologists A and D 
10 Radiologist D 
11 Radiologist A 


Page 7 of 43
A-Labs is quick to provide excuses for the image quality in the video description: they say, “no 
filtering, no image processing, no collimation [image focusing]”.  We would like NNOX to 
explain why the images appear to come from different subjects, as we suspect that has nothing to 
do with collimation. 
 
 
The Convicted Felon  
 
The architect of this egregious stock promotion appears to be a small Israeli banking firm named 
A-Labs Finance and Advisory Ltd, which, according to a newspaper report, is secretly controlled 
by a convicted Israeli fraudster named Eli Reifman.  Reifman was previously imprisoned for four 
years for forging documents related to his ownership of shares in a stock of a company crashed 
from $8 billion almost to zero.12  Reifman proudly displays his prison term on his  LinkedIn 
profile:13 
 


																																																													
12 https://www.globes.co.il/news/article.aspx?did=1001340188  
13 https://www.linkedin.com/in/elireifman/ 


Page 8 of 43
Before the prison time and two failed attempts on his life, Reifman was the founder of a 
technology company that became Emblaze Ltd.  Emblaze’s expectations had run well ahead of 
reality into the dotcom crash, and the stock fell -90% from its peak valuation of $8 billion over 
the ensuing decade, but Reifman had managed to cash out $46 million in 2000.14,15 
 


In 2009, in an attempt to maintain control of Emblaze, Reifman forged documents stating that he 
controlled nine million shares through a British trustee in order to obtain $6.3 million in loans 
from two funds.16,17,18  Reifman was in and out of jail and prison for the next five years, first for 
contempt of court and then for fraud and forgery.  He declared bankruptcy in 2011 with 
approximately $60 million in debt.19  The court-appointed special manager of his assets stated 
that Reifman was a “slippery, clever man who stops at nothing and does not recognize the 
authority of the court.”20 
 
Last month, Globes reported that “market sources claim that Reifman is actually the power 
behind A-Labs.”21  We corroborated this with a former NNOX employee who told us that 
Reifman had significant involvement in NNOX’s pre-IPO meetings.22  A-Labs denied to Globes 
that Reifman has any official role, but we are skeptical.  Globes has previously pointed out that 
one of Reifman’s relatives, Rita Alter, is the head of life sciences at A-Labs.23  According to 
documents that Israeli investigators retrieved and translated from the Israeli Companies 
Authority, Alter owns 40.1% of the A-Labs general partner entity, A-Labs Fund Holdings G.P. 
Ltd.  The address Alter gives in the filing is the same as a place of residence that we found for 
Reifman himself: 
 


																																																													
14 https://www.haaretz.com/1.5451157 
15 https://www.globes.co.il/news/article.aspx?did=1001340188 
16 https://www.jpost.com/national-news/reifman-gets-4-years-for-fraud  
17 https://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/mediatechnologyandtelecoms/6220367/Dotcom-visionary-Eli-
Reifman-jailed-for-defying-court-order.html 
18 https://en.globes.co.il/en/article-1000524275 
19 https://en.globes.co.il/en/article-1000666873 
20 https://www.haaretz.com/1.5342402 
21 https://www.globes.co.il/news/article.aspx?did=1001337931 
22 Interview with former employee 
23 https://www.globes.co.il/news/article.aspx?did=1001340188 


Page 9 of 43
Sources: 24,25 


 
As the former NNOX employee told us, while the company executives were meeting with IPO 
bankers, Reifman would be sitting one room over: “a lot of people here wouldn't— wouldn't 
touch him, wouldn't go near him because getting four years in Israel back then is like getting, 
you know, 14 years today… and that conviction… maybe because of other things, he cannot go 
to the US.  It was kind of weird. I mean, we were meeting banks and he was like in the other 
room because they wouldn't, you know… he was doing the whole thing.  And then the Israelis 
that knew who he was, he would not come to the company at that day because they knew who he 
was.”  The former employee continued, “Yeah, so he's the guy, real guy behind it… they [A-
Labs] would do work. I imagine in terms of crafting the narrative and the pitch book and so 
forth.  And I mean, basically, promoting the valuation.” 
 
Two former senior executives of Emblaze hold senior roles at NNOX, strongly suggesting that 
Reifman has significant influence at NNOX. Both Lydia Edwards, who is President, USA at 
Nanox, and Bruce Edwards, who is Nanox’s VP of Business Development, USA held executive 
roles at Emblaze.  Unsurprisingly, certain A-Labs employees, including CEO Doron Cohen, also 
worked for Reifman at Emblaze.26 
 


																																																													
24 A-Labs Fund Holdings G.P. Ltd Israeli Corporations Authority corporate records 
25 https://www.locatefamily.com/Street-Lists/Israel/index-989.html 
26 https://www.linkedin.com/in/lydia-edwards-16619681/  


Page 10 of 43
A-Labs have been handsomely rewarded for its work with NNOX.  As part of a 2019 consulting 
deal to help bring NNOX public, the prospectus states that NNOX paid A-Labs a total of $1 
million in advance cash payment; 2.5% of the total cash raised in the IPO, or $4.1 million; and 
warrants to purchase an additional 2.5% of the company.27  Based on the current share price, A-
Labs’ warrants are collectively worth $3.9 million if exercised.  We calculate that in aggregate, 
A-Labs were paid at least $9.0 million in connection with the IPO.  NNOX’s five underwriters 
collectively earned $13.3 million in fees, and its top left underwriter earned only ~$6.3 million.28 
 
 
The $2.21 Club – Hadassah and SK Telecom 
 
NNOX touts the Hadassah partnership; however, our research gives rise to serious doubts about 
the substance of that relationship.  We note, however, that the chairman of Hadassah is on 
NNOX’s board and received options with a $2.21 strike.  Having SK Telecom as a backer 
certainly sounds impressive.  However, we were much less enamored when we learned that a 
president of SK Telecom, convicted felon Dr. Ilung Kim, has personally received options from 
NNOX presently worth approximately $32.1 million.29   
 
Hadassah 
 


																																																													
27 NNOX Prospectus, p. 92 
28 NNOX Prospectus, p. 150 
29 https://www.justice.gov/archive/atr/public/press_releases/2007/222770.htm 


Page 11 of 43
Hadassah’s Executive Chairman, Erez Meltzer, is also Chairman of NNOX’s Audit Committee.30  
Echoing other bargain-basement deals select individuals have gotten, he received 40,234 NNOX 
warrants with a strike price of $2.21.31  These are now worth approximately $1.1 million.  But 
we think something is amiss in NNOX’s partnership with Hadassah.   
 
In its prospectus, NNOX stated, “we introduced a working prototype of the Nanox.ARC in 
February 2020”.32  In a conference presentation last week, Poliakine included a photo (below 
right) which he claimed is the working prototype that is taking “beautiful images” right now at 
Hadassah:33  Moreover, a sell-side analyst attempting to rebut the Citron report claimed that the 
Nanox prototype “has been in place at Hadassah hospital in Jerusalem” and “[d]ata used for the 
FDA was gathered at this site”.34  However, these admissions fail to match NNOX’s own 
claimed development timeline. 
 


 
 
 
First, NNOX’s Third Party Review submission was made in January 2020, according the 
prospectus.35  Second, February 2020 was the claimed development date for Nanox’s working 


																																																													
30 NNOX F-1/A prospectus dated Aug. 20, 2020, pp. 104-105, 108, 111 
31 NNOX F-1/A prospectus dated Aug. 20, 2020, p.123 
32 NNOX F-1/A prospectus dated Aug. 20, 2020, p. 2 
33 https://investors.nanox.vision/events/event-details/cantor-virtual-global-healthcare-conference 
34 NNOX Analyst Note dated September 15, 2020 
35 NNOX Prospectus, p. 1 


Page 12 of 43
prototype.  Third, formal collaboration with Hadassah did not begin until April 2020.36  Taken 
together, these facts make it impossible for NNOX to have tested its working prototype 
anywhere, much less Hadassah Hospital, before 510(k) submission. 
 
To add to what we view as a suspicious lack of clarity on this partnership, discussions with 
multiple radiologists at Hadassah Hospital failed to confirm that a NNOX machine exists there.  
Our investigators made contact with two Hadassah doctors being paid by Nanox.  These doctors 
could not or would not acknowledge that there was a NNOX machine being used on patients, 
citing agreements with the company.  Given that NNOX has publicized this partnership, we do 
not see how affirming that the machine is being used at Hadassah would violate an NDA. 
 
A former Hadassah radiologist said that he hadn’t heard of NNOX, but he asked his ex-
colleagues currently at Hadassah about the company.  He told our investigator that neither of the 
Hadassah radiologists had heard of Nanox.  He also added that one of the Hadassah doctors who 
had refused to speak with us was “invested in the company”.  The radiologist went on to call 
Nanox’s website “nothing convincing”, stating that “there’s not much evidence that it’s a 
working machine”:  
 
 


																																																													
36 https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200427005359/en/Nanox-Signs-Agreement-With-Hadassah-
Medical-Organization-for-the-Development-of-Novel-Early-detection-Protocols-for-the-Nanox.ARC 
 


Page 13 of 43
An X-ray technician at Hadassah stated, “If you talk about the CT scan machine, so in Hadassah 
it's Philips company.  I don't know or think that this product is in use at hospitals in [I]srael.. I 
can ask at Hadassah the doctors or tecnitions [sic] about it. Because it's not my department. Like 
I told you I'm in Intervention Radiology at angiography. We do procedure's [sic] like 
embolization of bleeding, drainage, chemoemboliation [sic] of tumors, fixing vessels, stenting, 
etc.” 
 
SK Telecom 
 
In June 2019, SK Telecom purchased 2,262,443 NNOX shares at $2.21 per share and received 
an equal number of warrants struck at $20.87.37  In June 2020, SKT followed up with a 1.25 
million share purchase at $16 per share.38  However, SKT President Dr. Kim’s deal appears to 
have been much better. 
 


																																																													
37 NNOX Prospectus, p. 127 
38 Ibid., p. 128 


Page 14 of 43
Filed in the original draft prospectus, we see that NNOX awarded Dr. Kim 1,206,290 shares in 
October 2019: these were struck at $2.21.39  According to the draft prospectus, the unvested 
options were to vest over three years (emphasis added):  
 


“On October 28, 2019 (“the effective date”), Nanox IL signed an agreement with Dr. 
Ilung Kim, according to which Dr. Kim will provide certain services to the Company. Dr. 
Kim will not receive any cash compensation but will be granted options to purchase 
1,206,290 ordinary shares with an exercise price of $2.21. 301,572 of the options vested 
as of the grant date and the remaining 904,718 options will vest in equal monthly 
installments over a period of three years from the grant date. The vested options will 
be exercisable in accordance to the terms specified in the agreement.” 


 
However, we see in the final prospectus filed on August 24, 2020 that NNOX added language 
specifying that Dr. Kim would be able to accelerate his ability to exercise the stock upon an IPO, 
while inexplicably changing the grant date to December 2019 (emphasis added):40 
 


On December 16, 2019, Nanox IL signed an agreement with Dr. Ilung Kim for provision 
of services to the Company. Dr. Kim will not receive any cash compensation, but will be 
granted options to purchase 1,206,290 ordinary shares with an exercise price of $2.21 per 
ordinary share. 301,572 of the options vested as of the grant date and the remaining 
904,718 options will vest in equal monthly installments over a period of three years from 
the vesting commencement date. In the event of an IPO or Deemed Liquidation (as 
defined therein), all unvested options shall fully accelerate immediately prior to the 
consummation of the IPO. The vested options shall be exercisable until the earlier of (a) 
the second anniversary of termination of the engagement by and among the Company and 
Dr. Ilung Kim, or (b) the tenth anniversary from the date of grant.  


 
NNOX appear to be less than transparent about this troubling fact pattern, as the October 28, 
2019 agreement is not referenced anywhere in the Final Prospectus.   
 
Despite paying Dr. Kim tens of millions of dollars, NNOX seeks to hide him from the world.  
See no mention of Dr. Kim in the presentation slide below:41 
 


																																																													
39 NNOX Draft Prospectus, p. F-18 
40 NNOX Final Prospectus, p. F-15 
41 NNOX September 2020 Investor Presentation, p. 28 


Page 15 of 43
We wonder what exactly Dr. Kim does for his grant. 
 
 
Purported U.S. AI Partner Curemetrix: “It’s a Misnomer To Say We Are Even 
Collaborating” With NNOX 
 
NNOX’s partnership with Curemetrix, an AI mammography processing company, is little more 
than a handful of phone calls and clerical emails because nothing has materialized from NNOX’s 
end.  We spoke with three employees at Curemetrix, all of whom verified that their “agreement” 
consisted primarily of a hope of co-operating in the future. All three of the employees we spoke 
with confirmed they have not received images from NNOX, not even for compatibility testing 
purposes.  One stated: 
 


“Every month we write them.  ‘We're ready.’ You know, ‘Would you like to send your 
image and we can run our CAD [computer-aided diagnosis] through your system?’ And 
they've just kind of ghosted us… They're like, ‘Oh, we don't have images ready yet. It's 
still in production.’ I mean, this is from March until now, six months.” 


 
The same Curemetrix employee stated, “I feel like it's a misnomer to say that we are even 
collaborating with them at this point. It's more like they're just using our name on their 
advertisement, which makes me very upset.” 
 


Page 16 of 43
NNOX’s unwillingness to provide images produced by the scanner is not restricted to its AI 
partners: radiologists on the “Aunt Minnie” forum, which is an industry forum for radiologists, 
corroborate the lack of available imaging.  The forums are populated with practitioners who have 
been unable to obtain images from NNOX, despite numerous requests.42 
 
 

















Medical Experts Voiced Profound Lack of Belief in NNOX Claims, Technological Validity 
 
Five radiologists with whom we spoke about NNOX had reactions ranging from extreme 
skepticism to outright derision.  Their doubts fell broadly along two lines: disbelief about the 
various sets of claims management has made, and skepticism about what kind of functionality, if 
any, the Nanox.ARC has.  Two of the people we spoke with believe that the money raised in the 
IPO was for R&D purposes, with one likening the current status of NNOX’s progress to that of a 
company doing an angel round.  We view this as highly problematic, given that the company 
continually touts a supposedly near-finished product. 
																																																													
42 https://www.auntminnie.com/Forum/tm.aspx?&m=628676&high=nanox&mpage=2  


Page 17 of 43
We lay out experts’ key statements below, subdivided among a series of eight serious points that 
the experts raised.  We call upon the company to address these deep points of concern, each of 
which we believe indicates blatant fabrication and a near-total lack of scientific substance at the 
company. 
 
Question 1: Where Are the Images? 
 
The radiologists uniformly wondered why there are few images that NNOX has made public 
outside of the rudimentary X-rays that we discuss in Question 3.  They highlighted that this runs 
in stark contrast to industry practice.  Even an otherwise optimistic member of NNOX’s 
Advisory Board admitted to not having yet seen images: 
 


NNOX Advisory Board Member: “No, I have not seen a live demonstration… I have not 
seen a working device or any pictures or images from or computerized tomography 
pictures of this, or images with this device yet. I don't think that's something that is done 
yet. As far as I know, no one has gotten scanned by this device yet.” 
 
Radiologist C: “We've talked amongst ourselves; we came to some of these conclusions 
on our own because there's just nothing near there.  There's not an image.  There's not an 
approval.  I'm not even sure they have a prototype.  It is alarmingly vapor-like… Do you 
have a working prototype? Show me the images!” 
 
“They're lying, they're overtly misleading, and they really are deliberately obscuring what 
the product does.  Except the only pictures they show are the same X-rays that other folks 
have seen. It's really not a huge challenge to get an X-ray machine… That user interface 
[glossy promo video] is a total joke. I mean, that's like a Star Wars illustration.” 
 
“They haven't shown they can do anything except for the extremity X-ray.  On the other 
hand, the rest of it is bluster.  Will they be able to build it? Will they be able to build it at 
scale? Will it actually work as a CT scanner? Nobody knows.” 
 
“A buddy of mine was also looking at this company.  He has CT patents himself.  He ran 
the CT business for [large imaging company], ran the MR business for [large imaging 
company], very close colleague of [NNOX Advisory Board member].  He reads these 
things and he just laughs out loud.  He says it's like there's not an ounce of credibility in 
anything they're claiming.” 
 
“Maybe they have something, but if I had a prototype at Hadassah Hospital, those images 
would be at the website.  If I have a prototype sitting in a room that's never turned on, 
then images will not be on the website.” 
 
Radiologist D: “This thing just seems so outrageous and there's not a single article, 
there's no images anywhere. Where's the images? If you're doing it, there's images. 
Because the other thing would be is, you would have to say that your images have to be 
the same or better, but you're claiming it's all better. As a radiologist and someone who 


Page 18 of 43
does this for the last 40 years, I'm ashamed to say, it's too good to be true. That's how I 
looked at it.” 
 
I've seen with companies like Siemens, any real company, and small companies, 
including ourselves and our other companies at RSNA [Radiology Society of North 
America], the first thing people always show is images. That's the first thing I ask for. 
You can tell me, "Our machine does this, that, and the other," and then I say, "Show me 
the images." Then I say, "How do these images compare to the other images?" The next 
question you ask, "How accurate is it?" 
 
“Basically, if you could develop this, they would give you the Nobel prize. I mean, that's 
the thing. It would be so astronomical.  It would be like, ‘Oh my God.’  That's what 
makes it even a little bit more hard to believe.  Like I said, there's no images.  There's 
nothing…	It's almost like this is a little bit like the Theranos story.” 
 
Radiologist E: “What you're showing me was just basic x-rays, that's probably the easiest 
thing that we do in radiology or plane films.  So I wouldn't bank them generating any x-
ray pictures as the ability to do much higher-level imaging in a satisfactory or potentially 
FDA approved way.” 
 
Radiologist A: “On the website, they don't have a single picture of the machine, except 
the CEO sitting on a table where we can't see the whole table. To me, what I could see 
that table looked really flimsy and I just can't believe you could even build a medical 
grade table that's going to hold up to 300, 400, or 500 pound patient, based on what he 
was showing in the picture… from what I have seen in their publications, they haven't 
produced a single actual CT scan picture. If they did, you would think they would put on 
their website.” 
 
“I think that’s exactly the problem.  My colleague said, ‘Oh, I saw a [Nanox] head CT on 
their website with the Qure.ai [Nanox AI partner].’  I said to my colleague, ‘I saw that 
picture, and that's a picture of a person who has a massive hemorrhage.  There is no way 
that that was a volunteer that went inside their [Nanox’s] machine..’ Then she agreed. 
She probably… realized that was a Qure.ai picture from another vendor.” 
 
 “[If I were at Nanox], I'd be the first one at our big [industry] meeting, RSNA, to submit 
an abstract and present and say, ‘Hey, here's my pictures, and here are some pictures from 
GE, and they look equivalent: this is the X-ray dose that [Nanox] produces, and there is a 
significant dose reduction.’  There's all kinds of things that you could present in the 
meeting without giving away your proprietary secrets. This company has not done any of 
those things.” 
 
Radiologist B: “I mean, like all the radiologists and us, we just sit around and say, this is 
not even possible.  Like the images that they're talking about they haven't [published] on 
their website, nor in the private [radiology] community have they shown any images that 
they produced.” 


Page 19 of 43
Question 2: What Data Did NNOX Actually Submit to the FDA-Designated Third Party Review 
Organization, and Why Did NNOX Receive a Major Deficiency Letter? 
 
Receiving 510(k) approval from the FDA only requires equivalence to existing devices.43  Our 
interviews indicated that NNOX’s receipt of a major deficiency letter instead of approval 
suggests significant issues with the product and the company.  A former FDA official who had 
participated in 510(k) approvals highlighted this fact: 
 


Former FDA Official: “It's just [if there is a major deficiency letter] FDA or these third 
parties people are not very comfortable.  There could be two different reasons.  Either, 
when they actually submitted the data, it was not in the format that the reviewers wanted 
it. They would like to actually arrange it in a way that reviewers would like to see and be 
comfortable with. That's one thing. Another thing [would be] they don't have the data. 
They don't have the data at all.” 
 
“What a major deficiency letter means, they don't think this product is ready to launch.” 
“Yes, of course, because major deficiency letters are drafted in a way where something 
big is lacking. That means they are lacking in completely analytical validation or clinical 
validation as part of the study. Something is really lacking big time.” 
 
Radiologist C: “No one has seen an image, I'm not even sure they have a prototype, they 
can't get FDA approval, they can't be selling it, it's against the law, they can't even be 
taking preorders.  Any US-based pre-orders would be against the law.  In all honesty, 
how this thing got to be an IPO, I think you have to look into the guy who is the 
entrepreneur behind it and check out his background, because that's the guy I'd want to 
know about.” 
 
“Okay, I understand you got pushback from the FDA, what did that say? What is your 
plan for FDA approval? Are you still on track? Is there a device that can make images in 
a factory? Where are the images? It's ludicrous to say that they would sell something 
without having anything there.” 
 
“How do you do an IPO when you don't have an FDA approved [imaging] product? 
Unheard of. That caught everybody's eye. That, plus the extraordinarily level of hype 
associated with it, makes you nervous. Everybody I know that has looked at this, and by 
the way, the president of our west coast division—he called me to ask about this a couple 
of weeks ago… He came back to the same conclusion. It seems like a scam to all of 
us…” 


 
Question 3: How Can NNOX Claim All-In-One Imaging? 
 
In an interview, Ran Poliakine asserted that “because it’s digital, it’s multispectral.  You don’t 
need different machines to do different kinds of imaging.”44  According to Poliakine, the 
																																																													
43 https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/premarket-submissions/premarket-notification-510k#se 
44 https://www.israel21c.org/israeli-firm-aims-to-disrupt-mammograms-and-other-x-rays/ 


Page 20 of 43
Nanox.ARC will be able to perform X-rays, CT scans, and mammograms without requiring 
breast compression, as well as angiograms and fluoroscopies.45  “It’s similar to using an iPhone 
to listen to music and take pictures and make calls,” he said at the time. 
 
Indeed, Nanox seems to imply openly that the Nanox.ARC will replace CT scanners, even 
though none of the radiologists with whom we spoke believed that the Nanox.ARC was capable 
of CT scans.  Below, the Nanox.ARC on the right is depicted as the successor to the bulky CT 
machine on the left:46 
 
 


	
 
The parade of claims continues: in June 2019, an article stated that NNOX was working on a CT 
scanner that would cost $10,000 and fit in a suitcase.47  Also in June 2019, NNOX asserted that it 
had developed “a new 5D X-ray source based on advanced nano MEMS technology that creates 
a stable X-ray stream at low voltage and at a fraction of the cost”, with “higher-quality images; 
no motion artifacts; real-time 3D imaging; multi-spectral layering; and digital sync with 
treatment tools”.48  The radiologists with whom we spoke uniformly viewed these assertions as 
laughable. 
 


Radiologist D: “They're basically claiming they could do everything for everything. I 
wouldn't believe that if Siemens told me that, with all of their money as well as their 
research.” 
 
“You have some X-ray source, which has no articles about it. There's no R&D, basically, 
and you just put something together out of the sky… It's just sheer fantasy—I mean, it 


																																																													
45 Ibid. 
46 NNOX September 2020 Presentation, p. 16 
47 https://digitone.news/?p=1005 
48 https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/korean-multinational-sk-telecom-invests-in-nanox-one-of-the-first-
global-players-to-join-the-nanoxvision-initiative-300870321.html 


Page 21 of 43
works in the Star Trek movie, and thousands of years from now, perhaps, but it's so 
outrageous.” 
 
“This whole thing here, like I said, the first thing is, when you tell me you've got a 
company that's going to make X-ray, CT, angiography, mammography and you don't 
have any images, and you're also going to do AI, billing, and reading, and everything's 
like an iPhone to take a picture, to listen to music?  That's what an iPhone is, but 
medicine's not iPhones.” 
 
Radiologist A: “That is a statement by someone who does not know what he's talking 
about, because one of the key things about mammography… is you got to get your boobs 
squished.  We compress the breast because that is needed in order to spread the breast 
tissue to acquire the picture. That is an inherent part of the exam.  You cannot just lay 
somebody down in a CT scanner machine and obtain a mammogram. That's ridiculous.  I 
cannot fathom that that machine could be used for that purpose at all. Maybe that you 
could modify, but you're not going to replace the mammogram machine with that one 
little prototype.  I just don't see that, and doing X-rays with that kind of a machine with a 
gantry that appears to be somewhat thin, it doesn't even have the proper field of view to 
do an X-ray, say, of your entire abdomen.  A lot of that, it just doesn't make sense to me.” 
 
“They're two totally different types of technology.  X-ray image isn't so hard to produce, 
but the CT scan image is a lot more work because it's not just the image acquisition, but 
after it's acquired, there are algorithms called kernels, that you use to post-process the 
image, and also to create different renderings of the data.  That's a process.  The third 
thing is, to create mammogram images, is taking it to another level. [laughs]  
Mammography is, in some ways, the most difficult because the resolution has to be so 
high, and there are a lot of nuances to the equipment. With the grids, and the exposure 
time, and a lot of different factors that go into it.  I think that they're attempting to apply 
the new, this novel X-ray tube, to apply it for multiple different X-ray modalities, but… It 
would be three completely different types of machines to do an X-ray, to do a CT scan, or 
to do a mammogram.” 
 
“I cannot imagine that [all in one machine]… No, it's a joke. No.” 
 
“You could create an X-ray type picture using a CT scanner, what we call tomograph, but 
it's a very, very crude image because there are things that go into creating an X-ray, what 
we call collimation. Where we kind of shadow out everything that's around the hand, to 
make the pictures look more crisp, and doing certain positionings to enhance the imaging. 
I don't know if you guys ever had an X-ray of a hand. You usually get different views of 
it, and we try not to expose-- There's something called scatter. You don't want to expose 
the rest of the patient's body if you're taking an X-ray of say, their foot, you don't want all 
that radiation to expose their lungs. With that type of gantry, it doesn't seem that 
allows you to do that type of collimation that I'm describing.” 
 
Radiologist E: “With a fluoroscopy, even though that's an X-ray based technology, 
typically, that's done real-time. You're giving oral contrast [“dye”], somebody's in there 


Page 22 of 43
doing the exam, watching the contrast… you have to time the scan according to when the 
contrast is given for optimal visualization of different organs.” 
 
“They even talked about angiograms, which is visualization of the blood vessels, and 
again that has to be done with contrast and specific timing to be able to see those blood 
vessels when the contrast is in there.  So, I don't know how they would replace that 
either, and they didn't really go into any of that.” 
 
“I'm not exactly sure how they would get really good [mammography] images without 
[breast] compression.  Compression helps decrease the radiation dose. It helps spread out 
the tissues so we can see through it better. It helps decrease motion… So they talk about 
that, but they don't talk about how do they get past all of those reasons why we do it. 
“They also talk about a decrease in radiation dose.  They claim it's less than 1% for what 
we do for mammograms now… And they go into saying that there's this risk of radiation-
induced carcinoma… There is a very nominal risk of someone developing a breast cancer 
from annual screening mammography, but it's literally about one in 100,000.  So that is 
such a small risk, I don't know that that's something I'd be touting as, ‘Hey, we can just 
decrease this one in 100,000 chance of this happening, you know?’” 
 
Regarding NNOX’s claim that the Nanox.ARC enables mammograms to be taken 30% 
faster: “So is it the actual image acquisition that's decreased by 30%? You know, if that's 
the case, our image acquisition now for mammography is about, oh, 5 to 10 seconds per 
image. I mean, it's pretty fast. So, if you go from 5 to 10 seconds to 1 second, I don't 
know what the huge benefit is. A lot of the reason that it takes 15 minutes to do a 
screening mammogram is because you have to change position and you're doing images 
of both breasts. The actual image acquisition is very fast. So they don't really tell you 
how are they making that faster. So those were kind of some red flags. 
 
“Mammography is a highly regulated field of radiology [due to the Mammography 
Quality Standards Act]… It's probably the most highly regulated field in radiology, so to 
break into that, not saying it's not impossible, but that's a huge hurdle that you have to get 
over is to prove that you can meet all these MQSA requirements. 
 
“If you introduce a technology where maybe the images are acquired in different 
projections, or maybe they're required at the same time, like, what's the training involved 
with that? Who's going to train the physicians to say, okay, this is now how you're going 
to read this screening study? They [Nanox] didn't talk about any of that.” 
 
Radiologist C: “The claims they make that you can do angiography without contrast are 
complete nonsense.” 
 
“Is it appropriate for them to be claiming they can do mammography, CT scanning, and 
geography and they can do this this year and take pre-orders? That's completely 
scandalous.” 
 


Page 23 of 43
“Now, if you can turn this into a whole-body scanning unit and get X-rays from that, 
that's interesting because it is a little smaller and more field-adaptive, but it's an extra 
device, not necessarily IPO worthy at this particular point in time, the claims are it's 
going to replace everything. I don't have the website in front of me anymore, but your 
claims are very elaborate. I think right now, if you believe these images came from their 
system, it's an X-ray device, not the thing that's going to change the world.” 
 
“The claims are it will replace everything. Right now, I wouldn’t even pretend to believe 
that this machine can do what they’re claiming.” 
 
“I think they may realize that they can't do some of the things or they're not going to be 
able to do some of the things that they're pretending to be able to do, and they're happier 
to go on with the vague claims.” 


 
Question 4: Why Has NNOX Shown Only Rudimentary X-Rays? 
 
The images NNOX has revealed, pictured below, were panned by the radiologists as entirely 
underwhelming, on par with antiquated X-ray technology already available in cheap machines 
and small form factors.49  These are some of the few purported NNOX scans, other than the 
“chest scan” video that we discussed above.  One radiologist expressed doubt at the supposed 
lower radiation intensity (kVp) and shorter exposure time (mAs) put forward by NNOX for these 
images. 
 


																																																													
49 NNOX F-1/A prospectus dated Aug. 20, 2020, p. 82 


Page 24 of 43
Radiologist D: “The easiest thing in the world to do is take an X-ray. People make very 
cheap X-ray machines. That's the first thing is, all you're seeing is you're taking an X-ray 
of a foot. That's the easiest thing in the world. Remember, Roentgen took an X-ray of a 
hand in 1895. That was the first image he ever made, his wife's hand with a ring on. To 
make an X-ray of a foot, and it looked nothing special, but to say you can take an X-ray 
of a foot is not exactly stellar technology.” 
 
Radiologist C: “They're making thing seemed like it's a CT scanner that will do what a 
CT does. It might be able to do what a planar X-ray does. In which case it's an interesting 
but very expensive version of a machine that can do an X-ray.  On the other hand, if it 
does what a CT does it could change the world which is why these people are spending or 
investing this money but there's no evidence it's ever going to be able to do that. 
 
 “You don't take pre-orders unless you have a product. Where did these images come 
from, these three images? Did they come from Hadassah Hospital? If Hadassah is doing 
stuff why haven't we seen them? If I was their advisor working with them and you didn't 
see images, you'd know the machine wasn't working. 
 


Page 25 of 43
“I think this could easily be sitting in a room unbuilt, sitting in the room potentially built, 
but not approved to be used in humans, sitting in a room approved to be used in humans, 
but not working or it could be in there doing X-rays all day long, just plain old, simple X-
rays all day long. They're doing feasibilities they're testing and collecting data for 
approval. It could be any of those things. I'd like to know which one it is. It is not a CT 
scan, it is an X-ray.” 
 
“Everything they've shown, it's an X-ray, they talk CT… Their claims about cost and 
availability are ludicrous, lots of inaccuracies and confusion, and inflated claims, but it 
seems like they can make an X-ray.” 
 
Radiologist B: “Their kVp and their mAs, I mean, the radiation is lower, but… I want to 
see the actual machine with the control panels and how you take the pictures. I mean, 
nowadays, anybody can make something up like those… They can totally just type it in 
and there's no way to prove it unless they show you a picture of their X-ray machine 
panel and that is the actual setting.” 
 
“To make a 3D tomography mammography machine is a million times harder than 
coming up with an X-ray machine that has been around for over 100 years.” 


 
Question 5: How Will NNOX Roll Out 1,000 Machines With its Partners in 2021? 
 
The radiologists with whom we spoke roundly dismissed NNOX’s touted 2021 distribution 
estimates of 1,000 machines.50  They cited the lack of documentation and evaluation of the 
product’s capabilities, namely given there are no studies using the actual Nanox.ARC in a 
research hospital setting, coupled with the lack of any peer-reviewed, published material 
discussing the efficacy of the machine when used on humans. 


 
Radiologist A: “I think the likelihood [of a 1,000-unit 2021 rollout] would be low. If it's 
August now, and they haven't developed a working model…” 
 
Former FDA Official: “It's a lengthy process. If somebody would like to launch the thing 
by next year in the US market, I don't think that's possible.” 
 
Radiologist C: “That will never happen… 0% chance.” 
 
“It's fake. I think there's a lot of lying going on.” 
 
“I saw the [Hadassah] doctor speaking, but again, he doesn't talk about the product.  He 
doesn't say what its done in his institution.  He says, ‘It could’, or ‘this could’, or the 
‘potential is great. I'm happy to collaborate,’ but doesn't say what the product is.  Doesn't 
say where the product is.  Doesn't say concrete things that he's doing with it.  I listened to 
him.  It's vapor.  The first thing it would be, if I was that guy—I've been that guy, the 
testimonial guy—I will tell you the concrete things I'm doing with it. He didn't say that 
once.” 


																																																													
50 NNOX Prospectus, p. 2 


Page 26 of 43
Radiologist E: “It was interesting, because when you read through their website, they're 
talking about wanting to distribute… and I'm like, where are you putting these?  Like you 
haven't even shown a machine that does anything.  So how are you going to have a 
thousand machines anywhere, you know, in the second quarter of 2021, or whatever it 
was?” 
 
Radiologist D: “Well, I heard the guy from Hadassah… but he never really said they 
were doing anything: ‘We'd like to work with them.’  I'm pretty good at radiology and 
I'm at [major research center], and we try to do the best for the patients, but we would 
never make statements that ‘We're changing all these things.’” 
 
About the USARAD distribution partnership: “Yes, you don't do that [sell machines as 
teleradiology company].  Teleradiology, what you're doing, basically, is just trying to 
read the images. You're not involved in anything else… It’s like me selling machines.” 


 
Question 6: Why Does NNOX Have Seemingly Weak Industry Presence, Given the Investor 
Hype? 
 
Through our interviews, it became clear that though there is significant investor enthusiasm for 
the Nanox.ARC, NNOX does not seem to engage with the medical device industry in a 
meaningful way, nor do medical and industry professionals take the Nanox.ARC seriously, if 
they know of it at all. 


 
Radiologist A: “I have… gone to almost every major medical meeting here as well as in 
Europe, for the last three or four years, regularly. Nanox has never had a booth, and to 
my knowledge, they never had a presentation, and they have never had any scientific 
publication.” 
 
“They have a couple respectable people on the Advisory Board who are surprisingly 
silent.” 
 
Radiologist C: “I think everybody in imaging space thinks this thing is very likely to be 
bogus.  There are so many alarms.  They do have really solid people who they have on 
their website who are making testimonials: Morry Blumenfeld is a serious player, 
Norbert Pelc is a serious player, but then they don't seem to be talking about the 
product.  They talk about the potential if you had some revolutionary product, what it 
might do, but they're not talking the product.” 
 
“My buddy is a very close friend and advisor to [Advisory Board President] Morry 
Blumenfeld.  Morry hasn't returned any of his calls on this topic. That makes me 
nervous.” 
 
Radiologist B: “I mean, you have to have peer review scientifically papers to support 
your data and support your images… but they had zero papers, because they don't even 
have an image to show.” 


Page 27 of 43
“I actually think it's another Theranos.” 
 
Radiologist D inquired with multiple senior R&D staff at a major multinational imaging 
company, but none had heard of NNOX. 
 


Question 7: How Will This Technology Gain Legitimate Adoption, Even Over the Medium 
Term? 
	
Even longer-term, assuming NNOX can fund future R&D for its seemingly abortive product, the 
radiologists expressed skepticism about the potential of the technology to come close to 
achieving the lofty claims laid out by the company or to besting the current standard of care. 


 
Radiologist E estimated that would take 7 to 10 years even for a viable imaging product 
to successfully penetrate the mammography market: 
 
“It's not something that's like, oh, we developed it, now start using it, because we need 
studies to say that the utility is good.  [Tomosynthesis] was introduced or approved by the 
FDA in 2011.  It's been almost a decade and we still are studying it.” 
 
Radiologist E also highlighted the difficulties of cloud software development for 
radiology: 
 
“Most radiologists, radiology groups, and hospitals have what's called a PACS system. 
These digital images you're talking about, even just for mammogram, it's usually on 
average about 600 to 800 images per breast when you're adding in the 3D component.  So 
you could imagine how much storage that requires when you're doing anywhere from 
1,200 to 1,600 images per breast per year… So would they be able to support that? 
Because that's one thing that we do run into, and every practice runs into, is archiving and 
storing this large amount of data and making it quickly accessible when you're in the 
clinic seeing these patients, and you need to compare.  And when I'm looking at a 
mammogram, I don't want to just compare it to one year, I want to compare to five or six 
years.  So you've got to bring in thousands of thousands of images from the past five to 
six years that a radiologist can look through and see if there have been interval changes.  
So would their cloud storage be able to support that?  Would it be able to be integrated 
into these PACS systems that are already in place and these radiology groups and hospital 
systems? 
 
Radiologist E further stated that merely selling imaging machines into developing 
countries would be unlikely to be that helpful: “This is something that we talk about even 
here in the US, so let's say you image this person and you find something wrong, well, 
what do you do about it? Where are these patients going to go? I mean… they don't have 
access to healthcare. Well, is there a breast surgeon that can take it [a tumor] out? Is there 
an oncologist? [If] So, how do they pay for that?  So, even if you find something, what 
are you going to do about it? I  mean, is someone going to go in and help set up systems 
so these people can get treatments, because what's the point in knowing if you have 
breast cancer if you can't do anything about it?” 


Page 28 of 43
Radiologist E opined that putting compact NNOX imaging devices into ambulances, an 
idea postulated by Dr. Kim, would not be not useful:51 
 
“A medic's not going to be able to interpret a head CT on a patient that's lying on the side 
of the road or an abdominal CT.  You're [also] not giving contrast so it's going to be of 
little utility.  Plus once those images are obtained, how long does it take to get processed 
and sent to a computer, where a radiologist can then interpret it?  And is there somebody 
waiting there to interpret it, to then turn around and call the medic and say, ‘Hey, this 
person's got, you know, a liver laceration. Get them to the nearest hospital’?  How, 
logistically, would that make sense or work? And how does it help the medic to know if 
the patient has a broken arm, because the patient's going to go to the ER either way and 
get treated there.” 
 
Radiologist C: “3D imaging is standard. You take a CT image, you put the slices 
together, you can make a 3D rendering.  4D is theoretically when the image moves.  It's 
sort of an odd term: if you're doing dynamic imaging, it's 4D.  Now they [Nanox] threw 
the word 5D in because they're going to get spectral information.  Spectral CT has been 
out there for 10 years. It isn't putting the world on fire, and no one else is calling it 5D.  
It's kind of another nonsense piece of information. It's full of false claims all the way 
through to the orders.” 


 
Question 8: Why Has NNOX Made Easily Disprovable Claims About The Industry and Its Own 
Technology? 
 
The experts also highlighted several of NNOX’s claims to investors that ran directly counter to 
their experience and academic knowledge. 


 
Radiologist C: “The average CT scanner sells for about $800,000. The average MRI 
scanner sells for about $1.2 million.  You see they're completely misleading in these 
numbers. Now, look at the numbers they're claiming in their pro forma, $3 million.  They 
also say that two-thirds of the planet can't get a CT.  That's hard to believe.  They also say 
the other third has to wait weeks to months.  You can get a CT scan right now, anywhere 
in America in five minutes. [They say] There are some underserved areas of the world 
where you will be able to bring this because it's low cost and it's portable and whatever it 
is. Right now, it's nothing. It's an X-ray machine.” 
 
Radiologist E: “They also talk about mammography missing up to 20% of breast 
cancers—I’m not sure where they got that number from. The Breast Cancer Surveillance 
Consortium looked at 1.6 million mammograms, and they said it was 86.7% sensitivity 
and 88.9% specificity.  That doesn’t match up.” 
 
 


 
																																																													
51 https://techcrunch.com/2020/06/04/nanox-maker-of-a-low-cost-scanning-service-to-replace-x-rays-expands-
series-b-to-51m/ 


Page 29 of 43
Partnership Details Cast Significant Doubt on How Real NNOX’s Operations Are 
 
We believe there is substantial reason to doubt the substance of NNOX’s purported partnerships. 
 
Question 1: What are the Circumstances Under Which Partners Can Abandon The Agreements? 
 
Buried in the small print of the company’s prospectus are significant get-out clauses with of the 
distributor agreements. NNOX’s agreements with its second- and fourth-largest distributors, 
Golden Vine International Company Ltd and APR 1998 S.L, have significant conditions in them 
that allow the partners to terminate the agreement, calling into question $40.4 million out of the 
$180.8 million in annual revenue agreements.  The Golden Vine agreement may “be terminated 
by either party upon notice stipulating that the notifying party has come to the conclusion, based 
on market evidence, that there is no business merit for the Nanox.ARC in Taiwan or 
Singapore.”52  Meanwhile, the agreement with APR 1998 S.L. may be terminated “at the end of a 
six-month trial period by sending within five days a formal notice to the company if trial results 
are not satisfactory”.53 
 
NNOX’s Brazil distributor, LATAM Business Development Group Ltd., received significant 
criticism from Citron, which noted that its three employees are all in Israel.  However, Citron 
overlooked that LATAM are in fact a very big deal when it comes to specialty anal-rectal 
products. Through a distribution agreement they have signed with Peritech Pharma, LATAM is 
the distributor of choice for Peritech’s hemorrhoid and anal itching gels.54  Unfortunately for 
NNOX, they seem slightly less enthusiastic about committing a letter of credit for a device that 
doesn’t yet exist. The $9 million letter of credit referenced in the prospectus also appears to have 
significant wriggle room for the counterparty, as its enforceability is “conditioned upon the 
parties finalizing within 90 days of the agreement, in mutually agreed form, the terms and 
conditions of the statement of work, the system requirement specifications and the service level 
agreement.”55 
  
Additionally, we spoke on the phone with a person familiar with the $3.7 million Clarity Medical 
Solution contract who told us that the minimum fee was based on NNOX’s obtaining FDA 
approval.  This requirement does not appear to have been disclosed in the prospectus. 
 
Gold Rush   
 
Question 2: Why Does NNOX’s South African Partner Seem to Be Headquartered in a Run-
Down House in a Bad Neighborhood? 
 
We believe NNOX’s South African partner is little more than a man who used to work at a 
medical distributor operating out of his bedroom, if the address is real at all. 
 


																																																													
52 NNOX Prospectus, p. 89 
53 Ibid. 
54 https://www.latam-bd.com/news  
55 NNOX Prospectus, p. 89 


Page 30 of 43
NNOX claims that a south African company named Gold Rush signed a $15.5 million minimum 
annual fee and letter of credit contract.56  Unlike with the other agreements mentioned in the 
prospectus, NNOX don’t provide the full legal entity name for Gold Rush. This made it a little 
harder for us to find what we believe is the partner, but we dug a little and think we may have 
struck fool’s gold.  We sent investigators to the residential address associated with the only 
matching entity we located, and here is the supposed place of business they found: 
 
 	





																																																													
56 Prospectus p. 91 


Page 31 of 43
We lay out our methodology below.  Searching the South African corporate registry for “Gold 
Rush” yields the following results: 57   
 
 


																																																													
57 Queried “Gold Rush” at https://eservices.cipc.co.za/Search.aspx 
 


Page 32 of 43
We think that only one plausible partner stands out, which is “Gold Rush Equipment 
Syndication”. The entity was formed in February 2020 and is registered to a suburb of Durban. 
 


Page 33 of 43
It is registered to an individual named “Sunset Blessing Mtshali”. 
 


 
 
The Facebook profile for a “Sunset Mtshali” says he works as a marketer for “Sechaba Medical 
Services”, a provider of IT systems and services to medical administrators:58,59 
 
 
 
 


																																																													
58 https://www.facebook.com/sunset.mtshali.7 
59 https://www.3sixtyhealth.co.za/managed-care-services/ 


Page 34 of 43
We think it possible NNOX will respond to this (if, in fact, we have found the correct “Gold 
Rush”) by claiming that they are actually partnered with “Sechaba Medical Services”.  Well, 
Sechaba Medical Services is headquartered in Johannesburg.60  Accordingly, we ask, why would 
NNOX register with someone who is an employee that has set up a distribution business 582 km 
away from the employer?61 
 
Promedica Bioelectronics 
 
Question 3: Why Are The Committed Annual NNOX Sales for NNOX’s Italy and Spain Partners 
Multiples of Their Total 2018 Sales? 
 
NNOX claims an Italian company called Promedica Bioelectronics s.r.l. signed a deal for $29 
million annually with an accompanying letter of credit.62  Yet, Italian filings show Promedica did 
€4.6 million in revenues in 2018 (the most recent year for which figures are available), only 
garnering €31k in profit.  We find it hard to believe that with just €250,160 in cash on the 
balance sheet, Promedica is able to guarantee a payment in the dozens of millions:63 
 


																																																													
60 https://www.linkedin.com/company/sechaba-medical-solutions/about/ 
61 https://www.google.com/maps/dir/Johannesburg,+South+Africa/Umlazi,+South+Africa/@-
28.0833294,28.3784207,502253m/data=!3m2!1e3!4b1!4m14!4m13!1m5!1m1!1s0x1e950c68f0406a51:0x238ac9d9
b1d34041!2m2!1d28.0473051!2d-
26.2041028!1m5!1m1!1s0x1ef65344ead3333b:0xeaec1855e33c4621!2m2!1d30.8843434!2d-29.9687501!3e0  
62 https://investors.nanox.vision/static-files/5810c5f6-62b1-4d96-b9fd-b74c73aadbf3, p. 89 
63 Promedica Bioelectronics s.r.l. 2018 Annual Report, p. 2 


Page 35 of 43
APR 1998 S.L. 
 
Similarly, NNOX claims APR 1998 S.L. of Spain guarantees $11.4 million in annual revenues to 
NNOX and a letter of credit of the same size.64  However, we found that the company, which 
performs maintenance on diagnostic imaging machines, generated just €5.4 million revenues and 
€1.1 million in operating profit in 2018, the most recent year for which results were available.65  
The company also had a mere €322,530 in cash and short-term investments at year-end 2018.66  
We wonder what bank would give a $11.4 million letter of credit to such an enterprise, and under 
what circumstances. 
 


																																																													
64 NNOX Prospectus, p. 89 
65 APR 1998 S.L. Company Report, 2018, p. 21 
66 Ibid., p. 19 


Page 36 of 43
JSC Roel Group 
 
Question 4: Why Did NNOX Choose to Align Itself With a Russian Partner That Has Minimal 
Medical Expertise and a Dubious Past? 
 
Roel Group is a peculiar choice for a distribution partner. Rather than being a medical company, 
Roel is a holding company that primarily owns industrial businesses, like a Russian electric 


Page 37 of 43
motor manufacturer called Ruselprom, a textile plant, and a quartz crystal maker.67  In fact, the 
closest Roel appears to be to having something of remote interest to Nanox is a single fertility 
clinic.  At this clinic, X-ray imaging is not listed as a service offered.68  Regardless, one clinic 
does not represent an opportunity for 500 purported NNOX systems, and Roel has no discernable 
strong ties to Russian hospitals. 
 
What Roel does have are years of scandal and fraud allegations trailing it and its director in 
Russian media.  Roel’s proprietor, Vladimir Dorokhin, laid the groundwork for his business 
interests in the fast and loose 1990s and has left a trail of dealings questioned by media and 
online observers. 
 


 
Roel Group’s Vladimir Dorokhin (right)69 


 
In the early 2000s, while he was Deputy General Finance Director of Moscow’s Sheremetyevo 
Airport, Dorokhin was reportedly involved in multiple corrupt dealings. 70  After allegedly 
facilitating a string of illicit transactions in connection with the airport’s refueling company, its 
retail concessions, and debt owed to it by a regional airline, Dorokhin was dismissed from his 
post. 
 
In 2010, Russian publication Moment of Truth accused Dorokhin of misappropriating 800 
million rubles in advance payments from the Russian government (then $33.6 million).71  
Another report suggested that Dorokhin had siphoned out approximately $60 million in loans 
from Alfa Bank, VTB Bank, and Moscow Industrial Bank.72  The government gave the advance 
to Roel Group portfolio company Ruselprom in exchange for future supplies to a state-owned 
power plant, while the loans were made to several Roel Group-connected electric motor plants.  
According to the reports, neither the advance nor the loans were repaid.  Instead, Dorokhin 
allegedly tunneled out the money through a web of intermediary entities and promissory notes.  
Then, to evade payment obligations, according to Moment of Truth, Dorokhin fabricated 1.3 
billion rubles in fake debts to affiliated Bahamian and Belize companies to plunge Ruselprom 


																																																													
67 https://www.ruselprom.com/ 
68 https://www.ivf-russia.com/services/ 
69 https://www.slideshare.net/roelgroup/30-9718890 
70 https://web.archive.org/web/20170113131834/http://www.compromat.ru/page_25004.htm (Russian language) 
71 https://moment-istini.com/news/novosti-kompanii_8355.html (Russian language) 
72 https://web.archive.org/web/20140706105409/http://www.iapm.ru/showpage.php?id=120&h=4 (Russian 
language) 


Page 38 of 43
and other guarantor entities into bankruptcy.73  The Bahamian entity, which was controlled by an 
associate of Dorokhin’s, became the eventual owner of Ruselprom. 
 
Similarly, one of Roel Group’s holdings, OJSC Agrika, a poultry and frozen food manufacturer, 
raised bank debt that was subsidized by a Russian regional government.74  However, a report 
alleges that rather than using the proceeds for the purchase of raw materials, Agrika funneled the 
cash to other Roel Group entities before taking out even more debt, until it owed 2.7 billion 
rubles ($86 million).  Having been allegedly hollowed out, Agrika declared bankruptcy in 2009. 
 
Golden Vine International Company 
 
In June 2020, NNOX touted a partnership with Golden Vine International, claiming that the 
business was led by Pepi Liao, “a second generation of the Liao Wan Lung (廖萬隆), family, 
who is the founder and chairman of CB CERATIZIT – one of the largest global suppliers of 
Tungsten Carbide to leading medical imaging vendors such as Siemens, Fuji Seiko, Samsung 
and others.” 
 
However, as much as NNOX might try to make Pepi Liao appear like a medical device 
entrepreneur, she works in the hotel industry and has little apparent direct connection to the 
family business that NNOX mentions.  As a result, we find it hard to believe the $29 million in 
future annual NNOX sales ascribed to Golden Vine. 
 
An Internet report on the Liao family notes that her father, nicknamed the Tungsten King of 
Taiwan, “also created a boutique hotel, InHouse hotel in 2012 in Ximending. Pepi Liao is the 
second daughter of Wanlong Liao and she currently, works as the COO of the InHouse Hotel and 
has been involved in the aesthetic decision-making of the hotel.”75 
 


 
Source: LinkedIn76 


 
																																																													
73 https://moment-istini.com/news/novosti-kompanii_8355.html 
74 https://web.archive.org/web/20140706105409/http://www.iapm.ru/showpage.php?id=120&h=4 
75 https://askwonder.com/research/liao-family-businesses-w3qrhafdi 
76 https://www.linkedin.com/in/pepi-liao-5629835a/ 


Page 39 of 43
What Does the ARC Have in Common with the Starship Enterprise? 
 
A-Labs’ role in creating the NNOX mythology is far beyond that of a traditional banking 
relationship.  The company produced promotional videos that have captured the imagination of 
unsuspecting investors.  These impressive marketing materials show a futuristic-looking device 
that claims to perform a vast array of highly complex kinds of medical imaging (below).  The 
videos are uploaded to Vimeo via the account “A-Labs Productions”, along with videos for other 
A-Labs issuer clients.  
 


77 
 
While the NNOX “fly-by” video is slick, the pictured device appears to be a model:78 
 


																																																													
77 https://vimeo.com/user42540338 
78 https://vimeo.com/383060464 


Page 40 of 43
This model is seemingly produced by an Industrial Designer named Amos Boaz, who went to the 
same art academy as Poliakine (~5 years later).79  Boaz’s website highlights the NNOX video, as 
well as a prop truck he apparently designed for the movie Jurassic World and other futuristic 
renderings and robot concepts, some of which are for other companies affiliated with Poliakine.80  
 





																																																													
79 https://player.vimeo.com/video/383060464  
80 https://amosboaz.com/project/nanox/  


Page 41 of 43
For What is Ran Poliakine Qualified? 
 
Charismatic CEO Poliakine appears to have no formal training in radiology, physics or 
medicine—or to have even finished college. His only academic credentials seem to be a two-year 
stint he spent at the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design. Our investigators contacted a Bezalel 
administrator who confirmed that he did not graduate.81 
 


 
 
In interviews and online, Poliakine refers to himself as the founder of wireless charging company 
Powermat.82  Allegations contained in two lawsuits filed against Poliakine paint a less than 
flattering portrait of him as a businessperson.  We do not know the status of the suits or 
Poliakine’s responses; however, these allegations are certainly not inconsistent with our view 
that as CEO of NNOX, Poliakine is leading a massive stock promotion.  
  
In 2014, Powermat board member and billionaire investor J. Christopher Burch sued the 
company and Poliakine.  In the suit, Burch alleged that Poliakine had “managed the company 
improperly and unlawfully… by treating the company as his own, providing favors to his close 
associates, mixing together various businesses and companies he controls and the company, and 
taking advantage of company resources and the company's employees.”83  This “failing 
management” was responsible for the company’s financial decline, according to the suit. 
 
The suit further stated that Poliakine approved the $54 million “unjustifiable” acquisition of 
HoMedics, in which Poliakin and entities affiliated with certain board members had stakes, while 
hiding the other board members’ involvement from the broader board.84  Poliakine did this, the 
suit said, “to enable them to collect personal profits, at the expense of the company and its 
shareholders’ wellbeing, by causing significant financial losses to the company.”85  Indeed, 
Powermat allegedly wrote down 95% of HoMedics’ inventory within three months. 
 


																																																													
81 https://www.roboticstomorrow.com/article/2020/02/musashi-ai-technology-for-dynamic-environments/14859; 
Our investigators confirmed he attended from 1992 – 1994.  
82 https://www.linkedin.com/in/ranpoliakine/ 
83 https://en.globes.co.il/en/article-us-investor-sues-powermat-for-unlawful-management-1000976954 
84 Ibid. 
85 Ibid. 


Page 42 of 43
Burch also claims that he invested on the basis of forecasts that Poliakin made of up to $400+ 
million in annual sales based on “the vast business potential of the company”.86  Actual revenue 
for those forecasted periods allegedly ended up being less than 10% what Poliakine had claimed, 
while Powermat allegedly “wrote off at least $200 million in investments” and failed to make a 
profit. 
 
In 2017, a director of Nanox Gibraltar, Moshe Moalem, whom Poliakine had described as his 
“close friend and business partner”, sued Poliakine in Israeli court for $1.5 million dollars.87,88,89  
In the suit, Moalem alleges that Poliakine committed accounting fraud; that Poliakine attempted 
to deceive Moalem and other partners as well as third parties; and that when Poliakine was 
selling Powermat shares, he misreported the sale price to Israeli tax authorities.90  Moalem 
alleges that the purpose of these maneuvers was for Poliakine to meet his own financial 
obligations. 





																																																													
86 Ibid. 
87 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1613409/000161340917000001/xslFormDX01/primary_doc.xml 
88 Jerusalem Magistrates Case Court No. 27001-12-17 (Civil) 
89 https://ranpoliakine.wordpress.com/ 
90 https://www.news1.co.il/Archive/001-D-398043-00.html (in Hebrew) 


Page 43 of 43
